188
Activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) can enhance or reduce the function of neuronal GABAA receptors, the major sites of fast synaptic inhibition in the brain. This differential regulation depends on PKA-induced phosphorylation of adjacent conserved sites in the receptor beta subunits. Phosphorylation of beta3 subunit-containing receptors at S408 and S409 enhanced the GABA-activated response, whereas selectively mutating S408 to alanine converted the potentiation into an inhibition, comparable to that of beta1 subunits, which are phosphorylated solely on S409. These distinct modes of regulation were interconvertible between beta1 and beta3 subunits and depended upon the presence of S408 in either subunit. In contrast, beta2 subunit-containing receptors were not phosphorylated or affected by PKA. Differential regulation by PKA of postsynaptic GABAA receptors containing different beta subunits may have profound effects on neuronal excitability.


133
Synapsins, a family of synaptic vesicle proteins, have been shown to regulate neurotransmitter release; the mechanism(s) by which they act are not fully understood. Here we have studied the role of domain E of synapsins in neurotransmitter release at the squid giant synapse. Two squid synapsin isoforms were cloned and found to contain a carboxy (C)-terminal domain homologous to domain E of the vertebrate a-type synapsin isoforms. Presynaptic injection of a peptide fragment of domain E greatly reduced the number of synaptic vesicles in the periphery of the active zone, and increased the rate and extent of synaptic depression, suggesting that domain E is essential for synapsins to regulate a reserve pool of synaptic vesicles. Domain E peptide had no effect on the number of docked synaptic vesicles, yet reversibly inhibited and slowed the kinetics of neurotransmitter release, indicating a second role for synapsins that is more intimately associated with the release process itself. Thus, synapsin domain E is involved in at least two distinct reactions that are crucial for exocytosis in presynaptic terminals.


483
We derive experimentally based estimates of the energy used by neural mechanisms to code known quantities of information. Biophysical measurements from cells in the blowfly retina yield estimates of the ATP required to generate graded (analog) electrical signals that transmit known amounts of information. Energy consumption is several orders of magnitude greater than the thermodynamic minimum. It costs 104 ATP molecules to transmit a bit at a chemical synapse, and 106 - 107 ATP for graded signals in an interneuron or a photoreceptor, or for spike coding. Therefore, in noise-limited signaling systems, a weak pathway of low capacity transmits information more economically, which promotes the distribution of information among multiple pathways.

162
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a survival factor for certain sensory neurons during development. Using electrophysiology in BDNF-deficient mice, we show here that slowly adapting mechanoreceptors (SAM), but not other types of cutaneous afferents, require BDNF in postnatal life for normal mechanotransduction. Neurons lacking BDNF did not die, but instead showed a profound and specific reduction in their mechanical sensitivity, which was quantitatively the same in BDNF -/- and BDNF +/- animals. Postnatal treatment of BDNF +/- mice with recombinant BDNF completely rescued the mechanosensitivity deficit. Therefore BDNF is important for regulating SAM mechanosensitivity, independent of any survival-promoting function.

99
Preventing visual input to one eye (monocular deprivation) in early postnatal development reduces cortical responses to stimulation of the deprived eye, with a significant loss of thalamocortical connections. These effects are reversible by opening the deprived eye and closing the previously open eye (reverse occlusion). We show that intracortical blockade of tissue plasminogen activator or plasmin selectively prevents recovery of cortical function and thalamic neuron size during reverse occlusion, without affecting the monocular deprivation response. Therefore, a proteolytic cascade consisting of plasmin generated by tissue plasminogen activator may selectively mediate reverse-occlusion-induced cortical plasticity, perhaps via structural remodeling of axons.

147
The auditory system, like the visual and somatosensory systems, contains topographic maps in its central neural pathways. These maps can be modified by sensory deprivation, injury and experience in both young and adult animals. Such plasticity has been explained by changes in the divergent and convergent projections of the ascending sensory system. Another possibility, however, is that plasticity may be mediated by descending corticofugal connections. We have investigated the role of descending connections from the cortex to the inferior colliculus of the big brown bat. Electrical stimulation of the auditory cortex causes a downward shift in the preferred frequencies of collicular neurons toward that of the stimulated cortical neurons. This results in a change in the frequency map within the colliculus. Moreover, similar changes can be induced by repeated bursts of sound at moderate intensities. Thus, one role of the mammalian corticofugal system may be to modify subcortical sensory maps in response to sensory experience.

201
As we move through the environment, the pattern of visual motion on the retina provides rich information about our movement through the scene. Human subjects can use this information, often termed "optic flow", to accurately estimate their direction of self movement (heading) from relatively sparse displays. Physiological observations on the motion-sensitive areas of monkey visual cortex suggest that the medial superior temporal area (MST) is well suited for the analysis of optic flow information. To test whether MST is involved in extracting heading from optic flow, we perturbed its activity in monkeys trained on a heading discrimination task. Electrical microstimulation of MST frequently biased the monkeys' decisions about their heading, and these induced biases were often quite large. This result suggests that MST has a direct role in the perception of heading from optic flow.

301
Removal of sensory input can induce changes in cortical motor representation that reverse when sensation is restored. Here we ask whether manipulation of sensory input can induce long-term reorganization in human motor cortex that outlasts the initial conditioning. We report that for at least 30 minutes after pharyngeal stimulation, motor cortex excitability and area of representation for the pharynx increased, while esophagus representation decreased, without parallel changes in the excitability of brainstem-mediated reflexes. Therefore increased sensory input can drive long-term cross-system changes in motor areas of the cerebral cortex, which suggests that sensory stimulation might rehabilitate dysphagia, a frequent consequence of cerebral injury.

1099
Elevated glucocorticoid levels produce hippocampal dysfunction and correlate with individual deficits in spatial learning in aged rats. Previously we related persistent cortisol increases to memory impairments in elderly humans studied over five years. Here we demonstrate that aged humans with significant prolonged cortisol elevations showed reduced hippocampal volume and deficits in hippocampus-dependent memory tasks compared to normal-cortisol controls. Moreover, the degree of hippocampal atrophy correlated strongly with both the degree of cortisol elevation over time and current basal cortisol levels. Therefore, basal cortisol elevation may cause hippocampal damage and impair hippocampus-dependent learning and memory in humans.

255
Changes in the delay (phase) and amplitude of sound at the ears are cues for the analysis of sound movement. The detection of these cues depends on the convergence of the inputs to each ear, a process that first occurs in the brainstem. The conscious perception of these cues is likely to involve higher centers. Using novel stimuli that produce different perceptions of movement in the presence of identical phase and amplitude modulation components, we have demonstrated human brain areas that are active specifically during the perception of sound movement. Both functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) demonstrated the involvement of the right parietal cortex in sound movement perception with these stimuli.

390
The Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, which probes the ability to shift attention from one category of stimulus attributes to another (shifting cognitive sets), is the most common paradigm used to detect human frontal lobe pathology. However, the exact relationship of this card test to prefrontal function and the precise anatomical localization of the cognitive shifts involved are controversial. By isolating shift-related signals using the temporal resolution of functional magnetic resonance imaging, we reproducibly found transient activation of the posterior part of the bilateral inferior frontal sulci. This activation was larger as the number of dimensions (relevant stimulus attributes that had to be recognized) were increased. These results suggest that the inferior frontal areas play an essential role in the flexible shifting of cognitive sets.
