Hippocampal primordia taken from one day old postnatal rats and grown for 1 month in the hippocampus of adult rat hosts developed hippocampal pyramids, dentate granule cells, and specific patterns of mossy fibres. In 26 cases where certain boundary conditions were precisely met, the transplant mossy fibres crossed into the host and ramified for a distance of from 0.5 mm to no more than 1 mm in the stratum oriens of the host field CA1. They formed a layer 35 micron thick adjacent to the host CA1 pyramidal cell layer. The necessary boundary conditions were: (1) direct (and &quot;unscarred&quot;) contact between the neuropil of the transplant and the host field CA1, (2) that the hilar (and not the molecular) aspect of the transplanted dentate granule cell lamina faced the host CA1 pyramids, and (3) that some of the interface was devoid of transplant hilar cells or CA3-type pyramids interposed between the transplant dentate granules and the host CA1 pyramids. In 3 cases a converse connection was found--viz. the host mossy fibres entered the transplant. In these cases the transplants consisted entirely of pyramidal cells (with no dentate granule cells of their own), and the part of the transplant receiving the host mossy fibres was embedded directly in the host mossy fibre pathway. For the dentato-hippocampal mossy fibre system, therefore, it is shown that postsynaptic targets in the adult mammalian brain can receive specific patterns of innervation from growing axons derived from a transplant, and that cut central axons of the same type can grow and form target-specific terminal arborizations in a transplant.
The reaction of wavelength-selective (WL), wavelength-opponent (WLO) and colour-coded (CO) cells in monkey visual cortex to changes in the wavelength composition of the light reflected from the area in their receptive fields was studied, using multicoloured displays. Wavelength-selective and wavelength-opponent cells were found to be very sensitive to changes in the wavelength composition of the light reflected from the areas in their receptive fields, irrespective of their perceived natural and void colours. Changes in the wavelength composition of the light reflected from surrounding areas did not affect their responses. They were also sensitive to the order in which lights of various wavelengths illuminated the areas in their receptive fields. Colour-coded cells were not affected by changes in the wavelength composition nor were they sensitive to the sequence with which the area in their receptive fields was illuminated by lights of different wavelengths. However, they required that the display, with the area of their preferred colour in their receptive fields, be trichromatically illuminated. This and other evidence suggested that such cells were sensitive not only to the illumination of the area in their receptive fields, but of surrounding areas as well. This evidence reinforces further the distinction between wavelength-selective and colour-coded cells and leads to the conclusion that one function of the wavelength-selective cells must be to register the changes in wavelength composition which occur throughout the day.


Using a technique for simultaneous visualisation of two antigens in one section, oxytocin-like immunoreactivity has been found to coexist with bombesin-like immunoreactivity in neurons of the basal disk, gastric region and tentacles of hydra. Neurons with oxytocin-like immunoreactivity in peduncle and hypostome, on the other hand, have little or no bombesin-like material. Oxytocin-like immunoreactivity never coexists with FMRFamide-immunoreactivity. The neurons with oxytocin- and FMRFamide-like immunoreactivity, however, are often found to be closely intermingled. The results show that coexistence, as well as non-coexistence, of neuropeptides is a phylogenetically old principle.
A peripheral injection of DSP-4 [N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine] produced a marked, selective, and lasting depletion of norepinephrine in certain regions of the rat central nervous system. This depletion at 10 days after injection was associated with regional alterations in some, but not all, adrenergic binding sites (receptors) as determined by in vitro [3H]prazosin (alpha 1), [3H]p-aminoclonidine (alpha 2), and [3H]dihydroalprenolol (beta) binding. The neocortical alpha 1-receptor was not changed. The alpha 2-receptor in several regions was altered as indicated by an increase in ligand affinity; additionally, the density of this receptor was slightly decreased in some regions. Depending on the region, the beta-receptor either increased in density or was unchanged. The increased density of this receptor in neocortex corresponded to an increased activity of isoproterenol-sensitive adenylate cyclase. These two changes were not affected by subchronic treatment with desipramine, a norepinephrine uptake inhibitor. The changes were, however, partially or completely reversed by subchronic administration of clenbuterol, a centrally-acting beta-receptor agonist. The dopaminergic receptor in various regions was unaltered as assessed by in vivo and/or in vitro binding of [3H]spiperone. The in vivo binding of this ligand also indicated that the serotoninergic receptor in frontal neocortex was unchanged. Assessment of adrenergic receptors in neocortex at 50 days after injection indicated only the above affinity change of the (presumably postsynaptic) alpha 2-receptor. The alpha 1-receptor remained unaltered. The density of the beta-receptor had normalized, as had the activity of isoproterenol-sensitive adenylate cyclase. Implicit in these findings is the following rank order of receptor sensitivity to chronic norepinephrine depletion: alpha 2 greater than beta greater than alpha 1. The use of DSP-4 has clear advantages over other methods of depleting central norepinephrine. This neurotoxin can be administered by intraperitoneal injection, the depletion of norepinephrine can be readily checked by absence of the post-decapitation reflex, and the changes in other neurotransmitter concentrations are relatively minor or nonexistent. The alteration of alpha 2- and beta-receptors, as a consequence of DSP-4 treatment, may form the basis of a new animal model of adrenergic receptor supersensitivity. Such a model may clarify the importance of these central receptors to physiological and behavioral processes.
Field and postsynaptic potentials of facial motoneurones evoked by stimulation of the caudal trigeminal nucleus were studied in cats by means of extra- and intracellular recording. Mono- and polysynaptic input onto facial motoneurones from the caudal trigeminal nucleus were shown. Four types of responses were distinguished: excitatory postsynaptic potentials generating a single action potential; a gradual shift of depolarization inducing multiple discharges; a rhythmic discharge of action potentials appearing at a low level of depolarization; excitatory postsynaptic potentials or a sequence of excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Multiple discharge was shown to appear as a result of effective summation of high frequency excitatory influences from efferent neurones of the caudal trigeminal nucleus projecting into the facial nucleus. Factors facilitating the development of gradual depolarization are: dendritic localization of synaptic terminals, dendritic origin of after-depolarizing processes and the high input resistance of the facial motoneurone membrane. It is thought that specific features of facial motoneurones and properties of afferent inputs are supposed to provide high sensitivity of neuronal organization of the facial nucleus to afferent signals as well as wide diversity in controlling its activity.
The chemical tools that could be used to examine the function of histamine in the brain are considered together with the evidence linking histamine specifically with the hypothalamus. The distribution of histamine and the enzymes responsible for its synthesis and metabolism is consistent with there being both mast cells and histaminergic nerve terminals within the hypothalamus. Iontophoresis, mepyramine binding and histamine-stimulated adenylate cyclase studies suggest that both histamine H1- and H2- receptors are present in the hypothalamus. In addition, intracerebroventricularly injected histamine receptor agonists and antagonists affect many functions associated with the hypothalamus such as cardiovascular control, food intake, body temperature control, and pituitary hormones whose release is mediated via the hypothalamus, such as corticotropin, growth hormone, thyroid stimulating hormone, prolactin, gonadotropins and vasopressin. However, only in the case of thyroliberin release, prolactin release, body fluid control and blood pressure control is there evidence yet that such effects are mediated via histamine receptors actually in the hypothalamus. The effects of enzyme inhibitors suggest endogenous histamine may be involved in the physiological control of thyroid stimulating hormone, growth hormone and blood pressure, and the effects of receptor antagonists support a role for endogenous histamine in prolactin control. Otherwise, there is little evidence for a physiological role for endogenous, as against exogenous, histamine whether it be from histaminergic terminals or mast cells. In addition, few studies have tried to distinguish possible effects on presynaptic receptors, postsynaptic receptors, hypothalamic blood vessels or the hypophyseal portal blood vessels. It is concluded that although there is good evidence now linking histamine and the hypothalamus more specific studies are required, for instance using microinjection or in vitro techniques and the more specific chemical tools now available, to enable a clearer understanding of the physiological role of histamine in the hypothalamus.

One week after injection of L-[35S]methionine into the dorsal motor nuclei of the guinea-pig, labelled tubulin carried down the vagal nerve by the slow phase of axonal transport was analysed by one- and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Transported tubulin showed a much stronger labelling of the beta-subunit. Isoelectric focussing revealed that both alpha- and beta-subunits were composed of several components. Labelled tubulin was isolated from the brain by cycles of polymerisation and depolymerisation after injection of L-[35S]methionine into the lateral ventricle, for comparison with transported tubulin from the vagal nerve. In addition to the two alpha-components and three beta-components detected in both preparations, axonally transported tubulin contained an extra component (TAX) with a molecular weight corresponding to that of beta-tubulin and with the same isoelectric point as alpha-tubulin. The axon-specific component TAX co-polymerised with tubulin isolated from the brain. Upon peptide mapping by limited proteolysis, the peptide pattern generated from TAX was similar to that of the alpha-tubulin. It is concluded that the axonally transported tubulin contains a modified alpha-subunit which is not found in the bulk of brain tubulin.
Whole chick embryo eyes between embryonic day 10.5 and 12 (E10.5-E12) were incubated in a solution of Lucifer Yellow and examined in frozen sections. Starting around day 10.5, brightly stained cells were observed in the innermost part of the inner nuclear layer. Their size, shape and location suggest that most of them represent a subclass of amacrine cells. A distinct spatio-temporal development of Lucifer Yellow-staining of this subpopulation of cells within the inner nuclear layer between E10.5 and E12 is revealed in detail using 3-dimensional models of Lucifer Yellow-stained eyes. The staining can be first observed at a specific location at the ventro-posterior side not far from the fundus. It then spreads radially in a complex pattern reaching the ora serrata first on the ventro-posterior side, then sequentially reaching into the dorso-posterior, the ventro-anterior and finally the dorso-anterior quadrants of the retina. Our results suggest that a horizontal (posterior-anterior) axis and a vertical (ventro-dorsal) axis function as a coordinate system during differentiation of the tissue. We conclude that there are precise spatio-temporal patterns of Lucifer Yellow-staining which most probably reflect spatio-temporal patterns of cell differentiation within the chicken retina. The correlation of these findings with other data on spatio-temporal patterns during differentiation of the chicken retina is discussed.
The release of substance P-like immunoreactivity was examined using bovine pia arachnoid and its attendant blood vessels in vitro. At concentrations of 20,51, and 100 mM, potassium ions evoked the release of substance P-like immunoreactivity in a dose-dependent manner. The drug capsaicin released substance P at concentrations greater than 10(-8) M. Both potassium- and capsaicin-induced release were abolished by omitting calcium ions from the superfusion buffer. When subjected to separation by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography, the superfusate from capsaicin perfused tissues contained a peak of immunoreactivity which migrated at the retention time corresponding to substance P. During basal and stimulated states, the percent endogenous substance P released ranged between 0.4-6.5 X 10(-2) and 1.3-11.6 X 10(-2) per minute, rates comparable to those previously reported by others using slices of dorsal horn or spinal cord segments. The immunoreactivity measurable in the conditioned buffer probably reflected release from afferent nerve endings in as much as most of the substance P immunoreactivity in pia arachnoid arises from trigeminal ganglia. Release of substance P, a cerebrovasodilating peptide from perivascular nerve endings in pia arachnoid suggests a possible role for substance P in the pathophysiology of disorders associated with pain of cerebrovascular origin.
Immunoreactive substance P is present in measurable amounts in pia arachnoid from rat, cat, dog and calf. Levels of substance P in this tissue are comparable to those found in peripheral structures receiving innervation from dorsal root or trigeminal ganglia. Separation and measurement of bovine pia-arachnoid extract by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography and radioimmunoassay reveals a single peak of activity with a retention time identical to that of substance P. Unilateral lesions of the trigeminal ganglia decrease substance P levels within cat pia arachnoid and accompanying blood vessels ipsilaterally by greater than 50%. These data indicate that most of the substance P surrounding pial blood vessels resides within afferent nerve fibres from trigeminal ganglion cells.






The rapid growth of the neurosciences in the past decade has served to blur the differences and enhance the similarities between research in medicine and in psychiatry. As the number of relevant biological variables and the questions asked in relation to them has expanded, so has the number of medical disorders of interest to the clinical researcher in psychiatry. In addition to these new areas of common interest, consultation-liaison psychiatry and clinical psychiatric research share a common conceptual foundation based upon model development and testing. It is proposed, therefore, that research at the interface between medicine and psychiatry represents a new frontier for both consultation-liaison psychiatry and clinical psychiatric research. Goals and strategies for research at the interface are discussed with specific reference to current research efforts at the National Institutes of Health.
This paper presents the thesis that rapidly developing areas of knowledge in neuroscience will rekindle interest in neuropsychiatry, and increase scientific and clinical interaction between psychiatrists and neurologists in teaching hospitals. A neuropsychiatric clinical research unit at the National Institute of Mental Health is described. Examples of research conducted on the unit illustrate areas of biological science that are likely to increase the interface between psychiatry and neurology. Hopefully, the explosion of knowledge in the basic neurosciences in the last decade will be followed in this decade by clinical research of increasing specificity and sophistication of central nervous system disorders.
Alcoholics could present with various degrees of deterioration of cognitive functioning. The subclinical psychological deterioration had been one of the least recognized entities. This condition could be reversed or atleast arrested with treatment. The application of the term alcoholic dementia happened to be a misnomer for the clinical entity. A case of subclinical psychological deterioration that improved with treatment has been described here.
Three to three and a half years after repair of monkey nerves, comparison of total myelinated nerves, electron microscopic sections, and nerve conduction velocities delineated no significant difference between nerves sutured in adult life and those sutured in infancy. Extrapolating these results to the human clinical situation, central nervous system adaption in young patients could explain the better clinical results.
Methods for the fabrication of tungsten-glass and platinum-rhodium-quartz fiber microelectrodes and of fiber pipettes are described and the electrical and mechanical properties of fiber electrodes are discussed. These properties (minimal tissue damage, good single unit isolation and temporal stability) make them particularly suited for multielectrode recordings from the central nervous system.
The silanization of glass, particularly Pyrex, was studied using reaction conditions that might be applied in the fabrication of ion-sensitive microelectrodes of the liquid-membrane type. The efficacy was tested by measuring the hydrophobicity (contact angle) or electrical resistivity of the treated surface. Aminosilanes, such as trimethyl-(dimethylamino)-silane are better than chlorosilanes, the optimum temperature is 250-330 degrees C, and the reaction comes near to completion in 5 min. Silanization of glass that is newly exposed (as in the pulling of a micropipette) is greatly improved if the surface is treated with acid. There is considerable variation from one kind of glass to another. A recipe for making double-barrelled ion-sensitive microelectrodes is given.
A number of advances have been made in the application of linear sweep voltammetry with carbon paste electrodes to the monitoring of ascorbate and monoamine neuroregulator metabolites in the brain of the freely-moving rat. These new measures are: the reduction of the sweep rate of 5 mV/s; the elimination of semidifferentiation in chronic recordings; the measurement in situ and subtraction of the background current for each electrode; the reduction, to practically zero levels, of the ascorbate signal in alternate scans; and corrections for circadian changes. These innovations enable one to monitor changes in the monoamine metabolites, even when there are simultaneous, large changes in ascorbate.
Axonal transport has been extensively studied for a period of 20-30 years, but there is still no general consensus concerning the mechanism by which this transport process operates. An important development in this regard is the recent studies in the physical biochemistry group in the Department of Biochemistry at Monash University where it has been demonstrated that ordered flows may be generated spontaneously in polymer systems under non-equilibrium conditions. The new phenomenon exhibits many novel features, particularly with respect to polymer transport, which bear marked similarity to the behaviour of components in axonal transport. This article sets out to essentially bring to the attention of those in the neurosciences some of the properties of ordered structured flows in polymer solutions. These properties may generate a different view in the understanding of the mechanism of axonal transport.
Cellular metabolic events accompanying postlesion synaptogenesis in the hippocampus were studied by analyzing incorporation of protein precursor ([3H]leucine) in the dentate gyrus. Adult rats were injected intravenously with [3H]leucine at periods from 2 to 60 days following unilateral destruction of the entorhinal cortex, and were killed 30 min later. Precursor incorporation was quantified autoradiographically by counting silver grains over the cell bodies and dendrites of dentate granule cells ipsi- and contralateral to the lesion. The relative grain density was increased over the denervated portion of the neuropil at 6-12 days postlesion, corresponding to the early phase of terminal proliferation and reactive synaptogenesis. Whereas incorporation was increased over the denervated neuropil, the availability of [3H]leucine was decreased relative to the contralateral side in autoradiographic preparations designed to reveal the concentration of the unincorporated 3H-labeled precursor and its diffusible degradation products. Silver grains were not selectively associated with glial cells bodies or vascular elements, but rather were distributed diffusely throughout the neuropil. Increases in grain density over the denervated zone were observed when animals were killed 8 min after the leucine injection, suggesting that the increases were not due solely to rapid transport from granule cell bodies to dendrites. We propose that an increased incorporation of protein precursor occurs primarily within the denervated dendrites of granule cells during the early phase of reinnervation, and that protein synthetic activity in these cells might be involved in the process of reinnervation.
The distribution and amino acid incorporative activities of free and membrane-bound ribosomes in neuronal perikarya of rat cerebral cortex at successive stages of postnatal development were investigated. The relative proportion of neuronal membrane-bound ribosomes increased significantly between 6 and 18 days of age, reaching 50% of the total ribosomal population around day 18. In contrast to the neuronal fraction, the membrane-bound ribosomes in unfractionated cerebral cortex decreased from 50% at birth to 35% in 18-day-old pups. When tested in a cell-free amino acid incorporation system the activities of both free and membrane-bound ribosomes increased up to day 10 post partum. However, whereas the activity of free ribosomes reached a constant level at this age, that of the membrane-bound fraction continued to rise until 18th day after birth. Crossover experiments employing homologous or heterologous cell sap fractions showed that the preparation from the 18-day-old animals was more efficient in supporting protein synthesis in vitro, if compared with similar preparation from the neonatal animals. This was attributed to an enhanced aminoacylation of transfer RNA in neuronal cell sap of older compared with younger rats. The observed developmental alterations in the distribution and activities of free and membrane-bound ribosomes are discussed in relation to changes that occur in morphology and function of brain during the early postnatal period.
The subject was asked to bring his lower arm to a prescribed position against an applied torque. He was instructed not to intervene when the torque was unexpectedly changed and this resulted in a movement to a new position. During these experiments motor unit activity of m. biceps or triceps brachii was recorded. It was found that changes in the torque are compensated by reflex-induced recruitment of motor units and variations in their firing frequency. Recordings of motor unit activity revealed that in the range investigated the firing frequency of the motoneurones varied approximately linearly with the applied torque. From the results, it is concluded that afferent input plays a more important role in position control than intrinsic muscle properties. It is argued that the afferent feedback is controlled by central activation of the gamma-motoneurones.
A method is described for the preparation of a subcellular fraction, 30-50% pure, of intact postsynaptic units from rat cerebral cortex. The isolation procedure is based on chemical dissociation of the synaptic cleft as described by Crawford, Osborne &amp; Potter followed by sonication of the extracted membranes and separation of the postsynaptic units on a discontinuous sucrose gradient. This preparation provides the first practical procedure for the isolation of postsynaptic densities, prominent organelles of unknown function, without the use of detergents, enabling retention of the postsynaptic membrane in association with the postsynaptic density. The preparation shows enhanced binding of spiroperidol, a dopamine agonist, which, in conjunction with morphological evidence, indicates that the preparation is sufficiently intact to enable study of the interaction of the postsynaptic membrane with the postsynaptic density. Actin, alpha- and beta-tubulin and postsynaptic density protein constitute the major proteins in the preparation; they are present in amounts of 41, 54, 57 and 74 micrograms per mg protein, respectively; as compared to 54, 59, 55 and 9 micrograms per mg protein of the synaptic junctional membrane used as starting material. The utility of the preparation for a number of localization studies, including ion translocating adenosine 5'-triphosphatases, protein kinases and their substrates is discussed.
The rat brain D2-protein has previously been shown to play a role in interneuronal adhesion Monospecific antisera against this protein reacted with adrenal medulla cells and with PC12 pheochromocytoma cells as demonstrated by indirect immunofluorescence. Upon stimulation by nerve growth factor the PC12 cells extend neurites. These neurites were shown to contain D2-protein both by immunofluorescence and by crossed immunoelectrophoresis. The findings substantiate the close relationship between neurons from the central nervous system and both the PC12 cells line, as well as adrenal medulla cells.
Olivocochlear fibers have been demonstrated to have acetylcholinesterase-positive staining both in brainstem and cochlea. Olivocochlear fibres in the cochlea have also been determined to contain enkephalin-like immunoreactivity. In this study, we first determined the source of olivocochlear fibers in the guinea-pig using horseradish peroxidase and wheat germ agglutinin in retrograde transport studies. These cells were then examined for enkephalin-like immunoreactivity followed by acetylcholinesterase staining on the same sections to determine which cells and fibers showed staining for both. It was found that cells in the guinea-pig lateral superior olive that project to the cochlea have both enkephalin-like immunoreactivity staining and acetylcholinesterase-positive staining. Cells in other areas giving rise to olivocochlear fibers showed only acetylcholinesterase staining. These results suggest that there is co-localization of enkephalin and acetylcholine in a population of olivocochlear cells and fibers.
The distribution of nerves with vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-like immunoreactivity has been examined in the heart and vascular system of guinea-pigs. There was a very sparse supply of fibres to the heart. No immunoreactive cell bodies were found in the intrinsic cardiac ganglia; however, positive nerve cell bodies were seen along the superior vena cava near the right atrium. There were immunoreactive fibres with most arteries; these fibres were located at the media-adventitia junction. The supply to major distributing arteries, such as the aorta, subclavian, carotid and femoral arteries as well as to the pulmonary arteries, was sparse. Of the individual vascular beds, the most densely supplied arteries were the mesenteric and uterine (or in the male deferential) arteries. Arteries running to other organs or tissues, such as skeletal muscle, kidney, pancreas, spleen and heart were less densely supplied. There were clear differences in the innervation of different cerebral vessels. The greatest density was associated with the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. Fewer nerves accompanied the posterior cerebral, cerebellar and meningeal arteries. There was a sparse innervation of the rostral part of the basilar artery. Throughout the body, veins were sparsely supplied. The distribution of nerves with VIP-like immunoreactivity was not changed when noradrenergic nerves were degenerated by 6-hydroxydopamine or when substance P nerves were disrupted by capsaicin. It is concluded that VIP containing nerves innervating the heart and blood vessels form a population distinct from the substance P-containing and the noradrenergic nerves. It is suggested that the VIP fibres might be efferent vasodilator nerves to the blood vessels.
After injections of horseradish peroxidase involving the whole primary (SI) and secondary somatosensory (SII) areas of adult cats, 16-21% out of 2220 counted neurons in the nucleus ventralis posterolateralis were unlabelled. The mean areas of perikarya of these neurons varied between 111.8 +/- 32.3 microns2 and 180.8 +/- 48.6 microns2. The size of perikarya of retrogradely-labelled neuron ranged from 256.9 +/- 100.4 microns2 to 409 +/- 163 microns2. Retrogradely-labelled and unlabelled neurons were examined under light- and high-voltage electron-microscopy. Besides 'large', mainly multipolar or oval fusiform perikarya, retrogradely-labelled neurons may display perikarya of 'small' size. Both types of neurons correlate well with Golgi-impregnated cells with a tufted dendritic pattern usually identified as thalamocortical neurons. On the other hand, the size and morphology of perikarya and initial dendrites of neurons unlabelled by retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase correlate well with that of Golgi-impregnated neurons which are markedly different from the thalamocortical neurons, have very characteristic and profuse dendritic appendages and have been identified by previous investigators as Golgi Type II neurons. In order to probe further whether these may correspond to the GABAergic interneurons proposed by previous evidence, an immunocytochemical approach was also applied at the light- and electron-microscope level, using an antiserum prepared in sheep against rat brain glutamate decarboxylase. By this method it is shown that 19-21% of neurons in the nucleus ventralis posterolateralis of adult cats are glutamate decarboxylase-positive and that the perikaryal size of these labelled neurons ranges between 134.6 +/- 44.5 microns2 and 164.4 +/- 47.3 microns2. Histogram distribution of the number and areas of the counted immunoreactive neurons closely matches that of unlabelled neurons in experiments with retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. The results give support to previous evidence suggesting that part of population of neurons in the nucleus ventralis posterolateralis is represented by a distinct class of neurons which are apparently GABAergic.
The mechanism of alpha-adrenergic receptor-mediated feedback regulation of [3H]norepinephrine release was studied in the guinea-pig heart. The overflow of [3H]norepinephrine evoked by stimulation (1 Hz for 60 s) was inhibited up to 90% in a dose-dependent manner by norepinephrine (58.5 and 177 nM) and epinephrine (54 and 164 nM). These inhibitory effects were antagonized by 20 mM tetraethylammonium. The overflow of [3H]norepinephrine was near normal when the calcium concentration of the perfusion medium was reduced from a control value of 2.5 to 0.25 mM in the presence of 20 mM tetraethylammonium. Norepinephrine exerted its typical inhibitory effect on the overflow induced in low [Ca2+] and high [tetraethylammonium] solution. Similarly, the inhibitory effects of epinephrine became evident in the presence of 20 mM tetraethylammonium and 0.25 mM calcium ions. Another K-channel blocker, 4-aminopyridine, was also effective in antagonizing the presynaptic actions of norepinephrine; the effect was more pronounced at lower than higher concentrations of norepinephrine. However, after reduction of the calcium ion concentration to 0.2 mM in the presence of 1 mM 4-aminopyridine, all concentrations of norepinephrine significantly reduced the overflow of [3H]norepinephrine. We conclude that the alpha-adrenergic agonists directly influence the availability of calcium ions needed for the transmitter release, and that this effect is brought about without altering the electrical properties (i.e. nerve conduction, action potential size, resting membrane potential of the nerves, etc.). This is in contrast to the actions of acetylcholine and adenosine which, in an earlier study, were shown to inhibit [3H]norepinephrine release primarily by modifying the electrical properties of the nerves.
The distribution of immunoreactive cholecystokininoctapeptide (CCK-8)-like structures in the lower brain stem of the rat was investigated using indirect immunofluorescence. In addition to the well known immunoreactive CCK-8-like containing cell groups such as those in the ventral tegmental area, substantia grisea centralis of the mesencephalon, and n. linealis rostralis, the present study demonstrated a much wider distribution of immunoreactive CCK-8-like cells in the lower brain stem, i.e. those in the inferior colliculus, n. parabrachialis colliculi posterioris, lateral lemniscus, lateral parabrachial area, n. centralis superior, nucleus of group O, pontine substantia grisea centralis, n. tractus solitarii, area postrema, n. tractus spinalis nervi trigemini and reticular formation just dorsal to the inferior olivary complex. We also demonstrated an extensive network of immunoreactive CCK-8-like fibers in various areas of the lower brain stem, including the auditory system, visual system, viscerosensory area, parabrachial nucleus, dorsal and ventral tegmental nuclei, and interpeduncular nucleus. The possible importance of CCK is briefly discussed.
The enkephalin-related heptapeptide, Tyr-Gly-Gly-Phe-Met-Arg-Phe, forms the C-terminus of a biosynthetic precursor that contains both Met-enkephalin and Leu-enkephalin sequences. We have studied the distribution of heptapeptide-like immunoreactivity in rat brain by immunohistochemistry using a C-terminal specific antiserum. The results were compared with those obtained using an antiserum specific for the C-terminus of Met-enkephalin which does not react with C-terminally-extended variants. Both antisera specifically stained cell bodies and fibres in many regions of the rat central nervous system. Colchicine was needed for the demonstration of cell bodies with the Met-enkephalin antiserum, but not for the heptapeptide antiserum. In the nucleus of the solitary tract, in the commissural nucleus, the nucleus raphe obscurus and in the hypothalamus, studies of serial sections and re-staining experiments indicated that the two antisera stained the same cell bodies. However, in the olfactory bulb, the anterior olfactory nucleus, the olfactory tubercle, the nucleus accumbens, caudate-putamen, central nucleus of the amygdala, nucleus interstitialis striae terminalis, pre-lateral mamillary nuclei, ventral hypothalamus, hippocampus, peri-aqueductal grey and the granular layer of the cerebellum, cells were stained by the heptapeptide antiserum but not the Met-enkephalin antiserum. The two antisera revealed similar patterns of staining of nerve fibres in many regions including hypothalamus, central nucleus of the amygdala, lateral septum, thalamus, mid-brain and spinal cord. But in other areas notably, pallidum, caudate-putamen, substantia inominata, nucleus of the solitary tract and commissural nucleus, there were abundant fibres and terminals revealed by the Met-enkephalin antiserum but not by the heptapeptide antiserum. The results are discussed with respect to possible patterns of enkephalin biosynthesis; it is suggested that in some neurones immunoreactive enkephalin precursors terminating in the heptapeptide sequence are processed to produce the heptapeptide which is stored in terminals and is available for release as an endogenous opioid agonist in its own right. In other cases, however, it is suggested that the heptapeptide might be cleaved by removal of -Arg-Phe to yield Met-enkephalin which is the primary opioid product of this class of neurone.
The effect of cycloheximide (an inhibitor of protein synthesis) on the ionic currents through sodium and potassium channels was investigated in dialysed voltage-clamped N18 A-1 neuroblastoma cells. The cycloheximide concentration needed for half-inhibition of sodium peak conductance was about 0.5 micrograms/ml for 24 h of incubation. Half-inhibition time of the sodium peak conductance in cells incubated with 15.0 micrograms/ml of cycloheximide was about 9 h. Sodium against potassium ion selectivity, the activation and inactivation parameters were shown to be not affected by cycloheximide. Potassium conductance in similarly treated cells exhibited no consistent changes. The main conclusion is that the decay in peak sodium conductance is caused by diminishing the sodium channel density in the membrane (from 25 to 2.2 channels per micron2). The inhibition effect was evidently mediated by block of protein synthesis and was not the result of direct drug-channel interaction. The half-decay time of sodium peak conductance is interpreted as a possible life-time characteristic of sodium channels in the neuroblastoma cell membrane.
Currents through normal and aconitine-modified sodium channels in perfused neuroblastoma cells were measured under voltage-clamp conditions. Aconitine is shown to induce changes in channel selectivity so that channels become more permeable to NH4+ than to Na+. Aconitine induces the shift of voltage dependence of channel activation toward more negative potentials by about 20 mV. Aconitine-modified channels inactivate practically completely with a time-course similar to that for normal channels. Aconitine is effective when applied to either side of the membrane. Steady-state characteristics of the gating machinery of aconitine-modified channels are discussed in terms of three-state model. According to the model, aconitine increases the probability of finding the channel in open state, which is reflected in negative shift of the voltage dependence of activation. The model predicts that the larger this shift, the higher is the level of steady-state sodium conductance. The comparison of respective properties of aconitine-modified channels in neuroblastoma cell and frog nerve confirms this prediction. Aconitine is assumed to reach its receptor through the lipophilic part of the membrane.
Miniature endplate potential (MEPP) amplitude distributions, MEPP frequencies and percentages of small MEPPs were determined as well as synaptic vesicle diameters and numbers in the frog neuromuscular junction during La3+ treatment. MEPP frequencies initially increased by two orders of magnitude and then fell to very low values. La3+ treatment had an initial postsynaptic effect making the MEPPs larger. Prolonged treatment had a variable effect on MEPP amplitudes. There were considerable variations in MEPP frequencies in adjacent junctions so single junctions on edge muscle fibers were recorded for the duration of many experiments and later identified in the electron microscope. Therefore, the physiological and morphological conditions of a given identified junction could be compared. There was a loss of synaptic vesicles and no change in mean diameter during depletion. During high MEPP frequencies infoldings occurred on the axolemma and these disappeared when MEPP frequencies decreased towards the end of the La3+ treatment. After 3-4 h of La3+ treatment, the overall frequency of MEPPs dropped and many were composed of a small class of MEPPs. It is suggested that the morphological correlate of small MEPPs, as well as the classical bell-MEPPs is likely to be synaptic vesicles.
The synaptic responses of entopeduncular and nigral cells to subthalamic stimulation were studied with extracellular recording techniques in rats with and without chronic lesions. Entopeduncular output cells were identified by antidromic activation from the lateral habenula, ventral anterior thalamic nucleus and tegmenti pedunculopontine nucleus. Nigral cells projecting to superior colliculus were identified by antidromic discharge. Stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus produced a short latency suppression of spontaneous activity (10-60 ms duration) of 89% of the entopeduncular cells tested in chronically lesioned rats. Of these cells, 50% were identified as projecting to lateral habenula. On the other hand, subthalamic nucleus stimulation produced a short latency excitation of 73% of the nigral cells tested (4.16 +/- 0.07 ms). Forty-eight percent of these cells projected to superior colliculus. The subthalamic fibres which terminate in entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra, come from the same neuronal population since the majority, if not all, rat subthalamic neurones send branched projections to both these nuclei. Therefore, the two different types of responses recorded in these nuclei are elicited by the activation of a single neuronal population. This dual effect could be easily explained if one of the responses is mediated by local interneurones. If not, the same transmitter induces the two responses. The entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra which are the main target nuclei of the subthalamic nucleus, are also the only known outputs of the striatum. The subthalamic efferent cells could thus modulate the activity of the entire striatal descending output. It is noteworthy that this subthalamic control is different in entopeduncular nucleus than in substantia nigra.
Purified bovine chromaffin granule membranes contain approximately 24 pmol/mg protein (16 copies per granule) of an F1-like adenosine 5'-triphosphatase, and 340 pmol/mg protein (200 copies per granule) of a low-molecular weight protein which reacts covalently with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. These co-purify on electrofocusing and exclusion chromatography and are apparently components of a proton-translocating adenosine triphosphatase complex, that is involved in maintaining the high concentration of catecholamines in the granules. The membranes contain another adenosine 5'-triphosphatase, of lower molecular weight, which is sensitive to inhibition by vanadate but relatively insensitive to dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. The function of this enzyme is unknown.
Approximately 5 segments of lumbo-thoracic spinal cord together with connected dorsal root ganglia were removed from 1-11-day-old rats and maintained in vitro. Dorsal root afferents, recorded from the ganglion and stimulated at the root entry zone, had conduction velocities typical of unmyelinated fibers (less than 2 m/s). The spinal terminals of individual afferents showed increased excitability with bath application of substance P and serotonin and decreased excitability with morphine sulfate, [D-ala2]methionine-enkephalinamide, manganese ions and magnesium ions. Naloxone by itself elicited no change in excitability, although it appeared to reduce the ongoing effect of opiates. Neurons recorded extracellularly in the dorsal horn responded to afferent volleys with one or more of 3 distinct phases: an excitation roughly coincident with the volley's arrival, a 50-300 ms period of inhibition, and a late excitation of 150-300 ms latency. The excitability results are accounted for by a model in which substance P, gamma-aminobutyric acid and possibly other depolarizing agents are contained in interneurons which synapse on afferent terminals. These interneurons could receive inhibitory enkephalinergic input, and, in the neonate but not the adult, excitatory serotoninergic input. An alternate scheme would have enkephalin and serotonin acting directly on afferent terminals, although perhaps by non-synaptic diffusion since the appropriate synapses have not been seen in histochemical studies. Such an action for enkephalin might explain the existence of opiate receptor on afferent terminals. The interneuronal responses to afferent volleys are parallel in most aspects to those found in the dorsal horns of adult mammals in vivo.
Sections of the cat's visual cortex were stained by an antiserum to glutamate decarboxylase using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method; they were then impregnated by the section Golgi procedure and finally the Golgi deposit was replaced by gold. Neurons containing glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity were found in all layers of the visual cortex, without any obvious pattern of distribution. Fifteen immunoreactive neurons were also Golgi-impregnated and gold-toned, which enabled us to study the morphology and synaptic input of identified GABAergic neurons. These neurons were found to be heterogeneous both with respect to the sizes and shapes of their perikarya and the branching patterns of their dendrites. All the immunoreactive, Golgi-impregnated neurons had smooth dendrites, with only occasional protrusions. The synaptic input of glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive neurons was studied in the electron microscope. Immunoreactive neurons received immunoreactive boutons forming symmetrical synapses on their cell bodies. The Golgi-impregnation made it possible to study the input along the dendrites of immunoreactive neurons. One of the large neurons in layer III whose soma was immunoreactive was also Golgi-impregnated: it received numerous non-immunoreactive asymmetrical synaptic contacts along its dendrites and occasional ones on its soma. The same neuron also received a few boutons forming symmetrical synaptic contacts along its Golgi-impregnated dendrites; most of these boutons were immunoreactive for glutamate decarboxylase. Glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive boutons were also found in symmetrical synaptic contact with non-immunoreactive neurons that were Golgi-impregnated. A small pyramidal cell in layer III was shown to receive several such boutons along its somatic membrane. It is concluded that the combination of immunoperoxidase staining and Golgi impregnation is technically feasible and that it can provide new information. The present study has shown that there are many morphologically distinct kinds of aspiny GABAergic neurons in the visual cortex; that the predominant type of synaptic input to the dendrites of such neurons is from boutons forming asymmetrical synapses, but that some of the GABAergic neurons also receive a dense symmetrical synaptic input on their cell bodies, and occasional synapses along their dendrites, from the boutons of other GABAergic neurons. These findings provide a morphological basis, firstly, for a presumed powerful excitatory input to GABAergic interneurons and, secondly, for the disinhibition which has been postulated from electrophysiological studies to occur in the cat's visual cortex.
A method is described for impregnating neurons by the Golgi procedure in sections of brain tissue that are of a thickness 80-100 microns, so allowing a variety of histochemical procedures to be carried out prior to Golgi-impregnation. The method has been applied to the retina of the adult primate and to brain sections incubated to reveal horseradish peroxidase activity with substrates that give electron-dense reaction products. Sections containing neurons that have been filled with horseradish peroxidase by intracellular iontophoresis following electrophysiological characterization, or containing neurons retrogradely labelled by horseradish peroxidase, can be impregnated by this Golgi procedure. Subsequent gold-toning of the Golgi-impregnated neurons makes it possible to study, in the electron-microscope, both Golgi-impregnated and peroxidase-containing neurons and their afferent and efferent synaptic contacts within the same section. The procedure also makes it possible to repeat Golgi impregnation on sections already Golgi-impregnated and gold-toned, or to repeat the Golgi impregnation if the first impregnation is not satisfactory. The procedure is illustrated by examples from the monkey retina, cat visual cortex and rat neostriatum.
The effects of mild noxious stimulation on central noradrenergic activity were investigated in rats, using low-intensity electrical footshock as the noxious stimulus. Synaptosomes were prepared from brain regions of control and experimental rats and the rate of tyrosine hydroxylation was assayed: this is a measure of transmitter synthesis in the isolated noradrenergic terminals. Single footshocks were found to elevate the synthesis rate in the hippocampus, the extent of the elevation depending on the baseline rate. This elevation was not significant in hypothalamus or cerebellum. Repeated handling over a period of 14 days was also found to elevate synthesis rate in hippocampus; but rats subjected to daily footshock for a week, in addition to handling, had synthesis rates similar to those of controls. Maximal tyrosine hydroxylase activity was measured by solubilizing the enzyme and assaying at saturating concentrations of cofactor and substrate: this is a measure of the amount of enzyme in the nerve terminals. No significant changes in maximal tyrosine hydroxylase activity were found in the brains of handled or shocked animals. These results suggest that the assay of tyrosine hydroxylase activity in a suspension of synaptosomes provides a sensitive indicator of changes in noradrenergic activity related to mild noxious stimulation. The biochemical responses are more pronounced in the hippocampus than in other noradrenergic terminal areas; this suggests that the synthesis rate of noradrenaline in terminals of central noradrenergic neurones could be regulated by local mechanisms at the terminal as well as by impulses transmitted from the cell body.

Semi-quantitative analysis (e.g. optical density ratios) of [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiograms is widely used in neuroscience research. We demonstrate that a fixed ratio of 14C-concentrations in the CNS does not yield a constant optical density ratio but is dependent upon the exposure time in the preparation of the autoradiograms and the absolute amounts of 14C from which the concentration ratio is derived. The failure of a fixed glucose utilization ratio to result in a constant optical density ratio represents a major interpretative difficulty in investigations where only semi-quantitative analysis of [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiograms is undertaken.
Monoclonal antibodies against human placental acid sphingomyelinase have been raised. The antibodies are all of the IgG1 type, and are quite specific for the enzyme. One of the antibodies has been used to demonstrate a common antigenic identity of three polypeptides (mol.wts. 90,000, 72,000, and 48,000) of a purified sphingomyelinase preparation.
The design of a tissue slice perfusion system is described, and examples are given showing the stability of this system for intracellular and extracellular recordings during changes in perfusion media. The stability of this system is attributed to several features. Mini-drips serve to cushion transient changes in flow rate when switching from one medium to another. Solenoid valves are used to quickly switch perfusion media with minimal mechanical movement. A finely-controlled adjustable flow valve provides a uniform flow rate for all media. Constant tissue temperature is maintained by media perfusion through a thermoelectric Peltier assembly. In addition, a filter paper wick insures that the perfusate is constantly removed without movement in the tissue slices. With this design, the slices are supported on a net at the interface between the perfusion medium and a humidified, oxygenated atmosphere. This arrangement appears to be conducive to tissue viability and facilitates the placement of microelectrodes in the slices.

Passing current through the microelectrode during intracellular recording produces an artifactual voltage-drop across the electrode's resistance. In modern biological amplifiers, the means of removing this artifact is through what is no more than an analog arithmetic unit which subtracts a voltage, having some fixed proportion to the current being injected, from the voltage appearing at the input to the amplifier. Various techniques have evolved for determining that fixed proportion, an operation which has come to be referred to as bridge balance, and these are reviewed. A new method is presented for determining bridge balance and another amplifier parameter which affects current injection, capacitance neutralization. Essentially, a sinusoidal current is passed through the electrode and preparation at a frequency high enough so that the cellular membrane presents negligable impedance but low enough so that the electrode appears as nearly a pure resistance. A set of analytical formulations is presented which describes the system and which is useful in choosing the best frequency of the test sinusoidal signal. This choice, part of the experimental design, is based on the predicted time constants of the recorded cell and the recording electrode. In using the phase-sensitive method, the capacitance neutralization of the recording amplifier is adjusted until there is no phase error in the injected current. Bridge balance can then be adjusted until no sinusoidal signal is visible at the output of the amplifier. Both bridge balance and correction of capacitance compensation can be automatically and continuously performed during intracellular recording by incorporating a phase-sensitive alternating current (AC) voltmeter (i.e. a lock-in amplifier) into the system. This permits accurate measurement of intracellular potential during current injection even though the resistance of the electrode might be changing.
Intracellular injection of the fluorescent dye Lucifer Yellow CH into single motoneurones of the isolated perfused frog spinal cord resulted in backfilling of presynaptic fibres originating from dorsal roots and ventrolateral funiculi. The dye transfer from primary sensory fibres into motoneurones was observed following application of Lucifer Yellow to the central end of the cut dorsal root. The dye-coupling coincides with electrical coupling at sensory-motor synapses presumably through gap junctions. The fluorescent primary afferent fibres were traced from the dorsal roots to the motor nucleus where they terminate the chains of swellings. Most swellings are located in dorsal horn and in the intermediate zone approximately 100-100 micrometers from the somata of motoneurones. A few varicosities are located ion the cell bodies of the motoneurones.
Afferent projections to the trigeminal nucleus oralis and caudalis from the brain stem have been investigated by the use of retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase in the cat. Both n. oralis and n. caudalis receive a projection from nucleus raphe magnus but not from other raphe nuclei in the medulla or pons. N. oralis and n. caudalis receive a bilateral projection from n. paragigantocellularis lateralis. N. oralis receives a projection from n. reticularis gigantocellularis and n. reticularis parvocellularis but not from n. reticularis magnocellularis. N. caudalis receives only sparse projections from n. reticularis gigantocellularis, n. reticularis parvocellularis and n. reticularis magnocellularis but receives an input from a layer of cells over the pyramids in the rostral medulla, here named n. paramagnocellularis ventralis. The study also revealed the presence of ascending and descending interconnections between n. oralis and n. caudalis, as well as contralateral trigeminal interconnections. Projections from the medial vestibular nuclei, n. praepositus hypoglossi and the facial nucleus to the spinal trigeminal nucleus were also noted. Since the spinal trigeminal nucleus has only sensory functions, the results indicate the source of projections, mainly from raphe and reticular nuclei, which are involved in sensory control in the trigeminal system.
The afferent connections of the mesencephalic reticular formation were studied experimentally in the rat by the aid of the retrograde horseradish peroxidase tracer technique. The results suggest that the rostral portion of the mesencephalic reticular formation receives its main input from the cerebral cortex, the zona incerta and the fields of Forel, the central gray substance, the nuclei reticularis pontis oralis and caudalis, and the deep cerebellar nuclei. Substantial input to the same territory of the mesencephalic reticular formation appears to come from the superior colliculus, the substantia nigra, the parabrachial area, the spinal trigeminal nucleus, and the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis, whereas several other brain structures, among which the locus coeruleus and the raphe complex, seem to represent modest but consistent additional input sources. The afferentation of more caudal portions of the mesencephalic reticular formation appears to conform to the general pattern outlined above with only three exceptions; the cerebral cortex, the deep cerebellar nuclei and the spinal trigeminal nucleus seem to be relatively modest sources of projections to these levels. Considering that the mesencephalic reticular formation is a critical structure in the &quot;ascending activating systems&quot; the present results, confirming and extending those of many other investigators, characterize a set of pathways that seem to be an important part of the anatomical substrate of the sleep-walking cycle.
Synaptic terminals of the habenulo-interpeduncular axons in rat interpeduncular nucleus are demonstrated by electron-microscopic autoradiography following [3H]leucine injection into the habenula. The endings are of two types, S and crest synapses. Previous descriptions of the S synapses based on indirect identification were confirmed. The crest synapses in the interpeduncular nucleus consist of two habenular afferents contacting a narrowed dendrite. Injection of both habenulae with radiolabeled amino acid resulted in autoradiographic labeling of both axons at 48% of individual crest synapses, and of one axon at 39%. However, when only one habenula was injected, no more than one axon was labeled at individual crest synapses; this occurred at 59%. Interpretation of unlabeled endings is possible using the &quot;detection rate&quot; of the method (per cent ratio of labeled to total endings). The detection rate, which can be determined for the bilateral injection case, allows recalculation of the raw data for the unilateral injection case. Left-right pairing of habenular afferents actually occurs at approximately 90% of crest synapses. The use of detection rates in this way, additionally exemplified by analysis of an electron-microscopic degeneration study, is also important in many other applications of both of these experimental neuroanatomical methods, especially when comparisons between two sets of data are made. The conclusions of studies which have not taken this problem into account must be interpreted with caution.
This study provides new data on the time of origin, the generation site and the migration route of the young neurons of the substantia nigra of the rat during embryogenesis. The neurons of the substantia nigra are generated on day 12, 13, 14 and 15 of gestation. They settle following a light spatiotemporal rostrocaudal gradient from day 12 to 15. The neurons of the substantia nigra are generated at two different points of the basal plate at the level of the fovea isthmi (meso-isthmic junction) and migrate in radial pattern as two definite streams toward the ventral mesencephalon. From this point they move rostralwards along the surface towards their final site. The main findings of this work are the disclosure that the neurons of the substantia nigra are generated in the region of the isthmus rhombencephali and that its cells do not migrate between existing cells of the mesencephalic tegmentum but first migrate ventralwards in a radial pattern and then rostrally towards their definite site. Numerous neurons of the basal mesencephalon and of the midline structures of the caudal mesencephalon are apparently derived from the region of the fovea isthmi.
The extrageniculate visual thalamus of the cat is divisible into several major subdivisions but only one receives dense fiber projections from the striate cortex. In the present study, modern axon transport techniques and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry were used to examine the internal organization of this striate-recipient zone and some of its afferent and efferent connections. A detailed study of the corticothalamic fiber projections of the striate cortex clarified the topographic organization and boundaries of the striate-recipient zone. The nature and course of &quot;projection lines&quot; within the zone were defined and the subdivision was shown to correspond closely to a region of relatively weak acetylcholinesterase staining. Corticothalamic projections from two regions of the extrastriate visual cortex, area 19 and the medial division of the Clare-Bishop complex, converge with those from area 17 in the striate-recipient zone, but these extrastriate areas have more widespread projections to the extrageniculate thalamus than does the striate cortex. A weak subcortical projection to the striate-recipient zone was demonstrated, apparently originating in the superior colliculus. Retrograde tracing experiments indicated that the corticothalamic inputs of the striate-recipient zone are precisely reciprocal by thalamocortical projections. Extrageniculate thalamic projections to area 17 arise exclusively from this thalamic subdivision and are highly topographically ordered. The striate-recipient zone projects massively and apparently retinotopically to area 19 and to the medial division of the Clarc-Bishop area, as well as area 21(a), but these extrastriate areas receive additional afferents from other subdivisions of the extrageniculate thalamus. These findings appear to rule out a &quot;non-specific&quot; functional role for the striate-recipient zone. In its topographic organization, its reciprocal connections with areas of the visual cortex, and its sheer volume, the zone seems comparable to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and may be fairly considered a satellite of the geniculocortical system. Certain of the zone's organizational and connectional features may be clues to its functional role and its possible homologues in other mammalian forms.
GABAergic cells and axon terminals were localized in the basal hypothalamus of differnet species (rat, mouse and cat), by means of an immunocytochemical approach using a specific and well-characterized antiserum to the GABA biosynthetic enzyme, glutamate decarboxylase. Light-microscopic visualization was performed with an indirect immunofluorescence method and electron-microscopic observations were made on material with pre-embedding staining and use of the peroxidase-antiperoxidase procedure. At the light-microscopic level, a dense immunofluorescent plexus was observed over both the medial and lateral parts of the external layer of the median eminence. The labelling extended from the rostal part of the median eminence up to the pituitary stalk. Over the subependymal and internal layers only a few immunoreactive dots were visible, except around the blood vessels where they appeared more concentrated. Immunoreactive varicosities could be found following the outlines of the capillary loops and lining tanycyte processes, especially in the median eminance midportion. At the electron-microscopic level, the immunolabelling was exclusively found over neuronal profiles in the median eminence. The latter represented a small fraction of the total number of varicosities visible on the same section. Labelled profiles typically contained numerous small clear synaptic vesicles and only a few or no dense-core vesicles. In the subependymal and internal layers, rare labelled endings were found close to ependymal cells or among transversally cut fibers, respectively. In the palisadic zone, elongated positive boutons were visible intermingled with bundles of unlabelled axons and glial or ependymal processes. In the neurohemal contact zone, immunoreactive endings were observed among unlabelled neurosecretory endings in close vicinity to fenestrated capillary perivascular space. Small moderately intense immunofluorescent varicosities were observed all over the hypothalamus. The density of the glutamate decarboxylase-positive network was higher than in most diencephalic regions. Intraventricular or topical injection of colchicine allowed the visualization of small lightly immunoreactive cells in the diffusion area of colchicine. In the arcuate nucleus labelled axonal endings containing small pleomorphic synaptic vesicles and sometimes a few dense-core vesicles were observed at the electron-microscopic level. Typical synaptic junctions were commonly found between positive endings and unlabelled perikarya, or more frequently, unlabelled dendrites. These findings show that glutamate decarboxylase-containing endings are localized ed in several strategic sites for potential GABAergic neuroendocrine regulations. The GABAergic endings found among neurosecretory endings in the neurohemal contact zone may provide the morphological support for the release of gamma-aminobutyrate into the portal blood flow as an hypothalamic hypophysiotropic hormone.
The localisation of corticoliberin producing neurones in the sheep hypothalamus was attempted with an antiserum directed against synthetic ovine CRF by the indirect immunofluorescence procedure. Synthetic ovine corticoliberin-immunoreactive fibres were detected, in order of decreasing importance, in the external median eminence, in the caudal neural lobe around capillaries, at the boundary of the neural and intermediate lobe, around the anterior commissure, in the paraventricular nuclei and in the posterior hypothalamus and midbrain, suggesting that synthetic ovine corticoliberin-related substances act not only on anterior pituitary tissue, but also on the intermediate lobe, on central neurones and on peripheral target organs. Two groups of cell bodies reacted to the anti-synthetic ovine corticoliberin antiserum. The first group was located in the paraventricular nuclei and consisted of 15-20 microns diameter cell bodies with a granular cytoplasm. The second group was located mainly in the dorsolateral caudal hypothalamus, and the cell bodies were smaller (10-15 microns) and had a smooth cytoplasm. No cell bodies were detected in the basal hypothalamus). Synthetic ovine corticoliberin-immunoreactive structures did not contain immunoreactive neurophysin. The synthetic ovine corticoliberin-immunoreaction in the paraventricular neurones was abolished by preincubating the antiserum with synthetic ovine corticoliberin but not with sauvagine or several other peptides. The immunoreaction in the posterior hypothalamic groups was abolished by preincubating the synthetic ovine corticoliberin antiserum with both synthetic ovine corticoliberin and sauvagine, but not with other peptides. The results suggest that the immunoreaction was specific for synthetic ovine corticoliberin in the paraventricular but not posterior hypothalamic region. The relative contribution of both areas to synthetic ovine corticoliberin-like peptides containing nerve terminals of the median eminence remains to be established.
Composite excitatory postsynaptic potentials were elicited in lumbar motoneurones by Ia afferents from muscles of the triceps surae group. These excitatory postsynaptic potentials were examined in the same cell before, during and after interruption of descending spinal pathways. After transection or cold block of the spinal cord at T12-T13, the amplitude of composite excitatory postsynaptic potentials showed no significant change for a period of up to seven hours after transection. However, there was a reduction in amplitude of the monosynaptic reflex in the extensor motoneurones which may be due to an observed hyperpolarization and reduction in membrane time constant in these neurones. The reduction in amplitude of the monosynaptic reflex observed in spinal shock can be attributed to the effects of these changes, rather than to a decrease in the size of the monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potential.
Acetylcholine sensitivity along the entire length of muscle fibers was studied during postnatal development and following transection of the spinal cord in the rat. During postnatal development, the acetylcholine sensitivity in the soleus and extensor digitorum longus muscles decreased faster at the juxtajunctional region than near the tendons. Thus, the adult pattern of low acetylcholine sensitivity at the extrajunctional membrane was achieved through the uneven change of acetylcholine sensitivity during normal development. This uneven pattern of the sensitivity was found to appear in both muscles in older rats after cordotomy, and is in striking contrast to the uniform pattern in denervated muscles. The uneven appearance of the sensitivity could not be explained by changes in input resistance or resting membrane potential. In the soleus muscle whose nerve was implanted at an ectopic site, the lowest sensitivity also appeared at the ectopic juxtajunctional region after cordotomy. These results indicate that the motor nerve exerts regionally different effects along a fiber with respect to the appearance of acetylcholine receptors.

In unanesthetized cats it has been found that pyramidal volleys elicited upon medullary pyramidal tract stimulation were capable of modifying the discharge of 41% of intracerebellar nuclear cells, via pontocerebellar systems impinging predominantly on the lateral cerebellar cortex. The incidence of responsive cells was 80% in the dentate nucleus compared with 10% in the fastigial nucleus, 11% in the anterior and 12% in the posterior division of the interpositus nucleus. The response was in 59% of the cases excitation followed by inhibition, in 30% of the cases a pure excitation and in 11% of the cases a pure inhibition. Excitation, pure or followed by inhibition, had a mean latency of 5.78 ms and a mean duration of 12.21 ms, while inhibition displayed a mean latency of 9.03 ms and a mean duration of 34.64 ms. The possible functional significance of the pyramidal input to the lateral cerebellum is briefly discussed in relation to a possible convergence of pyramidal and associative impulses in single cerebellar neurons.
Rats were submitted to forced swimming and were killed 15 min after initiation of the stress and at 1 h, 1 day and 4 days thereafter. Immediately after the stress there was a decrease of 30% in the density of [3H]flunitrazepam binding sites in the cerebral cortex and of 27% in the hippocampal formation, with no changes in all the other brain areas studied. These changes in the number of benzodiazepine receptors were also corroborated by the binding of [3H]ethyl-beta-carboline carboxylate. For both ligands there were no changes in affinity. These effects were selective for the benzodiazepine receptors and no changes in alpha 1, alpha 2 and beta adrenoceptors and in dopaminergic receptors were observed. One hour after the stress, the number of benzodiazepine receptors had recovered in the cerebral cortex (8% above the control) and had increased greatly in the hippocampal formation (+53%). One day after the stress, the [3H]flunitrazepam binding in the cerebral cortex reached the normal level but it was still slightly elevated (+16%) in the hippocampus. These results are discussed in relation to some contradictory findings in the literature and to the fact that the hippocampal formation is related to neural mechanisms underlying behavior and neuroendocrine regulation.
Intraventricular injections of hemicholinium-3 led to a sharp reduction in hippocampal acetylcholine content (by 79% on the average). This was associated with the following changes in population spikes evoked in area CA1 by commissural stimulation: (1) a tendency to progressive increase, over 1-2 hours; (2) in a few cases (3 out of 12), a striking depression of the normal strong facilitation produced by brief tetanic stimulation of the medial septum (typically 10 pulses at 50-100 Hz); (3) a much more consistent tendency towards fading of the septal facilitatory effect during repeated applications of such brief septal tetani (in 10 cases out of 12); as well as, (4) diminished facilitation by sustained, lower frequency septal tetanic stimulation (20-50 Hz). The reduced efficiency of septal action--especially during repetitive stimulation--was not accompanied by a consistent reduction of the facilitation produced by local applications of acetylcholine; it is, therefore, best explained by the diminished availability of acetylcholine, and so provides further evidence that septo-hippocampal facilitation is mediated by a cholinergic mechanism.
Mechanisms regulating the content of the putative peptide transmitters, substance P and somatostatin, were examined in several neuronal populations in culture. Substance P levels increased more than 25-fold within 48 h in sympathetic neurons in the explanted rat superior cervical ganglion, and remained elevated for 4 weeks. Identity of the peptide was authenticated by combined high pressure liquid chromatography-radioimmunoassay. Veratridine prevented the increase of substance P in vitro, and tetrodotoxin blocked the veratridine effect, suggesting that sodium ion influx and membrane depolarization prevent peptide elevation. Veratridine (or potassium)-induced membrane depolarization released substance P into the culture medium through a calcium-dependent process. Consequently, at least some veratridine effects are attributable to release and subsequent depletion of ganglion peptide. However, the inhibitory effects of veratridine were far greater than could be accounted for by the quantity of peptide released, suggesting a separate influence on net synthesis (synthesis less catabolism) of substance P. Viewed in conjunction with previous in vivo studies, our observations suggest that trans-synaptic impulses, through the mediation of postsynaptic sodium flux, release substance P from sympathetic neurons and also regulate intracellular peptide metabolism. To determine whether the processes regulating substance P in sympathetic neurons reflect generalized mechanisms, a different peptide, somatostatin, was examined in sympathetic neurons; moreover, substance P was examined in a different neuronal population, special sensory neurons in the nodose ganglion. Substance P levels increased significantly in both sympathetic and sensory neurons after explantation, and somatostatin levels increased in sympathetic neurons. In each instance, the increase was dependent upon the presence of the calcium ions. Moreover, these increases were all prevented by veratridine, in a tetrodotoxin-sensitive manner. Our observations suggest that common regulatory mechanisms govern peptide transmitter metabolism in diverse neuronal populations.
Previous investigations of cortical organization in the brain of the turtle have revealed many features typical of mammalian neocortex. Recent evidence suggests that many neocortical neurons contain neuroactive peptides. The possibility that one such peptide, somatostatin, is found in the turtle brain was tested using immunocytochemical techniques. Intense somatostatin-like immunoreactivity was observed in many neurons and fibers in turtle cortex, as well as in several forebrain nuclei. Cortical neurons with several different dendritic configurations showed immunoreactive labelling, including bipolar, stellate and pyramidal cell types. In addition, stained cells and processes were observed in close association with the ependyma of the lateral ventricle. Other forebrain regions containing immunoreactive neurons included the dorsal ventricular ridge, the basal telencephalic nuclei and the hypothalamus. These data support the idea that peptidergic neurons existed in the pallium of an ancestor common to modern mammals and reptiles. We speculate that somatostatin plays a similar role in the normal function of all types of cortex and suggest that turtle cortex may provide a useful model for the study of this cortical neuropeptide.
Serotonin-immunoreactive nerve fibers were demonstrated to form a plexus in the intermediate lobe of rat pituitary. Such fibers were sporadic in the posterior lobe where they occurred exclusively in the zone adjacent to the intermediate lobe, and in the anterior lobe. With the aid of electron-microscopic immunocytochemistry, labeled fibers were shown to constitute the majority of neuronal processes found in the intercellular region of the intermediate lobe. They were frequently seen to establish synaptoid contacts with endocrine cells.
An attempt has been made to redefine the borders of the globus pallidus by the aid of the unique pattern of enkephalin-like and substance P-like immunoreactivity characterizing the pallidum of both monkey and rat. In preparations immunoreacted for these two peptides by the peroxidase-antiperoxidase histochemical method of Sternberger this pattern appears in the form of ribbon-like fibers (here called &quot;woolly fibers&quot;) that have been interpreted by Haber and Elde as unstained pallidal elements (dendrites and cell bodies) each enmeshed by a plexus of thin, enkephalin- or substance P-positive striatopallidal fibers. A dense enkephalin-positive woolly-fiber plexus fills the entire external pallidal segment as conventionally defined (here called &quot;dorsal pallidum&quot;) and extends from there in various, generally ventral, directions. The most massive, rostral extension defines the subcommissural or &quot;ventral pallidum&quot; of Heimer and Wilson and expands from there ventraward into the olfactory tubercle, supporting Heimer's suggestion that many of the large cells of the tubercle are pallidal neurons. Further extensions from the enkephalin-positive dorsal pallidum plexus invade the ventral striatal region (including the nucleus accumbens), a dorsal region of the amygdala, and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Substance P-positive woolly fibers, like their enkephalin-positive counterparts, fill the ventral pallidum and invade the olfactory tubercle, but avoid all except a small rostroventral part of the dorsal pallidum, and do not invade the striatum, the amygdala, or the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. On the other hand, the dense substance P-positive woolly-fiber plexus filling the internal pallidal segment (entopeduncular nucleus) expands medialward into the lateral hypothalamic region. The entopeduncular nucleus invades the hypothalamus also with a loose plexus of enkephalin-positive woolly fibers. It is suggested that woolly fibers extending outward beyond the conventionally recognized borders of the pallidum represent pallidal elements innervated by enkephalin or substance P-positive fibers arising from ventromedial striatal regions in turn innervated by limbic structures.


An inexpensive, electrically quiet temperature controller designed to provide biological temperatures in chambers used to maintain tissue slices for in vitro recording is described. The circuit incorporates several advantageous features: (1) an integrated circuit temperature sensor is used which produces a linear output and is immune to self-heating error; (2) a single +12-18 V, 1 A DC supply will power the unit; (3) the output regulator cannot be damaged by overheating or short-circuiting; and (4) the temperature of the preparation is displayed.

Modelling of conditioning by means of direct stimulation of the rat sensomotor cortex and the self--stimulation results revealed the primary role of activation of the hypothalamic emotionally positive structures in formation of instrumental conditioned reflex or its cellular analogue. Based on the data obtained and on some literature data, a scheme is proposed for conditioned connection resulting from convergence of impulses coming from at least four sources: 1) the structures perceiving a conditioned signal; 2) the structures activated by an actual demand (for instance, the hunger excitation); 3) afferent stimuli arising under the effect of a factor capable of satisfying this demand; 4) the cerebral emotiongenic structures.

During 1975 and 1976, 11837 patients with head injury were admitted to 16 general hospitals serving 2.1 million people. Eight hundred and seventy-five had fractures of the skull, 178 died and 103 were transferred to the regional department of neurosciences. A fall was the cause of injury in 49 per cent, a traffic accident in 24 per cent and assault in 17 per cent. Seventeen per cent of adult patients had taken alcohol and 16 per cent had major extracranial injuries (including fractures of the bones of the face). Sixty-seven per cent stayed in hospital for 0-48 hours and 8 per cent for 8 days or more. The mortality rate and the number of deaths associated with avoidable factors both increased with the patient's ages. After standardization for age and sex, neither of these measures of the effectiveness of the management of head injury in hospital was found to differ significantly amongst the sixteen hospitals; nor were they related to differences in the way in which head injury patients were managed (for example, duration of stay in hospital) or to admission policy, work load (number of patients admitted with head injury per year) or the distance by road to the regional neurosciences department.




Afferent projections to the periaqueductal gray matter in the rat have been studied by use of the retrograde axonal transport of horseradish peroxidase. Iontophoretic injections of horseradish peroxidase were made in dorsal, lateral and medial areas of the periaqueductal gray, primarily at intercollicular levels. The pattern of projections was similar in all of the injections restricted to the periaqueductal gray. Within the brainstem, numerous reticular formation nuclei were labeled, including nucleus reticularis lateralis, nucleus raphe magnus, pallidus and obscurus, the nucleus reticularis pontis oralis and caudalis, the paralemniscal nucleus and the dorsal and ventral parabrachial nuclei. At diencephalic levels, dense projections were seen from the parafascicular nucleus, dorsal premamillary nucleus, zona incerta, dorsomedial and ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus and the retrochiasmatic area, in the ventral portion of the anterior hypothalamus. At forebrain levels, occasional cells were seen in the medial preoptic area, lateral septum and the anterior cingulate cortex. Control injections of horseradish peroxidase into structures adjacent to the periaqueductal gray matter included three well localized deposits in the dorsal raphe. Retrogradely-labeled cells were found in lateral reticular nucleus of the medulla, nucleus raphe magnus, nucleus reticularis pontis caudalis, locus ceruleus, dorsal and ventral parabrachial nuclei, substantia nigra and the lateral hypothalamus. No labeled cells were found in the habenular nuclei. It is suggested that many of the descending hypothalamic and forebrain afferents may be relay centers for descending hippocampal formation efferents. Many of the periaqueductal gray afferent systems receive a direct projection from the hippocampal formation and could therefore coordinate influences from this limbic center with information on homeostatic mechanisms controlled by the hypothalamus. The numerous brainstem afferents to the periaqueductal gray could be involved in relay of ascending sensory information important for initiating any of several behavioral responses known to be controlled by the periaqueductal gray. In addition, certain raphe afferents might play a part in a feedback loop of the pain suppression circuit of which the periaqueductal gray is an important component.
This study was designed to examine the ability of naloxone to antagonize the inhibition of neurons in the globus pallidus produced by electrical stimulation of the caudate nucleus. In rats anesthetized with chloral hydrate, bipolar stimulating electrodes were placed in the head of the caudate and seven-barrel micropipettes were utilized for recording extracellular activity of globus pallidus cells as well as for microiontophoretic application of experimental drugs. In most globus pallidus cells which were inhibited by caudate stimulation, application of naloxone (at currents which antagonized morphine-elicited depression) attenuated the caudate-induced effect. Naloxone did not antagonize depression of globus pallidus neurons induced by gamma-aminobutyrate. The results indicate that caudate stimulation causes the release of endogenous enkephalins which act to suppress neuronal activity in the globus pallidus. Thus, this study supports biochemical and histochemical studies which provide evidence for an enkephalinergic component in the striatopallidal projection.
The anterograde transport of horseradish peroxidase was used to label newly growing corticospinal axons after they had entered lesioned regions of the neonatal rat spinal cord. Two types of lesions were made at thoracic and lumbar levels before the arrival of the first corticospinal axons. (1) Thermal lesions were produced by the brief application of a heated rod to the vertebral column and could destroy the normal growth path over several spinal segments. Corticospinal axons, when successful in growing distal to thermal lesions, did so at the same rate as in normal controls and retaining their normal relative positions and morphology, especially fasciculation. (2) Surgical lesions were produced by cutting the spinal cord and were limited to one segment but could result in a barrier in the normal growth path composed of a cyst or glial scar. Corticospinal axons that succeeded in growing distal to a surgical lesion did so by being deflected to unusual positions, became defasciculated, and sometimes their normal growth rate was slowed. That corticospinal axons could in many instances grow past the two types lf lesion suggests that a morphologically stereotyped glial scaffolding is not necessary for axon growth. The role of fasciculation in normal axon growth is highlighted by the disparate effects of the two types of lesion.
In chicken retina, approximately two thirds of the bipolar cells and most amacrine cells are destroyed after intravitreal injection of from 20 to 60 nmoles of kainic acid. These cells, plus horizontal cells are destroyed after intravitreal injections of 120 nmoles of kainic acid. One third of the bipolar cells, Mller glial cells, photoreceptors and ganglion cells seem to be much more resistant. The resistance of the ganglion cells to intravitreal kainic acid is unusual and is not found in mammalian retinas. Dopaminergic amacrine cells may also be resistant to kainic acid. It is suggested that kainic acid interacts directly with bipolar cells and horizontal cells, depolarising the bipolar cells and horizontal cells and thereby killing them, while hyperpolarizing the ON-bipolar cells. The possibility that amacrine cell death may be an indirect result of kainic acid's effects on bipolar cells is discussed. Whatever the precise way in which kainic acid causes cell death, the technique of causing lesions is useful for defining the localization of retinal and particularly amacrine cell transmitter systems.
The ultrastructure of the vasopressin neurons of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus was studied by immunocytochemical techniques. Tissue antigen was detected in unembedded tissue sections using a monoclonal antibody that recognizes vasopressin but not oxytocin or vasotocin. At the light-microscopic level, reaction product was seen to fill the cytoplasm of the neuron cell body as well as large portions of the dendrite and axon. Immunoreactive spines were seen on both somatic and dendritic surfaces and their presence was confirmed at the ultrastructural level. In the light-microscope, axonal processes do not have spines and are thinner and more varicose than dendritic processes. At the electron-microscopic level, both axons and dendrites of the vasopressin cells are filled with reactive neurosecretory granules. The presence of large numbers of these organelles made it difficult to distinguish proximal dendrites from Herring bodies (axonal swellings). At the ultrastructural level, reaction product was also observed in the cytoplasm of all segments of the vasopressin cells. The presence of reaction product outside of membranous compartments is undoubtably due to disruption of membranes by detergent treatment or exposure to basic pH. However, the staining procedure used did allow us to examine the synaptic input to the vasopressin cells. All portions of the vasopressin neuron receive a diverse innervation. The somata have synapses on their surfaces and on spines. These axo-somatic terminals are primarily, but not exclusively, symmetrical and the presynaptic elements contain spherical or elongate vesicles. On the dendrites, terminals again were observed on the surface or on spines. these axo-dendritic synapses were usually asymmetrical. The presynaptic elements contained clear spherical, elongate or pleomorphic vesicles. Occasional varicosities with dense-core granules were seen to make en passant contacts with dendrites; these contacts did not have obvious membrane specializations. Input to vasopressin axons was studied both along the paraventricular-neurohypophysial tract and in the median eminence. Vasopressin axons receive a synaptic input (axo-axonic), predominately of the asymmetric variety with clear, spherical vesicles in the presynaptic element. These findings demonstrate that the vasopressin neurons of the paraventricular nucleus receive a diverse innervation.
Injections of tritiated L-leucine were placed in the reticular formation of the medulla, the spinal trigeminal and lateral reticular nuclei of cats and silver grain accumulations in the inferior olivary nucleus were demonstrated by autoradiography. Cells of the reticular formation located at the junction of nuclei reticularis magnocellularis and reticularis parvocellularis in the rostral medulla and within nucleus reticularis ventralis in the caudal medulla contribute four distinct projections to the olive. Three projections are distributed ipsilaterally in the caudal part of the medial accessory olive, at mid-level of the dorsal accessory olive and in the ventrolateral bend of the principal olive, at rostral levels. There is also a small controlateral projection to the caudal part of the medial accessory olive. the spinal trigeminal nucleus sends crossed projections to the rostral part of the dorsal accessory olive and adjacent ventral lamella as well as to the caudal part of the medial accessory olive. The lateral reticular nucleus sends an extensive ipsilateral projection to the caudal part of the medial accessory olive and provides a small contribution to the same subdivision, contralaterally. All these projections converge with other known afferents to the olive.
Various tissues involved in producing luminescence in larval fireflies (Photuris versicolor) were examined for the presence of octopamine. These tissues included the terminal abdominal ganglion (A8) which innervates the paired lantern organs, the cell bodies of the photomotor neurons and the isolated larval lanterns. A previous study has identified the 4 motoneurons arising from A8 which bilaterally innervate the paired larval lanterns through symmetrical axons existing both sides of the ganglion. Individual photomotor neuron somata were isolated, pooled and found to contain about 0.03 pmol/soma giving an effective concentration of 2.8 mM octopamine. Significant amounts of octopamine were also found within the peripheral effector tissue. The presence of octopamine throughout the luminescence-producing pathway further supports the hypothesis that octopamine serves a neurotransmitter function in firefly bioluminescence. In this system, it appears that octopamine serves a more direct role as a neurotransmitter that that postulated for its modulatory and hormonal functions in other arthropod systems. Furthermore, the bioluminescent response of the larval firefly lantern provides a useful dynamic system to study the physiology, pharmacology and biochemistry of octopaminergic transmission.
Acetylcholinesterase-histochemistry has been widely used for localizing cholinergic neurons despite specificity problems. The distribution of cells stained with this method has never been directly compared on a histochemical level with the specific cholinergic marker, choline acetyltransferase. We recently reported the immunohistochemical localization of choline acetyltransferase using monoclonal antibodies [Levey A. I., Armstrong D., Atweh S. F., Terry R. D. &amp; Wainer B. H. (1983) J. Neurosci 3, 1-9]. Here we report the development of a combined histochemical and immunohistochemical method for the co-localization of the 2 cholinergic markers, and their comparison in the rat cerebrum. Although the precise relationship between the markers was complex, the important results were: (1) all neurons which contained choline acetyltransferase also contained some acetylcholinesterase; (2) many acetylcholinesterase-containing neurons did not contain any demonstrable choline acetyltransferase; (3) all neurons which stained intensely for acetylcholinesterase in the neostriatum and basal forebrain also contained choline acetyltransferase; and (4) many choline acetyltransferase-containing neurons did not stain intensely for acetylcholinesterase. The results corroborate the assumption that choline acetyltransferase is a more specific marker for cholinergic neurons than acetylcholinesterase. Intense staining for acetylcholinesterase can be reliably used in some regions of the cerebrum for identifying cholinergic neurons, however, it should be recognized that this criterion s not essential for all cholinergic neurons.
Reciprocal projections between the subthalamic nucleus of the diencephalon and the brain stem nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus have been demonstrated and studied anatomically and electrophysiologically in the rat. Injections of the fluorescent compound Fast Blue into pedunculopontinus and the surrounding peribrachial region of the mesencephalon gave rise to retrogradely-labelled neurone cell bodies in the ipsilateral subthalamic nucleus. A minimum of 1% of subthalamic nucleus neurones appeared to contribute to this projection. Electrical stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus in chronically decorticated rats resulted in inhibition of extracellularly recorded ipsilateral pedunculopontine cells which had themselves been identified (by antidromic activation) as projecting rostrally as far as the subthalamic nucleus or entopeduncular nucleus. Injection of the enzyme horseradish peroxidase into the subthalamic nucleus resulted in retrograde labelling of neurones in the ipsilateral nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus with additional contralateral labelling in some animals. Similar pedunculopontine labelling was not seen after injection of horseradish peroxidase into either the zona incerta or lateral hypothalamus. Stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus gave rise to antidromic activation of some neurones in nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus. The rate of conduction of the pedunculopontine-subthalamic projection was estimated to be approximately 1.7 m/s. Electrical stimulation of pedunculopontinus gave rise to orthodromic activation of some subthalamic nucleus neurones which had themselves been identified (by antidromic activation) as projecting to the globus pallidus or substantia nigra. The nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus is in a position to fulfill two roles--to control the activity of rostrally-located motor centres such as the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, subthalamic nucleus and substantia nigra and, by reciprocal connections, to mediate in part the effects of these structures on the lower motor system. The observations presently described are a first step in the analysis of the potential role of the pedunculopontine nucleus in the modulation of activity in, and the mediation of activity from, the basal ganglia and related motor structures of the diencephalon and mesencephalon.

Adenosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate and guanosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate have differential immunohistochemical distributions within retrogradely-labeled striatonigral neurons of the rat. Adenosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate is localized within more than half of the striatonigral projection neurons. It is also within the cytoplasm of other neurons and oligodendroglia. Guanosine cyclic 3'-5'-monophosphate is localized within 80% of the identified striatonigral neurons. These large percentages of cyclic nucleotide immunoreactivity within the striatonigral neurons suggest some of these efferent cells must contain both cyclic nucleotides. The immunofluorescent staining for guanosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate is almost identical to that reported for efferent neurotransmitter-containing neurons of the caudate nucleus. However, the large proportion of striatonigral neurons demonstrating guanosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate immunoreactivity precludes the association of the cyclic nucleotide with a selective neurotransmitter agent. Adenosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate-reactive elements are very different in staining appearance from guanosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate and neurotransmitter-identified somata. The number of striatonigral cells exhibiting reaction for this cyclic nucleotide does not eliminate the possibility that adenosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate might be preferentially co-localized with a specific neurotransmitter, such as gamma-aminobutyrate, as has been previously suggested through biochemical experimentation.
It was previously found that the number of junctional acetylcholine receptors of rat diaphragm, as measured with [125I]alphabungarotoxin binding, suddenly increased 2 days after denervation in vivo or in vitro. Organ culture was used here to characterize further this unusual class of junctional receptors. The 'new' acetylcholine receptors were physiologically functional and were functionally located only in the junctional region. The rate of degradation of new receptors was slower than that of extrajunctional receptors and similar (in the first 24 h) to that of typical junctional receptors. In addition, the appearance of new junctional receptors was inhibited by cycloheximide and actinomycin D given at critical periods, implicating a protein synthetic step. Finally, nerve stimulation in the presence of a post-synaptic blocker (pancuronium) advanced the time of appearance of new junctional receptors. This last finding coupled with our previous report of nerve stump length effects on junctional acetylcholine receptors reinforces the suggestion that under certain conditions the level of junctional receptors can be regulated by the motor neuron.
The venom of the wasp Habrobracon hebetor presynaptically blocks excitatory but not inhibitory neuromuscular transmission at locust skeletal muscle. Its mode of action on excitatory motor nerve terminals has been studied at the retractor unguis muscle of Schistocerca by means of ultrastructural stereology. paralysed and unparalysed preparations, either resting or stimulated for 7 min at 20 Hz, were compared. Paralysis does not cause structural damage to the nerve terminals but prevents the depletion of vesicles occurring upon nerve stimulation in the controls. Prolonged paralysis leads to an increase in the number and the size of vesicles resulting in an increase of total membrane per terminal cross-section by about 33% after 2 days. Stimulation causes swelling of mitochondria both in controls and in paralysed preparations, resulting from a rise of intraterminal [Ca2+] as is indicated by the absence of the swelling if extracellular Ca2+ is replaced by Mg2+. In addition, stimulation leads to a reduction of vesicle size, an increase in the area of axolemma and in the number of cisternae and of profiles of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum in controls but not in paralysed preparations. However, neither in controls nor in paralysed preparations is the total amount of membrane per terminal cross-section affected by stimulation. Under paralysis, vesicles tend to stick to the presynaptic membrane. It is concluded that Habrobracon venom does not block the depolarizing-dependent Ca2+-influx into the nerve terminal and that it is unlikely to interfere with some transmitter-related process. Rather, the venom seems to block vesicle exocytosis itself. The results lend further support to the view that in insect neuromuscular synapses exocytosis is the mechanism whereby transmitter quanta are released.
Adult male rats had electrolytic lesions placed bilaterally in the medial forebrain bundle and were subsequently implanted with stimulating electrodes in one of the following limbic regions: (1) dorsal hippocampus; (2) ventral hippocampus; (3) medial septal nucleus; (4) basolateral amygdala; (5) mesencephalic reticular formation. Following electrical stimulation, blood was drawn by acute venesection, under either, for plasma corticosterone determinations. In non-lesioned animals, electrical stimulation in all of the limbic regions led to elevated plasma corticosterone levels. In rats with lesions in the medial forebrain bundles, the adrenocortical response to stimulation in the dorsal hippocampus, the basolateral amygdala or the reticular formation was markedly attenuated. On the contrary, the same lesions were without effect upon the corticosterone secretory response to medial septal stimulation, and had only a slight inhibitory effect upon the response to electrical stimulation in the ventral hippocampus. The results demonstrate that the medial forebrain bundle plays a major role in the transmission of impulses to the mediobasal hypothalamus, originating in the dorsal hippocampus, basolateral amygdala or mesencephalic reticular formation, which activate adrenocortical secretion; its role in the transmission of cues arising in the ventral hippocampus or medial septum is, however, minor.
The distribution and organization of mechanosensory projections to the cuneate, gracile and external cuneate nuclei were mapped in tree squirrels anesthetized with ketamine and urethane. Tungsten microelectrodes were used to record unit and unit cluster responses to mechanical stimulation. Most responses in the gracile nucleus were to stimulation of skin and hairs of the tail, hind foot and leg, and trunk, in that order going from dorsal to ventral in the nucleus. A similar distribution of responses was found in the cuneate nucleus to stimulation of forelimb, neck and pinna going from dorsomedial to ventrolateral in the nucleus. Some responses to stimulation or movement of subcutaneous tissue were found in the cuneate and gracile nuclei. Responses in the external cuneate were to stimulation of deep-lying tissues in the hand medially, the lower arm centrally and the shoulder and trunk laterally. The pattern of projections in the tree squirrel differed most strikingly from that seen in raccoons and opossums in the relatively small extent of projections from the glabrous skin of the forepaws which were concentrated in a small region near the obex in squirrels. In contrast, there was a large representation of hairy receptive fields located on the forelimb in all regions of the squirrel cuneate nucleus. Otherwise, the somatotopic organization of mechanosensory projections to these dorsal column nuclei in tree squirrels was similar to that reported in other mammals.
Examination of spontaneous miniature endplate potentials (MEPPs) in murine skeletal muscle has revealed that in conditions such as botulinum poisoning, during nerve terminal regeneration or in the presence of the drug 4-aminoquinoline, two types of acetylcholine release are responsible for the MEPPs. In addition to the MEPPs which correspond to the quantal component of a nerve impulse-evoked endplate potential a second type of acetylcholine release occurs. The latter type of transmitter release gives rise to MEPPs with a more prolonged time-to-peak and frequently a larger than normal amplitude. It is unaffected by nerve terminal depolarization and transmembrane Ca2+ fluxes. The relationship between MEPP frequency and temperature has a Q10 of about 12 compared to 2-3 for normal MEPPs. In botulinum-poisoned muscles this secretory type of transmitter release dominates, being exclusively present in muscles where nerve stimulation fails to release transmitter. In normal muscle such a release is induced by 4-aminoquinoline which may cause up to 45% of all the spontaneous MEPPs to be of that kind. It is suggested that the described spontaneous secretion of acetylcholine serves in inductory and neurotrophic function.
Voltammetry in vivo has suffered from the limitation that electrodes which give high resolution of the various electroactive compounds present in brain tissue have a short life span, and, conversely, that stable electrodes give poor resolution. Carbon paste electrodes and linear sweep voltammetry with semidifferentiation can resolve changes in the concentration of ascorbate, deaminated and methylated metabolites of catecholamines, and the 5-hydroxyindoles in vivo and give stable recordings over many weeks. However, these changes in concentration are difficult to quantify. We have now developed the method further with the application of microprocessor technology. Microprocessor-based voltammetry and data analysis enable one to quantify changes in the concentration of electroactive species in complex mixtures where there are no separate oxidation peaks for the components; this has been achieved both in vitro and in vivo. Changes in dopamine release from the striatum have been monitored continuously over 48 h in unanaesthetised rats after the intraperitoneal administration of haloperidol. Carbon paste electrodes and microprocessor-controlled linear sweep voltammetry facilitates the quantitative, continuous monitoring of the extracellular concentration of ascorbate, the deaminated and methylated metabolites of catecholamines, and the 5-hydroxyindoles in the brain of unrestrained animals.

After different denervation procedures the guinea-pig inferior mesenteric ganglion was analysed by immunohistochemistry using antisera to substance P, enkephalin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, cholecystokinin and bombesin. The results demonstrate that each of the nerve trunks connected to the ganglion carries specific peptidergic pathways. Thus, the lumbar nerves contain substance P-immunoreactive primary afferent neurons, which to a large extent traverse the ganglion, and enkephalin-immunoreactive preganglionic neurons; the colonic nerves carry vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, cholecystokinin- and bombesin-immunoreactive fibers from the distal colon to the ganglion; the hypogastric nerves contain vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive fibers from the pelvic plexus; and the intermesenteric nerve contains vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, cholecystokinin, substance P and enkephalin from divergent sources. By studying accumulations of peptides in ligated lumbar splanchnic, intermesenteric, hypogastric and colonic nerves the existence of these major peptidergic pathways was confirmed and evidence was obtained for additional, not so prominent, peptidergic projections. The results arae discussed in view of earlier morphological and physiological studies.



The problem of pain threshold measurement in man is critically considered. The advantages of electrical stimuli in determining the cutaneous pain threshold are discussed. The conducting properties of the skin to electric current are carefully examined: in fact, such properties must be taken into account when electrical stimuli are applied to the skin. A series of investigations on pain threshold measurement by means of electrical stimuli are reported. The different sensations induced by stimulating the skin with different kinds of electrodes and different types of stimuli were analysed: trains of 5 square waves of 0.5-2 msec at the frequency of 250 Hz, applied to the skin by means of unpolarizable electrodes, were selected as the best suited stimuli for practical application. This kind of stimulation was applied in physiological and clinical investigations. The measurement of pain threshold by electrical stimuli was especially useful for the clinical examination and for the study of pathogenetic mechanisms of painful diseases.
The uptake of [3H]glutamate and [3H]glutamine into rat dorsal root ganglia has been examined by autoradiography and thin-layer chromatography. [3H]glutamate was selectively accumulated by satellite glial cells and after 10 min, 53% of this had been converted to [3H]glutamine. [3H]glutamine, on the other hand, entered neuronal perikarya and 40% was converted to [3H]glutamate. It is suggested that these selective uptake processes provide supporting evidence for the existence of a neuronal-glial glutamine cycle in dorsal root ganglia. Small dark (B) cells accumulated 6 times as much [3H]glutamine as did large light (A) cells. The reasons for this marked difference in the metabolism of the two main types of dorsal root ganglion neurone are discussed.
The effects of intracellular and extracellular applications of morphine (in concentrations from 10(-3) to 10(-5) M), leucine-enkephalin and methionine-enkephalin (10(-6) to 10(-8) M) were studied in unidentified acetylcholine-sensitive dialysed neurons of a snail under voltage clamp. Morphine produced inward membrane currents, while enkephalins did not. Both morphine and enkephalins altered the effect of acetylcholine on postsynaptic acetylcholine receptors; intracellular application of these substances being much more effective than extracellular application. This suggested that opioid peptides take part in the regulation of cholinergic synaptic transmission.
Unilateral lesions of the cerebellar flocculus were performed in three chronically-implanted adult cats. Following the lesion a spontaneous nystagmus was observed in the dark, with the fast phase directed to the lesioned side. Vestibulo-ocular responses in the dark became asymmetrical. Responses to velocity steps exciting the labyrinth ipsilateral to the lesion were strongly increased. A decrease, although less marked, was observed in the opposite direction. Responses to sinusoidal oscillations in the dark were also asymmetric with respect to both the cumulative eye displacement during rotation in the two directions and the interval between two consecutive reversals of eye movement. These differences were greater at the lower tested frequencies (0.01 HZ) than at the higher (0.1 HZ). Spontaneous nystagmus disappeared in about 10 days and a complete symmetry of the vestibulo-ocular responses was restored in about 3 weeks. It is concluded that a unilateral lesion of the flocculus leads to two separate, but interacting, effects upon vestibulo-ocular responses.

Neurones of the rat subthalamic nucleus were identified by their response to cortical stimulation and then intracellularly labelled with horseradish peroxidase. After fixation, the brains were cut serially in sagittal plane and processed by the cobalt chloride-diaminobenzidine procedure. The morphology of nine of the twenty stained neurones strictly located inside the subthalamic nucleus is described by means of quantitative parameters following light-microscopic examination and three-dimensional computer reconstruction. They were all identified as Golgi type I neurones. The somata were ovoidal in shape. A mean of four dendritic stems arose from the soma and gave rise to a mean of 27 tips. The dendrites were thin with long and pedunculated spines. The dendritic fields were ellipsoidal in shape (100 x 600 x 300 micrometer) and were parallel to the principal plane of the nucleus. The dimensions of the dendritic fields are very close to those of the nucleus, and some dendrites cross its limits. The axons gave off two branches, one going caudally and the other rostrally. The caudal-going branch of the axon of one neurone, followed into the substantia nigra, divided into several collaterals coursing dorsoventrally. The rostral-going branch was never followed up to its termination. An intranuclear axonal collateral was observed in only one case. The present data are compared with those obtained from the primate subthalamic neurons. In spite of slight differences in the pattern of dendritic branching, the neurones are similar in both species. However, major differences in the internal organization of the dendritic fields are observed. Dendrites mixing with other neuronal populations were never observed in the primate. Moreover, the relative sizes of the dendritic fields and of the nucleus are strikingly different. This gives to the primate subthalamic nucleus specific and more precisely organized afferent connections.
The role of several motor and intralaminar thalamic nuclei in the regulation of dopamine release from terminals and dendrites of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons was investigated in halothane-anaesthetized cats. For this purpose, the effects of the unilateral electrical stimulation of various thalamic nuclei on the release of newly synthesized [3H]dopamine were simultaneously determined in both substantiae nigrae and caudate nuclei using the push-pull cannula method. The electrical stimulation of the motor nuclei was the only one to induce asymmetric changes in the four structures since [3H]dopamine release was enhanced in the ipsilateral caudate nucleus and reduced in the contralateral structure while opposite responses were observed in the corresponding substantiae nigrae. A reduction of [3H]dopamine release occurred in the four structures or only in the contralateral substantia nigra and caudate nucleus following the stimulation of the parafascicularis nucleus and the adjacent posterior part of the nucleus centrum medianum or of the nucleus centralis lateralis and the adjacent paralaminar part of the nucleus medialis dorsalis, respectively. The stimulation of the anterior part of the nucleus centrum medianum, which in contrast to other thalamic nuclei examined, receives few nigral inputs, selectively enhanced [3H]dopamine release in the contralateral substantia nigra. No significant changes in [3H]dopamine release were seen either in the substantiae nigrae or in the caudate nuclei following the stimulation of midline thalamic nuclei. These results indicate that the motor and intralaminar thalamic nuclei exert multiple and selective influences on the release of dopamine from terminals and/or dendrites of the dopaminergic neurons. They also further support a role of thalamic nuclei in the transfer of information from one substantia nigra to the contralateral dopaminergic neurons. The possible involvement of connections between paired thalamic nuclei was underlined by the observations of evoked potentials in contralateral homologous nuclei following unilateral stimulation of motor, or some intralaminar, nuclei. The present report provides new insights on the mechanisms contributing to the reciprocal and/or bilateral regulations of nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathways.
The local neuronal circuitry of goldfish olfactory bulb was analyzed in Golgi preparations combining light- and electron-microscopy, as well as in routinely prepared ultrastructural preparations. Mitral cells were identified with the light-microscope in Golgi-impregnated thick sections according to the following criteria: (1) cell bodies were distributed irregularly in a wide layer between 100 and 200 micrometer from the surface, (2) cell bodies were larger than other neurons (10-20 micrometer in diameter), and (3) the dendrites were directed toward the superficially-located olfactory nerve layer where they ended as highly branched glomerular tufts. These impregnated cells were examined by electron-microscopy in serial section. The results demonstrate synaptic organization in relation to the mitral cells. (1) Glomerular tufts received afferent input from primary olfactory axons which made Gray's Type I synaptic contacts. These dendrites also had reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses with dendrites of certain non-mitral cells. (2) Dendritic shafts of mitral cells made reciprocal dendritic synapses with dendrites of certain non-mitral cells. (3) Cell bodies and their initial axon segments had reciprocal synapses with certain dendrites but occurred infrequently. In reciprocal synapses, the direction of the Gray Type I (asymmetrical) is away from the mitral cell while those with Gray Type II synapses (symmetrical) are toward the mitral cell. Assuming that the type I synapse is excitatory and Type II is inhibitory, these findings explain the electrophysiological demonstration of self-inhibition discharge found in mitral cells.
Dopaminergic mechanisms were analyzed in an isolated preparation of the turtle olfactory bulb. Field potentials were evoked by antidromic or orthodromic stimulation, and the effects determined of pharmacological manipulations of the bathing medium. In the presence of dopamine or a dopamine agonist, apomorphine, there was a reduction of amplitude and delay of onset of the component of the field potentials due to granule cell responses; fluphenazine, a dopamine antagonist, had generally opposite effects. Using paired volleys, it was found that the suppression of the response to the second test volley was reduced in the presence of dopamine or apomorphine, but enhanced in the presence of fluphenazine. The most likely explanation of these results is that exogenous dopamine depresses the response of mitral cells, which in turn decreases the dendrodendritic synaptic excitation of granule cells and reduces their inhibitory feedback onto mitral cells. This suggests that the dopaminergic cells in the bulb may suppress mitral cells by modulating excitable mechanisms in the mitral dendritic membrane, or modulating long-lasting synaptic potentials.
The results of this study support the conclusion that dopaminergic cells can be distinguished from non-dopaminergic cells, at both the light- and electron-microscopic level, by cytological features, and particularly by the pattern of Nissl substance. In both the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area, two main categories of cell type can be identified in Nissl preparations: (1) dark-staining, basophilic cells with large masses of Nissl substance and (2) light-staining cells with more translucent cytoplasm. The following findings provide evidence that the basophilic cells of both substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area are the dopaminergic cells. (1) There is a good correlation between the topographic distribution of basophilic cells and that of dopaminergic cells mapped by both histofluorescence and immunohistochemical methods. (2) After unilateral destruction of the dopaminergic neurons by intracerebral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine in the dopaminergic pathway, the basophilic cells in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area disappeared on the lesion side, while the lighter-staining cells appeared unaffected. (3) In normal rats, and in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions, intraventricular injection of [3H]norepinephrine was used for specific labeling of dopaminergic neurons. In autoradiograms of semithin sections, such labeling was observed only in dark-staining and not in light-staining cells, and in cases of unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion was totally absent on the lesion side. Electron-microscopy showed much of the cytoplasm of the basophilic dopaminergic cells to be densely filled with free ribosomes associated with large, well organized complexes of rough endoplasmic reticulum. The cytoplasm of the light, non-dopaminergic cells contains only sparse free ribosomes and small, widely spaced aggregates of rough endoplasmic reticulum. Both cell types occur in a similar variety of size and shape.
Uptake and retention of exogenous tritiated dopamine and L-dopa was observed within turtle olfactory bulb slices. In the more superficial layers, periglomerular and superficial tufted cells, as well as their processes, and intraglomerular dendrites were recognized as labeled. Within the deeper part of the bulb, some labeled cells between the tanycytes, as well as nerve fibers and terminals within the granule cell layer, are reported. The results confirm the presence of specific intrinsic dopaminergic cells within the reptilian olfactory bulb.
The neurotoxic properties of ibotenate and kainate after intracerebral application were compared in several regions of the rat brain. Ibotenate, being 5-10 times less toxic than kainate, caused lesions which were generally found to extend spherically from the tip of the injection cannula. In contrast, kainate injections often resulted in neuronal degeneration distant from the site of infusion, thus severely limiting its use as a tool for causing lesions in neurobiological studies. In some of the brain regions examined (hippocampus, septum), neurons appeared differentially susceptible to kainate but uniformly vulnerable to ibotenate. Some cell groups, such as those in the medial septum and the locus coeruleus, proved highly resistant to kainate but could be selectively ablated by ibotenate. These findings, together with differences between the two toxins in the evolution of neuronal degeneration (exemplified here in the hippocampal formation), appear to support previous suggestions that ibotenate and kainate exert their excitotoxic actions via different mechanisms. On the other hand, neuropathological changes caused in the cerebellum did not differ, since both ibotenate and kainate preferentially destroyed granule cells. Two nuclei, the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus and the nucleus of the fifth nerve, were found to be extremely resistant to either neurotoxin.
The distribution of the neuropeptides vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, cholecystokinin octapeptide, substance P, neurotensin, methionine-enkephalin and somatostatin has been mapped immunocytochemically in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, one of the major sites of termination for efferent projections from the amygdala. Immunoreactive fibres and terminals were distributed more or less topographically and largely in accordance with the previously described localization of peptide-containing cell bodies in the amygdala and the amygdaloid projection fields in the bed nucleus as described by neuroanatomical techniques. Thus, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, which was found in some of the lateral amygdaloid nuclei, had a substantial projection to the lateral bed nucleus. The lateral bed nucleus also contained cholecystokinin-octapeptide, substance P, neurotensin and methionine-enkephalin immunoreactivity which probably derived from the central amygdaloid nucleus, whilst cholecystokinin-octapeptide, and especially substance P-containing fibres, were found in the medial bed nucleus and probably arise from cells in the medial amygdala. Reciprocal amygdalopetal projections were suggested by the presence of substance P- and somatostatin-containing cell bodies in the mediodorsal bed nucleus and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide cells in the lateral bed nucleus, but somatostatin otherwise had a widespread distribution. Numerous local peptidergic connections were also noted both within the bed nucleus and between it and adjacent structures, especially the preoptic area, hypothalamus and the basal ganglia. These data provide further evidence that neuropeptides play a major role in the connectivity of the limbic system and show that the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis is an important relay station, particularly between amygdaloid efferents and other forebrain areas.

We have analyzed changes in the distributions of terminals with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-like immunoreactivity, and accumulations in severed processes, that occur after lesions of intrinsic and extrinsic nerve pathways of the guinea-pig small intestine. The observations indicate that enteric vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunoreactive neurons have the following projections. Nerve cell bodies in the myenteric plexus provide varicose processes to the underlying circular muscle; the majority of these pathways, if they extend at all in the anal or oral directions, do so for distances of less than 1 mm. Nerve cell bodies of the myenteric plexus also project anally to provide terminals to other myenteric ganglia. The lengths of the majority of these projections are between 2 and 10 mm, with an average length of about 6 mm. Processes of myenteric neurons also run anally in the myenteric plexus and then penetrate the circular muscle to provide varicose processes in the submucous ganglia at distances of up to 15 mm, the average length being 9-12 mm. In addition, there is an intestinofugal projection of myenteric neurons whose processes end around nerve cell bodies of the coeliac ganglia. A similar projection from the colon supplies the inferior mesenteric ganglia. The nerve cell bodies in submucous ganglia give rise to a subepithelial network of fibres in the mucosa and also supply terminals to submucous arterioles. It is concluded that vasoactive intestinal polypeptide is contained in neurons of a number of intrinsic nerve pathways, influencing motility, blood flow and mucosal transport. The myenteric neurons that project to prevertebral sympathetic ganglia may be involved in intestino-intestinal reflexes.
Whole mounts of guinea-pig small intestine were used to examine the distribution of neurons with enkephalin-like immunoreactivity and the effects of microsurgical lesions on these neurons. The enkephalin neurons are intrinsic to the intestine. Cell bodies are found in the myenteric ganglia; processes are in the myenteric plexus, circular muscle (including deep muscular plexus) and submucosa, but not in the mucosa. The cell bodies have one prominent process and several short processes, the latter occasionally are seen to give rise in turn to fine, faint processes. The prominent processes provide fibres to the circular muscle and deep muscular plexus beneath and just anal (up to about 2 mm) to the cell bodies. Fibres in the submucous ganglia come from the overlying myenteric plexus. Orally-directed processes (possibly dendrites) of myenteric cell bodies provide the varicose fibres in the myenteric ganglia. These processes are 3.5-4 mm long. The enkephalin neurons represent a population of enteric neurons, with a distinct distribution and projections, which does not correspond to any of the other populations of enteric neurons that have been studied.
The effects of iontophoretically applied gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA) and glycine and their antagonists, bicuculline and strychnine on inhibition of retinal ganglion cells were studied in the optically intact eye of anaesthetised cats. Two kinds of inhibition were studied. One is the inhibition which occurs when a spot (a white spot for on-centre and a black spot for off-centre cells) which produces a maximal response from a cell, is removed from the receptive field centre, i.e. the central post-excitatory inhibition. The other is the inhibition which occurs when an annulus (a white annulus for on-centre and a black annulus for off-centre cells) which occupies the surround region of the receptive field, is presented, i.e. the surround inhibition. GABA enhanced and bicuculline blocked the post-excitatory inhibition at the receptive field centre and surround inhibition of on-centre but not off-centre cells regardless of whether the cell was 'sustained' or 'transient' type. On the other hand, glycine enhanced and strychnine blocked the post-excitatory inhibition at the receptive field centre and surround inhibition of off-centre but not on-centre cells, regardless of whether the cell was 'sustained' or 'transient' type. Inhibition of on-centre cells, thus, appears to be mediated by GABA, whereas that of off-centre cells, by glycine regardless of whether the cells are 'sustained' or 'transient'. Possible existence of GABAergic and glycinergic amacrine cells making postsynaptic contact with on-centre and off-centre ganglion cells, respectively, is proposed. Other possible explanations are discussed.

An apparatus is described which allows the simultaneous recording of neural activity and rotational behaviour in the rat. Rotational behaviour is measured, coded and stored on magnetic tape along with neural activity from chronically implanted electrodes, allowing off-line computer analysis.




A method is described for making small (2-6 microliters) localized intracerebral drug injections in the conscious monkey. A base plate and guide cannula are initially secured to the skull under general anaesthesia. A mechanical pump containing the drug solution and fitted with an injection needle is located on the base plate assembly. In the conscious animal the pump is triggered magnetically to deliver a predetermined volume into the target brain region.
The Hewlett Packard Model 47210A Capnometer, intended for monitoring expired CO2 in human patients, can be modified for use in acute neurophysiological studies on small animals. The airway adaptor which would normally be attached to an endotracheal tube is modified and its internal volume is reduced to 0.2 ml, and is incorporated into a guinea pig head-holder. We have verified that the modification does not alter the Capnometer's accuracy. There is no significant increase in resistance in the airway when the adaptor is in place, and the waveform of instantaneous CO2 shows rapid changes on inspiration and expiration with well-resolved peaks and troughs. Measurement of arterial pCO2 suggests that the Capnometer and modified airway adaptor form an accurate system for obtaining a continuous record of end-tidal CO2 in small guinea pigs.
To study drug effects on bioelectric activity evoked by near-threshold stimulation, we have developed a computerized threshold estimation technique. The procedure utilizes a laboratory computer (PDP 11/34) equipped with a standard laboratory interface with A/D and D/A capabilities. Program-controlled voltage pulses, delivered via D/A, are interfaced through a constant current stimulus isolation unit for electrical stimulation. One channel of activity is digitized at a user-defined rate and the signal is searched for a response. Responses were generally defined by a feature of the signal which was greater than a multiple of its standard deviation in the subthreshold signal. Using some a priori knowledge of the expected response and user-defined processing options, the program determines threshold on-line without pretrial test data. Program operation is illustrated with sensory evoked potentials in acutely prepared cats and hippocampal evoked potentials in chronically implanted rats.
The construction of a chamber for extracellular recording from submerged CNS tissue is described. Its operation is illustrated using hippocampal slices prepared from rat brains. The total volume of perfusing medium is less than 0.4 ml, and a drug solution can be uniformly distributed throughout this volume in less than 1 min. Drug-laden medium can also be rapidly replaced with fresh medium. The perfusing medium is continuously stirred with a jet of 95% O2-5% CO2, maintaining submerged slices viable for many hours. The system has exceptional advantages for investigating synaptic pharmacology of scarce and expensive drugs.
A double-barreled electrode for simultaneous glutamate iontophoresis and chronic single unit recording from cortical neurons in awake monkeys during voluntary movement is described. Electrode assembly consists of pulling a heated, partitioned capillary tube over a sharpened tungsten rod. Glutamate iontophoresis increased the firing rates of wrist movement related cells an average of 34 Hz during the agonist phase of movement and 27 Hz during the antagonist phase of movement. However, in no case did glutamate iontophoresis alter the detailed structure of the cell's response pattern during wrist movement. This electrode is well suited to chronic recording applications that involve methods such as cross-correlation requiring overlapping activity of neurons and/or muscles. Other applications might involve activation of totally 'silent' neurons to avoid possible sampling bias or to detect effects in post-stimulus time histograms that would otherwise be subliminal.


The response to iontophoretic application of acetylcholine in the mouse neuroblastoma cell line N1E-115 was composed of three phases. The initial fast depolarizing phase was blocked by 10 microM d-tubocurarine, but not by 0.1 microM atropine. This phase was followed by a transient hyperpolarization which in turn was followed by a secondary slow depolarization. Both the hyperpolarization and slow depolarization were blocked by atropine (0.1 microM), but not by d-tubocurarine (10 microM). The hyperpolarization and slow depolarization were also evoked by iontophoretic application of the muscarinic agonist methacholine. Under voltage-clamp conditions, an initial fast inward current, a transient outward current, and a secondary slow inward current were recorded in response to acetylcholine application. These three phases of current correspond to the three phases of the membrane potential response. The initial fast inward current increased in amplitude by hyperpolarization of the membrane, and decreased by depolarization. The mean reversal potential was estimated to be -1 mV. The outward current increased in amplitude by depolarization, decreased by hyperpolarization, and reversed its polarity at -67 mV. Alteration of external K+ concentration shifted the reversal potential in the manner expected for an increase in potassium permeability. The slow inward current increased in amplitude by hyperpolarization, decreased by depolarization, and reversed its polarity at +20 mV. It is concluded that the initial fast inward current is mediated by a nicotinic receptor similar to that in muscle end-plate membranes and in postsynaptic membranes of the sympathetic ganglia. Both the outward current and the slow inward current are mediated by muscarinic receptors. The outward current results from an increase in the membrane permeability to K+, and the slow current appears to be carried, at least in part, by Na+.

Following intracellular labelling with horseradish peroxidase, the arborization and synaptic connections of the bimodal pacemaker giant neuron (RPal) of Helix pomatia were investigated in the right parietal and visceral ganglia. The RPal neuron possesses extensive axonal branching, the elements of which could be observed and traced within the entire neuropil region of both ganglia. The main axonal branches showed further arborization. The thin axon processes enter the synaptic neuropil, where they receive numerous synapses. At least six ultra-structurally different terminals form synaptic contacts on peroxidase-labelled axon processes of the cell. On the basis of their vesicle and granule content, they are likely to contain different neurotransmitters. Some intraganglionic efferent contacts of the RPal neuron were also observed. It is suggested that, besides its peripheral efferent connections, this cell might also serve as an interneuron.

The morphology of neurons in the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig ileum has been studied by means of the intracellular application of Procion Yellow. Sixty-six electrophysiologically-unidentified cells showed a great variety of soma shapes and number of processes, the vast majority of the longer of which were circumferentially-orientated. The electrophysiological properties of an additional 47 neurons were ascertained; 29 were neurons with a slow after-hyperpolarization (AH-neurons), 14 showed fast excitatory synaptic potentials (S-neurons) and 4 were of neither category. Twenty-two of the AH-neurons had a smooth soma outline and, on average, each had 5 processes, of which the great majority of long processes were circumferentially-orientated and intraganglionic. The projection ratios of oral:circumferential:aboral processes were 6:61:9. Branching was a prominent feature of the processes. In contrast, a large soma with many broad, short processes was a feature of 8 of 14 S-neurons studied. The average number of processes was 8.6 per cell and relatively more of them were aborally-directed, giving projection ratios of 2:21:7. There was, however, such a variation and overlap in the morphology of AH- and S-neurons that it was not possible to achieve a simple, reliable classification. It is concluded that many neuronal processes may be intraganglionic and that longitudinal ones are mainly aboral. From the varied morphological characteristics of AH-neurons, it is unlikely that these neurons subserve a single function in the plexus. For the same reasons S-neurons may fulfil different physiological roles.
Experiments employing a rodent circling model were conducted to test the predictive capacity of the theory which states that striatonigral gamma-aminobutyrate neurones transmit striatal information influencing the animal's locomotion and orientation. In agreement with this proposal, blocking nerve conduction in one substantia nigra with procaine, or nigral gamma-aminobutyrate receptors with bicuculline administered stereotaxically, frequently forced rats to move ipsiversively to systemic apomorphine, as though the treatment had impaired striatonigral transmission on that side of the brain. Attempts to reverse the direction of apomorphine circling by stimulating gamma-aminobutyrate receptors with muscimol, by facilitating the amino acid's action with flurazepam, or by increasing its synaptic concentration either with a breakdown inhibitor (ethanolamine O-sulphate or 4-amino-hex-5-enoic acid) or an uptake blocker (cis-1,3-aminocyclohexane carboxylic acid) in one nigra, proved unsuccessful. In fact, ethanolamine O-sulphate, flurazepam and muscimol all gave the appearance of hindering rather than enhancing the passage of striatal-derived motor information through the nigra. Broadly speaking, these drugs gave predictable behavioral responses from the ventromedial thalamus, suggesting they were acting in accordance with known mechanisms. The anomalous behaviour with ethanolamine O-sulphate may be attributed to its elevating gamma-aminobutyrate levels in other brain areas, since similar ipsiversive rotations occurred if gamma-aminobutyrate catabolism was prevented at a wide variety of extranigral sites. A simple explanation for the paradoxical ipsiversive behaviours produced by intranigral flurazepam or muscimol in combination with systemic or intracerebral injection of dopamine agonists, is that they act via presynaptic receptors to inhibit the release of endogenous gamma-aminobutyrate and thereby impede striatonigral outflow ipsilaterally.
The distribution and form of cholecystokinin immunoreactive neurons in neocortical areas within the posterior pole of the rat cerebral hemisphere was examined using the immunoperoxidase technique. Although cholecystokinin-positive neurons are present throughout the cortex, they are most frequent in the supragranular layers. These neurons are of three kinds: layer I neurons, bipolar cells, and other non-pyramidal cells with either multipolar or bitufted dendritic trees. In electron-microscopic preparations, the horseradish peroxidase reaction product is found to form a granular deposit which occurs throughout the cytoplasm and nucleoplasm and shows no predilection for any particular type of organelle. Electron-microscopy also shows cholecystokinin-positive neurons to have both symmetric and asymmetric synapses on their perikarya, which is additional evidence in favor of the interpretation that they are non-pyramidal cells. In the light-microscopic preparations three types of CCK-positive axons are encountered. These are vertically-oriented axons considered to arise from bipolar cells, a plexus in the superficial portion of layer II/III which is believed to arise from the multipolar and bitufted cells, and a deep plexus of unknown origin in layers VI and V. Since the axons of bipolar cells form asymmetric synapses they are thought to be excitatory neurons. In contrast, the bitufted and multipolar neurons are probably inhibitory, for previous studies have shown neurons with similar features to have axons which form symmetric synapses and to contain glutamic acid decarboxylase. Thus, although iontophoretically-applied cholecystokinin excites cortical neurons, it appears to be present in some neurons which are excitatory and others which are inhibitory.
Rat soleus muscle was partially denervated by resecting the L5 mixed nerve. Muscle reinnervation was monitored 10, 30 and 50 days after surgery. The extent of recovery was found to be dependent on the number of axons remaining in the muscle and appeared not to be influenced by the time allowed. If animals were treated daily with 5 mg/kg of gangliosides the enlargement of the motor units was further enforced. The index of sprouting (expressed as the ratio between the percentage of muscle reinnervation due to a certain number of motor neurons in reinnervation and in normal conditions) was increased in a significant way by gangliosides treatment, i.e. one motor unit can expand up to about 4.5-fold, but if the animal was treated with gangliosides the motor unit can expand up to about 6.3-fold. These results showed that motoneuron sprouting capacity is increased by treatment animals with gangliosides.
Extensor digitorum longus muscle is reinnervated by the regenerating neurites at the end-plate region; as soon as the contact is made, the rate of neurite elongation inside the cleft decreases about 1000-fold while interfibre growth and sprout formation proceed unchanged. Polyinnervation reaches the maximum level 7-10 days after reinnervation, then synaptic repression begins. The elimination of redundant innervation takes place when the biophysical properties of the muscle are again normal. There is no sign of either phagocytosis or degeneration, therefore the process of synaptic repression is probably due to retraction, as neurites do when in culture. The role of Schwann cells and nerve sheath in the process of maintenance is suggested.
Paraventricular and paracisternal regions of adult rat central nervous system were investigated by light- and electron-microscope radioautography after intraventricular administration of tritiated adrenaline. In tissue primarily fixed by glutaraldehyde perfusion and post-fixed by immersion in osmium tetroxide, there were no aggregates of silver grains indicative of intraneuronal accumulation of the tracer, except over perivascular nerve terminals at the base of the brain. In contrast, when both fixation and postfixation were carried out by rapid vascular perfusion, preferentially labeled nerve cell bodies and axonal varicosities (i.e. terminals) were detected in various anatomical areas known to contain dopaminergic and/or noradrenergic neurons. Serotoninergic axonal varicosities in the supraependymal plexus and subcommissural organ, as well as a small group of nerve cell bodies of undetermined chemical identity in the n. paraventricularis thalami were also found to be labeled. Addition of a ten-fold higher concentration of non-radioactive serotonin to the solution of [3H]adrenaline suppressed the reactivity in the subcommissural organ and the supraependymal plexus but had no such effect elsewhere in brain. Lesioning of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system with 6-hydroxydopamine prior to [3H]adrenaline injection eradicated axon terminal labeling in the ipsilateral neostriatum. Electron-microscopic examination of [3H]adrenaline-labeled varicosities in the neostriatum, lateral septum, arcuate nucleus and median eminence extended earlier observations on the ultrastructure of the catecholaminergic innervation of these regions. It was concluded that both dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons as well as certain serotonin-containing axon terminals can take up and retain [3H]adrenaline, although they probably have lesser affinity for this amine than for their own transmitter. Due to the fact that presumptive adrenergic neurons are intermingled with dopaminergic and noradrenergic elements, further work will be needed to determine to which extent they also contributed to [3H]adrenaline uptake in the present experimental conditions.
The ventral tegmental area of the rat brain has been shown to possess high densities of neurotensin- and dopamine-containing neuronal perikarya. We recently demonstrated that microinjection of neurotensin into the ventral tegmental area produces behavioral hyperactivity similar to amphetamine-induced increase in exploratory behaviors, but lacking stereotypies. In this study, we report that the threshold dose for neurotensin-induced hyperactivity is 0.10-0.25 micrograms neurotensin/side. Either intracerebroventricular injection of haloperidol (5.0 micrograms/lateral ventricle) or destruction of the mesolimbic dopamine system by 6-hydroxydopamine abolishes the behavioral hyperactivity produced by intraventral tegmental injection of neurotensin (2.5 micrograms/side). Using high pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection, we show that neurotensin injection into the ventral tegmental area increases the concentration of dopamine metabolites, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid in the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercles, but not in the striatum. This effect is especially profound in the nucleus accumbens where the threshold dose is less than 0.025 micrograms/side. The ratio of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid to dopamine increased in the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercles in a dose-dependent fashion (0.025 microgram-2.50 micrograms/side). Neurotensin-induced behavioral hyperactivity correlates positively with neurotensin-induced changes in the ratio of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid to dopamine. This study indicates that neurotensin acts in the ventral tegmental area to activate the mesolimbic dopamine system. Further, this activation produces behavioral hyperactivity characterized by an increase in exploratory behaviors. The fact that both immunoreactive neurotensin and neurotensin receptors are found in high concentration in the ventral tegmental area supports the possible physiological significance of this peptide-catecholamine interaction.
The origin of neurotensin-like immunoreactive fibers to the anterior olfactory nucleus and nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca of the rat were elucidated experimentally using the indirect immunofluorescence method. Neurotensin-like immunoreactive fibers located in these areas decreased remarkably in numbers on the operated side after the destruction of the ventral part of the endopiriform nucleus and the adjacent prepiriform cortex where numerous cells with neurotensin-like immunoreactivity were detected. This strongly suggests that such cells located in the endopiriform nucleus and the adjacent prepiriform cortex send a neurotensin-like projection ipsilaterally to the anterior olfactory nucleus and to the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca.
The ontogeny of the neurotensin neuron system in the lower brain stem of the rat was investigated by means of indirect immunofluorescent method. Neurotensin-like immunoreactivity-containing cells first appear in the primordium of the n. tractus solitarii, n. tractus spinalis nervi trigemini, reticular formation just medial to the latter nucleus, n. reticularis parvocellularis, n. laterodorsalis tegmenti, and midbrain reticular formation of the fetus at gestational day 17. At gestional day 18, neurotensin-immunoreactive cells newly appear in the n. raphe dorsalis. Between gestational day 19 and postnatal day 7, the animals show a remarkable increase in number of immunoreactive cells and fibers in various lower brain stem areas except for n. tractus spinalis nervi trigemini and n. tractus solitarii. Moreover, during this stage, neurotensin-immunoreactive cells located in the n. prepositus hypoglossi and n. vestibularis lateralis appear for the first time at birth and postnatal day 5, respectively. Since postnatal day 7, although the majority of immunoreactive cells located in the lower brain stem decrease in number as the rats grow, immunoreactive cells in the n. tractus spinalis nervi trigemini, on the contrary, increase in number from after birth until postnatal day 10, and maintain more or less their immunoreactivity even in the adult rat. In addition, neurotensin-immunoreactive cells in the nucleus of the solitary tract increase in number during the fetal period, reach the maximum content at postnatal day 7-10, and maintain their immunoreactivity even in the adult rats. Thus, the present study demonstrated that neurotensin-like immunoreactive structures appear at a very early ontogenetical stage, suggesting that neurotensin plays an important role in the development of the lower brain stem of the rat. In addition, the present study further showed that neurotensin-immuno-reactivity shows various fluctuations during the ontogeny, suggesting multiple functions of neurotensin in the central nervous system.
The problem of benzodiazepine receptor localization in the rat hippocampal formation has been approached using several methods of selective deafferentation, followed by [3H]flunitrazepam binding studies. The intraventricular injection of 6-hydroxydopamine reduced, after 14 days, the norepinephrine content of the hippocampal formation by 68.4%, and decreased the number of binding sites by 32%, without change in affinity. The intraventricular injection of 5,6 dihydroxytryptamine reduced the serotonin content by 61.5% but did not alter the [3H]flunitrazepam binding. The intraventricular bilateral injection of 0.5 micrograms kainic acid selectively destroyed the pyramidal neurons in area CA3 of both hippocampi and produced an increase of 28% in [3H]flunitrazepam binding, without change in affinity. These results are discussed in relation to our previous observations about benzodiazepine receptor changes after fimbria-fornix transection. The reduction in [3H]flunitrazepam binding after administration of 6-hydroxydopamine suggests the possible localization of the benzodiazepine receptors on adrenergic presynaptic terminals. The increase in binding sites after destruction of CA3 pyramidal cells, which are the site of origin of commissural fibers, is tentatively interpreted as resulting from the sprouting of mossy fibers that replace the associational-commissural projections.
The corticopontine fibres were severed in the crus cerebri in rats and mice by a stereotaxically operated retractable wire-knife. The pontine nuclei were microscopically dissected from fresh slices of rats and synaptosome-containing homogenates were prepared. The high affinity uptake of radiolabelled L-glutamate (L-Glu) and D-aspartate (D-Asp) was heavily reduced five days after the lesions. The uptake was further reduced after bilateral (-75% for D-Asp and -65% for L-Glu) than after unilateral lesions (-55% for D-Asp and -45 to 50% for L-Glu on the lesioned side.) The molar ratio of the uptakes of D-Asp and L-Glu was consistently lower in pons after transection of the cortical afferents than normally (-28% after bilateral lesions). gamma-Aminobutyrate uptake and glutamic acid decarboxylase were not changed. Choline acetyltransferase was increased (+53%) after unilateral lesions, but not altered after bilateral lesions. Autoradiograms of slices from mice, incubated with tritium-labelled amino acids and fixed in glutaraldehyde, showed high affinity uptake sites for D-Asp to be enriched in the pontine nuclei, compared to neighbouring structures. After partial lesion of the crus cerebri the uptake was reduced in the area with degenerated corticopontine afferents. gamma-Aminobutyrate uptake sites were relatively less concentrated in the pontine nuclei than D-Asp uptake sites. The results indicate, along with the previous demonstration of Ca-dependent K-induced release of D-[3H]aspartate from the corticopontine terminals, that glutamate and/or aspartate may be transmitters in this pathway. The results also suggest that acidic amino acid uptake sites may differ in their relative transport rates for aspartate and glutamate.
Various functions involving the central nervous system can be manipulated by the sequential administration of p-chlorophenylalanine and 5-hydroxytryptophan, compounds which respectively inhibit and restore the synthesis of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the brain. An involvement of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the control of a particular function has been considered established when the effect of p-chlorophenylalanine on that function can be overcome by treatment with 5-hydroxytryptophan. This assumption is not, however, invariably substantiated when the functional consequences of other methods of depleting 5-hydroxytryptamine are considered; studies on the control of the daily surge of luteinizing hormone in oestrogen-treated ovariectomized rats present such a paradox. The surge can be prevented by p-chlorophenylalanine and restored by 5-hydroxytryptophan. Nevertheless, neurotoxin-induced lesions of the 5-hydroxytryptamine projections from the raphe nuclei are compatible with a normal occurrence of the surge. We have therefore examined the effects of p-chlorophenylalanine and 5-hydroxytryptophan on hypothalamic monoamines in oestrogen-treated ovariectomized rats and find that the drugs respectively suppress and elevate the concentration of adrenaline in addition to that of 5-hydroxytryptamine. Phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase, the enzyme responsible for converting noradrenaline to adrenaline, is shown to be inhibited in vivo by p-chlorophenylalanine and in vitro by its metabolite, p-chlorophenylethylamine. The reciprocal effects of p-chlorophenylalanine and 5-hydroxytryptophan on the concentration of adrenaline are of particular interest since drugs which inhibit adrenaline synthesis can block the luteinizing hormone surge. It is proposed that when the 5-hydroxytryptophan-reversible effects of treatment with p-chlorophenylalanine are not reproduced by other procedures which deplete 5-hydroxytryptamine, the significant action of these compounds may involve adrenaline.
The distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase-, substance P- and enkephalin-immunoreactive neurons in the cat dorsolateral pons was studied using the indirect immunofluorescence method of Coons. To allow for the visualization of substance P- and enkephalin-immunoreactive cell bodies, colchicine was injected either in the ventricular space or in the cerebral tissue. The distribution of the tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cell bodies corresponded with the well-known distribution of catecholamine cells in this area of the brain. The observation of adjacent sections treated separately with tyrosine hydroxylase- and enkephalin-antiserum revealed that most catecholaminergic cells contain enkephalin-immunoreactivity. In addition to this catecholamine-enkephalin cell population, a moderate number of substance P-immunoreactive cell bodies was found in dorsolateral pons. The peribrachial nuclei were found to be densely supplied with substance P- and enkephalin-immunoreactive fibers, whereas the medial subdivisions, which contain the majority of the catecholamine cells in the dorsolateral pons, display a moderate number of immunoreactive fibers. These results are suggestive of interactions between peptide-containing and catecholaminergic neurons and also between-peptide-containing and non-catecholamine-containing neurons in the cat dorsolateral pons.

Following sciatic nerve crush the restoration of neuromuscular transmission in the extensor digitorum longus muscle of rat proceeds in a well defined manner: (a) as soon as the nerve-muscle contact is reformed, a subthreshold end-plate potential is recorded; no 'non-transmitting stage' is observed; (b) 24 hours later muscle action potentials are induced by nerve stimulation; (c) miniature end-plate potentials are absent or very rare at the newly reinnervated end-plates; their frequency returns to normal in about 4 weeks; (d) the frequency is also very much reduced in 30 mM K+ and hypertonic solutions and recovers slowly, in 4 and 5 weeks, respectively, while black widow spider venom is from the beginning as powerful as in normal neuromuscular junctions; (e) at the early stages of reinnervation the Ca2+-dependent release mechanisms are much stronger than control cases, while the Ca2+-independent mechanisms are weaker and recover in 5 weeks. The gradual reassembly and restoration of neurotransmitter release mechanisms of the extensor digitorum longus nerve terminal indicate the complexity of pre-synaptic ending organization.
An interface which can transmit information from a TV camera to a minicomputer is described. The interface delivers addresses significant for the position of an animal in an observation arena. These addresses are then treated by a minicomputer assembler program. In our application, the length of visiting (duration), frequency of visits and latency of first visit to a specified field are recorded, together with an activity variable. The high IR sensitivity of the camera makes it possible to record the position of the animal relative to certain environmental objects under conditions of dimmed light.



Defining educational objectives is the key to achieving the goal of professional competence in students. The technique of task analysis was selected to determine components of competence in clinical neurology appropriate to the needs of primary care. A survey of neurological problems in general practice revealed that these constitute a significant proportion of consultations, and that teaching programmes have failed to provide the appropriate knowledge and skills to manage the commonest problems effectively. Consideration is given to innovations in curriculum and programme design whereby the graduating student might be more suitably prepared to give primary care.

The future of neuropsychology is considered first in terms of the potential impact of events occurring in clinical medicine, neuroscience research, basic behavioral science and applied psychology, and related disciplines. The focus is then turned inward on clinical neuropsychology itself and a series of suggestions are made concerning how this specialty can evolve to best meet the challenges it will face.




A fluorimetric assay for the estimation of phosphate-activated glutaminase is presented. The liberated glutamate is separated from glutamine using a Dowex centrifugation technique allowing multiple samples to be rapidly analyzed. Glutamate is estimated fluorimetrically by reaction with o-phthaldialdehyde. Parameters for the assay were worker out based upon characterization of human frontal cortex glutaminase. High phosphate-activated glutaminase was found in cultured human skin fibroblasts and amniotic fluid cells and rat frontal cortex and striatum. Human caudate nucleus and frontal cortex activity was variable, but related in an exponential manner. Human and rat liver activity was markedly lower than brain activity.
A simple, inexpensive device has been designed to prepare slices or prisms of brain tumor for metabolic and release experiments by means of a hand-operated method. It is particularly suitable for very rapid slicing of small, irregular pieces of brain tissue dissected from animals or specimens available at biopsy. This simple apparatus was produced as an alternative to the more widely used motor-driven tissue choppers. A comparison of the morphological and metabolic integrity of tissue produced by the new slicer and a conventional tissue chopper is presented. The hand tissue slicer has been used to measure the release of monoamine neurotransmitters and specific neuropeptides in vitro.

Movements and postures of animals may be described quantitatively and as such represent measures that may be used to, for example, detect drug-induced alterations in behaviour. However, because of the time-investment needed to generate such data, quantitative assessment of animal behaviour remains a major problem in psychopharmacology. The present communication outlines a microcomputer based method for obtaining frequency, real-time duration and latency measures from a large number of behavioural elements. When used in conjunction with a videotape recorder, this system enables one experimenter to obtain data from situations involving several interacting animals, thus representing an aid to increased data-logging efficiency using only equipment that is commonly found in many psychopharmacology laboratories.


In order to 'dissect out' the function of a given region of the brain, the local application of a chemical transmitter probably parallels closely what is actually occurring biologically at the local site. This paper addresses itself to the problem of diffusion of drugs and describes the application of a modern device (the osmotic minipump) which produces a constant flow of minute quantities of the agent into the brain structure. Neurophysiological, behavioural, and histochemical investigations have been carried out in different species. Although the histochemical results of the minipump experiments indicate some spread, yet this seems to be at a concentration which would have no apparent pharmacological action. This was confirmed by our neurophysiological and behavioural studies and also by some recent reports in the literature.







Disorders primarily affecting the nervous system comprise approximately one third of all established Mendelian genetic diseases in man. Recombinant DNA technology provides new approaches to the diagnosis and elucidation of the molecular pathology of these disorders. For a small but increasing number of disorders the DNA sequence coding for the involved protein has been used to define the precise molecular defect. An example is the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome. In many other situations, DNA fragments located near to the mutant gene can be used in family linkage studies to determine who is likely to have inherited the abnormal allele(s). Examples include Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Huntington's disease, and phenylketonuria. This technology offers unique opportunities to investigate the function of the nervous system in health and disease and will have a major impact on the neurosciences and the practice of clinical neurology.

A young manic patient who showed poor response to lithium, neuroleptics and ECT and developed severe cxtrapyramidal side effects restricting the use of neuroleptics in high doses; showed marked clinical improvement with a combination of carbamazepine and lithium with sustained recovery. The case reported to illustrate the possible synergistic action suggested earlier, encouraging the authors to take up a crossover trial.
A case of Thiamine refractory Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome, successfully treated with the combination of magnesium sulphate and thiamine is presented. The role of Magnesium Sulphate in such cases has been discussed.
The marital life situations of the anxiety patients are compared with that of normals based on four important dimensions- partner's behaviour as perceived by the subject during his/her difficulties, difference of opinion in domestic management, criticism regarding their In-laws and threats of divorce. For this purpose, 20 Anxiety patients and 40 Normals based on group matching were studied. The implications for mental health professional's role functioning in dealing with the marital difficulties of anxiety neurotics are discussed.
26 patients diagnosed as manic depressive psychosis were treated with lithium for three months and serum levels of calcium, magnesium, phosphates and proteins were estimated repeatedly. There were no significant changes in the levels of these electrolytes and proteins during the three months of study period.
The relationship of intracellular Na+ K+ Li+ to their extracellular concentrations had been studied on 22 cases bipolar affective disorders who had been on prophylactic lithium. 6 of these cases were nonresponders who were admitted repeatedly despite a therapeutic serum lithium values of 0.8-1.1 m moi/L. Parameters measured were Plasma lithium (Lp), Erythrocyte Lithium (Le), Plasma potassium (Kp), Erythrocyte potassium, Ke) Plasma sodium (Nae). Eli had been calculated by using Nerst's equation. Significant correlations have been obtained for dosage and Lp, Lp and Le, and Lp and Le/Lp. There were no significant difference between the responders and non-responders as regards to values of Le, Lp, Nap, Nae, Kp and Ke.
The concentration of acute phase 2-macroglobulin (AP2M) was measured in the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) and plasma of fetal (12-22 days gestation) and neonatal (0-10 days post partum) rats. AP2M was detectable in the fetus as early as samples could be obtained (12 days) and increased in both fluids to reach a peak near the time of birth (17 mg/100 ml in csf and 168 mg/100 ml in plasma). During the neonatal period AP2M concentration declined markedly in both fluids. The results are compared with values for albumin and -fetoprotein in fetal rats. It was concluded that maintenance of the csf:plasma ratios for the three proteins are incompatible with an explanation of passive diffusion from plasma to csf. Other mechanisms to explain the occurrence of high concentrations of plasma proteins in fetal csf are discussed.
Concentrations of transferrin in plasma, cerebrospinal fluid (csf) and brain of fetal and newborn rats have been estimated by radial immunodiffusion assay. Transferrin was detected in both csf and brain at the earliest age investigated (12 days gestation). The plasma concentration increased throughout the gestational period studied and in the postnatal period: the overall increase was about 10-fold. In contrast, although the csf transferrin concentration increased by 3 times between 12 and 22 days (term) there was a considerable decline on reaching adult age. Brain transferrin concentration was highest at 18 days gestation. These results are important background information for studies of the significance of transferrin in brain development.
Glutamate has been suggested to be the neurotransmitter of the granule cells in cerebellar cortex. Autoradiographic studies using very low concentrations (1M range) of 2-3-[(3)H]l-glutamate or 2-3-[(3)H]l-glutamine have shown that both amino acids were preferentially taken up in the molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex of adult rats, but [(3)H]Glu accumulated essentially in glial cells, while Gln did not show a cellular preference (de Barry et al., Neuroscience 7,1289-1297,1982). In this paper we show that during development the preferential accumulation of [(3)H]Glu and [(3)H]Gln are the same as in the adult but, in addition, at young ages (7-10 days) [(3)H]Gln accumulated in replicating cells of the external granular layer (EGL). The absence of glutamine synthetase in the EGL cells suggests that this accumulation of exogenous Gln might be used for the synthesis of purines and pyrimidines required for the active multiplication of these cells and is not correlated to neurotransmission. The metabolism of [(3)H]Gln was slow at young ages and changed during development. The metabolism of the Glu taken up was constant throughout development which is consistent with the hypothesis that high affinity Glu uptake is mainly a glial cell property and that the increasing accumulation rate during development reflects glial maturation.








Kainic acid was injected unilaterally in the amygdala of the rat. Following various delays, 2-deoxy-D-[14C]glucose was given intravenously. Autoradiographs of frontal brain sections showed increased glucose uptake in a number of cerebral structures as compared with controls. Most of these structures belong to, or are closely related to, what is traditionally called the 'limbic system'. The structures that show an increased glucose consumption subsequent to kainic acid injections are, with few exceptions, identical to those that are sensitive to the toxic effect that kainic acid exerts on structures distant to the site of injection. The findings are discussed in relation to the hypothesis that the latter effect is secondary to the epileptogenic properties of kainic acid.
Following administration of [3H]choline in the lateral semicircular canal of the cat labyrinth, bidirectional axoplasmic transport [3H]choline and its derivatives was shown by radioautography in the vestibular system. Light-microscopic radioautographs exhibited various patterns of radioautographic labelling. First, a diffuse reaction was observed in vestibular nuclei representing anterograde-labelled, vestibular nerve endings. Second, a heavy labelling limited to perikarya was detected in efferent vestibular neurons and corresponded to retrograde transport. The anterograde migration of [3H]choline is known to be non-selective and is related to synthesis of phospholipids, non-diffusable molecules. In contrast, the retrograde perikaryal labelling seems highly selective and related to the cholinergic specificity of the transmitter. The selectivity of such labelling offers a further possibility of identifying cholinergic neurons and is additional evidence that cholinergic mechanisms are involved in the efferent vestibular control.

The thalamocortical afferents to cortical somatosensory areas I (SI) and II (SII) were investigated in the raccoon using the horseradish peroxidase technique. The purpose of this study was to determine if the cell bodies of origin for thalamocortical afferents to these cortical regions were localized in the same or different nuclei in the ventroposterior region of the thalamus. Horseradish peroxidase was injected into subdivisions of SI or SII and after post-injection survival periods of 12-72 hours the horseradish peroxidase in the tissue was reacted with the chromogens dihydrochlorobenzidine or tetramethylbenzidine in the presence of hydrogen peroxide. The results show that SI and SII receive projections from neurons in separate and distinct nuclei in the ventroposterior thalamus. Following injections into subdivisions of area I, a topographical distribution of retrogradely-labelled cell bodies was observed in the ventrobasal complex. Following injections of horseradish peroxidase into subdivisions of area II, a topographical distribution of labelled cell bodies was observed in the ventroposterior inferior nucleus. No labelled cell bodies were observed in the ventrobasal complex. The thalamocortical connections of somatosensory cortices I and II in raccoon are compared with those in other animals and it is suggested that these two cortical areas may be involved in differential processing of tactile information.
Projections to the basal ganglia from four auditory cortical fields in the cat were studied by combining microelectrode-mapping of the neurons' best frequencies with autoradiographic and histochemical tract-tracing techniques. Each auditory field is a source of projections to the homolateral basal ganglia. The distribution of labeling within the basal ganglia is related to the cortical field in which the injection site is located. The dorsal portion of the putamen and adjacent caudate nucleus are connected with cortical fields situated anteriorly and dorsally, while the ventral portion of the putamen and adjacent lateral amygdaloid nucleus are related to auditory fields situated posteriorly and ventrally. Injections of two different tracers into different best-frequency loci of one cortical field provided evidence that low best-frequency neurons project medially within the basal ganglia while high best-frequency neurons project more laterally. We concluded that there was a basic similarity among patterns of terminations in the basal ganglia from axons that originate in different auditory cortical fields. When the source of a projection was confined to a restricted portion of an auditory cortical field, labeling appeared as dense patches of silver grains separated from each other by areas of less dense labeling. Often, these patches were distributed within a sheet of tissue, elongated both dorsoventrally and anteroposteriorly. Loci having the same best-frequency representation, but situated in different auditory cortical fields, project upon overlapping but not coextensive portions of a single sheet of tissue. Thus the projections from geographically distant cortical loci possessing similar best-frequency representations are notably distinguished on a topographic basis. By comparison, two adjacent sheets of tissue were labeled when two injections were made into the low best-frequency and high best-frequency representations of the same auditory field. Double-injection, double-tracer experiments revealed that adjacent sheets of tissue received projections from different best-frequency loci. These observations suggested a degree of tonotopic organization to this projection system which was equipoise to the evidence obtained for a topographic organization.
Two to nine months after the median nerve was transected and ligated in adult owl and squirrel monkeys, the cortical sectors representing it within skin surface representations in Areas 3b and 1 were completely occupied by 'new' and expanded representations of surrounding skin fields. Some occupying representations were 'new' in the sense that (1) there was no evidence that these skin surfaces were represented in this region prior to median nerve transection; and (2) these skin surfaces retained their normal representation elsewhere within these two cortical representations of hand surfaces. Large 'new' representations of the dorsal surfaces of digits 1 and 2 (innervated by the radial nerve) and large 'new' representations of the hypothenar eminence (innervated by the ulnar nerve) were consistently recorded. Some surrounding skin surface representations expanded into the former median nerve zone, so that bordering skin surfaces (the ulnar insular palmar pad, the third digital palmar pad, glabrous ulnar digit 3, radial hand dorsum) were represented over far larger than normal cortical areas. These expanded representations of always-innervated skin sometimes appeared to move in entirety into the former median nerve representational zone (e.g. in the zone of representation of glabrous digit 4) were also consistently recorded. Reorganizational changes following median nerve sections were much more variable in Area 1 than in Area 3b. The topographic order of the reorganized cortical zone was comparable to normal. In at least most cortical sectors, there was a consistent, maintained relationship between receptive field size and magnification, i.e. as representations enlarged, receptive fields were correspondingly reduced in size. These studies indicate that topographic representations of the skin surface in adult monkeys are maintained dynamically. They clearly reveal that this projection system retains a self-organizing capacity in adult monkeys. They suggest that processes perhaps identical to a part of the original developmental organizing processes (by which details of field topographics are established) are operational throughout life in this projection system in primates. Some of the implications of these studies for the neural origins of tactile perception are discussed.

Opioid peptides were localized in fibres of the rat neural lobe using various immunocytochemical methods at the light- and electron-microscopical level. Leu-enkephalin immunoreactivity was present in beaded fibres distributed throughout the neural lobe. These fibres surround the neurohypophyseal glial cells (pituicytes) and make synaptoid contacts upon their soma and processes. The reaction product was localized both in dense-core vesicles of about 100 nm in diameter and diffusely spread over the cytoplasm. No arguments in support of the co-existence of enkephalins and the neurohypophyseal hormones vasopressin and oxytocin in the same terminal were found. It is suggested that pituicytes might mediate the inhibitory effect of opiod peptides on vasopressin and oxytocin release from the neural lobe.

Immunoreactive constituents of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of adult albino rats were examined by light- and electron-microscopy, using the unlabelled antibody enzyme method, following treatment of brain slices with a purified antibody to glutamic acid decarboxylase. The neuropil of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus displayed a conspicuous granular immunoreactivity. In addition, the antibody was bound to a class of small neurons of characteristic morphology. These cells possessed few (commonly 2-4) sparsely branched, long dendrites from some of which immunoreactive appendages were traced. Many cells were bipolar in form, and the dendrites of some appeared to be preferentially orientated. The immunoreactive cells closely resembled intrinsic interneurons characterized in previous Golgi studies of this nucleus. By electron-microscopy, immunoreactive presynaptic elements were present both in the extraglomerular neuropil and in the synaptic glomeruli. The former were axon terminals containing flattened synaptic vesicles and making Gray type II axo-dendritic synaptic contact; they appeared to correspond to axon terminals whose origin in the thalamic reticular nucleus has been established in previous studies, but it is possible that some were axon terminals of intrinsic interneurons. The immunoreactive glomerular components also contained flattened vesicles, were presynaptic to presumptive projection cell dendrites, postsynaptic to retinal axon terminals, and participated in triplet (triadic) and other complex synaptic arrangements. They corresponded in all respects to the synaptic portions of the complex dendritic appendages of intrinsic interneurons, identified and characterized in previous studies. The finding that there are high levels of glutamic acid decarboxylase in the cell bodies, dendritic shafts and dendritic appendages of intrinsic interneurons in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the rat, and in the axon terminals of fibres projecting to this site from the thalamic reticular nucleus, allows us to conclude that the inhibitory inputs to the geniculo-cortical projection cells from both of these sources are probably mediated by gamma-aminobutyric acid.

Changes in the excitability of the commissural path-CA1 pyramidal cell synapse were studied by varying the interval between the application of a conditioning pulse in the medial septal nucleus and a test pulse in the contralateral hippocampus in freely moving mice. The results showed that septal prestimulation results in marked changes in the excitability of pyramidal cells (population spikes) without any associated changes in the averaged evoked excitatory post synaptic potentials. Thus, as a result of septal stimulation, population spikes were first potentiated for interpulse intervals ranging from 10 to 30 ms; this was followed by inhibition at intervals between 40 and 60 ms and then by another phase of hyperexcitability between 100 and 160 ms. Possible mechanisms underlying this phenomenon are discussed and these successive changes in excitability are compared to the phase-locked ones which occur spontaneously during theta waves.

Studies of the fibre connections of the substantia nigra suggest that the behavioural results of changes in the activity in the striatal dopamine-containing system are mediated by a pathway from the striatum to the substantia nigra and thence to the thalamus. Small discrete electrolytic lesions in the appropriate part of the crus cerebri interrupt the striatonigral axons without damage to the nigrostriatal system. Such lesions inhibit turning induced by activation of striatal dopamine receptors. Similarly, turning induced by apomorphine in rats lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine is inhibited by damage to the ipsilateral ventromedial area of thalamus which receives fibres from the substantia nigra.
The effects of ten once-daily injections of desmethylimipramine (10 mg/kg i.p.) on alpha 2- and beta-adrenoceptor binding were investigated in the rat cortex, hippocampus and hypothalamus. [3H]clonidine and [3H]dihydroalprenolol were used as ligands for alpha 2- and beta-adrenoceptors, respectively. Twenty-four hours after the last injection, the density of beta-adrenoceptors was reduced in all regions studied. In contrast, there was no change in alpha 2-adrenoceptor binding in the cortex, while increased binding was found in the hypothalamus. The effects of desmethylimipramine are discussed in relation to those of other antidepressant treatments.
beta-[3H]Alanine uptake by mouse brain slices was studied in Krebs-Ringer-HEPES-glucose medium (pH 7.4) under O2. The uptake was temperature-sensitive and consisted of two saturable transport components, high- and low-affinity, with kinetic parameters comparable to those of amino acid neurotransmitter candidates. beta-Alanine uptake was strictly sodium-dependent and also inhibited by the omission of potassium and presence of ouabain, suggesting that the transport is mainly fuelled by cation gradients. Sodium ions showed positive cooperative effects in beta-alanine uptake, indicating the association of at least two sodium ions in the transfer of one molecule of beta-alanine. The uptake was strongly inhibited by gamma-aminobutyrate and hypotaurine, the high-affinity uptake component completely disappearing in the presence of hypotaurine. Taurine had no measurable effect. The results suggest that the high-affinity transports of beta-alanine and hypotaurine may be mediated by the same system.

The effects of delta sleep-inducing peptide and arginine-vasotocin were assessed on single neurons in the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis of the brain stem in rats and rabbits. Both peptides showed predominantly excitatory actions in both species when applied by microiontophoresis. A small proportion of cells was inhibited by delta sleep-inducing peptide in the rat. Responses to delta sleep-inducing peptide were short-lasting, dose-dependent and showed no significant desensitization to repeated applications. Responses to arginine-vasotocin were of very long time course and showed profound desensitization. No statistically significant correlation was seen between cells responsive to delta sleep-inducing peptide and those responsive to arginine-vasotocin. We conclude that both 'sleep' peptides have similar actions on central neurons and that they are active in both rats and rabbits. However, no evidence was found to suggest a common mechanism of action for both substances.
Nerve fibres showing immunoreactivity for bombesin have been observed in prevertebral sympathetic ganglia of the rat and guinea-pig. The distribution of bombesin immunoreactive fibres was compared with the distribution of the structurally-related peptide substance P. Dense networks of varicose bombesin immunoreactive fibres were observed, and in the rat coeliac ganglion the density exceeded that of the substance P immunoreactive fibres. Extracts of rat and guinea-pig coeliac ganglion contained material cross-reacting in radioimmunoassays for bombesin tetradecapeptide. Similar concentrations of bombesin and substance P were found in the guinea-pig ganglion, whereas in the rat the concentration of bombesin was about 20 times as high as that of substance P. Two molecular forms of immunoreactive bombesin were identified, neither of which corresponded exactly to synthetic bombesin. The two components were also distinguishable from synthetic substance P. A potential role of a bombesin-like peptide in neural pathways between the gut and prevertebral ganglia is suggested.
Previous in vitro studies have established that Co2+-containing or Ca2+-free media interfere with the initiation of the fast axonal transport of proteins. The present study has used light- and electron-microscope radioautography to compare the distribution of [3H]fucose-labelled glycoproteins in neuronal cell bodies of control dorsal root ganglia and ganglia incubated for 16-17 h in Ca2+-free medium or in medium containing 0.18 mM Co2+. The radioautographic reaction in control cell bodies was diffusely scattered throughout the cytoplasm; grain counts revealed that 22% of the reaction was associated with elements of the Golgi apparatus and 78% was over other organelles and the remainder of the cytoplasm. In most experimental cell bodies, 78% of the silver grains were clustered over elements of the Golgi complex whereas other organelles and the remainder of the cytoplasm were comparatively much less labelled; structural alterations of the Golgi apparatus were also produced by the modified media. In parallel studies where the radioactivity in nerve trunks and ganglia was measured by liquid scintillation counting, it was found that the Ca2+-free medium and the Co2+-containing medium both reduced by approximately 80% the quantity of [3H]fucose-labelled glycoproteins which were carried by the fast axonal transport system; they did so without interfering with the incorporation of [3H]fucose into glycoproteins. The results indicate that in the presence of Co2+ or in the absence of Ca2+ the proteins which are destined for fast axonal transport accumulate at the Golgi apparatus of neuronal cell bodies. These results thus suggest that Ca2+ is required for proteins to leave the Golgi region in transit to the fast axonal transport system.
The axonal transport of proteins to the nerve endings of Herbst and Grandry sensory receptors has been investigated by electron-microscope radioautography. Soon after the injection of [3H]leucine into the trigeminal ganglia of young ducks, labeled proteins are conveyed along the suborbital sensory nerves to the sensory nerve endings at rates of at least 200-280 mm/day. Most of these rapidly transported proteins accumulate in areas containing vesicles of various kinds and along the axolemmal region. Later, the bulk of labeled proteins migrate along the axons at rates of about 15 mm/day and are distributed mainly to the mitochondria. A small portion of labeled material is transferred to the adjoining modified Schwann and specialized Grandry receptor cells. It is concluded that the transport of proteins from sensory ganglia to sensory nerve endings of mechanoreceptors is conveyed at fast and intermediate rates and is mainly used for the renewal of vesicles, axolemmal constituents and mitochondria.
The intrathecal administration of capsaicin, a homovanillylamide derivative, has been demonstrated to cause analgesia in response to thermal stimuli. This analgesia has been correlated with a profound depletion of spinal substance P, a putative primary afferent transmitter. We studied the effects of capsaicin, a series of capsaicin analogues, piperine and kainic acid on the immunohistochemical staining of substance P, cholecystokinin, somatostatin, methionine-enkephalin and serotonin. Capsaicin and an analogue 1-nonenoyl-vanillylamide significantly elevated the tail flick latency and when the spinal cords of the rats were analyzed immunohistochemically, a profound depletion of substance P and cholecystokinin was observed. The spinal somatostatin-immunoreactivity of these rats was slightly reduced. Piperine also depleted substance P and reduced somatostatin staining but did not alter the staining intensity or density of cholecystokinin, methionine-enkephalin or serotonin. Kainate-depleted methionine-enkephalin but did not alter any other neuropeptides studied or serotonin. These results may indicate a link between capsaicin-induced analgesia and the concomitant depletion of cholecystokinin and substance P.

The effects of a lesion of the inferior olive (the source of climbing fibres) has been investigated on a number of parameters of cerebellar excitatory amino acid function. Protoveratrine elicits a large increase in guanosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate levels in cerebellar slices, probably through the release of excitatory amino acids such as glutamate or aspartate, since the receptors involved are susceptible to specific antagonists. While the direct stimulatory (postsynaptic) effects of glutamate and related amino acids were not altered after loss of climbing fibres induced by 3-acetylpyridine, the guanosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate response to protoveratrine was markedly (40%) attenuated. Concomitant with this was a similar reduction in the high-affinity uptake of D-[3H]aspartate, a proposed marker for glutamate/aspartate terminals. Experiments to investigate the calcium-dependent, potassium-stimulated release of glutamate and aspartate, failed to reveal any reduction following acetylpyridine lesions. Although this latter finding does not exclude the possibility that these amino acids could be the transmitter of the climbing fibres, our data would rather suggest the involvement of some glutamate-like, but as yet unidentified, neuroexcitatory substance.
In previous experiments we have studied the development of grafts of embryonic septal tissues implanted alongside the hippocampal formation of neonatal rats. In the present study we examined intracerebral implants of corpus striatum, a brain region that contains acetylcholinesterase-positive cells and does not normally project to the hippocampal formation, in order to evaluate the possibility that neurotransmitter identity may be involved in mechanisms guiding patterns of afferent growth and connectivity. Implant cavities were made in the entorhinal cortices of neonatal rat recipients and 3-6 days later embryonic striatal tissues were grafted to these preformed cavities. Implants were examined with acetylcholinesterase histochemistry one month after implantation. Grafts of embryonic striatal tissues did not survive implantation when the implant was introduced at the same time as the cavity was made. Grafts of corpora striata containing acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons were found in 7 of 11 rats in the delayed implant paradigm and, in all but one of these animals, acetylcholinesterase was present within those terminal laminae in the ipsilateral hippocampus and dentate gyrus that normally receive cholinergic input from the septal area. These findings suggest that cues underlying the development of specific connections between native (and implanted) septal efferents and hippocampal target neurons may be recognized by ingrowing acetylcholinesterase-reactive fibers from striatal implants.
Immunocytochemistry based on antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase is used to identify catecholaminergic neurons in the human brain stem. An atlas is provided and the distribution of structures compared with that in other animals and with biochemical and catecholamine fluorescent data from humans. Broad agreement of results increases the confidence with which tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity can be used to trace catecholaminergic pathways in human postmortem material. As compared to most studies of other animals there are striking increases in populations of upper pontine and mesencephalic catecholaminergic neurons in the human. Distinct cytoarchitectonic features, consistent differences in tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive staining intensity and regional variations in substance P innervation indicate complexity within the substantia nigra. Human catecholaminergic neurons are prominent in the midline of the ventral tegmentum and the upper parts of the central tegmental tracts. A bundle of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons runs between the latter regions and a cluster of smaller catecholaminergic neurons which lie in the oblique band of axons joining ventrolateral and dorsomedial medullary catecholaminergic groups. There are more catecholaminergic neurons within and closely related to the superior cerebellar peduncles than have been described in other species. Anatomically, the central compact nucleus of the locus coeruleus appears to be related to several nearby catecholaminergic cell groups. The data provided are being used as a basis for neuropathologic studies of human neurological diseases.
Intracellular recordings from in vitro neurones of the frog spinal cord slice preparation were performed in order to examine the mechanism of action of gamma-aminobutyrate and glutamate on two distinct neuronal populations in the same region of the central nervous system. Amino acids were superfused at fast rate and low temperature (7 degrees C) to reduce their uptake process. On interneurones, the inhibitory action of gamma-aminobutyrate was characterized by a large input conductance increase while on motoneurones the conductance change was much smaller. Glutamate excited interneurones which greatly increased their input conductance and showed burst firing; motoneurones were also excited by glutamate but usually did not fire repeatedly nor showed large conductance changes. In spite of these differences the amplitude of depolarization in the presence of the same concentration of glutamate was similar for motoneurones and interneurones. It is suggested that amino acids (particularly glutamate) may act through different membrane mechanisms on two neuronal populations in the same region of the spinal cord.







Liaison psychiatry is an outgrowth of consultation psychiatry which it extends by emphasizing its teaching function with the physicians, nurses, and patients it has contact. Liaison teaches methods of identification, assessment, diagnosis, and therapy based primarily on an open-ended interview technique. This form serves in and of itself, as well as by extension, as a brief psychotherapeutic process. The liaison model utilizes a general systems approach in its study of the patient pursuing the latter's problem from the molecular through organ systems, intrapsychic processes and interactions with the social milieu. The biopsychosocial approach to the patient is one of addressing the patient and the significant others in the sequential stages of illness; acute, convalescent, and rehabilitative. These are largely influenced by the environments and the processes occurring therein. Liaison psychiatry might well be called ecumenical psychiatry inasmuch as it utilizes conceptual approaches derivative of the social sciences, psychoanalysis, behavioral medicine, neuroscience, and psychopharmacology. In addition, the function of the liaison consultant seems to be increasing as one in which he/she functions as an arbiter when there are conflicts between colleagues around decision-making processes. These frequently involve ethical problems affecting the behavior of staff and patients. The processes engaged in by the liaison psychiatrist will be elaborated.










A simple biological signal generator capable of reproducing complex biopotential waveforms is described. It is constructed by a combination of digital and analog circuit components and can be used under different experimental conditions, such as in calibration of biomedical instrumentation systems, or simply as a function generator providing voltage outputs of various waveforms. The biopotential waveform to be generated is sampled at a high frequency and the samples are stored sequentially in a programmable read only memory (PROM). The samples are then fed in the same sequence to a digital-to-analog (D/A) converter and the resulting output is amplified and a DC offset is added. External controls are provided to adjust the DC offset, amplitude and repetition rate of the signal generated. The reproduced voltage signals are stable and superior in quality to those produced by conventional biological signal generators.








One hundred and eighty four consecutive admissions to male psychiatric open and closed wards were examined for evidence of alcoholism. Michigan Alcoholism Screening Test (MAST) was used for this purpose. The present study shows a prevalence rate of alcohol users to be 41.3 per cent. Nineteen percent could be called alcoholic. MAST correlated well with Spitzer's RDG criteria for alcoholism. The family history of non-users was significantly different from that of the alcohol users. The findings are discussed in the light of existing literature both in India and in the West.
The density of microtubules in sympathetic postganglionic fibres of the cat was studied with the electron-microscope before and after administration of reserpine. The microtubule density was 56 microtubules per square micron under basal conditions. Six hours after reserpine administration, the density rose by 46%. This change was still present 55 h later. At least 31% of the total microtubular protein in the axoplasm of sympathetic fibres of the unrestrained cat was estimated to be in the soluble form. The increase in microtubule density was prevented by a section of the preganglionic fibres. Microtubules of the unmyelinated fibres of the cutaneous sural nerve were unaffected by reserpine treatment. Since reserpine is known to produce hyperactivity of sympathetic nerves, it is concluded that this hyperactivity is instrumental in the increase of the number of axonal microtubules. It is proposed that the electrical activity of nerves regulates axonal microtubules in the living animal.
The effect of temperature (11 to 45 degrees C) on miniature endplate potential (MEPP) distributions was examined at the mouse diaphragm. MEPP distributions were composed of two populations ('skew-MEPPS' and 'bell-MEPPs') and the mode of the skew-MEPP population (subminiature endplate potential, sub-MEPP) had an amplitude equal to 1/10 to 1/15 the mean of the normally distributed bell-MEPP class. The overall MEPP frequency increased with a Q10 of 2.2 between 11 and 30 degrees C, and an Arrhenius plot indicated two temperature-sensitive reactions between 11 and 45 degrees C. Below 30 degrees C, the activation energy was 10.4 kcal/mole K and between 30 and 45 degrees C the activation energy was 38.7 kcal/mole K. The proportion of skew-MEPPs between different fibers was independent of the overall MEPP frequency and varied between 1% and 31% at temperatures of 11-34 degrees C. However, as the temperature was lowered below 24 degrees C, the decrease in frequency of skew-MEPPs was more than that of bell-MEPPs. Conversely, an increase in temperature from 24 to 34 degrees C increased the bell-MEPP frequency but either reduced or had little effect on the frequency of skew-MEPPs. Following heat challenges (T greater than 40 degrees C), MEPP distributions contained a large percentage of skew-MEPPs and the profile of the MEPP distribution became uniform. Before complete cessation of spontaneous activity with multiple heat challenges, MEPP amplitude distributions were either uniform or were composed primarily of sub-MEPPs. MEPP time courses were slower after heat challenges, and in some preparations, infections were observed on many MEPP rising phases. Amplitude histograms of these inflections yielded distributions similar to control distributions of skew-MEPPs. The presence of inflections on MEPPs following heat challenges supports the hypothesis that skew-MEPPs and bell-MEPPs are composed of subunits. These results suggest that skew- and bell-MEPPs are caused by the release of transmitter by different temperature-sensitive mechanisms.
Intrahippocampal infusion of nanogram amounts of the neurotoxin kainic acid were used to investigate possible relationships between the convulsive and the local neurodegenerative properties of the amino acid. Bilateral hippocampal depth electrodes and cortical leads were employed to provide simultaneous and continuous electroencephalographic records following kainate injection in unanesthetized freely-behaving rats. In every animal, morphological analysis was performed 3-5 days after administration of kainic acid and attempts were made to correlate neuronal destruction with electroencephalographic patterns. Doses as low as 500 pg kainate led to behavioral sequelae consisting of grooming, scratching and enhanced locomotor activity. In a roughly dose-dependent fashion (range 500 gp-250 ng), these behaviors increased in frequency and at the highest doses the rats also displayed wet-dog shakes, stereotype mouth movements and occasional facial myoclonus. Apart from these automatisms, generalized motor seizures were never seen. Following kainic acid, a spectrum of electroencephalographic changes could occur consisting of one or more of the following: high voltage fast activity, slow and fast high voltage spiking, paroxysmal bursts, spindle bursts or postictal depression periods. The combination of any two of these changes were defined as an ictal episode if they occurred in all four leads simultaneously. Upon morphological examination, only the highest dose used (250 ng) resulted reliably in the degeneration of CA3, CA4 and, partly, CA1 pyramidal cells on the injected side. While the duration of electroencephalographic changes at this dose was significantly higher than at any of the lower doses, the number of seizures or the total time spent in seizures was not different at 250 ng from that at 50 ng. At the latter dose, however, only marginal cell damage could be found. Our data indicate that very low doses of kainic acid directly applied to hippocampal CA3 neurons, can elicit bilateral changes in the electroencephalogram indicative of repetitive limbic seizures which are not necessarily accompanied by neuronal degeneration. At higher doses (250 ng), kainic acid treatment results in both seizure activity and nerve cell death but the two effects appear mechanistically unrelated. While there is no clear-cut dose-response relationship between neuronal damage and seizures, extended electroencephalographic changes of a 15-30 Hz fast activity or simple spiking phenomena may be instrumental for the degenerative process. This dissociation between convulsive and neurodegenerative properties of kainic acid, however, does not argue against a role of an endogenous substance related to kainic acid in the etiology of temporal lobe seizure disorders.
Kainic acid administration into the cerebellar dorsal lobe of the goldfish causes selective degeneration of some neuronal types. Stellate and Golgi neurons are very sensitive to the neurotoxin and undergo rapid degeneration. On the basis of their differential responses to kainic acid, Purkinje cells can be divided in two distinct sub-populations (i.e. sensitive and insensitive neurons). The degenerative changes of the Purkinje neurons are in addition remarkably slow in comparison with the same cells in mammals or with stellate and Golgi neurons in the goldfish. Granule cells, as well as the cerebellar afferent fiber system, are not significantly affected. Six days after kainic acid administration, the level of glutamate decarboxylase in the cerebellar dorsal lobe drops to about 40% of the control value. This result suggests that the neurons sensitive to kainic acid neurotoxicity are, at least in part, GABAergic. Light- and electron-microscopic autoradiography of cerebellar elements selectively accumulating [3H]GABA, supports this idea. Moderate decreases of acetylcholinesterase and protein content were also noticed in the kainic acid-treated cerebellar dorsal lobe.
Autoradiography and anterograde horseradish peroxidase transport were used to examine retinocollicular projections in normal hamsters and in animals subjected to ablation of the ipsilateral, posterior neocortex at 1, 3, 6, 10, or 120 days of age. The crossed retinotectal projections of all groups were quite similar. There did, however, appear to be a slight increase in the density of the projection to the lower portion of the stratum griseum superficiale in the neonatally brain-damaged hamsters. The uncrossed pathway, on the other hand, was quite abnormal in the neonatally lesioned animals. In normals, the ipsilateral retinocollicular projection consisted almost entirely of a series of patches along the stratum griseum superficiale-stratum opticum border in the rostral one-third of the colliculus. Only a few axons from the ipsilateral eye were observed in the caudal two-thirds of the tectum and these could only be visualized when horseradish peroxidase was used as the tracer. In all of the neonatally brain-damaged hamsters both autoradiography and horseradish peroxidase tracing demonstrated that the ipsilateral retina densely innervated the entire rostrocaudal extent of the colliculus. Retrograde tracing experiments demonstrated that the portion of the temporal retina which gave rise to the uncrossed retinocollicular projection in the normal hamsters was also the source of the expanded projection in the neonatally brain-damaged animals; and, further, that the numbers and areal distributions of ipsilaterally projecting retinal and retinocollicular ganglion cells were similar in the two groups. These findings suggest that, at least in the hamster, normal inputs from the two eyes may not be a sufficient condition for the development of the largely complementary pattern of collicular innervation by the two retinae.
The visual properties of zebrafish tectal cells have been studied with a variety of stimulation routines. These include illumination of the whole receptive field and of the surround, use of moving edges, very small spots, bars of varying orientations, moving spots with varying direction and speeds, growing discs, and pairs of spots whose presentation varies in position and sequence. A number of properties correlate with the classification scheme set forth in the preceding paper. Type B cells, unlike other types, are insensitive to moving stimuli. Experiments involving surround stimulation show that type S cells have inhibitory surrounds while those of type I do not. Type I cells, however, exhibit several properties which are consistent with an intratectal delayed inhibitory mechanism operating within the receptive field. These properties include the response to moving edges and growing stimuli, and the dependence of response duration on the size of a flashed stimulus. Various explanations of these properties are considered, and a specific model is proposed which states that cells of type I receive inhibitory input from neighbouring tectal cells of the same physiological type. The properties involved may be of direct importance in the visual behavior of the fish.
The zebrafish optic tectum is anatomically similar to those of goldfish and other teleosts, both in its laminar structure and the morphology of intrinsic neurons as studied with Golgi stains. We have applied standard electrophysiological techniques to study the visual properties of tectal cells, utilizing a computer system for stimulus control and data recording. All tectal cells have very large receptive fields, averaging 25-39 degrees in linear dimensions. Retinal receptive fields are smaller, averaging 7-13 degrees. In many cases the receptive fields of tectal cells, but never of retinal cells, consist of two parts (main field and accessory field) separated by tens of degrees. The two parts are differentially adapted by background illumination, accessory fields becoming unresponsive under lit conditions while main fields do not. This may reflect separate retinal input channels. Four types of tectal cells are described, which differ in their spontaneous activity in the dark and response to stationary spots. Type I are not spontaneously active in the dark, but respond phasically at response to ON and OFF. Type T are tonically active and give more prolonged phasic responses to ON and OFF. They may also have pure-inhibitory receptive fields in which spot ON suppresses the spontaneous firing with no phasic excitation. Type S are also silent in the dark, but give sustained firing as long as a spot is ON in the receptive field. Cells of type B fire spontaneously in bursts; the burst rate may be raised or lowered by stationary spots, but there is no phasic response. Each of the four physiological types is found to occur among the cells of the periventricular layer, all of which share a stereotyped overall morphology. Tectal cells do not exhibit spatially separated ON and OFF areas or orientation specificity.
Efferent projections of the zona incerta were examined in the rat using the autoradiographic and horseradish peroxidase methods, with special reference to the cytoarchitectonic structure of the zona incerta. Autoradiographic experiments showed that the incertofugal fiber systems reach ipsilaterally to the thalamus (lateral dorsal, central lateral, ventral lateral geniculate, parafascicular, subparafascicular and reuniens nuclei, and posterior nuclear complex), to the hypothalamus (dorsal, lateral and posterior hypothalamic areas), to the tectum (medial pretectal area, deep pretectal and pretectal nuclei, superior colliculus and periaqueductal gray) and to the midbrain tegmentum, pons and medulla oblongata (subcuneiform, cuneiform and red nuclei, nuclei of the posterior commissure and Darkschewitsch, interstitial nucleus of Cajal, pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, oral and caudal pontine reticular nuclei, nucleus raphe magnus, gigantocellular reticular nucleus, pontine gray and inferior olivary complex). Contralaterally, incertal efferent fibers reach to the zona incerta. Cells of origin of the incertofugal fiber systems to the tectum, thalamus, tegmentum and spinal cord were examined using the retrograde horseradish peroxidase method. Cells of origin of the incertotectal pathway are located mainly in the ventral and causal parts of the zona incerta and partly in the antero-polar, dorsal and postero-polar parts. Cells projecting to the thalamus (at least to the lateral dorsal and central lateral nuclei) are situated in the ventral and caudal parts of the zona incerta, but they are rare in the other incertal structures. Cells of origin of the incertotegmental system are located mainly in the dorsal, magnocellular and caudal parts and partly in the antero- and postero-polar parts, but they are not situated in the ventral part. Cells of the magnocellular part project more caudally to the medulla oblongata and spinal cord than those of the other parts of the zona incerta. Forel's field contains many cells projecting to the tegmentum. The results provide good evidence that the cells of origin of efferent projections are topographically organized and are related to cytoarchitectonic areas within the zona incerta.
Neurons of the substantia nigra's pars reticulata that send axons to the thalamus, superior colliculus and midbrain reticular formation (including the pedunculopontine nucleus) have been revealed in monkeys by the technique of retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. The populations of nigrothalamic, nigrotectal and nigroreticular neurons differ from one another in their number, intranigral distribution and somatodendritic size and shape. Nigrothalamic cells are the most abundant and, although scattered throughout the mediolateral expanse of the pars reticulata, their numbers progressively diminish from rostral to caudal levels. Nigrotectal cells are least numerous and are restricted almost exclusively to the lateral margin of the rostral one-half of the pars reticulata. Nigroreticular cells, like nigrothalamic, are scattered throughout the mediolateral dimension of the nucleus, but are more commonly located at middle to caudal levels. In addition to their restricted intranigral location, the nigrotectal cells are larger, polygonal and have more major dendritic processes than the smaller nigrothalamic and nigroreticular cells which are usually triangular or fusiform. A small proportion of cells of all three types appears to project contralaterally. These findings indicate that the efferent organization of the primate pars reticulata differs markedly from that of the rodent and the monkey's nigrotectal cells constitute a spatially and morphologically distinct subpopulation within the pars reticulata. These data should be useful in understanding the functional organization of topographic inputs to the pars reticulata such as that from the neostriatum.
Choline acetyltransferase and [3H]choline uptake have been measured in neocortical regions and hippocampus one week after lesions which destroyed the septum bilaterally, and after unilateral lesions in the area of nucleus basalis magnocellularis. Lesions of the septal area, which severely decreased choline acetyltransferase in hippocampus, only moderately decreased choline acetyltransferase in a posterior cortical region and had no effect in frontal and parietal regions. In contrast, lesions which included nucleus basalis magnocellularis decreased choline acetyltransferase markedly in frontal and parietal regions and had less of an effect in the posterior cortical regions. Lesion-induced decreases of [3H]choline uptake paralleled those of choline acetyltransferase. Lesion which included nucleus basalis magnocellularis had no effect on choline acetyltransferase in hippocampus, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle, midbrain or pons-medulla. These results suggest that existence of topographically distinct cholinergic inputs to neocortex. In agreement with previous studies, cholinergic projections from the peripallidal region of nucleus basalis magnocellularis are predominantly to frontal and parietal neocortex. In contrast to previous suggestions, cholinergic projections to neocortex from the septal area are limited to the posterior regions of neocortex.

We have investigated the distribution and organization of the projection from the hippocampal formation to the nucleus accumbens in the rat. In the first experiments, horseradish peroxidase was injected into the fimbria fornicis. This procedure resulted in massive anterograde labelling of fornix fibers, and enabled the hippocampo--accumbens projection to be charted in detail. Labelled fornix fibers are distributed to the entire length of the nucleus accumbens and do not spread lateral to the anterior limb of the anterior commissure, that is, the projection is limited to the medial nucleus accumbens. Terminal labelling is particularly dense in a caudal dorsomedial sector of accumbens immediately adjacent to the septum. In the second part of the study, horseradish peroxidase was microelectrophoretically injected into the nucleus accumbens, in order to confirm the findings from the anterograde experiments. When the deposit was localized within the fornix distribution field, as indicated by the first experiment, retrogradely-labelled cells were observed in the subiculum, prosubiculum, and to a lesser extent, in hippocampal field CAI. When the deposit was located outside of the fornix distribution field, no hippocampal labelling was noted. The topography of the projection, suggested by the retrograde labelling experiments, is discussed. The findings confirm earlier reports of such a projection from the hippocampal formation to the nucleus accumbens, and with the use of a relatively novel anterograde-horseradish peroxidase technique, provide a picture of fiber labelling representing the entire field of origin of the fornix system. The striatal projection field of this pathway is discussed in relation to other striatal afferents, with particular emphasis on limbic afferentation of the striatum. Finally, the so-called 'hippocampal district' of striatum is discussed with respect to its neurotransmitter composition, as well as its functional importance regarding limbic system influence on central motor mechanisms.

The neurotoxic actions of kainate were examined in incubated slices of adult and immature rat cerebellum using light- and electron-microscopy. In the adult, Purkinje cells and inhibitory interneurones became selectively necrotic at concentrations between 5 micro M and 20 micro M. At 30 micro M, granule cells also became affected. In the immature cerebellum, at an age (8 days after birth) when the parallel fibres (thought to use glutamate as transmitter) are largely yet to be developed, selective toxicity was still evident but Purkinje cells and inhibitory interneurones were about 10-fold, and granule cells about 30-fold, less sensitive to kainate than in the adult. Kainate and other excitotoxins also increased cyclic GMP levels in cerebellar slices, apparently through the activation of excitatory amino acid receptors. In the adult tissue, the dose-cyclic GMP response curve to kainate was biphasic suggesting the presence of two components. The lower concentrations of kainate eliciting the first component mirrored those inducing selective necrosis of Purkinje cells and inhibitory interneurones while the second component correlated with necrosis of granule cells. Similar correlations applied to the immature cerebellum, but here kainate neurotoxicity appeared to be associated with the activation of receptor types different from those evident in the adult. It is suggested that kainate receptors, whose activation is associated with both neurotoxic damage and elevation of cyclic GMP levels, are located on all cell types in the adult cerebellum, with Purkinje cells and inhibitory interneurones displaying a higher sensitivity to kainate than granule cells. The lower sensitivity of immature cerebellum to the neurotoxic effect of kainate is probably due to lower levels of kainate receptors.
Cytochrome oxidase was histochemically localized in the hippocampus and dentate gyrus of various species of mammals. The most intense staining was observed within stratum moleculare of areas CA1-3 and the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, as well as the somatic and basal dendritic layers of CA3. These regions correspond to the synaptic terminal fields of major excitatory afferent pathways to the hippocampus. The somata of CA3 pyramidal cells and various interneurons were more intensely stained than CA1 pyramidal cells and dentate granule cells, and these levels appeared to correlate positively with their reported rates of spontaneous firing. At the electron-microscopic level, the highest concentrations of densely reactive mitochondria were localized within the distal apical dendritic profiles of principal cells (granule and pyramidal) and certain interneurons (pyramidal basket and stratum pyramidale interneurons). The specific layers in which these structures were found are known to receive intense excitatory input from the perforant pathway. High concentrations of reactive mitochondria were also observed within the somata and proximal dendrites of CA3 pyramidal cells and various interneurons, confirming our light-microscopic observations. These results demonstrated that not only can soma and dendrites of the same cell have disparate but distinct levels of cytochrome oxidase activity, but the pattern of reactivity within a neuron's apical and basal dendrites, or even within specific dendritic segments of the same dendrite can be quite different. While the levels of somatic reactivity correlate with reported levels of spontaneous and/or synaptic activity, the degree of dendritic and somatic staining appeared to be more closely related to the intensity of convergent and/or pathway-specific excitatory synaptic input.
With the aid of immunohistochemical techniques the distribution of substance P, met-enkephalin, serotonin, somatostatin, alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone, neurotensin and neurophysin immunoreactivities were mapped throughout the rostro-caudal extent of the cat's nucleus tractus solitarii. Three of the putative neurotransmitters (substance P, enkephalin and serotonin) were found to be widely distributed as varicose fibers and punctate structures. The densities of their immunoreactivities were plotted in a range from very dense, dense, moderate, occasional, to none, at different levels of the nucleus of the solitary tract. Substance P immunoreactivity was the most varied and dense of all the neurotransmitters studied. Its accumulations ranged from very dense in the lateral, dense in portions of the parvocellular and lateral, moderate in medial and commissural and occasional in ventrolateral and portions of the parvocellular subdivisions. Both the enkephalin and serotonin immunoreactivities had patterns similar to that of substance P immunoreactivity, although their amounts were not as great. Following colchicine treatment neurons containing substance P and enkephalin immunoreactivity were found in many subdivisions of the nucleus of the solitary tract. Somatostatin, alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone, neurotensin and neurophysin immunoreactivities were present in the nucleus of the solitary tract as isolated varicose fibers scattered throughout the nucleus. Immunoreactive neurons were not found for these putative neurotransmitters after colchicine treatment. The presence of substance P immunoreactivity within subdivisions which receive visceral afferent input is discussed in relation to the role of substance P as a possible transmitter of the afferent limb of the vagus nerve. The distribution of enkephalin and serotonin immunoreactivities in the nucleus of the solitary tract reflect their involvement in the regulation or modulation of cardiovascular and respiratory functions. While the significance of somatostatin, alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone, neurotensin and neurophysin immunoreactivities within the nucleus of the solitary tract is not understood at present, these substances might possibly play a role in visceral functions.
The indirect immunofluorescence technique demonstrates a substance P-like immunoreactive innervation to the anterior segment of the rabbit, cat and monkey eye. In all three species there is a sparse, but definite, corneal innervation. For the rabbit, substance P-like immunoreactive nerves to the aqueous outflow apparatus are found chiefly in the pectinate ligament. In the cat, this innervation is somewhat more extensive, being seen in the septae of the ciliary cleft as well. The monkey has a more plentiful innervation to the outflow apparatus than either the cat or the rabbit. Substance P-like immunoreactive nerves are visible in the trabecular meshwork and at the inner and outer walls of Schlemm's canal. For all three animals, the iris contains immunoreactive nerve fibers to the sphincter muscle, to the large blood vessels and to the anterior stromal melanocytes. In the ciliary body, the ciliary processes receive a constant innervation; it is somewhat more dense in the rabbit. Some of the large ciliary body blood vessels also are innervated. Ciliary body melanocytes are innervated; it was not possible to determine whether or not immunoreactive fibers innervate the ciliary muscle cells as well. The present study extends prior knowledge of the innervation of the eye. Taken with the known physiologic effects of substance P, it indicates a series of potential roles for this peptide in the vegetative processes of the eye.
Addition of the excitatory amino acids l-glutamate, l-aspartate and their analogues kainate and N-methyl-d-aspartate to incubated slices of adult rat cerebellum led to large increases in cyclic GMP levels. The order of apparent potencies was kainate greater than N-methyl-d-aspartate greater than glutamate and aspartate. D-alpha-aminoadipate and Mg2-+ inhibited responses to N-methyl-d-aspartate while glutamic acid diethyl ester was most effective against those to glutamate; responses to kainate were least affected by the antagonists. The exicitant amino acids also elicited large elevations of cyclic GMP levels in slices of immature (8 day) cerebellum. Kainate was less effective than in adult but induced two responses distinguishable by their different time courses, concentration dependencies and sensitivity to antagonists. N-methyl-d-aspartate, glutamate and aspartate were 5 to 10-fold more potent than in the adult. Responses to N-methyl-d-aspartate were similarly inhibited by d-alpha-aminoadipate and Mg2+ but those to glutamate were more resistant to glutamic acid diethyl ester than in the adult. It is concluded that the accumulation of cyclic GMP in response to excitant amino acids in the adult cerebellum is mediated via the operation of receptor types showing pharmacological characteristics expected of excitatory amino acid receptors. The actions of kainate in the immature cerebellum appear to be mediated by receptors different from those on which it acts primarily in the adult.

Two apparatus for time sequences data acquisition are described. The first is designed for detection of motility. It acts according to the principle of inertia. Movements of animal are transmitted to a plate supported by steel balls with a minimal resistance. Horizontal oscillations are detected using an electro-optical system. Very weak movements can be recorded. The second indirectly records feeding behavior (water intake) using also an optical detection of the air bubble passing through the glass-tube of the feeding-bottle. The long-term stability, accuracy and sensitivity of the apparatus are discussed. Examples of application are quoted.



Normal movements of the mammalian brain, caused by the arterial and venous pressure fluctuations of each cardiac and respiratory cycle, have made obtaining stable intracellular recordings from neurons difficult. This study quantitated the movements of the cats' brainstem and examined the effects of traditional neurophysiological techniques used to reduce pulsation. Two components of brain movement were recorded: (1) an arterial component--relatively low amplitude (110-266 micrometers) and short duration (330-400 ms) excursions corresponding to the pressure wave of each cardiac systole [A-wave]; and (2) a pulmonary component--slower (10-12/min), high amplitude plateau-like displacement (300-950 micrometers) lasting for a time (2.4-5.1 s) corresponding to the inspiration of each respiratory cycle [P-wave]. Pneumothoraces and mechanical ventilation combined with elevating the animal's head reduced the pulmonary component by an average of 68% and the arterial component by 40%. Cerebrospinal fluid drainage could reduce the P-wave component of movement by as much as 50%. To reduce arterial pulsations below 100 micrometers, the mean arterial pressure (MAP) had to be lowered to less than 40 mm Hg, which was not compatible with maintaining normal brainstem auditory evoked responses. Residual movements at MAPs greater than 50 mm Hg were still sufficient to make stable intracellular penetration of small neurons difficult. The authors suggest the solution to this problem is the development of a cardiopulmonary bypass system which generates a non-pulsatile flow of oxygenated blood, described in a companion paper.

Knowledge of the mechanisms underlying cerebral function, breakdown, and recovery can provide a rational basis for designing rehabilitation programs for brain-injured patients. Specialists in clinical neuropsychology, those who assess the cognitive and behavioral effects of brain damage, thus have useful diagnostic and therapeutic expertise to offer rehabilitation units. Concepts pertaining to functional recovery after brain damage, for example, reorganization, substitution, compensation, and amelioration, are discussed. Several reports are reviewed that illustrate the increasingly widespread application of a neurophysiologic perspective to the analysis and remediation of deficits in memory, expressive language, perception, and reading. Intervention strategies encompassing the use of visual imagery, patient self-instruction, reeducation and drill, and computer-based techniques are described. The role of the neurophysiologist in assessment, treatment planning, retraining, and discharge planning is outlined.
B. F. Skinner has made significant contributions to the science of the behavior of organisms, including human ones, especially through his emphasis on observable behavior. He has correctly placed psychology among the biological sciences. My disagreement with his position stems from his apparent belief that a knowledge of the pertinent neurophysiology is not necessary (though perhaps desirable) to an explanation of the behavior of an organism. I believe this is a significant conceptual shortcoming, and that correcting it will bring psychology into a more consistent position with the biological sciences in general.


We are reporting a case of craniopharyngioma presenting with features of mania. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of craniopharyngioma with presenting features of mania- The patient is a six years old child with history of maniac behaviour of six months duration. There is no significant family history. During the course in the hospital he was found to be having craniopharyngioma. The patient recovered completely following the surgical intervention without any aid of antipsychotics.
Psychiatric camps in the manner they are usually conducted serve no useful purpose in the long run, except to identify cases and to increase people's awareness about mental illnesses. The main drawback is poor follow up of the cases detected.To overcome these drawbacks and to make these camps more useful in delivering mental health services to the community, a new approach is being worked out. Screening and selection of the patients for the camp by the local doctors with the help of symptom check-list, a good propaganda well in advance incorporating the cardinal symptoms through mass media, training of the local doctors to gain basic skills and knowledge to manage cases during follow up, periodic visits by the psychiatrists to help these doctors in this job for some time, mental health exhibition during the camp were some of the strategies adopted in Kollegal Neuropsychiatric camp by community psychiatry unit of NIMHANS.It was a three days' camp. 312 cases were registered after screening. Only 6.7% cases were non-psychiatric. 30% epileptics, 30% neurotics, 12% Headache, 9% MR, 9% neurological cases, 5% psychoses. 25 doctors participated in training programme and camp patients were allotted to them for follow up. Monthly follow up is in progress. Findings and experiences are discussed.

The discovery of the conditioned reflex is generally credited to Ivan P. Pavlov. So closely is Pavlov associated with this phenomenon that it is commonly referred to as the Pavlovian conditioned reflex. Edwin B. Twitmyer independently discovered the conditioned reflex at approximately the same time and reported the finding in 1904 at the meeting of the American Psychological Association. Unlike Pavlov's, Twitmyer's data had little impact on psychology. There have been various hypotheses to explain the failure of the field to recognize Twitmyer's discovery. These explanations are criticized and modified to reflect an emphasis on Twitmyer's and Pavlov's respective social and intellectual contexts.
Though the ultrafine short tips provided by our micropipette puller are helpful for many preparations, longer tips are still needed for some cases where target cells for intracellular work are deeply embedded in tissue. Because the original 'loop' type of heating filament proved unsuitable for widening to provide the longer tips, we studied simpler forms of heating filaments. By comparison with the common loop design, a rectangular trough filament proved to have many advantages without any significant disadvantage. In particular, this type of filament may be used at varying widths to provide long tips as well as short ones. Thus our micropipette puller can now provide tip lengths that extend upward by continuous gradations from about 6 to 27 mm, while maintaining tip diameter in the ultrafine range of 0.1 micrometer or less. These long tips have proved more reliable and free from bending than long tips traditionally provided by the Livingston puller. By using narrow filaments in conjunction with other parameters that influence tip size, tips have also formed with diameters up to 1.5 micrometers and lengths of only 2-3 mm.
The calculation of volume fractions in nervous tissue is a method often used in neuroanatomy. In ontogenetic studies and problems concerning aging, as well as after experimental procedures, volume fractions are calculated in order to quantify the results. Grey level index (GLI) and grey cell coefficient (GCC) are different parameters correlated to the volume density of cellular elements in nervous tissue. The grey cell coefficient (GCC) is defined as the volume fraction of cellular elements in a griseum (grey matter area) and is estimated by a basic stereological method (point counting) from observations in two dimensions. The grey level index (GLI), measured with an automatic image analyzer, is the areal proportion of projected profiles of all stained elements within a volume given by the area of the measuring field and the thickness of section. GLI and GCC are compared in specimens obtained by a special histological procedure, and a method to estimate volume fractions by means of GLI-measurement is described.
A simple treadmill arrangement has been developed to quantify the quadruped or hindleg locomotor activity in rats. The method provides information on the accumulated distance passed by the rat in the treadmill but also on the temporal distribution of locomotion and the stepping cycle. It can be used with intact rats but also during stereotaxically guided electric stimulation of the brain. The accumulated locomotion produced by apomorphine showed a partly linear relation to the dose and the results were comparable to those found with other methods. The locomotor effect of brainstem stimulation was enhanced by apomorphine. This method combines the advantages of several other methods and is well suited as a tool for the analysis of nervous regulation of locomotor activity.
A simple mechanographic method for the measurement of muscle tone in awake rats is presented. It utilizes principles corresponding to those in clinical assessment of tone and it has been applied to an animal model of Parkinson's disease: the reserpine-treated rat. The rat was restrained by a plastic cylinder and by metal cuffs at the ankles. The hind feet were repeatedly dorsiflexed by an electromechanical manipulator and the resulting calf muscle tension was indirectly measured with a strain-gauge system. The relative contributions to the stretch response from the different muscle groups acting on the ankle joint in the awake and untreated rat and during reserpine-induced rigidity are described. Very little active tension was found in the untreated rat. After treatment with reserpine, continuous activation of the muscle was found in EMG recordings and there was a sharp increase in the tension recorded during stretch. The static response to the increased isometric stretch was augmented. An additional, tonic response to ramp stretch was elicited at all stretch velocities. There was no evidence for phasic responses to rapid stretch in reserpine-induced rigidity. The amplitude of the myomechanogram was thus found to be independent of the ramp stretch velocity. Subsequent injection of apomorphine abolished the increased stretch response. It is demonstrated that changes in muscle tone could be followed during drug treatment and that the method can be used in investigations of the pathophysiological mechanisms behind the disorders of muscle tone.
This paper describes a simple and convenient way of making a sensitive displacement transducer for routine use in the neurophysiological laboratory. It is based upon a commercially available optoelectronic integrated circuit and requires only simple electronic and mechanical fabrication. Its sensitivity is such that it may be used to monitor movements down to approximately 100 nm over a bandwidth of 8 kHz without additional filtering or averaging. Further electronic filtering or computer averaging will extend its sensitivity. It has many potential uses, two examples of which are provided.
The present report deals with methodological problems concerning the electrophysiological analysis of multipolar neurones. In a nerve cell in which the dendrites may be considered as being equivalent to a single cable, the electrotonic length of the equivalent cable may be determined by analyzing the potential response to a step of current injected into the soma (Rall, 1969). In the present model study it is shown that this kind of analysis is unsuitable for discriminating between neurones with different dendritic lengths in excess of about 1.5-2.0 length constants.


The effects of denervation on skeletal muscle fibers have been intensively investigated, but the effects on other cell types within muscle tissue are not well understood. In the present experiments, cell proliferation was analyzed in mouse extensor digitorum longus muscles denervated for periods of one day to six weeks. Incorporation of tritiated thymidine into DNA increased 36 h after denervation, reached a maximum at a level twenty times control at 4 days, and returned towards control values by 7 days. Incorporation first increased in the endplate area, but 12 h later involved the entire muscle. Six weeks after denervation, muscles labeled at 4 days had lost 90% of the total label. Muscle disuse, produced by tetrodotoxin block of the nerve for up to 4 days, did not result in a proliferative response. Thus, cell proliferation after denervation is not a response to simple disuse, but rather to a nerve- or muscle-related mitogen. Since the response is mostly distributed throughout the entire muscle, the mitogen probably emanates from muscle fibers.
The neocortical and basal telencephalic origins of the anterior commissure of the cat have not been described in earlier studies of the great cerebral commissures. In this anatomical study, all cerebral commissures, except the anterior commissure, of twelve cats were first transected. Subsequent unilateral injections of large quantities of horseradish peroxidase throughout the right hemisphere revealed the entire origins of the three branches of the anterior commissure in the left hemisphere. Since the anterior commissure was the only interhemispheric fibre system remaining, only the cells, fibres and anterogradely-labelled terminals of the anterior commissure were labelled by horseradish peroxidase in the uninjected hemisphere. Approximately three-quarters of the neurons of the anterior commissure are in the neocortex, mostly in layers V and VI. These neocortical cells occupy an extensive field stretching from gyrus proreus to the posterior ectosylvian gyrus and from the rhinal sulcus to the suprasylvian sulcus. Other fibres of the anterior commissure, however, were found to have their cell bodies in regions not considered part of the neocortex, and these included the anterior olfactory nucleus, the pyriform cortex, olfactory tubercles, nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract, part of the amygdaloid nuclei, the periamygdaloid nucleus and the lateral entorhinal area. Finally, it was found that the fibres of the anterior commissure do not have an exclusive neocortical territory from which cells of other commissural fibres are excluded. Rather, there appears to be a substantial overlap between the field of origin of fibres of the anterior commissure and those of the largest cerebral commissure, the corpus callosum. The disposition of this field may help to explain why visual information fails to transfer between the hemispheres in cats whose corpus callosum has been cut, in contrast to the success of such transfer in primates.
Efferent projections from the cerebellar nuclei to the superior colliculus and the pretectum have been studied using both retrograde and orthograde labeling techniques in the cat. In order to identify what parts of the cerebellar nuclei project to the superior colliculus and the pretectum, the retrograde horseradish labeling technique was employed. In another set of experiments, tritiated amino acids were injected into each of the cerebellar regions from which the cerebello-tectal and cerebello-pretectal projections arise, and the laminar and spatial distributions of orthograde labeling in the superior colliculus and the pretectum were compared. The results showed that the cerebello-tectal projections arise from two different regions of the cerebellar nuclei: the caudal half of the medial nucleus and the ventrolateral part of the posterior interposed nucleus. Fibers arising from the medial nucleus distribute bilaterally in the superficial zone of the intermediate gray layer in the superior colliculus, while those originating from the posterior interposed nucleus terminate contralaterally in the deeper aspect of the intermediate gray layer and in the deep gray and white layers. Although the lateral nucleus does not contribute to the cerebello-tectal projection, it projects profusely to the pretectum contralaterally. The origin of the cerebello-pretectal projection lies in the parvicellular part of the lateral nucleus. Among several pretectal nuclei, the posterior pretectal, the medial pretectal nucleus and the reticular part of the anterior pretectal nucleus receive the cerebellar afferents. The findings of the differential projections from the cerebellum to the superior colliculus and the pretectum suggest that the cerebellum exerts a regulatory influence on visuo-motor and somato-motor transfer in these midbrain structures by differential circuits.
In anaesthetized albino rabbits, the cerebellar flocculus was systematically mapped with a glass microelectrode to identify the location of Purkinje cells that inhibit specific vestibulo-ocular reflex pathways. The effects of microstimulation of the flocculus Purkinje cell layer on vestibular nerve-evoked reflexes to ipsilateral medial rectus, ipsilateral superior rectus and contralateral inferior oblique muscles were explored by recording electromyographically. Visual climbing fibre inputs to the flocculus were also studied by mapping field potentials evoked from both retinae. The results suggest that there are microzones in the flocculus that are related specifically to these three vestibulo-ocular reflex pathways and to different visual climbing fibre pathways.
The possible role of microvesicles and vacuoles in the recapture of membrane after pituitary hormone release by exocytosis has been studied in homozygous Brattleboro rats. These mutant animals are unable to synthesize vasopressin and exhibit a steady state hypersecretion of oxytocin from the neural lobe as a result of the osmotic imbalance caused by their diabetes insipidus. This can be converted to a second steady state which approximates to the rate of secretion found in normal Long Evans rats by the administration of exogenous vasopressin daily for 30 days. In the Brattleboro rat, presumptive oxytocinergic nerve endings contain typical 160-170 nm diameter neurosecretory granules; other magnocellular nerve endings contain a population of smaller (approximately 100 nm diameter) dense-cored granules. The number of dense-cored granules was reduced in both types of nerve ending in the hypersecreting Brattleboro rats, but increased as a result of vasopressin treatment to levels which, for the classical neurosecretory granules, approximated that found in Long Evans rats. The microvesicle population of the nerve endings was essentially similar in quantitative terms in all the three groups (i.e. hypersecreting Brattleboro rats; vasopressin-treated Brattleboro rats and Long Evans controls). The number of vacuoles, on the other hand, was increased in nerve endings in the hypersecreting animals but reduced to levels found in Long Evans rats in the Brattleboro animals treated with vasopressin. Furthermore, the size of the vacuoles was comparable to the size of the dense-cored granules contained in the nerve endings. These changes in the vacuole population are exactly those that would be predicted for an organelle responsible for recapture of the granule membrane. We therefore conclude that membrane retrieval after exocytosis of neurosecretory granules in the neural lobe is achieved by vacuoles and that these organelles probably retrieve the membrane of the granule intact.
We have studied the topography of the gangliosides of the adrenal chromaffin granules by using neuraminidase to remove sialic acid from membrane gangliosides of intact and ruptured chromaffin granules. Residual sialic acid was then measured to compare the availability of gangliosides on the outer and inner surfaces of the membrane. Measurement of protein sialic acid served as a control since these residues are known to be on the inner surface of the membrane. Prolonged digestion of broken membranes showed that maximally 75% of both lipid and protein-bound sialic acid residues are available to neuraminidase. Prolonged digestion of intact granules produced no measureable loss of sialic acid from either protein or lipid fractions. Comparison of the thin-layer chromatograms of gangliosides extracted from digested and undigested membranes showed no preferential digestion of any component. We conclude that at least 75% of the gangliosides are on the inner leaflet of the membrane and suggest that all of the gangliosides are so located.
The response of cerebellar Purkinje cells and nerve triceps brachii was recorded in paralyzed frogs during natural vestibular stimulation. The response from about 63% of the Purkinje cells (mossy fiber input) recorded in the vestibulo cerebellum and of the triceps nerve during triangular wave roll oscillation consisted of activity increase during the ipsilateral side-down half of the cycle and decrease during the contralateral side-down half. It was shown that this activity, which originates partially from ipsilateral vertical canals, can be added to, or suppressed by, otolithic activity, depending on head position and direction rotation. The fact that the response of Purkinje cells was similar to that of triceps nerve implies that the vestibulo-cerebellum receives information of vestibular signals passing to the motor system. The characteristics of otolithic-canal interaction recorded in triceps nerve may explain the motor disturbances that result from lesions of otolithic receptors.

The myenteric plexus of the rabbit colon showed a degree of structural organization that was unusually high for the peripheral nervous system, providing a basis for the complex integrative activity which is known to occur. It resembled central nervous tissue in several respects: a wide range of neuron types was present; the proportion of glial cells to neurons was about 2:1; and there was a densely packed, avascular neuropil, not penetrated by connective tissue. Most neurons had at least one surface exposed to the extraganglionic space. Clear evidence was obtained for spontaneous neuronal degeneration. Three types of non-neuronal (glial) cells were observed: Type 1, which was most common, contained many 10 nm 'gliofilaments' and resembled enteric glial cells or astrocytes in the central nervous system; Type 2, composing about 5% of the glial cells, had few filaments; Type 3 was seen only rarely, had a small dark nucleus, little cytoplasm, may have been of extraganglionic origin and resembled microglia of the central nervous system. Fibroblast-like cells were also present in extraganglionic sites. Schwann cells could not be identified within the myenteric ganglia.
To help resolve the controversy about the brain renin-angiotensin system, the distribution of immunoreactive angiotensin in the brains of male rats was analyzed using twelve different antibodies to angiotensin II, two of which had previously been reported to stain nerve fibers in the central nervous system. The distribution of angiotensin-converting enzyme immunoreactivity was also examined using an antibody to rabbit lung converting enzyme, and the distribution of this immunoreactivity was compared to that of immunoreactive angiotensin. Weak angiotensin-like immunoreactivity was found in cell bodies of the hypothalamic magnocellular nuclei of colchicine-treated rats and in nerve terminals of the median eminence, neurohypophysis, central nucleus of the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and various other sites in the brain and spinal cord of untreated rats. Staining could be demonstrated with only three antisera. Antigenic specificity was carefully studied in these antisera. Each was similar in that staining could be blocked with angiotensins I, II or III and tetradecapeptide renin substrate, although angiotensins II and III were most potent. Because of the relatively few angiotensin II antisera which could stain brain and because they are blockable with angiotensin I and tetradecapeptide renin substrate, the precise nature of immunoreactive angiotensin remains an open question. Intense converting enzyme-like activity was localized in endothelial cells of capillaries throughout the brain, in the subfornical organ and in the 'brush border' of choroidal epithelial cells in contact with cerebrospinal fluid. No activity was detected in neural tissue other than the subfornical organ and occasional weak activity in some ependymal elements elsewhere. These findings indicate that angiotensin and converting enzyme immunoreactivities are not co-distributed and raises several questions regarding the nature of, and pathway for, formation of immunoreactive angiotensin in the brain.
The effects of ten, once-daily electroconvulsive shocks on alpha 2 and beta-adrenoceptor binding were investigated in the rat cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus and cerebellum. [3H]Clonidine and [3H]dihydroalprenolol were used as radioligands for alpha 2 and beta-adrenoceptors respectively. Twenty-four hours after the last shock, the density of beta-adrenoceptors was reduced in the cortex and hippocampus, but not in the hypothalamus or cerebellum. There was no change in the apparent affinity of the beta-receptors in any of the regions studied. Alpha 2-adrenoceptor density was reduced in all the regions studied (cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus) with, again, no change in their apparent affinity. It is concluded that the effects of electro-convulsive shock on alpha 2 and beta-adrenoceptors show regional variation; possible reasons for this variation are discussed.
Cytoplasmic pH (pH1) of crayfish lateral giant axons was monitored using antimony microelectrodes placed near septate junctions and variations of internal pH was induced by short applications of ammonium sulfate in the perfusing bath of the preparation. This treatment produced a rapid cell alkalinization followed, after wash, by acidification rebound. Simultaneously, two successive phases of uncoupling of the septate junction occurred; they had the same time course as those of their associated pH1 movements. Calculation of the electronic coupling parameters indicated that, during alkalinization, coupling was accompanied by an increased axonal membrane conductance (the intimate origin of which was beyond the scope of this study) and resulted from a shunt of the gap junctions; the resistance proper of the latter was unaffected; thus involvement of Ca2+ was ruled out and uncoupling was only an indirect consequence of the electrotonic junction's network configuration. In contrast, and as expected from previous investigations, the junctional membrane resistance was increased during the second phase of cytoplasmic acidification. Evidence that uncoupling can be brought about by a non-junctional membrane increased permeability raises questions about some of the criteria commonly used during investigations of electrotonic transmission.
The presence of electrotonic and dye coupling in region CA1 of the guinea-pig hippocampus was investigated in the in vitro hippocampal slice preparation. No electronic coupling potentials were observed in simultaneous recordings from 101 pairs of pyramidal cells. Also, no electrotonically-coupled short latency depolarizations were observed in more than 75 pyramidal cells in response to antidromic activation of the pyramidal cell population, either in normal bathing medium or in medium with lowered Ca2+ concentration and added Mn2+. When the fluorescent dye Lucifer Yellow was injected into pyramidal cell somas, spread of the dye to other cells (dye coupling) was often observed. Injection of Lucifer Yellow into the dendrites of these neurons resulted in many fewer cases of dye coupling. The failure to find electrophysiological evidence of electrotonic coupling among CA1 pyramidal cells suggests that such coupling is not a functionally important feature of this area of the CNS. The lack of electrophysiological evidence of coupling combined with the observation that the site of Lucifer Yellow injection influences the extent of dye coupling further suggests that at least part of the observed dye coupling may be artifactual. Electrotonic coupling may exist in a small percentage of hippocampal pyramidal cells. However, it is not clear that this small amount of coupling is either necessary or sufficient for the synchronization of neural activity as has been hypothesized to occur during epileptogenesis.
The relative potencies of the (+) and (-) isomers of naloxone in antagonizing electrophysiological responses to D-alanine2-methionine enkephalinamide were compared in rat frontal cortex and hippocampus. In the in vitro hippocampus, the (-) isomer was found to be at least a 100 times more potent than the (+) isomer in antagonizing opiate-induced changes in field potentials. Similar stereoselectivity was observed in vivo in both frontal cortex and hippocampus in terms of the antagonism of enkephalin-induced changes in spontaneous cell firing. The direct effects of (+) and (-)-naloxone were examined as well. In hippocampus both in vivo and in vitro, no differential effect was observed, whereas in the neocortex (-)-naloxone was considerably more potent than the (+) isomer in eliciting depressions of spontaneous activity. These direct effects of naloxone in the cortex do not appear to be due to an antagonism of the effects of endogenously released opioids. These results demonstrate that the stereoselectivity of naloxone isomers in antagonizing electrophysiological responses to opiates in the cortex and hippocampus parallels that previously observed in other brain regions and in other tissues. In addition, they suggest that naloxone may have interactions with other unknown opiate (or possibly non-opiate) receptors which are of physiological significance.
Transmural electrical stimulation and exposure to incubation media where some or all of the Na+ had been replaced with K+ were used to elicit transmitter release. Changes in noradrenaline content and ultrastructure of the nerve terminal varicosities in rat vas deferens were measured. Electrical stimulation in the presence of 4-aminopyridine had little effect, but high [K+] solutions caused a parallel reduction in noradrenaline content and the number of small dense-cored vesicles; large dense-cored vesicles showed no change, and small clear vesicles increased in number. In spite of a reduction in total vesicle number there was no evidence of expansion of the varicosity membrane. The parallel fall in noradrenaline content and in the number of small dense-cored vesicles suggests that the latter are the source of the released noradrenaline under the conditions of high [K+] stimulation we have used.

DNA synthesis in skeletal muscle increases dramatically during the first week after denervation. In the present study, we have characterized the dividing cells in order to assess the specificity and significance of this response to denervation. Autoradiography of [3H]thymidine-labeled denervated muscles revealed that many classes of cells were dividing, including fibroblasts (the most numerous of the labeled cells), macrophages, vascular cells, muscle satellite cells, spindle capsule cells, perineurial cells and Schwann cells. The number of labeled satellite cells accounted for no more than 10% of the dividing cells. Labeling indices of spindle capsule, perineurial and Schwann cells reached a maximum 3 days after denervation, while those of fibroblasts and macrophages peaked at 4 days. The former group of cells, which are in close contact with nerve trunks, accounted for 28% of cell division on day 3 (but only 5% on day 4) and were apparently responding to a local influence from degenerating axons. Connective tissue cells, making up the largest class of dividing cells (80% on day 4) were found throughout the muscle and appeared to proliferate in response to changes occurring along the entire length of the muscle fibers. Macrophages involved in the response were mostly resident histiocytes, since prior labeling of blood cells showed that leukocytes did not enter the muscle in substantial number after denervation. Both muscle satellite cells and connective tissue cells are essential for the functional regeneration of muscle. Thus, on the basis of overall cytologic characterization, cell division after denervation seems to represent a limited regenerative response.

By the use of the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique guinea-pig hearts were investigated for the occurrence of neurotensin immunoreactivity. Neurotensin immunoreactive nerve fibers were found in distinct localisations in all hearts studied. In addition, neurotensin immunoreactive fibers were present in the adventitia of the ascending aorta, the aortic arch and the pulmonary trunk. All segments of the coronary vasculature exhibited a dense network of neurotensin immunoreactive fibers. This innervation pattern was most pronounced in the arterial portions. Neurotensin immunoreactive fibers occurred also in close contact with atrial and ventricular muscle cells. A particularly dense innervation by neurotensin immunoreactive fibers was present in the sinu-atrial node and in the atrio-ventricular node. The fibers were associated intimately with blood vessels as well as with nodal cells. In addition, neurotensin immunoreactive fibers were found in intracardiac ganglia. The presence of neurotensin-like immunoreactive material in the guinea-pig heart was demonstrated also by radioimmunoassay. The results of immunohistochemistry and radioimmunoassay were correlated. High performance liquid chromatographic analysis indicated that 20-30% of the total immunoreactivity co-chromatographed with guinea-pig or synthetic neurotensin. Evaluation of consecutive sections revealed different innervation patterns of neurotensin and substance P immunoreactive fibers. The findings suggest a neurotransmitter and/or neuromodulator function of neurotensin in the regulation of coronary circulation, of cardiac impulse generation and conduction, of heart muscle contractility and of cardiac reflex mechanisms. It is speculated that neurotensin might represent the efferent and substance P the afferent part of a cardiac regulatory system.
The buffered picric acid paraformaldehyde fixative originally recommended for electronmicroscopy and which has since been used occasionally for light-microscopic immunocytochemistry, has been supplemented with glutaraldehyde and used as primary fixative for the perfusion of rat brains. In the basal ganglia and preoptic area, substance P, somatostatin and leu-enkephalin immunoreactive material was localized with the unlabelled antibody enzyme method in thick sections cut from freeze-thaw treated blocks. Good penetration of the antibodies without the use of detergents and the light background of the osmium-treated sections allowed the selection for electron-microscopy of immunoreactive structures as small as individual boutons that had been identified at the light-microscopic level. It is suggested that the procedure may be useful for electron-microscopic sampling of immunoreactive structures occurring infrequently over a large area or for the electron-microscopic study of light-microscopically classified neurons.
Subsynaptosomal particles containing the peptide, substance P, detected by radioimmunoassay were prepared by osmotic lysis of rat brainstem synaptosomes and chromatographed on a calibrated column of controlled pore glass beads of nominal pore size 300 nm. Immunoreactive substance P migrated on this column with particles of apparent mean diameter 117 nm. This particulate, immunoreactive substance P was indistinguishable from synthetic substance P by gel filtration and reverse-phase high pressure liquid chromatography. The specific activity of substance P with respect to protein in peak fractions was 140 pmoles/mg protein, 75-fold higher than in the crude homogenate. Particulate substance P was resistant to attack by endogenous proteases in a crude preparation. Depolarization of synaptosomes with 75 muM veratridine prior to vesicle purification decreased the recovery of particulate substance P 37%. This depletion was dependent on external calcium ions and was blocked by 1 muM tetrodotoxin. The foregoing properties of particulate substance P are consistent with its identification with the large, intraterminal substance P-positive vesicles seen by immunocytochemistry and suggest that these vesicles are involved in the release of substance P.
A method for detecting changes in the internal concentration of Ca2+ in synaptosomes from mouse brain is described. Synaptosomes were fused with phosphatidylcholine-phosphatidylserine unilamellar liposomes previously loaded with the metalochromic, Ca2+ -sensitive dye arsenazo III, in order to introduce the dye into the synaptosomes. The fusion was promoted by La3+. Changes in the differential absorption between 660 and 690 nm, which indicate changes in Ca2+ concentration, were followed in a double beam spectrophotometer. It was found that both in the dye-loaded liposomes and in the fused synaptosomes, the addition of the Ca2+ ionophore A23187 to the medium containing Ca2+ produced a notable change in the differential absorbance 660-690 nm. When the depolarizing alkaloid veratridine was added, there was no response in the liposomes, whereas a change in the differential absorbance 660-690 nm was detected in the fused synaptosomes containing arsenazo but only when Na+ was present in the medium. These fused synaptosomes were able to release labeled gamma-aminobutyric acid as a response to veratridine, in a Na+ -dependent manner, similarly to control non-fused synaptosomes. These results demonstrate the feasibility of fusion to introduce Ca2+ -sensitive dyes into isolated nerve endings from the mammalian brain and therefore to detect changes in their internal Ca2+ concentration.


Responses of CAl pyramidal cells to cholinergic compounds were recorded with intracellular microelectrodes in guinea-pig hippocampal slices. Perfusion of slices with medium containing the muscarinic antagonists atropine or scopolamine (10(-7)-10(-6)M) blocked all actions of acetylcholine. Properties of control neurons and those from separate populations of neurons impaled in slices exposed to muscarinic blocking agents were compared. 1-2 h of perfusion with atropine-containing media significantly decreased membrane input resistance from 37.6 +/- 8.7 (S.D.) M omega (n = 74) to 21.9 +/- 7.7 (S.D.) M omega (n = 24) without producing significant changes in membrane potential. Muscarinic antagonists also reduced or eliminated the anomalous inward rectification normally seen in hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Exposure of slices to 10(-5)-10(-6)M eserine for about 1 h produced changes in neuronal membrane input resistance and potential and slow after hyperpolarizations similar to those elicited by application of acetylcholine. Bethanechol mimicked the actions of acetylcholine but was effective at lower concentrations and had longer lasting effects on afterhyperpolarizations. Nicotine produced an excitatory response in only one of 7 neurons. These experiments demonstrate that the actions of acetylcholine on hippocampal CAl neurons result from interaction with muscarinic receptors. Acetylcholine has modulatory effects on cell membrane properties which may be mediated through tonic release mechanisms.
A simple and relatively inexpensive lick counter-volumeter is described which automatically records liquid intake and drinking behavior of rats. It counts lick contacts while accurately measuring the rate of volume intake in constant unit volumes. The unit volumes are adjustable over a wide range. For a unit volume on the order of 60 microliter, the precision was 1.2% over a range of withdrawal rates from 1 to 10 ml/min. The average lick volume of rats consuming a liquid food was systematically lower by 18% during the second meal following a 15 hr fast when compared to that of the first. This change in average lick volume appears to reflect a change in the rat's motivation to drink the liquid food.







A simple contact stimulator designed to provide quantitative assessments of thermal sensitivity of digital skin is described. The skin is tested at its normal resting temperature and thermal thresholds are given as the least differences in temperature between the skin and the stimulator which give rise to warm or cool sensations.
We recorded intracellularly from neurons in the goldfish preoptic nucleus which were antidromically identified by electrical stimulation of the pituitary gland and marked by intracellular injection of horseradish peroxidase for subsequent localization. At the light-microscopic level, labeled neurons resembled profiles of Golgi-impregnated neurons and lay in the magnocellular portion of the preoptic nucleus. Densely labeled axons and dendrites projected to the lateral forebrain bundle, the medial forebrain bundle, fiber tracts in the preoptico-hypophysial tract, small blood vessels and capillaries, the ependymal lining of the third ventricle and toward the preoptic neurons. Occasionally, a lightly-labeled, large perikaryon lay adjacent to a large, heavily-labeled magnocellular neuron. Ultrastructural examination of these identified cells revealed dense reaction product in neuronal perikarya and processes. Heavily labeled perikarya had elaborate networks of endoplasmic reticulum, extensive Golgi apparatus, occasional somatic spines and infrequent axo-somatic contacts from unlabeled neurons. These labeled perikarya which were frequently in close somatic apposition with unlabeled profiles were sometimes adjacent to a large, lightly-labeled perikaryon. A thin glial sheath separated most labeled neurons and processes from brain capillary endothelium. Labeled dendrites had heavily labeled spines and axo-dendritic contacts from unlabeled neurons. Labeled axons abutted unlabeled-axons and -dendrites. Synaptic boutons innervating labeled structures always contained small clear synaptic vesicles and some boutons also contained large dense-core vesicles. These results demonstrate the complex connections of goldfish preoptic magnocellular neuroendocrine cells with other neurons, fiber systems, brain capillaries, ventricular ependyma and the pituitary and provide further support for non-endocrine as well as endocrine functions of magnocellular neurons.
Mouse-derived cerebellar explants were exposed for 5 days to cytosine arabinoside, an inhibitor of deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis. They were then maintained in normal nutrient medium until fixation for electron microscopy at 15-20 days in vitro. The cerebellar cortex lacked granule cells, but Purkinje cells, Golgi neurons and a few basket and stellate cells survived. Astrocytes and oligodendrocytes were diminished in number and myelination was absent. Purkinje cell recurrent axon collaterals increased in number and formed synapses with the surviving cortical neurons and their processes. The ultrastructural alterations that occurred in the cytosine arabinoside-treated cultures were consistent with an interpretation of cortical remodeling in which Purkinje cell axon collaterals were the dominant inhibitory elements.
Following stereotaxic injections of horseradish peroxidase in the dorsal thalamus of the cat which were restricted to the lateralis posterior-pulvinar complex, labelled neurons were found in the superficial layers of the superior colliculus and in the brainstem. The retrogradely-filled cells of the brainstem were situated principally in the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus, the locus coeruleus complex, the parabrachial nuclei and the dorsal tegmental nucleus of Gudden; in each case, labelled cells were more numerous on the ipsilateral side. In addition, some scattered neurons were observed in the central grey matter, the mesencephalic reticular formation, the central superior and dorsal raphe nuclei, the cuneiform nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis, the nucleus praepositus hypoglossi and the oculomotor nuclei. The differential organization of these projections were observed. It is concluded that the rostrointermediate subdivision of the lateralis posterior-pulvinar complex receives most of its connections from the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus, from the deep layers of the superior colliculus and from the other brainstem nuclei, while the caudal subdivision (extrageniculate visual subdivision) receives its main projection from the superficial layers of the superior colliculus. The findings may have functional implications for the role of the complex in oculomotor control.
Using the retrograde horseradish peroxidase technique, we have examined the distribution of labeled thalamic-, spinal- and cerebellar-projecting neurons in the trigeminal sensory nuclei of the cat. Injections into the nucleus ventralis posterior of the thalamus resulted in labeling of neurons in lamina I (subnucleus zonalis), the deeper part of lamina IV (the subnucleus magnocellularis) of the nucleus caudalis and in lamina V (the lateral extension of the nucleus medullae oblongatae centralis) on the contralateral side. A very large number of labeled small neurons were observed mainly in the caudal part of the nucleus interpolaris and in the ventral division of the principal sensory nucleus on the contralateral side and in the dorsal division of the principal sensory nucleus on the ipsilateral side. Injections into the known projection areas of the cerebellar cortex labeled mainly ipsilaterally the trigeminocerebellar neurons in a restricted ventrolateral area of lamina IV of the nucleus caudalis at its rostral level and in lamina V. Many labeled neurons were also observed in the nucleus interpolaris. Although the distribution overlapped with that of the trigeminothalamic neurons, the greatest majority were concentrated in its rostral part where the trigeminothalamic neurons were very small in number. In addition, labeled neurons were observed in the rostral part of the nucleus oralis and the ventralmost part of the ventral division of the principal sensory nucleus. No labeled neurons were observed in the dorsal division of the principal sensory nucleus and the mesencephalic nucleus. The trigeminospinal neurons were labeled mainly ipsilaterally following injections into the upper cervical cord. They were located in laminae I and III, the deeper part of lamina IV of the nucleus caudalis and in lamina V. Only scattered labeled neurons were found in the nucleus interpolaris. The number of labeled neurons increased in the nucleus oralis at the level of the superior olive. They tended to be distributed around or dorsal to the group of the trigeminothalamic neurons at the caudal part of the principal sensory nucleus. No neurons of the principal sensory nucleus appeared to project to the spinal cord. Based on the large size and location, the trigeminospinal neurons could be differentiated from the other projection neurons in the nucleus oralis. The present study demonstrates that the trigeminal sensory nuclei are composed of groups of neurons with different projections, since the main aggregations are localized at different levels. However, it should be examined whether the neuronal groups, which are labeled from the different structures in similar locations, are composed of individual neurons projecting to more than one of these structures.
The distribution of terminals arising from dorsal root primary afferents was examined in the lumbar spinal cord of cats using light- and electron-microscopic autoradiography. Tritiated proline or leucine was injected into either the L6 or L7 dorsal root ganglion. The light-microscopic spinal cord distribution of radioactivity in the ganglia was independent of the type of amino acid used. Likewise, the length of the survival time after injection had no effect. The projections to the substantia gelatinosa and the marginal zone were consistently densest. However, the topography of the dorsal horn distribution, relative to the segment of entry, varied significantly especially in the gelatinosa, depending upon the ganglia injected. Those to the substantia gelatinosa were largely limited to the segment of entry; those to the marginal zone and nucleus proprius extended many segments beyond the level of entry. At all levels the projection was exclusively ipsilateral to the side of injection. At the electron-microscopic level the distribution of radioactivity was determined in each of the three easily recognizable areas of the dorsal horn: the marginal zone, the substantia gelatinosa and the nucleus proprius. In each dorsal horn area the total terminal population was divided into four basic categories. Each of these areas was found to contain a characteristic distribution of these four terminal categories. The difference between areas arose, primarily, as a consequence of the dorsal to ventral decreasing frequency gradient of two types of terminal: those containing large, dense-cored vesicles and the increasing gradient of those containing flattened vesicles. The terminals with small pleomorphic vesicles and those with large round vesicles were frequently encountered in all three areas without a detectable frequency gradient. Similarly the primary afferent terminal population that is the subset of the total terminal population labelled after dorsal root ganglion injection, was also characteristic of the area, and each area was dominated by a different terminal-type. In the marginal zone the terminals containing large dense-cored vesicles dominated. In the substantia gelatinosa the terminals with pleomorphic vesicles (which included the so-called 'C' type terminals) dominated. And the terminals containing large round vesicles dominated the primary afferent population in the nucleus proprius. The terminals containing flattened vesicles were never found to be specifically labeled in any of the areas examined.
We have re-examined in the rat the nuclear localization of the medullary catecholamine-containing cell groups (A1 and A2) and their relation to the vagal motor nuclei using a double labeling method. The vagal nuclei were defined by the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase applied to the cervical vagus, and noradrenergic and adrenergic neurons were stained with the peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunocytochemical method using an antibody to dopamine beta-hydrolase. The method allows visualization of both labels within single neurons. The neurons of the A2 group are primarily distributed in both the nucleus of the solitary tract and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus in a complex interrelationship that depends on the rostrocaudal level. Caudal to the obex, cells of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus are scattered among cells immunoreactive for dopamine beta-hydroxylase in the area considered to be the commissural subnucleus of the nucleus of the solitary tract. At levels near and slightly rostral to the obex, the dopamine beta-hydroxylase-positive cells are largely confined to nucleus of the solitary tract. However, the rostral third of the A2 group lies predominantly within dorsal motor nucleus, as defined by horseradish peroxidase labeled cells, with only a few cells in the nucleus of the solitary tract. A subset of the dopamine beta-hydroxylase positive cells within the rostral dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus are also vagal efferents. Our results suggest that a second population of dopamine beta-hydroxylase positive vagal efferents may exist ventrolaterally where neurons of the AI cell group intermingle with those of nucleus ambiguus.
A serum fraction from schizophrenic patients has been investigated for its effect on opiate receptor sites and on behaviour in rats. Serum from schizophrenic patients was ultrafiltered and fractionated on DEAE-Sephadex A-25. The concentration of peptide material eluting under 0.1 M HCl (fraction I) was further purified on Sephadex-G10 and four major peaks were identified (fractions II to V). When injected intracerebroventricularly in rats, fraction II produced a characteristic behavioural syndrome, which included hyperactivity associated with hyperemotionality. The effects were long lasting, bouts of hyperemotionality accompanied by analgesia were recorded over a two-week period. The same fraction from control non-patients produced a transient and much reduced, but qualitatively similar response. There was evidence that fraction III was also active. An in vitro opiate receptor binding test showed that fraction II from schizophrenic patients inhibited [3H]naloxone binding.
Slices of the rabbit caudate nucleus were preincubated with [3H]dopamine or [3H]choline and then superfused and stimulated electrically. Apomorphine reduced the stimulation-evoked overflow of tritium over the same concentration range, independently of whether slices had been pre-incubated with [3H]dopamine or with [3H]choline. Each of three antagonists--molindone, sulpiride and metoclopramide--increased the evoked overflow of tritium over the same concentration range in experiments with [3H]dopamine and those with [3H]choline. For each antagonist, the pA2 values against apomorphine obtained in [3H]dopamine experiments and in [3H]choline experiments were very similar. This study is a functional in vitro approach to receptor characterization, as opposed to radioligand binding studies or in vivo investigations. The results show that the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine and three antagonists are unable to distinguish between the presynaptic, release-inhibiting dopamine autoreceptors and those postsynaptic dopamine receptors which, when activated, depress the release of acetylcholine. Although there are certainly more dopamine receptors in the caudate nucleus, these two physiologically important groups seem to be closely related.
Quantitative mapping of the excitatory receptive fields of frog retinal ganglion cells revealed that the precise spatial position and locus of maximal activity within the excitatory receptive field were dependent upon the exact sequence with which the moving stimulus scanned the region of visual space in which the excitatory receptive field was embedded. A first-order asymmetry dependent upon the direction from which the moving stimulus entered the excitatory receptive field was noted. A second-order asymmetry, orthogonal to the first and sensitive to the direction in which a moving stimulus systematically traversed successive columns with in the excitatory receptive field was also described. These findings indicate that complicated interactions, both excitatory and inhibitory, occur between component parts of the receptive field in the frog retina.
In rats anaesthetized with either urethane, pentobarbital or fluothane the effects of acetylcholine, cholinergic agonists and antagonists (applied by iontophoresis) were studied on single cortical neurons of first somatosensory region. The laminar distribution of the neurons excited by acetylcholine was determined by the reconstruction of each electrode track based on a dye-deposit made at the last recording site. Neurons were identified using antidromic stimulation of the pyramidal tract, the ventrobasal thalamus and the corpus callosum. Neurons excited by acetylcholine could be segregated into two groups: one encompassing layer Vb and the upper part of layer VI, the other more deeply located at the limit between the cerebral cortex and the subjacent white matter. Neuronal responses to glutamate and nicotine, unlike those to actylcholine were evenly distributed in the cortex. Pyramidal tract neurons had corticothalamic neurons were frequently excited by acetylcholine and were shown to be located with the first group of acetylcholine sensitive neurons. Commissural neurons were rarely excited by acetylcholine and were not restricted to either group. The analysis of neuronal responses to acetylcholine and various agonists (carbachol, nicotine, acetyl-beta-methylcholine, carbamyl-beta-methylcholine, butyrylcholine) and antagonists (atropine, mecamylamine) revealed a prominent but not exclusive muscarine character. It is included (i) that cortical neurons of first somatosensory cortex which are excited by acetylcholine belong to two populations, one consisting, at least in part, of projection neurons (upper group) and the other of interneurons (lower group); (ii) that cortical acetylcholine receptors are of a 'mixed' type strongly weighted toward the muscarinic side.
Synaptic potentials were examined in the second- and third-order auditory neurons of nucleus magnocellularis and nucleus laminaris in the chick. Brain stems of mature chick embryos were explanted and maintained in vitro for 4 to 8 h. Field potentials, extracellular spike potentials and intracellular potentials evoked by 8th-nerve stimulation were examined. Eighth-nerve stimulation reliability elicited four identifiable field potentials which could be attributed to: (i) the afferent volley of the 8th-nerve axons, (ii) postsynaptic responses of n. magnocellularis neurons, and (iii) ipsilaterally and, (iv) contralaterally-evoked n. laminaris postsynaptic responses. Intracellular-recorded postsynaptic potentials were characterized by a rapid rise time and short duration. They were apparently monosynaptic with a synaptic delay of 0.4 ms. In each n. magnocellularis neuron the 'fast' excitatory postsynaptic potentials were composed of 1 to 3 all-or-none components. 'Slow' excitatory postsynaptic potentials were characterized by a longer latency, a longer duration and graded amplitude variation in proportion to the intensity of 8th-nerve stimulation. Both 'fast' and 'slow' excitatory postsynaptic potentials had similar reversal potentials. Since the 8th nerve makes monosynaptic connection with n. magnocellularis neurons, it is likely that at this synapse the 'fast' excitatory postsynaptic potentials were produced, while the 'slow' potential may be attributable to the convergence of many boutonal synapses of unknown origin. Intracellular injections of horseradish peroxidase into n. magnocellularis revealed that its efferents bifurcate below the nucleus and send one axon to the contralateral n. laminaris while the other axon forms a highly divergent projection to the ipsilateral laminar nucleus. The intracellular records obtained from n. laminaris are consistent with this anatomical finding in that graded excitatory postsynaptic potentials were elicited by 8th-nerve stimulation.
The changes of electrical polarization of primary afferent terminals in the lumbosacral spinal cord have been investigated on immobilized, decorticated and spinal cats during fictive locomotion. Fictive locomotion was spontaneous or provoked by stimulation of either dorsal root or dorsal funiculi in the lumbar segments. The activation of the locomotor generator and appearance of fictive locomotion were always associated with a sustained dorsal root hyperpolarization. On the background of this positivity periodic negative dorsal root potential oscillations appeared synchronously with efferent discharges in motor hind-limb nerves. These periodic waves of primary afferent depolarization occurred in phase in different ipsilateral lumbosacral segments. On the contralateral side the periodic changes in dorsal root potential were out of phase during fictive stepping and in phase during fictive galloping. The use of Wall's technique has shown that tonic and periodic changes in dorsal root potential reflect the changes occurring in polarization of central terminals of cutaneous and muscle (Ia and Ib) groups of afferent fibres. It is concluded that the level of electrical polarization of primary afferent terminals is determined directly by the activity of the spinal locomotor generator; activation of the generator is followed by hyperpolarization of primary afferent terminals. By so modulating the polarization of afferent terminals, the locomotor generator can perform tonic and phase-dependent selection of afferent information.
Low intensity (1-20 micro A) intraspinal stimulation produces in the sural nerve of the anesthetized cat short latency responses (3-4 ms) due to antidromic activation of fibers conducting in the A range (43-65 m/s). With higher stimulus intensities (up to 400 micro A) late responses (120-250 ms latency) may also be recorded. Simultaneous recording from two sites in the sural nerve shows that the peripheral processes of the fibers generating the late responses have a conduction velocity between 0.8-1.3 m/s. Collision between antidromic and orthodromic responses further indicates that these fibers have a peripheral threshold 20-25 times that of the A fibers. The late responses were largest when the intraspinal stimulating electrode was located in the dorsal horn, in the region corresponding to Laminae II and III of Rexed. The above observations suggest that the late responses are due to population responses of C fibers which are antidromically activated in the dorsal horn. The excitability of the C fiber terminals is increased by conditioning stimuli applied to other cutaneous afferents with a time course resembling that of the excitability increase of the A fibers on the same nerve. It is suggested that the effectiveness of synaptic transmission from C fibers to second order cells may be modulated presynaptically. In the decerebrate cat the antidromic responses of C fibers are reduced, but not abolished, by reversible spinalization produced by cooling or by sectioning the thoracic spinal cord. This suggests in addition that in the decerebrate preparation the presynaptic effectiveness of the C fiber (presumably nociceptive) input may be tonically decreased by supraspinal influences.
The indolalkylamine alkaloid yohimbine induced two phenomenologically-different types of sodium current (INa) inhibition in the voltage-clamped frog node of Ranvier, a tonic and a phasic ('use-dependent') block. The latter developed during a repetitive membrane stimulation with short (5 ms) depolarizing pulses at frequencies at 1 to 10 Hz. Unlike repetitive pulsing, a single-long lasting (1 s) depolarizing step did not produce a phasic block. Turning on a hyperpolarizing prepulse (50 ms to E = -123 mV) immediately before each test pulse produced a gradual unblocking of Na channels, while a depolarizing prepulse (to -86 mV) enhanced the phasic block. Yohimbine blocked the outward INa much more strongly than the inward ones. Reduction of external Na+ ions concentration from 112 to 55 mM caused a shift in the voltage-department of yohimbine block to more negative voltages, which coincided with the shift of INa reversal potential. Sodium current inhibition produced by yohimbine was accompanied by partial depression of the intramembrane charge movements ('ON-response'). Modification of Na channels by batrachotoxin made the Na channels resistant to both tonic and phasic blocking action of yohimbine. The features of the yohimbine-induced block suggest an interaction of the drug with open Na channels. The current-dependence of yohimbine block indicates an electrostatic interaction between Na+ ion and charged (protonated) form of yohimbine within the channel lumen and suggests the localization of the receptor at the inner mouth of the channel. Binding of yohimbine to the channel receptor promotes the inactivation of this channel. Comparison of the effects of yohimbine on NA and gating currents with those of local anesthetics leads us to suggest that these drugs share a common receptor.
The roles of rectification and cable properties of the squid giant axon in determining the shape of synaptic potentials generated at the giant synapse were investigated. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded in response to selective stimulation of the main presynaptic axon at various temperatures. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials elicited at low temperatures (less than 18 degrees C) exhibited a marked after-hyperpolarization or undershoot, while those recorded at higher temperatures did not. The postsynaptic current, recorded under voltage clamp conditions, did not show an undershoot. Furthermore, intracellular injection of tetraethylammonium chloride, to block the voltage-dependent rise in potassium conductance, also eliminated the undershoot of the excitatory postsynaptic potential. These results indicate that the duration of synaptic potentials at the squid giant synapse is reduced by rectification due to a delayed rise in potassium conductance. Computer simulations of these synaptic potentials suggested that the effects of rectification will be more prominent in spherical (isopotential) cells than in cells with more complicated geometries.

The effect of a transient increase in extracellular calcium concentration on the Schaffer collateral-commissural evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential and population spike responses of CAI pyramidal neurons was investigated using the rat in vitro hippocampal slice preparation. Brief exposure of slices (5-10 min) to twice the normal concentration of calcium (4 mM) induced a marked potentiation of both the excitatory postsynaptic potential and population spike that could persist for at least 3 h. No long-term changes were observed in either the presynaptic fiber volley of antidromically evoked CAI population spike, indicating that the potentiation could not be attributed to an increase in the number of fibers activated or a generalized increase in cellular excitability. The response of CAI pyramidal neurons to the iontophoretic application of L-glutamate in the apical dendritic zone was also unaffected after exposure to high calcium perfusate, suggesting a lack of alteration in membrane excitability or receptor sensitivity restricted to the region of synaptic input. In addition, total intracellular calcium content of individual slices, measured by atomic absorption spectrophotometry, was significantly increased for at least 1 h following return to the control medium. These data indicate that brief exposure of in vitro hippocampal slices to a high extracellular calcium concentration results in a long-term increase in synaptic efficacy which is similar in many respects to long-term potentiation induced by tetanic stimulation of hippocampal excitatory afferents. The results further suggest that the mechanisms underlying calcium-induced long-term potentiation may reside in presynaptic components and involve an enhanced transmitter release.
In this essay we have presented some personal viewpoints on the application of Systems. Analysis to suitable neurophysiological problems and provided reasoned reviews on selected topics (receptor and nerve cell physiology, motor control, vestibular and visual systems) in which new data and ideas were brought about in the past several years by the use of Systems Analysis. Since the nature of the paper precludes the possibility of writing a summary, we simply thank those readers who have endured up to this point. As for those prudent persons who are beginning from this summary, before deciding as to the advisability of taking-up the task, we have a simple advice which runs contrary to the rule stated by the King to Alice in Wonderland (and accepted by one of us; see p. 60): begin from the topic that you like most and eventually go on, using the same criteria, till you are tired: then stop.





In order to understand the coding and information processing capabilities of mechanosensory neurons, it is necessary to examine stimulus--response relationships under a wide variety of stimulus conditions, using a comprehensive set of quantitative analytic procedures. We employ the methodology of stimulus--response profile analysis, which is based on 4 principles: (1) the use of a broad-based battery of quantitatively controlled mechanical stimuli; (2) maintenance of comprehensive records of experiments; (3) detailed, quantitative analysis of single-unit responses; and (4) the application of these principles uniformly and consistently to all units studied. In addition to conventional graphical portrayals of single-unit activity, we employ a set of quantitative response indices, each of which represents a particular aspect of a unit's overall responsiveness. The distribution of a response index for the entire sample of neurons examined in a particular population offers insight into the manner in which a specific stimulus feature is presented within that population. The distributions of response indices obtained from different neural populations can be compared statistically in order to evaluate interpopulation differences in stimulus-response relationships. This comprehensive, quantitative approach is capable of demonstrating significant, although subtle, interpopulation differences which are not revealed by more cursory, qualitative methods.
In this article the relationships among firing rate, probability of firing and counts per bin are examined. It is suggested that PSTHs, autocorrelations and crosscorrelations of neuronal activity should all be expressed in units of firing rates (spikes/s), since the values obtained by such scaling are independent of bin size and of total time of measurement. A simple method for these histograms is described. Methods to compute confidence limits for PSTHs, autocorrelations and crosscorrelations are suggested. The computations are based on the null hypothesis that the spike train(s) is (are) the realization of (independent) Poisson-point process(es). The validity and the limitations of these computations methods, when applied to spike trains, are discussed. Methods to smooth out random fluctuation with little distortion of the histogram's shape are described. It is suggested that one can minimize the distortion of the histogram in the time-domain and in the frequency-domain by using a bell-shaped bin whose center point slides continuously along the histogram. The article aims at giving the potential user of the methods some insight for the meaning of the formulae. It describes in detail how the methods are applied in practice and illustrates each method by using real data from single-unit recordings.
This article describes a modified and improved version of the displacement transducer design originally presented by Sandeman (1968). The present design generates a high frequency electric field in the bathing solution. Relative displacement is detected within this field by measuring the differential voltage between two small diameter wire-sensing electrodes, which can be attached to different biological structures. By placing one of the sensing electrodes at a fixed point within the bath, absolute displacement can also be measured. A brief theoretical discussion and complete design are presented for the differential displacement transducer. The method presented here is more sensitive and versatile than the original approach.
The immunocytochemical visualization of neuron-specific enolase, which is a marker protein for differentiated neurons, was applied to follow the differentiation of preoptic and septal neurons in dissociated cultures. From 4 to 24 days in vitro, the relative numbers of stained neurons were counted and the staining intensity of individual neurons determined by absorbency measurements using a television-based densitometer. Whereas few stained cells could be observed at 4 DIV, 80% of the neurons were neuron-specific enolase-positive at 13 days in vitro. This value remained constant up to 24 days in vitro. The density of the immunoreaction product increased dramatically from 13 to 17 days in vitro and was still higher at 24 days in vitro. The glial and ependymal cells of the carpet, as well as neuroblasts, remained unstained. Comparison with morphological observations and immunocytochemical demonstration of neuronal peptides made earlier shows that expression of neuron-specific enolase closely parallels neuronal differentiation. These observations indicate that cultures derived from preoptic and septal neurons represent a viable model system for the study of neuronal maturation in vitro.

The agranular insular cortex is transitional in location and structure between the ventrally adjacent olfactory allocortex primutivus and dorsally adjacent sensory-motor isocortex. Its ventral anterior division receives major afferent projections from olfactory areas of the limbic system (posterior primary olfactory cortex, posterolateral cortical amygdaloid nucleus and lateral entorhinal cortex) while its dorsal anterior division does so from non-olfactory limbic areas (lateral and basolateral amygdaloid nuclei). The medial segment of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus projects to both the ventral and dorsal divisions of the agranular insular cortex, to the former from its anterior portion and to the latter from its posterior portion. Other thalamic inputs to the two divisions arise from the gelatinosus, central medial, rhomboid and parafascicular nuclei. The dorsal division, but not the ventral division, receives input from neurons in the lateral hypothalamus and posterior hypothalamus. The medial frontal cortex projects topographically and bilaterally upon both ventral and dorsal anterior insular cortex, to the former from the ventrally located medial orbital and infralimbic areas, to the latter from the dorsally-located anterior cingulate and medial precentral areas, and to both from the intermediately located prelimbic area. Similarly, the ipsilateral posterior agranular insular cortex and perirhinal cortex project in a topographic manner upon the two divisions of the agranular insular cortex. Commissural input to both divisions originates from pyramidal neurons in the respective contralateral homotopical cortical area. In each case, pyramidal neurons in layer V contribute 90% of this projection and 10% arises from layer III pyramidals. In the brainstem, the dorsal raphe nucleus projects to the ventral and dorsal divisions of the agranular insular cortex and the parabrachial nucleus projects to the dorsal division. Based on their cytoarchitecture, pattern of afferent connections and known functional properties, we consider the ventral and dorsal divisions of the agranular insular cortex to be, respectively, periallocortical and proisocortical portions of the limbic cortex.
Dendritic recordings from hippocampal pyramidal cells suggest that bursts of action potentials--riding on a depolarizing wave and terminating in a slow calcium-mediated spike--can be generated locally in the dendrites, as well as at the soma. These data necessitated revision of our earlier model in which bursts at the soma are generated by interaction of two spatially separated conductance systems--a fast-spike sodium mechanism at the soma and a slow-spike calcium mechanism on the apical dendrite. We have introduced into a model of the CA3 hippocampal neuron two experimentally testable concepts: voltage-dependent inactivation of Ik and partial inactivation of ICa by Ca2+ ion. With these mechanisms, the model accurately reproduces bursts generated in either soma or in the apical dendrites by sets of conductances all located in the same respective membrane region. The model is also capable of bursting repetitively in response to continuous stimulation.
Acetylcholinesterase was measured in amniotic fluid from normal chick embryos and embryos with neural tube defects. Neural tube defects were induced in the chick embryos by three procedures, removal of albumen, mechanical disruption of the closed neural tube or injection of tetanus toxin. The concentration of acetylcholinesterase in amniotic fluid from untreated normal embryos changed throughout the period examined (5-14 days incubation) but was stable at 0.5 U1(-1) over the time period 6-11 days. Amniotic fluid taken from treated embryos with neural tube defects at 8 days always contained a higher concentration of acetylcholinesterase than fluid from sham operated but otherwise normal embryos, mean 40.9 U1(-1), S.E.M. = 10. U1(-1), versus 1.0 U1(-1), S.E.M. = 0.2 U1(-1). The range of values (6.1-393 U1(-1)) was clearly separated from the normal values, range 0.0-5.5 U1(-1). In 13 cases with developmental abnormalities other than neural tube defects, the concentration of acetylcholinesterase was elevated in only one. Two different forms of acetylcholinesterase, as shown by gel electrophoresis, were present in fluid form both normal and defective embryos. These forms were also present in blood plasma, cerebrospinal fluid and in the high speed supernatant from brain extracts, the latter tissue contained an additional form of greater electrophoretic mobility. After irreversible inhibition, enzyme activity in amniotic fluid recovered slowly; only half the control value was reached by 140 h compared with complete recovery in the tissues of the embryo within 19 h. Histochemical staining for acetylcholinesterase showed that the spinal cord in the region of the lesion contained high concentrations of the enzyme. The possible sources of acetylcholinesterase in amniotic fluid are discussed. This chicken model of neural tube defects provides support for the use of acetylcholinesterase tests in the detection of neural tube defects clinically, and provides a model for experimentation with this system.
The pharmaco-histochemical method for the demonstration of acetylcholinesterase has been applied to study the spinal cord of the rat. Twenty rats were treated with di-isopropylphosphofluoridate at various time intervals before death and their lumbosacral cord sectioned in either the sagittal, horizontal or transverse plane. Under such conditions, the acetylcholinesterase activity of the neuropile which normally masks many neurons is minimal. The distribution of acetylcholinesterase-containing neurons corresponds to that described previously by various authors, but now the acetylcholinesterase-containing perikarya and their processes may be visualized to a degree not previously attained. This aspect of the technique has allowed us to observe very clearly some features of the internal organization of the spinal cord at the lumbosacral level. The original finding of the present work is the disclosure of alternating bands of dark and light acetylcholinesterase activity at the level of the intermediate grey (laminae VI, VII and VIII) along the rostrocaudal extent of the lumbosacral segments of the rat spinal cord. Dendritic bundling extending over long distances has also been observed at different sites in the ventral horn and in the intermediolateral cell column.
The distribution of lateral funicular and cerebral corticofugal fibers to the dorsal column, Z and X nuclei were studied in the prosimian primate Galago senegalensis. Lesions of the lateral funiculus resulted in a differential distribution pattern of preterminal degeneration within the nuclei studied. In the nucleus gracilis, spinal lesions produced moderate amounts of debris in ventral cell nest and rostral areas. Diffuse degeneration was present in both the dorsal cell nest area of the nucleus gracilis and the rostral nucleus cuneatus. Extremely dense debris was present within both ipsilateral Z and X nuclei. Cortical ablations of predominantly hind-limb motor-sensory areas resulted in degeneration throughout most of the longitudinal and transverse extent of the contralateral dorsal column nuclei. Degeneration appeared to be more concentrated in ventral nuclear areas. The distribution of cortical fibers to the rostral gracile and Z nuclei was essentially the inverse of that observed for lateral funicular fibers. The contralateral nucleus Z received only a sparse corticobulbar input while the rostral gracile contained more moderate amounts of preterminal degeneration. The results are in agreement with previous reports on the morphology and fiber connections of the dorsal column, Z and X nuclei in Galago and other animals. They support the concept that the Z and X nuclei are functional components of the dorsal column nuclear system.
The discussion of the reduction of mental states to brain states is placed in the broader context of reduction in other scientific disciplines such as chemistry, physics and biology. This is important in achieving a perspective on what sort of business reduction is and in seeing that reductions are primarily transitions between theories and only derivatively relations between phenomena. It also reveals that though reducing theories sometimes absorb the old theory as largely correct, more often the old theory is substantially modified and revised and sometimes it is replaced outright. How much of the old theory survives in the reducing theory depends on its empirical integrity and whether its basic categories are empirically sound. The reduction of psychology to neuroscience is considered in this light and it is suggested that psychology may be substantially revised or even replaced by a reduction to neuroscience.

Using immunohistochemical techniques, the distribution of met-enkephalin fibers and terminals was studied in the central nervous system of adult old-world monkeys. Areas which showed the greatest density of immunoreactivity included substantia gelatinosa, nucleus tractus solitarius, nucleus parabrachialis, substantia nigra, median eminence, globus pallidus (external segment), patches within the striatum and the region of nucleus accumbens and the olfactory area. Striking and discrete zones of enkephalin immunoreactive fibers and terminals which did not conform to known nuclear boundaries were observed in the latter areas. The distribution of enkephalin in the monkey is compared to what has been described in the rat central nervous system. In general, the two species are similar, however, differences were observed in some areas including the hypoglossal nucleus, substantia nigra and in the region of the nucleus accumbens and olfactory area. The results are discussed with regard to the possible functional significance of enkephalin localization in regions related to regulation of pain, mood, and autonomic function.
The effects of iontophoretically-applied acetylcholine and its antagonists on the response of retinal ganglion cells at the receptive field centre were studied in the optically intact eye of anaesthetised cats. Acetylcholine enhanced visually-driven excitation of all 'transient' cells with the property of a periphery effect, but failed to excite those weak 'transient' cells without a periphery effect. It also mimicked visual stimulation when applied iontophoretically on spontaneously firing 'transient' cells with a periphery effect and a pulse of acetylcholine produced a transient response. Visually-driven excitation at the receptive field centre and the periphery effect, as well as the acetylcholine-induced excitation in these 'transient' cells, were blocked by dihydro-beta-erythroidine but not by atropine applied by iontophoresis. Neither acetylcholine nor dihydro-beta-erythroidine, on the other hand, produced any significant effect on the visually-driven firing of 'sustained' cells. Acetylcholine, however, suppressed the spontaneous firing of 'sustained-on' cells with a relatively high rate of background discharge, whereas it enhanced that of 'sustained-off' cells with relatively low rates of background discharge, and such effects were again blocked by dihydro-beta-erythroidine. It is suggested that (1), visual excitation of 'transient' cells with the periphery effect is mediated by a cholinergic system and the receptor is nicotinic rather than muscarinic and (2), the spontaneous firing rate of 'sustained' cells may be regulated also by a cholinergic system.
Surface potentials and field potentials recorded from the medulla in response to cutaneous and mixed nerve stimulation revealed that fibers of the dorsal white column project onto two separate neuron groups in the medulla representing the dorsal column nuclei. The hind-limb was represented in the medial group and the fore-limb in the lateral group in the projection. The fore-limb nerves projected to a region extending from the medulla to the 4th segment of the spinal cord. Primary afferent depolarization and depression of synaptic activities were shown by direct and indirect stimulation of dorsal column fiber terminals in the dorsal column nuclei. Conditioning volleys set up in hind-limb nerves had no effect on test responses evoked by stimulation of forelimb nerves, and vice versa. Slow negative potentials with decreasing latencies were recorded from the posterocentral nucleus of the thalamus in response to stimulation of the 2nd dorsal root, the dorsal column and the dorsal column nuclei, respectively. The physiological results were correlated with histological observations using the cobalt labelling method. It was concluded that the amphibian dorsal column-medial lemniscus system is closely comparable with that found in the mammalian brain.
Morphine HCl (10 micrograms/0.5 microliter) was injected into the right striatum, the caudal aqueduct and the region of the nucleus raphe magnus of the rat. Turnover of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the brain was assessed by fluorimetric estimation of 5-hydroxyindol-3-ylacetic acid following the administration of probenecid. Injection into the right striatum (a region containing 5-HT terminals) increased 5-HT turnover in the right, but not in the left striatum or in the anterior medulla. The pain threshold was unaltered. Injection into the aqueduct accelerated 5-HT turnover in the anterior medulla, but the striata and spinal cord showed no such change. Analgesia was pronounced. Injection of morphine into the region of the nucleus raphe magnus analgesia and increased 5-HT turnover in the posterior medulla and the spinal cord. The action on the cord must have been the result of the stimulation of cells in the raphe. The effects of the local injections of morphine on 5-HT turnover were antagonized by systemic naloxone (1-2 mg/kg) in all the regions studied. When morphine was administered subcutaneously three times a day for five days, tolerance developed to the analgesic effect of morphine (7mg/kg). However, tolerance to its acceleration of 5-HT turnover was only seen in the spinal cord, not in striatum or anterior and posterior medulla. When morphine was withdrawn, its effects on analgesia and 5-HT turnover in the spinal cord recovered simultaneously. The results emphasize the likely part played by the descending serotoninergic pathway in the analgesic effect of morphine.
The preganglionic sympathetic neurons in the intermediolateral cell column of the thoracic and upper lumbar segments of the spinal cord which innervate the chromaffin cells in the adrenal medulla, sympathoadrenal preganglionic neurons, were identified by the method of retrograde axonal transport of the fluorescent dyes Fast Blue and True Blue. In rats, Fast Blue or True Blue was injected into the medulla of the left adrenal gland. After a survival period of 5 days, the animals were perfusion fixed, the thoracic and lumbar spinal cord sectioned and processed for the immunofluorescent localization of met-enkephalin, neurophysin, oxytocin, serotonin, somatostatin and substance P immunoreactivity. Neuronal perikarya which were retrogradedly-labeled with Fast Blue or True Blue were observed in the intermediolateral cell column from the T1 to the L2 spinal cord segments. The distribution of the sympathoadrenal neurons was determined by counting the number of retrogradedly-labeled neurons per spinal cord segment. In the five animals used for quantifying the sympathoadrenal preganglionic neurons, the majority (72.3%) of the retrogradely-labeled neurons counted per spinal cord were located within the T7-T12 segments. The T9 segment contained the largest average number (20.1%) of retrogradely-labeled cells in a single segment. Met-enkephalin, serotonin and substance P immunoreactive fibers were prominent in the intermediolateral cell column, whereas oxytocin, neurophysin and somatostatin immunoreactive fibers were sparse. The met-enkephalin, serotonin and substance P fibers were seen surrounding both unlabeled and retrogradely-labeled neurons; somatostatin fibers appeared to preferentially contact retrogradely-labeled neurons; whereas, the neurophysin and oxytocin fibers were not found in proximity to retrogradely-labeled neurons. Met-enkephalin, neurophysin, oxytocin, somatostatin and substance P immunoreactivity were depleted in the intermediolateral cell column below the level of a spinal cord transection. Serotonin immunoreactivity was depleted in the intermediolateral cell column below the level of the transection for five to six segments, but sparse networks of immunoreactive fibers were observed in both the intermediolateral cell column and the ventral horn in more caudal segments. Met-enkephalin, serotonin, somatostatin and substance P immunoreactivity were decreased in both the contralateral and ipsilateral intermediolateral cell column below the level of a spinal cord hemisection, suggesting that both crossed and uncrossed descending pathways exist. Neurophysin and oxytocin immunoreactivity were depleted below the level of the hemisection in the ipsilateral intermediolateral cell column without noticeable decrease in the level of immunoreactivity in the contralateral intermediolateral cell column, suggesting that a decussation does not occur at the level of the spinal cord, but may exist above the level of the hemisection...
Microtubule inhibitor Vinca alkaloids applied around a peripheral nerve induce transganglionic degenerative atrophy of the central terminals of primary nociceptive neurons. This effect is reversible: 40-50 days later the original histochemical structure of the central terminals is restored. Restoration of fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase activity (the marker enzyme of primary nociceptive neurons) in the Rolando substance is due to regenerative sprouting of the formerly atrophied central terminals. Since peripherally-applied Vinca alkaloids induce transganglionic degenerative atrophy of the central terminals without inducing Wallerian degeneration of the peripheral nerve, and since this effect (virtually a synaptic uncoupling) is only temporary, this approach may be used in the treatment of otherwise intractable neuralgias without inducing irreparable alterations.
Rats were systemically pre-treated with capsaicin either on the first day of life or at an age of 1 month. Both treatments were found to deplete substance P levels in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis (55.6% and 57.9% depletions, respectively). Extracellular single neurone recordings in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis revealed that neither type of capsaicin treatment greatly altered the proportions of neurones responding to non-noxious or noxious mechanical stimulation of the face. However, the proportion of mechanically-nociceptive neurones also responding to noxious thermal stimulation was greatly reduced in neonatally-treated, but not adult-treated rats. As both methods of capsaicin treatment caused similar depletions of substance P, it is concluded that this peptide may not be the neurotransmitter of afferent fibres to the trigeminal nucleus caudalis signalling thermal nociception.
Light- and electron-microscopic localization of substance P in the monkey spinal cord was studied by the peroxidase anti-peroxidase technique with the particular aim of examining types of interactions made by substance P-positive boutons with other neuronal elements in the dorsal horn. By light-microscopy dense labeling for immunoreactive substance P was found in laminae I, II (outer zone) and V (lateral region), consistent with findings in other mammalian species. By electron-microscopy, substance P-positive staining was mostly in unmyelinated and in some thinly myelinated small diameter fibers. Substance P-positive terminals contained both large granular vesicles (80-120 nm diameter), which were filled with reaction product, and clear round vesicles (40-60 nm). Substance P-positive large granular vesicles were sometimes observed near presynaptic sites and in contact with dense projection there. Immunoreactive substance P boutons were small to large in size (1-4 micron), formed synapses with somata and large dendrites and were the central axons of synaptic glomeruli where they were in synaptic contact with numerous small dendrites and spines. Substance P-labeled axons frequently formed synapses with dorsal horn neurons which were also postsynaptic to other types of axons. Substance P-positive profiles participated in numerous puncta adhaerentia with unlabeled cell bodies, dendrites and axons. Only rarely, some suggestive evidence was obtained indicating that axons might synapse onto substance P-containing boutons. Biochemical analysis of monkey spinal cord tissue extracts, undertaken to characterize more precisely the immunoreactive substances, indicated that only substance P and its oxide derivative were detected with the antiserum used in the immunocytochemistry. These morphological findings show that substance P is contained within a class of axon terminals, many of which have been shown previously in the monkey to originate from the dorsal root. The results suggest that modulation of substance P primary afferents terminating in the outer dorsal laminae of the monkey spinal cord occurs in part via axonal inputs onto dorsal horn neurons postsynaptic to the primary afferent.
Ontogeny of the substance P neuron system in the lower brain stem of the rat was investigated by means of the indirect immunofluorescence technique. Substance P-positive structures (cells and fibers) first appeared in the primordium of the ventral part of the nucleus tractus spinalis nervi trigemini (nVs), in the reticular formation between nucleus reticularis lateralis and nVs, and in the reticular formation between nVs and nucleus originis nervi facialis, respectively, at gestational day 14. After that time, substance P-positive structures made their appearance gradually in various areas of the lower brain stem. The present study demonstrates that substance P-positive structures appear at a very early ontogenetical stage, which suggests that substance P may play a role in the development of the lower brain stem in addition to its role as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator.
The compartmentation of L-glutamate in the central nervous system has been extensively studied and L-glutamine is believed to be the precursor of the neuronal releasable pool of the L-glutamate. In order to localize the sites of uptake of both L-glutamate and L-glutamine, autoradiography was used in tissue slices of adult rat cerebellum, where granule cells are considered to be glutamatergic. Incubation of the tissue with low concentrations of [3H]L-glutamate or [3H]L-glutamine produces in both cases a heavy labelling of the molecular layer. [3H]L-glutamate uptake seems to be essentially glial (Golgi epithelial cells and Bergmann fibres) while [3H]L-glutamine is more diffusely distributed over the molecular layer. Although no conclusions can be drawn on the nature of L-glutamine uptake, these results are in agreement with the model which considers L-glutamate uptake by glial cells to be the inactivating process of glutamatergic synapses.
Systemic injection of kainic acid (12 mg/kg) in rats induces a well established pattern of neuronal lesions in different brain regions. These lesions are accompanied by changes in neurotransmitter markers. In the piriform cortex and amygdaloid complex, the kainic acid lesion was accompanied by a reduction in the high affinity uptake of glutamate and in the activities of glutamate decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase, whereas in the hippocampus there was a reduction in the high affinity uptake of glutamate and in glutamate decarboxylase activity. Hemidecortication, hemitransection, a caudal knife cut in the cortex, or treatment with diazepam, all protected against the effects of kainic acid in the piriform cortex and amygdaloid complex but not in the hippocampus. Diphenylhydantoin had no effect on the neurotoxicity of kainic acid. The results indicate that the neurotoxic effects of kainic acid in the piriform cortex and amygdala are dependent on an intact cortical structure, probably due to a dependence on specific excitatory circuitry. The neurons involved may be glutamergic/aspartergic.
Hippocampal cultures were prepared from 7- to 10-day-old rats by means of the roller-type technique. The preservation of the characteristic hippocampal cytoarchitecture allowed, after many weeks in vitro, impalement of pyramidal cells by microelectrodes under visual control. Application of 10(-7) to 10(-5) M acetylcholine to the bath depolarized hippocampal pyramidal cells, strongly increased their rate of firing and induced paroxysmal depolarization shifts. This depolarizing action was accompanied by a reduction in the amplitude of evoked postsynaptic potentials. Whereas it was not clear whether the decrease in the amplitude of the excitatory postsynaptic potentials was only a result of membrane depolarization, acetylcholine clearly and reversibly reduced the potency of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Iontophoresis of acetylcholine to the perisomatic region of pyramidal neurons, like acetylcholine applied to the bath, increased their firing rate and powerfully decreased the amplitude and duration of spontaneous and evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. In contrast, iontophoresis of acetylcholine in the pyramidal cell layer at a distance from the recorded neuron generated a hyperpolarizing response associated with a reduction in firing rate. At high current strength, the initial hyperpolarization was (often) followed by a paroxysmal depolarization shift. High frequency electrical stimulation with electrodes located close to the acetylcholine pipette in the pyramidal cell layer (i.e. about 1 mm away from the recorded neuron) mimicked the acetylcholine effect. Resistance measurements indicated that membrane input resistance was decreased in the majority of cells during application of acetylcholine. This decrease in membrane resistance may result from a direct action of acetylcholine or from an increased synaptic activity. Synaptic alterations induced by acetylcholine were quick in onset and in recovery, while the increase in the rate of firing occurred somewhat later. Atropine (10(-5) M), which had no significant action by itself, completely abolished the action of acetylcholine applied to the bath or by iontophoresis. In contradistinction, naloxone did not influence the acetylcholine effects, although opiates and opioid peptides produce paroxysmal depolarization shifts in pyramidal cells which resemble those induced by acetylcholine. Addition of 8-16 mM magnesium to the bathing solution or exposure of the cultures to a calcium-free solution containing 1 mM cobalt abolished the effects of acetylcholine. In the presence of 10(-6) g/ml tetrodotoxin, 10(-5) M acetylcholine decreased the membrane input resistance of pyramidal cells, reduced their threshold for the generation of tetrodotoxin-resistant spikes and generated paroxysmal depolarization shifts in a proportion of pyramidal cells...
Examination of the cortex and the subcortical white matter by use of an immunocytochemical technique--the per oxidase anti-per oxidase method--shows that somatostatin is located in a widespread neuron system with cell bodies localized in both the cortex and the subcortical white matter of the human brain. In the cortex, the somatostatin cell bodies and fibers are found in all layers, but the fibers are especially numerous in layer I located tangentially to the brain surface. The fibers are very long and subdivide into many branches which form a network of pathways in the deeper cortical layers. There are numerous varicosities along the fibers and they come into close contact with other non-immunoreactive neuronal cells. The somatostatin cells located in the white matter are larger than the somatostatin cells in gray matter. They are giant cells with a size ranging from 50 to 120 micrometers. The fibers from these cells are varicose and can be followed both rostrally into the cortical gray matter and caudally in the subcortical white matter. The localization and the morphology of the somatostatin neurons in the cortex and the subcortical white matter indicate that somatostatin may be able to exert sustained influence in various brain areas and thereby modulate integrative and/or specific functions, not only via connection in the gray matter but also by influencing the neuronal circuits passing through the subcortical white matter.
The development of methods for cloning DNA complementary to specific messenger RNAs encoding polypeptide hormones has opened new experimental avenues in the neurosciences. Recombinant DNA techniques have been used to answer questions about the structure of polypeptide hormone precursors, the regulation of peptide hormone production, and the location of peptide-producing cells in nervous and endocrine systems. Here, the application of cDNA cloning to the quantitation, structural elucidation and tissue localization of mRNAs coding for neuroendocrine peptides is reviewed.


A rare case report of association of affective psychosis with pyknodysostosis is discussed.
Three patients, one female and two males, with bipolar affective psychosis beginning at the ages of twelve, nine and fourteen years, are described. The symptomatology in all the three patients was similar to that of the adult manic depressive psychosis and the response to lithium was good.
There is a growing consensus of opinion (WHO 1975) that in developing countries, doctors and para-medical staff of the existing health care cadres should, after a short course of problem oriented training, deliver basic mental health care. This paper describes the development and evaluation of such a training programme.

Stimulation of the Torpedine ray electric organ can cause the loss of synaptic vesicles and the growth of pseudopodia from the nerve terminals (Boyne, A. F., and S. McLeod (1979) Neuroscience 4: 615-624). The latter embed themselves in corresponding indentations in abutted terminals. The geometry of these pseudopodial indentations (PSIs) can vary: (i) in length, (ii) in the extent of constriction of the base, and (iii) through a compound interaction between different pseudopodia extending in opposite directions. Examination of six rat brain nuclei in the limbic system has shown that their neuropil can be categorized according to the prevalence of either (i) nerve terminals indented by nerve terminal outgrowths (i.e. PSIs) or (ii) nerve terminals indented by dendritic outgrowths: these have been previously termed spinules. Clusters of simple PSIs were seen in the central nucleus of the amygdala, while base-constricted and compound forms were found in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra. Dendritic spinules were prevalent in the nucleus accumbens and the molecular layer of the hippocampus. In the CA4 hilar region of the hippocampus, large nerve terminals containing PSIs were found. The caudate neuropil appeared to be of mixed character in that the small terminals often had spinules but occasionally showed PSIs. Spinules have been recognized for many years and the possibility of their plasticity has been raised previously (Tarrant, S. B, and A. Routtenberg (1977) Tissue Cell 9: 461-473). The present report appears to be first detailed description of an alternative form of invasion which is known to be plastic in the elasmobranch electric organ. It is suggested that the extracellular space between the partners of a PSI could act as variable diffusion traps. If the involved boutons carry action potentials, then nonsynaptic release and accumulation of substances such as potassium, amino acids, and nucleotides may be expected during stimulation. Consequent direct or receptor-mediated effects on the membrane potential could influence transmission through adjacent synapses.
The cortical afferentation of the nucleus accumbens in the cat was studied with the aid of retrograde tracing techniques. Retrograde experiments were carried out with horseradish peroxidase or one of the fluorescent tracers Bisbenzimid, Nuclear Yellow and Fast Blue. In the anterograde experiments [3H]leucine and [35S]methionine were used as tracers. Following injections in the nucleus accumbens, retrogradely-labelled cells were found in the medial frontal cortex, the anterior olfactory nucleus, the posterior part of the insular cortex, the endopiriform nucleus, the amygdalo-hippocampal area, the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices and the subiculum of the hippocampal formation. In the medial frontal cortex most of the labelled cells were found in layers III and V of the prelimbic area (area 32 of Brodmann), but retrogradely-filled neurons were also present in the infralimbic area and in the caudoventral part of the lateral bank of the proreal gyrus. Retrogradely-labelled cells in the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices were located in the deep cellular layers. Following large injections in the nucleus accumbens, retrograde labelling in the subiculum extended from the most dorsal, septal pole to the most ventral, temporal pole. Injections of anterograde tracers were placed in the frontal cortex, the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices and the hippocampal formation. The prelimbic area was found to project via the internal capsule to mainly the rostral half of the nucleus accumbens, whereas in the caudal half of the nucleus only a lateral region receives frontal cortical fibres. Following injections in the infralimbic area only fibres passing through the nucleus accumbens were labelled. Afferents from the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices reach the nucleus accumbens by way of the external capsule and terminate mainly in a ventral zone of the nucleus accumbens. Afferents from the entorhinal area are distributed to the entire accumbens, whereas the termination field of the perirhinal afferents is largely restricted to the lateral part of the nucleus accumbens. Both the frontal cortex and the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices appear to project also to the nucleus caudatus and the tuberculum olfactorium. These cortical areas also project to the contralateral striatum. Both anterograde and retrograde tracing experiments demonstrated a topographical relationship between the subiculum and the nucleus accumbens. The ventral pole of the subiculum projects via the fornix to the medial part of the caudal half of the nucleus accumbens and to a small dorsomedial area in its rostral half. Successively more dorsal portions in the subiculum project to successively more ventrolateral parts in the rostral nucleus accumbens. The projection from the hippocampus was found to extend also to the tuberculum olfactorium. The results of the present study do not provide unambiguous criteria for the delimitation of the nucleus accumbens in the cat.
The internal organization of plasmalemmal membrane, as revealed by freeze-fracture techniques, varies dramatically and predictably over the surface of astrocytes in mouse cerebellar cortex. Assemblies of uniform, small intramembrane particles packed in orthogonal order into square or rectangular aggregates are specialized distribution of intramembrane particles which, in the cerebellar cortex, are found only in astrocytes. The concentration of assemblies is greatest in astrocytic membrane juxtaposed to vascular structures or facing the cerebrospinal fluid at the glial limitans. Many fewer are present in regions of astrocytic membrane apposed to neural structures and virtually none are present on the astrocyte cell body. Corresponding structures have not yet been found in thin-sectioned preparations. While the distribution of assemblies in membranes facing blood and cerebrospinal fluid compartments suggests that they may have a role in transport of some material into or out of those compartments, their function is unknown. A second, distinct specialization of intramembrane structure appears to represent a junction between apposed astrocytic processes. We have provisionally described this as a 'polygonal particle junction', since it appears as large, irregular particles densely packed without obvious order in co-extensive regions of two astrocytic membranes. This junction is regularly present just below the cerebellar surface in the processes of the glial limitans as well as between large, more proximal radial Bergmann fibers, and also occurs occasionally throughout the molecular layer. With tannic acid mordant after aldehyde-osmium fixation or rapid freezing and freeze-substitution, it is possible to demonstrate subtle electron-dense specializations of the astrocytic membranes and extracellular matrix in thin-sections which correspond to the sites of polygonal particle junctions. The function of this astrocytic specialization is also unknown. Cerebellar astrocytes manifest numerous gap junctions as well, whose structure in freeze-fractured and thin-sectioned preparations is quite distinct from that of assemblies or of polygonal particle junctions.
Selective lesions have been made to the receptors in the main and accessory olfactory systems. In the absence of the accessory receptors, female mice are not able to show a neuroendocrine response to male pheromones but are able to detect male odours which induce the response. In the absence of main olfactory receptors, such discrimination of male odours is not possible, but the neuroendocrine response resulting in a block to pregnancy is maintained. These experiments suggest that cognitive aspects of olfaction are not essential for pregnancy block to occur and that in mice the dual olfactory systems are functional as well as anatomically distinct. Moreover, strain recognition can occur at the level of the accessory olfactory system without the female being able to display a behavioural awareness of this 'recognition'.
New procedure for quantitative photometric assessment of glyoxylic acid-induced fluorescence of dopamine in the caudate nucleus are presented. A recently published cryostat method was used to process a series of 24 micrometer sections taken from the caudate nucleus of each animal. Fluorescent light contained within a circular field (0.8 mm diameter) was measured photometrically. Several defined positions within the caudate nucleus on each tissue section were selected for measurement. Thus, a grid of measurements taken throughout the caudate nucleus provided a three-dimensional description of fluorescence intensity within this structure on both sides of the brain. Several experiments were performed to evaluate both the reliability and validity of these procedures as an index of the relative regional content of dopamine within the caudate: (1) the relative distribution of fluorescence intensity within the mouse striatum was in good agreement with previously reported distributions based on biochemical determination of regional dopamine levels within the rodent brain; (2) pharmacological manipulation of dopamine levels with gamma-butyrolactone and alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine combined with amphetamine produced predictable changes in the fluorescence intensity measurements of mouse caudate relative to untreated controls; (3) in rats pre-treated with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, unilateral electrical stimulation of the substantia nigra caused overall differences in fluorescence intensity between the caudate nucleus on each side of the brain, which were a function of both the duration of stimulation and the stimulating pulse frequency; (4) local injections of 6-hydroxydopamine unilaterally into the ventral tegmentum of animals pretreated with desmethylimipramine caused significant reductions in the intensity of fluorescence recorded from the ipsilateral striatum. It is concluded that the photometric procedures presented in this report constitute a significant improvement in the description of regional variations in the intensity of dopamine-related fluorescence in the caudate nucleus.
The development of the auditory nerve endings and their target cells in nucleus magnocellularis was studied by electron microscopy of perfusion-fixed brains from embryonic day 12 to hatching. Embryonic days 12-13: somatic processes extend from the perikaryon. The cytoplasm of the soma and processes contains free ribosomes, mitochondria, lysosomes, rough endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus and an eccentric, heterochromatic nucleus. Small profiles of auditory nerve fibers containing round, clear vesicles make specialized contacts, including some synapses, on distal somatic processes but rarely on proximal somatic processes or on the soma. The postsynaptic zones contain a flocculent matrix. Days 15-17: somatic processes disappear and occasional attachment plaques are seen between cell bodies. The nucleus appears euchromatic. Cytoplasmic organelles form a dense matrix indicative of intense metabolic activity. Somatic spines are evident. The afferent axons form large, vesiculated profiles located, increasingly, on the cell body and somatic spines, with many points of synaptic contact. Opposite each ending a band of amorphous, flocculent material fills the postsynaptic cytoplasm. Embryonic day 18-hatching: the somatic cytoplasm becomes less dense; stacks of rough endoplasmic reticulum start to condense. Afferent axon terminals mature, especially the synaptic membrane complex and associated densities. The postsynaptic flocculent material diminishes in extent until it is found associated only with somatic spines. The ultrastructural observations on the maturation of nucleus magnocellularis closely corroborate and extend previous results with the Golgi methods. Developing auditory nerve fibers initially synapse on the distal parts of the somatic processes of the immature cells. As the somatic processes disappear or retract, axonal endings move to the soma and develop into large axosomatic end-bulbs. Possibly, the somatic processes as they retract drag the auditory nerve endings to the cell body. The findings also suggest a role of the transiently appearing, flocculent material of the postsynaptic regions in the formation of synapses.
Nucleus magnocellularis in the chicken consists predominantly of a population of medium-sized cells which receive large, axosomatic endings from the auditory nerve. The morphological development of these cells and their auditory input were studied with the Golgi methods. At 7 1/2-9 days of incubation (embryonic days 7 1/2-9, staged according to the Hamburger-Hamilton series), cells in nucleus magnocellularis have several long, branched dendrites, which often end in bulbous swellings. By embryonic day 10, efferent axons have already grown out from the cells and characteristic terminal plexuses of these axons are seen in nucleus laminaris bilaterally. The dendrites of cells in nucleus magnocellularis have been replaced by a multitude of long somatic processes, giving the cell body a shaggy appearance. This arrangement is maintained up to embryonic day 15, when a remarkable second transformation occurs. The cells lose their somatic processes and present bald, round profiles. Around embryonic days 17-18 a primitive-looking process with a tip like a growth cone emerges from the cell body and somatic spines are evident. By days 19-20, one or two thin, frail dendritic processes can be seen. Correlated with this dramatic series of changes in the cells is a fixed sequence of transformations of the incoming axons. Around embryonic day 10, primary sensory axons in nucleus magnocellularis end in swellings resembling growth cones. Between days 11 and 13, following the explosive growth of somatic processes there is a corresponding expansion and ramification of the auditory nerve endings. On embryonic day 14, there is a condensation of the terminal axon branches, which now form a compact, highly branched plexus. Between days 16 and 17, the plexus coalesces into a calycine structure, now approaching its final form, the end-bulb of Held, which is achieved by embryonic days 19-20. The transformation of the plexus to the calycine form occurs around the same that the cell loses its somatic processes. The parallel sequence in the morphogenetic stages of the assembly of the end-bulbs and their target cells evinces a correlation, if not a causal relationship between the sensory axons and the developing neurons. The arrangement of the somatic processes and axonal branches during the early, multipolar stage would provide an opportunity for optimum interactions between the synaptogenetic processes of the afferent axons and the target cells. The later morphological transformations could orchestrate the specific, cell-to-cell interactions which accompany, or even depend on the activity of the definitive end-bulb synapse.
This report presents the major structural features of neurons and their afferent input in nucleus magnocellularis, the avian homologue of the mammalian anteroventral cochlear nucleus. Results of light-microscope observations, as seen in Golgi, Nissl, and normal fiber preparations, as well as ultrastructural morphology are reported. In addition, cells and axons in nucleus laminaris, the presumed homologue of the mammalian medial superior olivary nucleus, are also described. In Golgi-impregnated material, the mature principal cell in nucleus magnocellularis has an ovoid soma encrusted with somatic spines. A dendrite, when present, emerges from the cell soma, travels for a short distance and breaks into a tuft of stubby terminal branches. Foremost among the afferents to nucleus magnocellularis are auditory nerve axons that terminate in large, axosomatic endings, or end-bulbs, covering a large portion of the somatic surface. Other afferents, which also end in relation to the perikaryon, are of undetermined and perhaps multiple origins. The neurons resemble the bushy cells of the mammalian anteroventral cochlear nucleus. Evidence is presented that individual axons from the nucleus magnocellularis bifurcate and send branches to the nucleus laminaris bilaterally, thus placing constraints on the binaural interactions possibly involved in lateralization functions. In electron micrographs, the end-bulbs appear as large, elongate structures which can cover a third of the cell soma. Multiple sites of synaptic specialization occur along these terminals. The synaptic membrane complexes may form directly on the cell body or on the sides or crests of somatic spines. These complexes are characterized by asymmetric membrane densities with a cluster of clear, spherical vesicles on the axonal side. Other small terminal profiles are also present on the somata receiving the end-bulbs. Dendritic profiles are scarce, in agreement with observations in Golgi impregnations. The structural findings indicate that the medial part of the nucleus magnocellularis is homologous to the anterior part of the mammalian anteroventral cochlear nucleus in that the neurons of nucleus magnocellularis are homologous to the bushy cells of the cat. On this basis, the cells in nucleus magnocellularis could faithfully preserve the acoustic response patterns generated in the auditory nerve. This should, in turn, allow a secure relay of bilateral latency differences essential for binaural interactions in the nucleus laminaris.
The effect of X-irradiation on axonal sprouting of motor nerves induced by botulinum toxin was examined. Muscles of one leg in the mouse were X-irradiated (15 Gy) prior to the injection of a locally paralysing dose of botulinum toxin. It was found that axonal sprouting occurred as expected, but the sprouts remained unmyelinated and many degenerated. Fewer new end-plates were formed, muscles remained more severely atrophied and supersensitive to acetylcholine and recovery of neuromuscular transmission was greatly delayed when compared with the effects of botulinum toxin alone. The experiments show that X-irradiation did not prevent sprouting but, probably by impairing Schwann cell proliferation, altered axon-Schwann cell relationships and prevented the maturation of newly-formed axons and the differentiation of new end-plates.
We have studied the localization of serotonin- and non-serotonin-containing cell bodies in the midbrain raphe nuclei that project to the entorhinal area and the hippocampal formation in the rat brain, using the technique of combined retrograde fluorescent tracing and immunohistochemistry on the same tissue section. The branching properties of these neurons were studied by retrograde double labelling using two fluorochromes which emit fluorescence with different spectral characteristics. After injections of granular blue or propidium iodide into the medial entorhinal area, retrogradely-labelled cells were found situated bilaterally in the caudal half of the dorsal raphe nucleus, the medial part of the median raphe and throughout the rostrocaudal extension of the nucleus reticularis tegmentipontis. Injections placed successively more laterally in the entorhinal area labelled progressively less cells contralaterally in the dorsal raphe and the reticular tegmental nucleus of the pons. After fluorochrome injections into the dorsal part of the hippocampal formation, retrogradely-labelled cells were found in the caudal part of the dorsal raphe, in the peripheral part of the median raphe and to a minor extent in the medial part of this nucleus, but not in the nucleus reticularis tegmentipontis. The experiments with double retrograde fluorescent tracing showed that the raphe nuclei do not send bilateral projections to the entorhinal area in spite of the fact that many of these cells are located contralateral to the injected hemisphere in single labelling experiments. Injections of the fluorochromes into the entorhinal area and hippocampal formation showed that at least 10% of the raphe cells project to both areas simultaneously. Analysis of sections incubated with antiserum to serotonin showed that a majority of the retrogradely-labelled versus serotonin-immunoreactive cells was found to vary within different parts of the individual raphe nuclei: the ventromedial part of the dorsal, the medial part of the median and the nucleus reticularis tegmentipontis being the highest. The findings indicate that both serotonin- and non-serotonin-containing neurons in the raphe innervate the hippocampal region, that these projections may be crossed but not bilateral, and that the same neuron in the raphe may influence the neural activity in the entorhinal area and the hippocampus simultaneously.
Enkephalin-like immunoreactivity was localized within the main olfactory bulb of the rat using immunohistochemical techniques. These studies utilized well characterized antisera directed to either leu5- or met5-enkephalin. Specificity was established by absorption of the antisera with either 10 microM synthetic leu5- or met5-enkephalin. Specific enkephalin-like immunoreactivity was observed within several different cell populations including (1) periglomerular cells, (2) granule cells and their processes within the external plexiform layer and (3) occasional short-axon (horizontal) cells within the granule and external plexiform layers. The granule cell layer contained the greatest number of immunoreactive cells. Only a limited number of immunoreactive cells were found in both the periglomerular and granule cell layers, suggesting the enkephalin-containing neurons represent a sub-population within each layer. The absence of immunoreactive processes in the periventribular white matter, as well as the morphologies of immunoreactive bulbar neurons, indicates that enkephalin is found exclusively within intrinsic olfactory bulb neurons.
In raccoons the somatic sensory neocortex is greatly expanded, with separate gyral crowns devoted to and intervening sulci separating, sensory representations of separate body parts, most strikingly those of the volar surfaces of individual forepaw digits. Most of the cortex in this region is buried in widely ramifying sulcal walls, wherein sensory projections have not been studied. We have determined mechanosensory projections to the fourth digit representation region including all neighboring sulcal walls, using tungsten microelectrodes for 3-dimensional micromapping. We found no significant alteration in the location and pattern of projections when the following different anesthetics were used: dial-urethane, chloralose, or methoxyflurane with nitrous oxide. The precisely organized somatotopic representation of the distal volar surface of the fourth digit, on the causal aspect of its gyral crown, continues down the anterior bank of the triradiate sulcus. This meets, at the fundus, projections from the proximal volar surface of the digit which occupy the posterior sulcus wall; they in turn meet projections from the volar palm at the gyral crown. In the anterior part of the crown containing the representation of the distal volar digit, across the crown. In the anterior part of the crown containing the representation of the distal volar digit, across the crown of the gyral bridge intervening between the medial and lateral segments of the central sulcus, throughout the posterior walls of the central sulci, and in the walls of the interbrachial sulcus, we found a distinctive border-zone of projections from heterogeneous receptive fields. Within a roughly somatotopic basic pattern of organization we found intermingled projections from single and multiple claws and dorsal hairy surfaces of digits and proximal hand, along with additional projections from volar surfaces. These projections can be construed as forming something of a distorted mirror-image of the representation of the volar hand. Beyond this was a second zone of distinctive projections from afferents of the forelimb muscles, in the anterior walls of the central sulci. These projections are interrupted where the sulci are interrupted. The zone of muscle afferent projections corresponds to those seen between sensory and motor regions in other species; its strict association with sulcal folding here and in other species suggests a general relationship of these projections to central sulci. The zone of heterogeneous projections resembles similar zones seen at other levels of this system in raccoons, in the cortex of other species, and it may relate to some of the multiple representation reported in other species. It also may be related to the formation of sulci in this region and may be a specialized zone for cortico-cortical connections.
Anatomical investigations have revealed that the nigrostriatal pathway is topographically organised. In two experiments, nigrostriatal topography was investigated with catecholamine specific procedures, using paradigms which reflect the functional activity of dopaminergic neurones. Data were analysed with the intention of discovering possible relationships between the mesencephalic location of stimulating electrodes or injection cannulae, the extent and location of dopamine histofluorescence depletion within the striatum, and the effects of amphetamine and apomorphine on rotational behaviour. In animals pretreated with 250 mg/kg alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine it was found that unilateral stimulation with medially-placed nigral electrodes produced maximal depletion of dopamine histofluorescence in anterior dorso-medial regions of the striatum, while laterally-located electrodes principally depleted posterior, ventro-lateral areas. In the second experiment, 2 micrograms of 6-hydroxydopamine in a volume of 0.5 microliter was injected unilaterally at varying loci within the ventral midbrain of animals pre-treated with desmethylimipramine (25 mg/kg). It was discovered that the lateral injection coordinate was significantly associated with both the extent and location of the depletion of dopamine-related fluorescence from the ipsilateral striatum. Rotational behaviour, induced by dopamine-agonists was related firstly, to the overall extent of dopamine depletion from the striatum, and secondly, the contraversive turning induced by apomorphine in particular was related to the dorsoventral coordinate of the mesencephalic 6-hydroxydopamine injection. The results provide functional validation for the pattern of topographical projection within the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system proposed on the basis of intracellular tracing techniques.
The effects of beta-endorphin (lipotropin 61-91) and related naturally-occurring peptides upon acetylcholinesterase activity in rat hind-limb muscles was investigated. beta-endorphin weakly inhibited the activity in a plasma membrane-enriched fraction. The inhibition by beta-endorphin of the membrane-associated acetylcholinesterase was less marked when the fractions were prepared from muscles which had been denervated 4-6 days previously. The membrane-associated acetylcholinesterase was solubilised from normal muscle preparations and separated by sucrose density gradient centrifugation into three major peaks (16S, 10S and 4S). beta-Endorphin inhibited the activity in the 16S peak but not that in the 10S and 4S peaks, whilst tensilon, a competitive inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase, inhibited the activity of all three peaks. beta-Endorphin inhibited the activity in the 16S peak but not that in the 10S and 4S peaks, whilst tensilon, a competitive inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase, inhibited the activity of all three peaks. beta-Endorphin inhibited the 16S activity in a concentration-dependent manner and its action was partly prevented if naloxone was added simultaneously. Purified natural porcine and bovine beta-endorphin were equipotent in terms of effective concentration range but the maximum inhibition was greater with the bovine peptide. beta-Lipotropin was approximately 4 times less potent than beta-endorphin, whilst C-fragment (lipotropin 61-87) was 100 times less potent. Prolonged treatment with collagenase did not reduce the catalytic activity of 16S acetylcholinesterase, but it was no longer susceptible to the inhibitory action of beta-endorphin. Kinetic studies indicated a complex type of inhibition by beta-endorphin (hyperbolic Lineweaver-Burke plot). Methionine enkephalin inhibited acetylcholinesterase in a weakly non-competitive manner and its action was not abolished if the enzyme was predigested with collagenase. beta-Endorphin produces a novel form of inhibition of acetylcholinesterase, acting only on the 16S (A12 or 'motor endplate-specific') form of the enzyme. The findings are discussed in the light of evidence that beta-endorphin-related immunoreactivity is expressed in motor nerve axons in the immature rat.
Butyrylcholinesterase was found in chick sciatic nerve in four main molecular forms--G1, G2, G4 and A12--distinguishable by thier sedimentation coefficients in sucrose gradients (4.2S, 6.4S, 11.3S and 19S, respectively). Axonal transport of butyrylcholinesterase was studied by measuring the accumulation of its molecular forms on each side of a transected sciatic nerve. Twenty-four hours after transection, butyrylcholinesterase activity had risen by about 32% at the extremity of the proximal stump, and by 20% at the extremity of the distal stump. Proximal accumulation was due to a two-fold rise in G4 activity and to a six-fold rise in A12 activity, whereas distal accumulation was exclusively due to a 50% increase in G4 activity, accompanied by the complete loss of A12. The activities of G1 and G2 remained stable in both directions. Under our experimental conditions, the accumulation of butyrylcholinesterase activity cannot be attributable to local protein synthesis, cross-contamination with accumulated acetylcholinesterase or the presence of plasma butyrylcholinesterase. Hence we conclude that all A12 butyrylcholinesterase molecules were carried in the anterograde direction, moving at 11.6 +/- 4.2 mm/day, and that probably some of the G4 molecules were slowly transported in both directions. These findings suggest that some of the butyrylcholinesterase is located in the axonal mitochondria and/or axolemma.
The twitch response observed during low frequency electrical stimulation of postganglionic cholinergic neurones supplying the longitudinal smooth muscle of the guinea-pig ileum was markedly reduced by incubation with an homogeneous preparation of botulinum type A neurotoxin (4.3-8.6 nM). This intoxication of the autonomic cholinergic neurones was long-lasting, irreversible by washing, but readily reversed by 4-aminopyridine (50-1000 microM). The noradrenergic motor response of the rat anococcygeus following field stimulation was partially antagonised by the neurotoxin. The non-adrenergic inhibitory response of the guinea-pig taenia coli, elicited by field stimulation, was not antagonised by botulinum toxin, suggesting that a source of a non-adrenergic inhibitory transmitter exists, other than intramural cholinergic neurones. However, the neurogenic excitatory responses of the guinea-pig bladder, elicited by field stimulation in the presence of atropine and guanethidine, were virtually abolished by botulinum toxin. It is suggested that the parasympathetic neurones which supply the smooth muscle of the guinea-pig urinary bladder co-release acetylcholine and a non-cholinergic excitatory transmitter; ATP or polypeptides are possible candidates.

Skin diseases rarely present serious clinical diagnostic problems for the specialist. All too frequently, however, they are impossible to diagnose aetiologically, since so many are of psychosomatic origin. In the light of the close relationship between skin and nervous system, the neurophysiological and neuropsychological mechanisms forming the basis of the most commonly encountered dermatological somatizations are described.

Iontophoresis and chronic micropipette implants were compared for delivery of retrograde fluorescent tracers. Injection sizes and retrograde transport were similar, but implants were more frequently successful than iontophoresis.
Using bullfrog's sciatic-peroneal nerve, action potentials recorded by fluid electrodes were studied under a variety of conditions. Action potential obtained by the adjacent fluid electrodes was diphasic, and its amplitude was directly proportional to the impedance between the fluid electrodes. The number of peaks of action potential was equal to that of the partition between recording fluid electrodes, and the peak latencies were increased in proportion to the distance between both partitions of the adjacent fluid electrodes at the first and at the move positions. These findings suggest that action potentials may be generated wherever the impedance of the conducting medium changes suddenly.





The employment of rapid freezing of fresh tissue for electron microscopic studies of nervous tissue is receiving increasing attention. We report here on the design of a specimen carrier for use with freezing machines. This apparatus permits electrical stimulation and recording of responses closely comparable to those obtained in ordinary in vitro conditions. The essential features of this apparatus are that it employs miniature suction electrodes for stimulation and recording, a detachable well for mounting the specimen in Ringer's solution and a detachable cap for maintaining the specimen in a physiologic state suitable for freezing. This specimen carrier was designed for sympathetic ganglia but could be used with other types of neural tissue for correlative electrophysiological and morphological or biochemical studies.
A new statistical approach has been introduced to study in a quantitative way the coexistence of two neuromodulators in nerve cell bodies. The method has been exemplified on the ACTH-like and beta-endorphin-like immunoreactive nerve cell bodies of the mediobasal hypothalamus demonstrated by means of indirect immunofluorescence methodology. The method is based on the analysis of 3 adjacent sections which, in a random way, are stained with antiserum against neuromodulator 1, against neuromodulator 2 and with antisera against both neuromodulator 1 and neuromodulator 2. It could be shown that some neurons of the mediobasal hypothalamus do not contain at a detectable level both ACTH- and beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity. The present method also involves an analysis of the two nerve cell groups by means of a morphometric procedure to collect additional information on the extent of coexistence. Thus, by this approach the gravity centers of the two cell groups can be calculated. The distances between the two gravity centers of the ACTH and beta-endorphin positive cell groups were significantly different at certain levels. The present method offers unique possibilities in increasing our understanding of the functional significance of coexistence of neuromodulators in one and the same nerve cell body since it makes possible a quantitative evaluation of coexistence. The usefulness of the present method is illustrated by the findings of a possible differential synthesis of ACTH- and beta-endorphin-like material in certain cell bodies of the mediobasal hypothalamus.


Mice were injected with [3H]2-deoxyglucose and after 1 h high molecular weight glycogen was extracted from brain, liver and muscle tissues. 1-2% of the total radioactivity in each tissue was recovered in the glycogen fraction. Isolated buccal ganglia of the pond snail, Planorbis, and isolated abdominal ganglia of the horse leech Haemopis, were exposed in vitro to [3H]2-deoxyglucose for 1 h. 1-10% of the total radioactivity in these tissues was located in the high molecular weight glycogen fraction. Treatment of the extracted labelled glycogen fractions with amyloglucosidase caused release of the label in a manner consistent with the breakdown of labelled glycogen. Ganglia of snail and leech were exposed to [3H]2-deoxyglucose, fixed in glutaraldehyde and osmium tetroxide solutions, and prepared for autoradiography using aqueous histological processing. Light and electron microscope autoradiography showed that over 90% of the label was positively associated with glycogen particles (alpha- and beta-particles). Certain previously published reports on the incorporation of 2-deoxyglucose into glycogen are discussed in relation to these findings. It is concluded that [3H]2-deoxyglucose is partially incorporated into glycogen in nervous tissue; the labelled 2-deoxyglycogen withstands aqueous histological processing and can be visualized directly by autoradiography.
Isolated pure cholinergic synaptosomes from Torpedo electric organ were incubated in vitro with beta-bungarotoxin for 15, 30 and 60 min and processed for electron microscopy. It was found that no morphological damage was seen after 15 min but by contrast, severe disruption of synaptosomes was present at 30 or 60 min after incubation with toxin. Synaptosomes were incubated also for 15 min in the presence of 125I-labelled beta-bungarotoxin and the binding was evaluated by electron microscopic autoradiography. The toxin was found to bind to the presynaptic membrane. The surface density of toxin binding sites was calculated to be around 3000/micron2. In a minor population of synaptosomes, the toxin was translocated into large vesicles suggesting that the toxin-receptor complexes underwent endocytosis in such vesicles. These results give further support to the view that inhibition of transmitter release by the toxin is produced by its action on plasma membrane.
Colchicine injected into the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus in adult rats preferentially destroys dentate granule cells. In the present study, we examine the light- and electron-microscopic correlates of the degeneration and evaluate whether the selectivity is preserved across the range of doses between 0.18 and 25 micrograms. Colchicine in a similar dose range was also injected into the cerebellum, olfactory bulb, striatum and cerebral cortex to examine local and regional differences in susceptibility to colchicine. The morphological changes accompanying degeneration in the dentate gyrus include fragmentation of the granule cell layer, appearance of small dark staining bodies in the cell layer, massive microglial invasion and profound disruption of granule cell axons and dendrites. Electron-microscopic observations suggest that the small dark bodies are probably condensed nuclei. The preferential vulnerability of dentate granule cells following intrahippocampal injection was observed at all doses. At doses between 0.18 and 2.5 micrograms there was little evidence of damage to neurons other than dentate granule cells. At the highest dose tested (25 micrograms) some pyramidal cells of regio superior near the injection site were destroyed, while granule cell destruction extended several mm from the injection site. Injection of 0.5-25 micrograms into the cerebellum resulted in the destruction of both granule cells and Purkinje cells, while cells which appeared to be neurons in the molecular layer were less affected. Following injection of 0.5 microgram into the olfactory bulb, granule cells were extensively destroyed and there appeared to be some loss of mitral cells and an overall shrinkage of the injected bulb. Neuronal destruction in the striatum was observed with colchicine injections ranging from 2.5 to 25 micrograms, but at a given dose, the destruction was less extensive than for any other region tested except cerebral cortex. A possible application of this method and the implications of these results for other investigators using colchicine in the brain are discussed.
Tritiated leucine and proline injected into the amygdaloid complex was found to label a voluminous amygdalostriatal fiber system which is distributed to all parts of the striatum except an antero-dorsolateral striatal sector. The connection is established by way of the longitudinal association bundle as well as the stria terminalis, and includes a modest (10-15%), symmetrically distributed contralateral component conveyed by the anterior commissure. Both autoradiographic findings and subsequent observations in retrograde cell-labelling (horseradish peroxidase) material indicate that the amygdalostriatal projection originates mainly from the nucleus basalis lateralis amygdalae, in much lesser volume from the nucleus basalis medialis, and minimally from the nucleus lateralis amygdalae; no other contributing amygdaloid cell group could be identified. A comparison of the present findings with earlier reports indicates that the amygdalostriatal projection widely overlaps the striatal projections from the ventral tegmental area, the mesencephalic raphe nuclei and the prefrontal cortex. Like the amygdalostriatal projection, these striatal afferents largely or entirely avoid the antero-dorsolateral striatal quadrant, which thus appears to be the striatal region most sparsely innervated by afferents originating from structures within the circuitry of the limbic system. Findings in additional autoradiographic material identify this relatively non-limbic striatal quadrant as the main region of distribution of the corticostriatal projection from the sensorimotor cortex.
Rats of 0, 3, 5, 10 and 30 days of age received unilateral tectal lesions. After surviving for 150 days the retinal ganglion cell layer of the contralateral eye was examined for evidence of a ganglion cell loss. The retino-fugal projections of the eye contralateral to the lesion were studied in autoradiographs. In the animals operated at 0 days of age, 33% of the ganglion cells had degenerated but in animals operated at 5 days of age, 67% of the ganglion cells had degenerated. The animals operated at 30 days of age show no significant cell loss. An aberrant retinal projection to the lateral posterior nucleus of the thalamus was found only in animals operated at 0 and 3 days of age. The retinal projection to the thalamus was investigated in normal rats of 0, 3, 5 and 10 days of age using the anterograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. There was a conspicuous projection to the lateral posterior nucleus in animals of 0 and 3 days of age, but in the 5-day-old rat the retinal projection to the lateral posterior nucleus was very small and similar to the adult pattern. We conclude that transecting the tectal terminals of retinal ganglion cells causes the ganglion cells to degenerate, unless they are old enough to have formed sustaining collaterals. In addition, the tectal lesion removes a major tectal input to the lateral posterior nucleus and, if carried out within the first few days, leads to the preservation of the normally transient retinal projection to the lateral posterior nucleus, presumably by reducing competition between axon terminals.
Individual retino-geniculate axon arbors from kittens of 1 to 8 postnatal weeks were densely filled with horseradish peroxidase. The light-microscopical appearance of various types of immature growing tips was correlated with their synaptic relations as seen in the electron-microscope. During the first 2 postnatal weeks, the broad irregular bases of spray-like terminal extensions as well as foliate growth-cone-like terminals contain the round synaptic vesicles and pale mitochondria characteristic of adult retinal terminals. They form elementary glomerular arrangements in which they are the central profile synapsing with dendritic profiles. Many postsynaptic profiles contain large electron-lucent vesicles characteristic of growing neurites, whereas the immature retinal terminations do not. The more numerous finger-like growing tips also contain round synaptic vesicles and make short en passage contacts onto dendrites and outgrowths of perikarya of geniculate cells. The latter type of contact is not seen in the adult. After 3 weeks, retinal terminals are larger and make contacts in distinctly glomerular arrangements. Glial sheaths are evident for the first time. By 6-8 weeks, the terminals which appear crenulated in the light-microscope are always the central profile in a mature glomerulus. Smaller rounder terminals make simple axo-dendritic contacts as in the adult. The few immature terminal structures seen at 8 weeks also contain synaptic vesicles, but their contacts are not adult-like, nor are their synaptic arrangements entirely surrounded by glia. These findings, along with those of the previous paper, demonstrate that (a) many retino-geniculate terminals establish synaptic contacts long before attaining their adult form; (b) during the period optimal for induction of translaminar axon sprouting (1-2 weeks postnatal), only a few immature terminal forms participate in elementary glomeruli; (c) the decreasing malleability of these axons after 3 weeks is accompanied by an increase in crenulated terminals that enter glomeruli surrounded by glial sheaths. It is suggested that ensheathing of synaptic arrangements by astrocytic glia may be one factor which subsequently impedes axon sprouting in older animals.
The maturation of terminal arbors of retino-geniculate axons was studied in normal kittens from 1 to 8 postnatal weeks. Horseradish peroxidase injected into the optic tract rostral to the lateral geniculate nucleus gave a dense fill of cut axons and their terminals, resembling results obtained by the Golgi methods. At 1 and 2 weeks postnatal, the overall size and extent of axon arbors is not significantly different than in the adult. However, terminal branches of axon arbors at this age give rise to high variable endings. They terminate in finely divided sprays of finger-like extensions and filopodia bearing small spikes rather than the characteristic clusters and strands of crenulated terminals of adult axons. The bases of these sprays are broad and irregular in contour, with foliate growth-cone-like structures occurring at the ends of some branches. At 3 weeks postnatal, terminal swellings become thicker and more crenulated in contour. By 5 to 6 weeks, axon arbors have adult-like terminals with respect to their size, shape and arrangement, although entire branches may still be immature with irregular terminal swellings. Small slightly indented terminals are also seen for the first time. By 8 weeks, axon arbors are generally mature, but occasionally have a bizarre and immature arrangement of fine extensions or growth-cone-like tips. Although these observations do not establish whether reduction of branches or of terminals takes place during postnatal maturation, they demonstrate that kitten retino-geniculate axon terminal arbors are highly immature and undergo considerable changes during the period optimal for induction of sprouting by eye enucleation. The morphogenetic maturation of terminal branches that begins at 3 weeks also marks a decline in their sprouting capacity, even though remodeling of terminals is not complete until after 8 weeks of age.
With the electron microscope we have examined the organisation of microtubules in synapses and varicosities of central and peripheral axons and their assembly/disassembly in synaptosomes. Following fixation in a tri-aldehyde fixative containing a calcium ion chelating agent, central synapses and autonomic varicosities show up to 10 microtubule profiles. In synapses, these microtubules are found at one or both poles of the terminal. In autonomic varicosities, microtubules occupy a central zone or are located to one side. Synaptosomes also contain microtubules, probably arranged in the form of a coil. The coil lies in an equatorial plane parallel to the active zone and is closely apposed to the plasma membrane. The microtubules in intact synapses, autonomic varicosities and synaptosomes are frequently associated with mitochondria. Serial section analysis shows that the mitochondrion in synaptosomes is horse-shoe shaped and that presynaptic microtubules are continuous with those in the axon. In synaptosomes, presynaptic microtubules disassemble when exposed to colchicine (IC50 = 3 x 10(-4) M) and low temperatures (1 degree C) and reassemble following warming to 37 degrees C. Reassembly occurs with no other apparent effects on the organisation of the presynaptic terminal. The synaptosomes thus retain the capacity to assemble ordered coils of microtubules. The function of presynaptic microtubules is discussed in the light of the finding that there may be a relation between the number of turns in the microtubular coil and the size of the presynaptic terminal. An explanation is proposed for the relative scarcity of these structures at conventionally prepared synapses.
The membrane potential of isolated rat neurohypophyses and isolated neurosecretosomes (neurosecretory nerve endings) was monitored with the voltage sensitive fluorescent probe diS-C3-(5). K ions, in contrast to Na or Cl ions, give rise to large changes of the fluorescent signal. The fluorescent response is linearly related to log[K+]0 at values higher than 10 mM, whereas at lower [K+]0 the permeability of the membrane for Na ions has to be taken into account. Veratridine increases the fluorescent signal only in the presence of external sodium; this effect is blocked by tetrodotoxin. After prolonged K-induced depolarisation, addition of veratridine to the medium gives a further change in fluorescence of diS-C3-(5) associated with release of vasopressin. Vasopressin release from isolated neurohypophyses started to increase significantly only above 25 mk [K+]0, while the depolarization of the membrane was linearly related to log[K+]0. The results are consistent with the view that neurosecretory nerve endings have voltage-dependent calcium channels that regulate the amount of hormone released during depolarisation.
In anaesthetized cats the role of the medullary reticular formation in discriminative functions was studied. We analysed (1). variability of collective reactions of the reticular neurons (extracellular potential gradients recorded bipolarly in three directions by a tetrad of micropipettes with closely-positioned tips in a small volume of the reticular formation) to the same stimulus, and (2). reactions to heterotopic stimuli. The pattern of the potential gradients generated by the stimulation (electrical, natural) of the same spot on the body surface was constant during the time periods studied (up to 30 min). Responses evoked from reciprocally remote receptor areas were manifestly different, at least in one of the depth profiles investigated. It can be concluded that the reticular formation, through its reactions, can differentiate heterotopic stimuli; in this respect it does not operate as a 'nonspecific' system.
Neonatal rats do not have functional splanchnic nerve connections to the adrenal medulla until approximately one week of postnatal age, yet they are able to respond to some drugs or stresses by releasing adrenal catecholamines. Reserpine (5 mg/kg s.c.) resulted in significant loss (20-40%) of neonatal catecholamines within 4 h; unlike the acute effects of reserpine in the adult, depletion was not prevented by pretreatment with a nicotinic blocking agent, demonstrating that the effect in the neonate is non-neurogenic. Depletion did not result simply from inhibition of catecholamine storage by reserpine, but rather, the non-neurogenic depletion represented net movement of the amines from the storage granules into the extracellular space, as evaluated by the subcellular distribution of catecholamines. These results suggest that the non-neurogenic mechanism represents release of catecholamines. The immature response mechanism disappeared by 11 days of age and was replaced by a completely neurogenic release, demonstrating that the special mechanism is lost within several days of the onset of functional innervation of the adrenal. Experiments also were carried out to test whether endogenous opioids and/or opiate receptors are involved in the non-neurogenic mechanism. Naloxone (5 mg/kg s.c.) potentiated the depletion of catecholamines by reserpine, while methadone (2.5 mg/kg s.c.) inhibited the non-neurogenic response. In contrast, no potentiation of release by naloxone or inhibition by methadone was seen in adult rats. Thus, opiate receptors may modulate only the immature secretory mechanism.
In rats anesthetized with urethane, a stimulating electrode was introduced to the locus coeruleus by observing the antidromic field response to single shock stimulation of the dorsal pathway of noradrenergic axons. Effects of locus coeruleus stimulation were studied on activities of relay neurons and intrinsic interneurons of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and on those of neurons in the perigeniculate reticular nucleus. The intrinsic interneurons and the perigeniculate reticular neurons are believed to exert inhibition upon the relay neurons. The relay neurons were activated by repetitive stimulation of locus coeruleus; spontaneous discharges were increased in rate and the threshold of response to single shock stimulation of the optic nerve was lowered. The activation was rarely seen in rats pretreated with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine. Iontophoretic application of phentolamine, an alpha-blocker, effectively antagonized the activation, whereas an iontophoretic beta-blocker and cholinergic blockers were virtually ineffective. The activation of the relay neurons was suggested to be due to a direct action of noradrenaline, released by locus coeruleus stimulation. Locus coeruleus stimulation inhibited the interneurons and activated the perigeniculate reticular neurons; spontaneous or light-evoked discharges were suppressed in the interneurons and tonic discharges were elicited in the perigeniculate reticular neurons. These effects of locus coeruleus stimulation were mimicked by noradrenaline applied iontophoretically. Activation of the perigeniculate reticular neurons was antagonized by an iontophoretic alpha-blocker but not by a beta-blocker. Two special features emerge from the present results: (1) the locus coeruleus exerts different effects upon the two neuronal constituents of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, excitation of the relay neurons and inhibition of the intrinsic interneurons; (2) a suggestion previously advocated that locus-coeruleus-induced excitation of the lateral geniculate relay neurons would be due to inhibition of inhibitory neurons (disinhibition) does not hold true, at least with respect to the perigeniculate reticular neurons; the latter neurons have been proved to exert a powerful inhibition upon the geniculate relay neurons and they are excited by stimulation of the locus coeruleus.
By employing both in vivo and in vitro labeling techniques, opiate receptors were labeled with tritiated diprenorphine in the monkey brain and localized by light microscopic autoradiography. Both methods of labeling gave similar results, allowing a description of discrete areas having opiate binding sites. High concentrations of opiate receptors were found in the substantia gelatinosa of the spinal cord, nucleus tractus solitarius, area postrema, lateral parabrachial nucleus, substantia grisea centralis, several nuclei of the thalamus and hypothalamus, substantia innominata and in the amygdala. In the monkey pituitary, receptors were found in the neurohypophysis. These results correlate well with those found in autoradiographic studies of the rat brain although there are a few notable differences. Many of the opiate receptor distributions can be correlated with anatomical loci of brain functions known to be influenced by administration of opiate compounds.
The rubro-olivary projection in the cat was investigated by means of the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. After injections in the inferior olive, more than a thousand labelled neurons were found in the ipsilateral red nucleus. These neurons had triangular-shaped cell bodies with an average diameter of 26.4 +/- 7.7 microns (mean +/- S.E.M.) and had few dendrites. Between 85% and 95% of the rubro-olivary neurons were found in the rostral third of the red nucleus (between A 5.5 and A 7). Morphologically, the rubro-olivary neurons are similar to rubro-thalamic neurons. Previous studies with retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase have failed to demonstrate an extensive projection from the red nucleus to the inferior olive. These results are discussed in relation to our own findings.
Processes of magnocellular neurosecretory cells in the rat supraoptic nucleus which project along the pial surface in the ventral glial lamina were investigated using immunocytochemistry, Golgi stains and electron microscopy. Immunocytochemical studies revealed that although both oxytocin- and vasopressin-containing processes were evident in the ventral glial lamina, vasopressin-containing processes predominated. Ventral processes were thicker and of a different morphology than dorsal axon-like processes which joined the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial tract and exhibited large varicosities along their length or at their apparent termination. Golgi stains revealed that classically defined dendrites of supraoptic neurons projected primarily ventrally and often invaded the ventral glial lamina. No axons were traced to the lamina. Ultrastructurally, processes within the ventral glial lamina characterized as dendrites could be stained immunocytochemically for neurophysin and were post-synaptic to a variety of presynaptic elements. The results suggest that many dendrites from magnocellular neurosecretory cells in the supraoptic nucleus project to the ventral glial lamina and form a restricted, receptive plexus. The previously demonstrated coexistence of catecholamine-containing varicosities and other axon types with these processes in the lamina indicates an important role for supraoptic dendrites in integrating a wide variety of information relevant to neurohypophysial hormone release.
The origin of substance P-containing fibres in the inferior mesenteric ganglion of the guinea-pig was studied by combining retrograde tracing and indirect immunofluorescence techniques. 'True Blue' or propidium iodide was injected into the inferior mesenteric ganglion. Four days later the animals were perfused with formalin and the dorsal root ganglia L2 and L3 were dissected out. Sections of the spinal ganglia were cut on a cryostat and analysed in a fluorescence microscope with appropriate filter combinations and subsequently processed for indirect immunofluorescence using antiserum to substance P. Several ganglion cells containing both dye (True Blue or propidium iodide) and substance P-like immunoreactivity were observed, strongly supporting the view that at least some of the substance P fibres in the inferior mesenteric ganglion are of sensory nature. Taken together with physiological results from other workers, the present findings suggest that substance P can be released from peripheral, sensory nerve endings, inducing changes in the membrane potential of sympathetic neurons.
With the indirect immunofluorescence technique, the localization (including the postnatal ontogeny) of substance P in the cerebellum, and the ways of entry of substance P-containing fibers into the cerebellum were explored. In the newborn rat cerebellum, dense fiber bands of axons with substance P-like immunoreactivity which can be traced to the lower brain stem are found. These fibers are also traceable to the developing granular cell layer. Two weeks after birth, however, substance P-containing structures seen in the cerebellum begin to decrease progressively and in the cerebellum of the adult rats, only a small amount of substance P-containing structures is observed. The present study established that substance P-containing fibers are mostly derived from extracerebellar substance P-containing cells and demonstrated the presence of three sites of entry of these substance P-containing fibers to the cerebellum, via (1) the inferior cerebellar peduncle, (2) the fasciculus uncinatus and (3) the middle cerebellar peduncle, respectively. Following deafferentation of the cerebellum, substance P-accumulating fibers are observed only ventral to the lesion (i.e. on the brain stem side), while in the cerebellum a remarkable decrease of substance P-containing fibers is seen and no substance P-accumulating fibers are found dorsal to the lesion (cerebellar side).
Both systemic and intrathecal capsaicin release and deplete substance P from primary sensory afferents and induce prolonged chemical and thermal analgesia. Given the existence of efferents containing substance P together with a pain-inhibitory serotoninergic pathway, the present study investigated the effects of intraventricular capsaicin upon basal nociception, analgesic responsivity to opiates and substance P immunoreactivity. Following treatment with capsaicin at doses of 25, 50 and 100 micrograms or with vehicle, alterations in basal rodent flinch-jump thresholds as well as analgesic responses to 5 and 2.5 mg/kg of morphine were measured over a post-injection time course. Tissues were then processed for immunocytochemistry for substance P according to the unlabelled antibody peroxidase antiperoxidase procedure. Decreases were noted in jump thresholds only at 72 h following capsaicin. Moreover, morphine analgesia at both doses was attenuated in dose-dependent fashion following capsaicin with the highest dose (100 micrograms) producing a significant decrease in analgesic efficacy. Substance P-like immunoreactivity in capsaicin-treated rats was not appreciably depleted compared with vehicle controls in the substantia gelatinosa of the spinal cord and V cranial nerve, the raphe magnus and periaqueductal gray, the medullary, pontine and mesencephalic reticular formation, the substantia nigra, the corpus striatum and the central nucleus of the amygdala. By contrast, substance P-like immunoreactivity appeared to increase in the medial nucleus of the amygdala. In the absence of depletion of substance P immunoreactivity by the intraventricular capsaicin, the observed alterations in opiate analgesic responses may possibly be due to alterations in other transmitters or peptide systems.
Perinatal factors causing distress or trauma to the neonate are often linked to behavioral abnormalities in development and later life; however, little is known of the long-term effects of these experiences on neurotransmitter systems. This study used carbon monoxide exposure to produce a slow onset and recovery hypoxic episode of two hours in 5-day-old rat pups. This required placement of the pups in a hypothermic environment (air exposure) isolated from the dam so the effects of this distressing experience were also studied. When the brains of these animals were assayed at adulthood, air exposure was found to have increased dopamine and reduced 5-hydroxytryptamine levels in the frontal cortex. Norepinephrine levels were reduced in both midbrain and pons-medulla but the 5-hydroxytryptamine level was increased in midbrain. Hypoxia, induced with carbon monoxide, prevented changes in 5-hydroxytryptamine levels in cortex and brain stem and modified effects on norepinephrine. However, hypoxia resulted in significant decreases in striatal dopamine levels accompanied in females by increased norepinephrine and 5-hydroxytryptamine levels. The data reported here indicate that neonatal distress can have considerable impact on developing neurotransmitter systems. Furthermore, brain region and sex influence the outcome. Carbon monoxide-induced hypoxia, under the same conditions, produced a different pattern of change with particular predeliction for the striatum. Again there were regional and sex differences in the neurotransmitter effects. It is concluded that this hypoxic model may be valuable in the study of developmental disorders.
An interdisciplinary clinical neurosciences delegation representing the International Committee of the Congress of Neurological Surgeons visited the neurosurgical departments of major teaching hospitals in five cities of the People's Republic of China. This report describes the clinical and research activities observed, with reference to the unique social, political, economic, and cultural environment in China. Although facilities and equipment are limited, diagnostic accuracy and surgical technique are excellent. Results for certain disorders seemed comparable to those obtained in western neurosurgical centers. Given the clinical expertise of our Chinese colleagues and the large numbers of cases treated in Chinese medical centers, a significant contribution to neurosurgical knowledge can be expected from the exchange of information and future collaboration that have now become possible.
The relationship between tissue oxygen partial pressure (pO2) values and electrical activities of guinea pig olfactory cortical slices were investigated as the slices were superfused with Krebs-Ringer's solution equilibrated with different gas mixtures. The pO2 values were measured in the slices with oxygen microelectrodes (tip diameter less than 1 micrometer). 1. Studies of pO2 measurements showed the variability of minimum pO2 value of oxygen profiles in the tissue slice. The profile depends on the pO2 value of the superfusate and on the thickness and the oxygen consumption of the slice. With our experimental conditions an anoxic area developed in the middle layers of the slice when the thickness of the slice exceeded ca. 430 micrometers; in thinner slices there was no anoxic area. In our case the limiting section thickness of the slice was ca.430 micrometers from the viewpoint of tissue pO2 value. 2. The N potential (extra-cellularly recorded EPSP) showed a tendency to decrease in amplitude, for slices being thicker than ca 430 micrometers. It would seem reasonable to think that the decrement of the N potential was brought about by the existence of the anoxic area. 3. When the slice was bubbled with 25, 45 or 95% O2, the tissue pO2 value changed, and the N potential height also changed. The N potential was higher in amplitude when bubbled with 95% O2 than with 25% O2. On the other hand, the amplitude of the IS potential (the lateral olfactory tract potential) was not influenced as much as that of the N potential by the change of tissue pO2 value in the slice. 4. The tissue pO2 value was continuously measured during the electrical stimulation of the lateral olfactory tract. The steady state level of tissue pO2 value obtained during the stimulation diminished as the frequency of stimulation increased from 5-30 Hz.


The plasma membranes of astrocytes and oligondendrocytes in the white matter of the cat were studied with the freeze-fracturing technique. The intramembrane particle profiles differ in the two type of cell. Orthogonal, small particle assembles and isolated globular particles 5-18 nm in diameter characterize the astrocytic plasmalemma, whereas the plasma membrane of oligodendrocytes shows large, tall globular particles, small globular particles, small ellipsoidal particles and previously undescribed, thin, short, rectilinear strands composed of fused subunits. Using these distinct differential features we can identify partners of glial cell junctions. We confirm the existence of interastrocytic gap junctions. Moreover, we identify numerous heterologous gap junctions between astrocytes and oligodendrocytic cell bodies, processes and the outer turn of myelin sheaths. Interoligodendrocytic gap junctions are not observed. Adjacent oligodendrocytes, however, form tight junctions consisting of linear P face strands and rows of particles; tight junctions are a reliable marker for oligodendroglial membranes. Connexons of interastrocytic gap junctions are packed in a crystalline array, while astrocyte-oligodendrocyte junctional connexons are closely packed but not crystalline. This study indicates that gap junctions between glial cells are pleomorphic and non-randomly distributed. The junctions between astrocytes and those between astrocytes and oligodendrocytes may had different roles in interglial and neuron-glia cooperation.
The effect of intramuscular administration of a mixture of gangliosides (21% GM1, 39.7% GD1a, 16% GD1b, 19% GT1) in a daily of 50 mg per kg upon the time course of changes in hippocampal acetylcholinesterase and choline acetyltransferase activities after extensive medioventral septal lesions in the rat was checked on days 3, 5, 18 and 50 after the operation. Following the early decrease in the enzyme activities to about 25% of control due to degeneration, a gradual recovery up to about 50% of control activity at the 50th day was found. When gangliosides were administered, the recovery in the activity of both enzyme was more pronounced. The ratio of the enzyme activities from the animals injected with gangliosides to that from uninjected animals was 1.45 and 1.48 on the 18th day and 1.62 and 1.50 on the 50th day after the operation, for choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase activity, respectively. Since no significant effect of ganglioside injection was seen at early post-operative times i.e. on days 3 and 5, the effects seen on days 18 and 50 seem to be specifically due to facilitation of the recovery processes and not to retardation of the degeneration processes. Assuming that the spontaneous recovery of cholinergic enzyme activity reflects reinnervation of the hippocampus through collateral sprouting gangliosides would seen to facilitate the regrowth of new cholinergic nerve terminals.
The histochemical fluorescence technique for the demonstration of monoamines in the central nervous system was employed to assess the distribution of serotonin-containing neurons within the brain stem of the immature and adult stump-tailed macaque (Macaca arctoides). Microspectrofluorometric analysis was performed in order to verify the existence of serotonin within perikarya which contained yellow histofluorescence. Serotonin-containing perikarya were found with raphe nuclei including nucleus raphe-pallidus, -obscurus, -points, -magnus, -dorsalis, and -centralis superioralis. Serotoninergic perikarya did not appear confined exclusively to the raphe, but were observed in the reticular formation and other brain stem nuclei including the locus coeruleus and nucleus subcoeruleus. Serotoninergic cells were not seen within the brain stem at superior collicular levels. The localization of serotoninergic perikarya in regions other than the raphe nuclei presents certain dissimilarities in relation reported in other mammalian species.
The relation between figural and kimematic aspects of movement was studied in handwriting and drawing. It was found that, throughout the movement, the tangential velocity. V is proportional to the radius of curvature r of the trajectory: V= kr, or, equivalently, that the angular velocity is constant: dalpha(t)/dt = K. However, the constant k generally takes several distinct values during the movement, the changes being abrupt. These changes suggest a clear segmentation of the movement into units of action which overlap but do not coincide with the figural units as defined by the discontinuities of the movement (cuspids, points of inflection). This organisational principle holds even when movements are mechanically constrained or are executed under strict visuo-motor guidance. Moreover, the segmentation of a given trajectory is invariant with respect to the total duration of the movement. A tentative interpretation of the principle is proposed which results from the assumption that the actual movement is produced as a continuous approximation to an intended movement, and that the well known relationship between movement speed and extent in rectilinear trajectories (Fitts' law) also applies to such continuous approximation.
The conduction of trains of action potentials in myelinated fibers was studied using computer simulations based on a modification of the Hodgkin-Huxley equations. Stimulation at short but regular interstimulus intervals caused some stimuli to fail to elicit propagated action potentials. Propagated impulse trains observed close to the stimulation site, elicited by high frequency stimulus trains, took the form of &quot;clusters&quot; of impulses, e.g. doublets or triplets. When these impulse trains were observed at distances farther from the stimulation site, interspike intervals were more uniform. For interstimulus intervals of less than 10 ms, distant intervals between impulses were relatively insensitive to the temporal patterning of impulses at the initiation zone and tended toward regular intervals corresponding to the average interstimulus intervals for propagated stimuli. This tendency toward uniform intervals between impulses was also observed for lower average frequency stimulus trains with irregular interstimulus intervals. Moreover, for the first two stimuli in a train, there was a very tendency toward impulse entrainment. These results indicate that intervals between impulses along unbranched myelinated axons are not fixed, but vary according to the site along the conduction pathway where they are observed. The tendency toward entrainment, and regularization of intervals, may represent a factor limiting the frequency with which interval-coded impulses are initiated.
Changes in the distribution of 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactivity have been examined in enteric neurons at various times after microsurgical lesions of the enteric plexuses. In the myenteric plexus, varicose immunoreactive nerve fibres disappeared or were reduced in number in ganglia anal to an interruption of the myenteric plexus. Up to about 2 mm on the anal side, all varicose immunoreactive fibers disappeared from the ganglia. At about 14-16 mm below an interruption, there were about 50% of the normal number of fibres in the myenteric ganglia and at about 24 mm the innervation was normal. In the submucosa, fibres immunoreactive for 5-hydroxytryptamine were absent from an area on the anal side following interruption of the myenteric plexus. From consideration of the pattern of disappearance, it is deduced that some myenteric nerve cell bodies send immunoreactive axons in an anal direction to supply submucous ganglia. The axons run for about 8 mm in the myenteric plexus, enter the submucosa and then run for a further 4 mm approximately. Thus, varicose fibres immunoreactive for 5-hydroxytryptamine, which occur around the enteric ganglion cells of both plexuses arise from nerve cell bodies in myenteric ganglia than send their axons in an anal direction.
To determine the time course of development of neurotransmission in the sympathetic ganglion of the rat, pre- and postganglionic activity was recorded from the cervical sympathetic trunk in anesthetized neonatal and mature preparations. Tonic activity and responses to two stimuli, cellular hypoglycemia induced by 2-deoxyglucose and asphyxia, which are known to evoke CNS-mediated sympathetic activation in mature rats were measured. In 2-11-day-old neonates, tonic preganglionic activity recorded from the cervical sympathetic nerve and responses to hypoglycemia and asphyxia were comparable to or greater than that in mature rats. In 17-19-day-old neonates these variables were elevated to twice the adult value. In contrast, tonic postganglionic activity recorded from the internal carotid nerve was barely detectable through 5 days of age and there was no response to hypoglycemia. During asphyxia, maximum postganglionic impulse frequency and total number of impulses discharged were 10-20% of the mature value through the 5th postnatal day and the duration of the postganglionic response was only 25% of the preganglionic response. Tonic postganglionic activity and response to stimuli were equivalent to those in mature rats by the 10th postnatal day. The compound action potential evoked in the postganglionic axons by direct electrical stimulation was comparable in 4-5 and 10-13 day-old rats. In the concluded that functional ganglionic neurotransmission is established in the neonatal rat between the 5th and 10th postnatal day. The relation between biochemical changes associated with maturation of the postganglionic neuron, ganglionic synaptogenisis and neurotransmission is discussed. It is concluded that synaptogenisis and onset of neurotransmission are causally associated with development of CNS regulation of postganglionic activity and end organ response rather than with maturation of the postganglionic neuron and that cholinergic excitation of the postganglionic neuron adequate to evoke action potentials is not essential to initiate maturation of the neuron.

Immunoreactive nerve cell bodies and fibres in the intestine have been examined using three antibody preparations raised against 5-hydroxytryptamine. Cross reactivity studies indicate that the substance localized was an hydroxylated indoleamine. In the guinea-pig small intestine, nerve cell bodies were located in the myenteric plexus and varicose fibres were found in the ganglia of the myenteric and submucous plexus. The nerve cell bodies had prominent short, broad processes and a single long process. Similar nerve cells and fibres were found in the guinea-pig stomach and large intestine and areas of intestine that were examined in mice, rabbits and rats. Properties of the neurons were examined in the small intestine of the guinea-pig. The immunoreactive material was depleted by treatment with reserpine, but not by guanethidine or 6-hydroxydopamine in dose sufficient to deplete noradrenaline stores in axons in the intestine. No depletion of 5-hydroxytryptamine by the neurotoxin 5, 7-dihydroxytryptamine was observed. After depletion by reserpine, immunoreactivity of the neurons could be restored by application in vitro of 5-hydroxytryptamine, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine or 5-hydroxytryptophan. The restoration by 5-hydroxytryptophan was prevented by the inhibitor of L-aminoacid decarboxylase, benserazide. After reserpine treatment, immunoreactivity was not restored by tryptophan. Uptake of 5, 7-dihydroxytryptamine into the nerves was antagonized by fluoxetine. The distribution of neurons with 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactivity was compared with the distribution of enteric amine-handling neurons that take up and decarboxylate L-dopa. This comparison indicated that there are two classes of aromatic amine neuron in the guinea-pig small intestine, the enteric 5-HT neurons and enteric, non-5-HT, amine handling neurons.
Actin antibodies were purified by affinity chromatography from the serum of rabbits immunized with actin isolated from bovine skeletal myofibrils. By the indirect immunofluorescence technique the pattern of organization of actin was studied in cultured astroglial cells prepared from cerebral hemispheres of newborn rats. Labelling with monospecifc actin antibody revealed that the flat epitheloid astrocytes contained bundles of actin fibres arranged in characteristic patterns. Actin fibres disaggregated in round cells produced by trypsinization and reorganized when cells returned to their elongate or polygonal form. The retraction of cell bodies produced by treatment with cytochalasin B was associated with the disappearance of actin filament bundles. Reversion to the former flattened morphology and organization of fibres occurred after removal of the drug. In response to either dibutyryl adenosine 3'5'-monophosphate, 3-isobutyl-l-methylxanthine, rat brain extract or to lesser extent to norepinephrine, flat epitheloid cells took on a stellate appearance with extensive processes, resembling more closely mature astrocytes. The conversion of flat epitheloid cells into stellate cells was associated with the disappearance of immunofluorescent fibres and the appearance of diffuse immunofluorescence indicating the structural reorganization of actin from a highly organized fibrillar state into a loosely organized actin network. It is concluded that the respect to actin patterns, the behaviour of flat epithelioid astrocytes in culture does not differ from that of culture non-muscle cells of mesenchymal origin. The pattern of organization of actin in stellate process-bearing astrocytes is compatible with the involvement of actin in typical astroglial motility and in establishment of characteristic stellate shape.
In Octopus vulgaris, the projections of the afferent fibers from, and the locations of cell bodies of the efferent fibers of, the nerve innervating and macula (statocyst gravity receptor epithelium) were studied within the CNS using iontophoretic whole nerve injection of either cobalt chloride or Lucifer Yellow CH.13 Afferent fibers from the macula nerve project to subesophageal, periesophageal and supraesophageal areas of the brain. Large numbers of such fibers were found in the subeosophageal lateral pedal and posterior lateral pedal lobes, palliovisceral lobe, and the magnocellular commissure. Afferent fibers were also found in the periesophageal ventral and dorsal magnocellular lobes. Supraesophageal macular nerve afferent projections were seen to the peduncle lobe and the ipsilateral median basal lobe. There is evidence for two different macular nerve afferent projections to the contralateral median basal lobe, via and suprapedal commissure and the macula-to-contralateral-median-basal-lobe tract. Evidence is presented for the location of at least some of the macula's efferent fiber's cell bodies in the lateral and posterior lateral pedal lobes, and magnocellular lobes. The differences between the results obtained here with the two different staining methods are discussed. The results imply that processing of static information occurs in many areas of the Octopus CNS, and is much more complex than previously thought. Some of the possible physiological consequences are considered.
Substance P-like immunoreactivity was localized by an indirect immunohistochemical technique in whole mounts and sections of blood vessels from the guinea-pig. There was a widespread association of nerve fibres that had substance P-like immunoreactivity with blood vessels, extending into all vascular beds. The relative densities of supply of different vessels were assessed visually and a rating scale used to compare them. Large elastic arteries close to the heart had dense networks of immunoreactive nerves associated with them. The density decreased as more peripheral beds were approached, except that there was a particularly dense network of nerves with arteries of the splanchnic beds. Arteries to myocardial, central nervous system, renal, reproductive and skeletal muscle beds all had substance P-immunoreactive nerves associated with them to varying extents. The venae cavae near the heart were densely supplied, but there were few fibres with their more peripheral extensions. Some large veins (e.g. pulmonary, hepatic portal and superior mesenteric) had a few fibres with them, but veins of peripheral vascular beds had very few or no immunoreactive nerve fibres. Substance P-like immunoreactivity in vascular nerves was markedly reduced in guinea-pigs that were injected with capsaicin but was unaffected by the injection of 6-hydroxydopamine. It is concluded that the vascular substance P-immunoreactive nerves are likely to be of sensory origin.
Quantitative light and electron microscopy, together with Golgi methodology, were used to study alterations in retino-fugal terminals and postsynaptic neurons within the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the rat at various intervals following inhibition of axoplasmic transport in the optic nerve induced by intraocular injections of colchicine from 1-20 days postnatal. Colchicine concentrations used in this study ranged from 10-5 M-10-2 M. These were selected on the basis of our measurements of axon transport suppression described in the preceding article. 61. The volume of the nucleus was determined by section planimetry and reconstruction. Growth of the contralateral dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus was significantly retarded by intraocular colchicine at 1 and 5 days of age, only achieving a volume of between 61-75% of the normal or the control (ipsilateral) nucleus depending upon dosage. Application of colchicine at 10 days of age resulted in minimal stunting of nuclear growth, (79-93% of normal). Mean numbers of neurons in the contralateral and ipsilateral nucleus remained stable throughout all postnatal ages examined suggesting that nuclear volume loss was caused principally by a reduction in the amount of neuropil. Golgi impregnation displayed dendritic stunting in relay neurons characterized by narrowing of the portion of the shaft between 40-80 micrometer from the soma and a reduced incidence of spinous protrusions, particularly those shown by other studies to engage the retino-fungal terminal. 27,69 A concomitant Sholl76 analysis of dendritic branching in relay neurons demonstrated no significant differences in the number of intersections between normal and experimental nuclei. No alterations were observed in intrinsic neurons. Electron microscopy of postsynaptic neurons following concentrations ranging from 10-4 M at birth revealed altered patterns of granular endoplasmic reticulum in many cells characterized by reduced numbers of cisternae and scattered instances of cisternal dilation, together with enhanced infolding of the nuclear membrane at 20 days postnatal. Those animals which were given 5 X 10-3 M-10-2 M colchicine demonstrated an increased incidence of cisternal dilation, loss of ribosomes, disruption of the nuclear membrane and occasionally, complete degeneration. A similar array of alterations took place following intraocular injection at 5 days of age; however, animals receiving colchicine at 10 days postnatal displayed minimal alterations in relay neurons. Synaptic glomeruli, which contain the retinofugal terminal, displayed dose and age-dependent reduction in the size of the presynaptic element of the complex following intraocular colchicine, together with fewer post-synaptic spinous protrusions. Synaptic vesicles remained normal in appearance and distribution and our quantitative analysis demonstrated no loss of such terminals in accordance with colchicine concentrations which were previously found not to be lethal to retinal ganglion cells and optic axons.
Developmental alterations in the amount of tritiated proline and fucose incorporated by retinal neurons and transported within axons of the optic nerve to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and superior colliculus were measured at 1, 5, 10 and 15 days postnatal using quantitative autoradiography and liquid scintillation analysis. The amount of axon transport inhibition induced by introacular injections of colchicine (10-4 M-5 X 10-3M) and xylocaine (10-3 M-10-1 M) was also determined by this methodology. Grain counts of retinal autoradiograms obtained from animals of all ages employed in this study demonstrated that [3H] proline is rapidly incorporated by all retinal neurons but becomes increasingly concentrated within the inner nuclear, ganglion cell and optic fiber layers between 2h and 2 days after injection. [3H] fucose is preferentially taken up and concentrated within the plexiform and sensory element layers. Intraocular colchicine administered 24 h prior to isotope injection exhibited no significant effect on incorporation but depressed the amount of activity in the layer of optic fibers. Comparison of the effects of colchicine and xylocaine on axon transport of [3H] proline injected at 3 days of age revealed dose-dependent suppression of transport occurring up to six hr after isotope injection; however, with longer survival periods the effects of xylocaine were no longer significant whereas colchicine maintained suppression of axon transport to 20% of normal for periods of up to 10 days. Additionally, the rate and quantity of 3H] proline transported to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and tectum of 1-15 day old animals was found to be inversely proportional to the age of the animal. Maximally-effective concentrations of colchicine, determined for each age level examined by the previous study to be highest compatible with the viability of the retino-fugal projection, 34 also reduced transport to from 20-40% of normal, being most effective in animals of 1-10 days of age. Autoradiographs of the optic disc demonstrated a colchicine-induced suppression of the amount of label in the exiting optic fibers and similar preparations of the tectum revealed an elimination of activity in the stratum griseum superficialis and stratum opticum which are normally heavily labeled following intraocular [3H] proline or fucose. Following [3H] fucose injection at 10 days of age, isotope appears in the contralateral visual cortex between 3 and 10 days later, indicating a substantial amount of transneuronal transfer of label which appeared to occur in concert with periods of maximal synaptogenesis. Injection of colchicine reduced the amount of label in the cortex to background levels. Concomitantly, autoradiographs of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus revealed cytoplasmic labeling of geniculate neurons in control animals but this was eliminated following colchicine injection...
In order to study the role of axonal transport in the mediation of transneuronal metabolic stimulations upon a population of differentiating neurons, colchicine, a potent inhibitor of rapid and slow phases of axonal transport, was injected into the eye of albino rats at 1, 3, 5, 10, 15 and 20 days postnatal in concentrations ranging from 10-5 M to 2 X 10-2 M and in quantities of 0.3 to 0.5 microliter. Quantitative light and electron microscopy were subsequently employed to assess reactive alterations in the developing retina and optic nerve. Application of colchicine severely retarded the development of the sensory elements, with disappearance of synaptic ribbons of sensory cell axons, a significant reduction in the thickness of the inner plexiform layer, due to the presence of numerous shruken synaptic elements and the appearance of rosettes of sensory cells displaced to the inner nuclear layer. These alterations were found to be dose-dependent. Counts of ganglion cell populations at various times after application of colchicine demonstrated optimal concentrations which could be injected at each postnatal age without causing ganglion cell degeneration. Ultrastructural examination of such cells revealed varying degrees of disorganization and dissolution of the endoplasmic reticulum with the formation of occasional small cytoplasmic vacuoles. Higher concentrations of colchicine caused extensive vacuole formation in all classes of retinal neurons, scattered hyperchromic cells and widespread degeneration and autolysis. The diameter of the optic nerve was reduced to 60-95% of normal following intraocular colchicine, depending on the concentration employed, but electron microscopy revealed normal patterns of distribution of axoplasmic microtubules and filaments in control and experimental animals and quantitative analysis revealed no significant loss of axons. While no reactive changes took place in individual elements, the periphery of the nerve was often indented by a highly-folded glia limitans. Maximal doses of intraocular colchicine for each age level were established by this study. These were: 1 day. 10-3 M: 5 days, 5 x 10-3 M; 10 days, 5 X 10-3 M; 15 and 20 days, 10-2 M. The information derived from this morphological analysis provides the foundation for subsequent measurements of axonal transport inhibition in the developing visual system to be reported in the second article of this series.
The indirect immunofluorescence technique was used to demonstrate the coexistence of somatostatin together with avian pancreatic polypeptide-like immunoreactivity within certain neurons of the rat forebrain. Numerous neurons containing these peptides were observed in the neocortex, hippocampus, olfactory tubercle, striatum, nucleus accumbens and lateral septum. In studies of serial sections stained alternately for these two peptides, and in restaining experiments, It could be determined that in many neurons in these areas these two peptides coexisted. In other brain areas such as the anterior periventricular hypothalamus, somatostatin cells were never found to contain avian pancreatic polypeptide-like immunoreactivity. Also, within the pancreas these two peptides were never found to coexist in the same cells. The findings represent a further example of the coexistence of more than one neuropeptide within a single neuron.



The surgical records at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bangalore, revealed 75 cases of spinal epidural malignant tumours operated on in a period of 8 years (1972-1980). Of these, 21 cases (30.4%) were labelled as &quot;primary&quot; spinal lymphomas, with no evidence of any systemic lymphomatous deposit anywhere in the body at the time of surgery. An analysis of their clinical behaviour, treatment, histological classification, and prognosis showed that a (majority of the patients had lower limb weakness and localized pain at the site of lesion as the presenting clinical symptom, b) laminectomy with decompression of the tumour followed by radiotherapy was the treatment of choice, c) histologically mixed histiocytic lymphocytic variety of lymphoma was commonest, and d) six survivors had a histiocytic lymphocytic lymphoma, suggesting a better prognosis associated with this type.

There are conflicting data concerning the efficacy of clonidine in TS. Some TS patients, probably 50% or more, experience substantial, long-term symptomatic improvement with minimal side effects. However, their profile of response is often variable, with behavioral symptoms appearing to show the most consistent improvement. Maximal benefit may not be evident for 4 to 6 months. A minority of patients do not respond, and a few worsen on clonidine. The need for additional double-blind trials is clear. Additional metabolic and pharmacologic investigations are needed to understand the determinants of the response of TS patients to clonidine. The response to acute doses of clonidine on sedation, growth hormone release, blood pressure, and plasma MHPG levels may be predictive of eventual therapeutic response. The variable response to clonidine, however, suggests that noradrenergic mechanisms in TS may not be of primary pathogenic importance. The study of interactions between neurochemical systems may help illuminate the pathophysiology of TS and lead the way to improved treatment of this disabling condition.







Cerebral asymmetry in man has by and large been interpreted in terms of differences at the level of hemispheric organization. The inadequacy of a hemispheric interpretation as a biological account of asymmetry is discussed and a model of the neural mechanisms of cerebral asymmetry is developed. The model focuses on the functional organization of the inferior parietal cortex in human and non-human primates and accounts for the evolution and expression of cerebral asymmetry in man in terms of specific adaptations in select neural systems of ancestral primate brains.





A language (LESK) is described which allows one to make mainly qualitative declarations of the essential terminology and facts in some technical subject. LESK is essentially first order predicate calculus, made to look like natural language. A LESK system, now partially implemented in PROLOG, allows one to enter declarations and assertions, check consistency, and deductively answer predominately generic, universally quantified questions. An extensive example is presented in which LESK is used to describe neurophysiological knowledge about the stretch reflex.

A preliminary report is given of a study in 10 normal subjects comparing the laterality of the P90 component of the PVEP as elicited by pattern reversal and pattern appearance stimuli delivered monocularly and binocularly in the central and peripheral portions of one-life field. P90 was shown often to appear maximally over the hemisphere ipsilateral to the stimulus field with pattern reversal stimuli in central targets viewed monocularly. Pattern appearance, peripheral targets and binocular stimulation provoked less consistently lateralized and sometimes differently configured responses. It is concluded that while all combinations provoked responses consistent with a dipole generator model similar to that proposed by Blumhardt et al. (1978), these different modes of stimulation cannot be considered to be equivalent.


Wilder Penfield's early studies with Sherrington, Hortega and Foerster led to his life-long studies on the surgical treatment of focal epilepsy. Working with a succession of neurosurgical associates, Penfield contributed a continuing stream of observations on responses of the human cerebral cortex to electrical stimulation. These characterized the detailed topographical distribution of the primary and secondary sensory and motor areas, and the representation of language function in the inferior frontal, superior frontal and temporo-parietal cortex. He defined the role of the hippocampi and the lateral temporal cortex in memory. From these findings, he postulated the centrencephalic integrating system, as a basis for explaining diffuse bilateral seizure activity, and the mechanism of consciousness.
Electrical stimulation of the human brain is one of the most exciting chapters in the story of experimental neurobiology. Since the first reported case of brain stimulation in a patient, by Bartholow in 1874, much progress has been made in this field. Today's methods of stimulation are much more subtle, and sophisticated methods for the assessment of the patient's experiences are used, as is shown by the following papers. The object of this issue is to provide an overview of the recent work in this field and to outline the influences it has, or should have, on our functional concepts of the human brain.
A patient having two schizophrenic brothers developed simple writer's cramp at the age of 20 years. Three years later she developed irregular and unusual movements which was diagnosed and treated as hysteria until she had contractures in the right hand. EMG studies revealed abnormalities suggestive of torsion dystonia. The association of schizophrenia in the first degree relatives and the differential responses to haloperidol in this case of torsion dystonia has been discussed.
Lithium T has been determined from Lp decay. It is clear that calculation of a single T from Lp decay is essentially incorrect as the decay is not exponential. The same data points have been analysed on a kinetic model yielding 3 different half lives too. The implication of the study is that the plasma and the erythrocyte systems undergo many local steady states instead of any global steady state. The rate of movement of Li (+) across plasma and erythrocyte undergoes fluctuations and may exhibit many more different half lives over a time period in either direction.



The contractile properties and activity patterns of single thyroarytenoid motor units were determined by stimulating and recording from their motoneuron axons within the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Most micropipette penetrations were within the myelin sheaths of axons but were functionally similar to actual axon impalements with respect to activation and recording of action potentials. Sheath penetrations were, however, less damaging to axons and were preferred for that reason. A myelin sheath approach combined the advantages of commonly used extra-axonal and intracellular methods for studying motor unit properties without their disadvantages. Specifically, the technique was stable, noninjurious in nature, and ensured stimulation and recording from the same motoneuron.
A method for measuring the time-course and magnitude of changes in rat hind leg muscle tone in vivo is described in detail. The rat is held in a restraining box and the apparatus pushes each hindpaw from behind a distance of 1 cm and measures the force required to briefly hold each leg in the displaced position. The push-relax cycle is repeated every 45 s. Identical measurements were obtained from the 2 hind legs. Experimental results are presented to demonstrate the potential of the technique for investigating the effects of drugs on muscle tone. Morphine, which is known to cause rigidity, increased the force required to displace the hind legs. Muscle tone was reduced in rats that were lightly anaesthetized.


A matrix of photoetched gold conductors integrated into the floor of a tissue culture chamber has been used to record from mammalian spinal cord neurons grown on the insulation layer of the multielectrode plate. Spontaneous activity has been monitored from tissue microfragments less than 150 micrometers in diameter and from thin sheets of spinal cell aggregates. Maximum spike amplitudes of 360 microV with signal-to-noise ratios of 8:1 have so far been achieved and the spontaneous activity maintained for several days. Recording electrode impedances measured between 4 and 7 M omega at 1 kHz. Conductor tips were deinsulated with laser pulses that formed shallow craters 2 micrometers deep and 12 micrometers in diameter. Addition of colloidal gold or platimum black was not necessary to achieve satisfactory recordings.
In the last few years quite powerful complete computer systems have become available that fill many laboratory needs at low cost (US $3000-10,000). This development is based on the use of microcomputers, which now have capabilities that were previously associated with minicomputers. Due to the rapidly expanding use of microcomputers, a very large software base has been developed. As a result it is now feasible to use a microcomputer in the laboratory for signal averaging, controlling experiments, data analysis and reduction, printing and storage of results, plotting of graphs, curve fitting, statistics and word-processing. These applications of a microcomputer can make some other laboratory equipment unnecessary, thus providing substantial savings on items such as analog tape recorders, strip chart recorders, and stimulus generators.

The use of evoked potentials for the evaluation of disorders of the nervous system has become a most valuable aid to the neurosurgeon and neurologist, often providing information of critical value without recourse to invasive techniques. In order to employ these techniques, it is helpful to understand the principles of evoked potential electrogenesis and the methodology used for analysis of evoked potential clinical data. This article is aimed at providing the clinical neurosurgeon with this type of information and with a review of current clinical applications in this rapidly developing field.
We have estimated the distribution of conduction velocities (DCV) of large myelinated fibers in the median nerves of 10 normal subjects and a patient with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) who had a de-efferented hand, using three different computer-based methods: a 2CAP method, which tests both motor and sensory nerve fibers; and 2MAP and CMAP methods, which test only the alpha motor fibers. The magnitudes of the parameters DCVmax, DCVmean, DCVpeak, and DCVrange all were very similar in the two motor estimations, but all were significantly higher (P less than 0.001 in each case) in the mixed nerve estimates; the differences presumably represent the properties of the faster-conducting sensory fiber population. The 2CAP DCV from the de-efferented nerve resembled those from normal mixed nerve. Compared with DCV analysis, conventional measures of maximal motor and sensory CV were found to be relatively poor indices of the conduction properties of their respective large, myelinated, nerve fiber populations.


The characteristics of (3)H-dihydroalprenolol ((3)H-DHA) binding to mounted tissue sections of rat brain were studied. The binding had all the characteristics of a beta-receptor. It was reversible, saturable (K(D) 2.3 nM, B(max) 23 fmol/mg tissue, wet wt) and was inhibited only by beta-adrenergic drugs. The forebrain binding had the properties of a beta-1 receptor, while cerebellar binding had beta-2 characteristics. Beta-adrenergic receptors were widely distributed in the rat brain. High concentrations were localized in the superficial layers of the neocortex, in the caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercles, substantia nigra, nucleus interpeduncularis, subiculum and pia mater. Areas containing intermediate concentrations of receptors included the cerebellum, hippocampus and thalamus. Areas containing low concentrations of receptors included the hypothalamus, amygdala, brainstem and medulla. Co-incubation with low concentrations of zinterol to preferentially block beta-2 receptor resulted in an inhibition of most of the binding to the cerebellum and pia matter and produced only a small and generalized decrease in the rest of the brain. Beta receptors were found in many areas known to contain noradrenergic nerve terminals. Paradoxically some areas with high densities of dopaminergic nerve terminals, had high densities of receptors. Results of electrophysiologica and lesion studies are also discussed.




The electrical impedance of isolated chick and toad retinas were measured in the absence of, and during, spreading depression, using sinusoidal measuring currents ranging from 10 to 50,000 Hz. Data obtained in the absence of the reaction indicate an electric heterogeneity of the tissue and suggest that at least two groups of cells are responsible for the observed frequency distribution. Spreading depression is accompanied by impedance changes that depend on the frequency of the measuring current and composition of the Ringer's solution. In chick retinas immersed in standard solution, impedance magnitude (Z) as well as phase angle (0) change in phase, displaying an initial increase followed by a longer decrease; in the toad, these changes depend on the measuring frequency: at 10 Hz they are similar to the ones observed in chick retinas, whereas at intermediate and high frequencies they are out of phase. In low Cl- + sucrose Ringer's solution a decrease of impedance is observed in both chick and toad retinas. In low Cl- + Na2SO4 + sucrose Ringer's solution a decrease of impedance also predominates but the Z and 0 curves are biphasic and complex, having time courses which are frequency-dependent. In addition, these changes are different in chick and toad preparations. The experiments show that the impedance changes during the retinal reaction might be related both to extracellular as well as cellular currents. The extracellular current changes could be due to decrease of ionic content and volume of extracellular space, the latter variations being drastically reduced when retinas are immersed in low Cl- solutions. The results also suggest changes of current flow through cellular components which are frequency-dependent: at low frequencies the preferential path being probably through neuronal, and at high frequencies, through glial cells.
Recordings of extracellular potassium concentration ( [K+]e) were made in rat isolated sympathetic ganglia, vagus and optic nerves using ion sensitive microelectrodes. Repetitive orthodromic stimulation of ganglia resulted in [K+]e increases of up to 7 mmol/l above resting level (6 mmol/l), which were followed by post-stimulus undershoots. Activation of vagal A and B fibres did not significantly alter [K+]e but C-fibre activity induced rises of up to 5 mmol/l. Repetitive stimulation of the predominantly myelinated optic nerve resulted in [K+]e rises of up to 2.5 mmol/l. In the ganglion and vagus nerve, application of ouabain (30-1000 mumol/l) led to a raised baseline [K+]e concentration, an increase in the peak achieved during stimulation and a reduced undershoot amplitude. The amplitude of the undershoot in normal solution was shown to be dependent on the duration of the preceding stimulation period as well as the amplitude of the preceding [K+]e rise. In ganglia and vagus nerves, bath application of gamma-aminobutyric acid (10-100 mumol/l) and carbachol (10-100 mumol/l) also elevated [K+]e. It is concluded that repetitive activity in rat peripheral and central nerve fibres leads to significant changes in extracellular K+ ion-concentration and that the restoration of these levels is strongly dependent on the intact activity of the membrane Na+/K+ pump.
Rabbit isolated hearts were perfused according to a modified Langendorff procedure. Noradrenaline was measured in the venous effluents whereas dopamine beta-hydroxylase was determined in the transmyocardial fluid drained from the interstitium. Calcium-dependent release of noradrenaline and dopamine beta-hydroxylase was evoked by electrical stimulation of the heart for 6 periods of 1 min duration at 30 min intervals. Tetraethylammonium was added to enhance release. As a result of repeated stimulation, the dopamine beta-hydroxylase overflow from the heart declined monoexponentially, whereas the decline of noradrenaline was biexponential. The two phases of decline were unaltered by cocaine, an inhibitor of noradrenaline uptake. However, pretreatment of the rabbits with monofluoromethyldopa, an irreversible inhibitor of DOPA decarboxylase, transformed the biexponential decline of noradrenaline overflow into a monoexponential one with the same rate constant as that of dopamine beta-hydroxylase overflow. The sum of noradrenaline released plus that remaining in the heart was perfectly matched by the area under the curve of noradrenaline overflow values. Using the dopamine beta-hydroxylase overflow curve, the pool size of the soluble enzyme was calculated which, conversely, agreed with the enzyme contained in the 100,000 g supernatant of strongly homogenized unstimulated hearts. Before stimulation, 18% of the total dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity was in the soluble form. Stimulation depleted the hearts of noradrenaline and soluble dopamine beta-hydroxylase in a stoichiometric manner, provided that noradrenaline synthesis was blocked. The present work utilizes a novel method of measuring soluble dopamine beta-hydroxylase that is available for exocytotic release. Under the conditions of repeated stimulation and prolonged action potentials, the only factor interfering with the stoichiometry of noradrenaline and dopamine beta-hydroxylase release is the re-synthesis of noradrenaline.
The efficacy of foreign nerves to form synapses was studied morphologically and physiologically in the superior cervical ganglion of the rat. The denervated ganglion was anastomosed to the central stump of either the vagus, the hypoglossal or both nerves together. The degree of reinnervation was assessed two to ten months later. We measured the strength of contraction of the nictitating membrane after each type of operation and compared this to the number, type and distribution of synapses in the same ganglion. Both the vagus and hypoglossal nerves preferentially reinnervated a population of neurones that are situated in the cranial pole of the superior cervical ganglion and supply the nictitating membrane. When both nerves were connected to the ganglion only the vagus nerve could be shown to reinnervate it, and no reinnervation by the hypoglossal nerve was detected. However, in this experiment neither foreign nerve did as well in competition as each did alone and the overall result was reduced functional efficiency. We conclude that not all sympathetic neurones are equivalent and that, just like sympathetic afferents, the foreign nerves are capable of selectively reinnervating preferred target cells.
The topological positions of nerve terminal sprouts in partially denervated rat sternocostal muscles were analysed. Sprouted nerve terminals were found only within 200 microns of a denervated muscle fibre, but were not necessarily within 200 microns of a denervated endplate. From this it was concluded that the sprout-inducing factor released from denervated muscle fibres does not necessarily arise from the denervated endplate, but may be released along the length of the muscle fibre. It is proposed that sprout factor is released during the incorporation of acetylcholine receptors into the muscle fibre membrane.
The acetylcholine sensitivity of soleus and extensor digitorum longus muscles of young rats was studied in vitro by measuring the isometric tension and membrane depolarisation developed in response to bath application of acetylcholine. Contractures of denervated muscles to acetylcholine gradually increased when the same concentration of acetylcholine was applied at 10 min intervals up to 60 min incubation whilst contractures evoked by potassium sulphate did not change significantly. The twitch tension of the muscles elicited in response to direct electrical stimulation did not increase and direct electrical stimulation failed to increase the acetylcholine sensitivity. Increased responses in vitro to acetylcholine were observed only in muscles denervated between 2 and 10 days previously with an optimum increase in sensitivity at 4-6 days. The increases in sensitivity were due to an action of acetylcholine since muscles left untreated exhibited no increases. Responses to carbamylcholine chloride, which is not hydrolysed by acetylcholinesterase, also increased. Membrane depolarisations in response to acetylcholine increased in a similar manner to the contracture responses in both soleus and extensor digitorum longus muscles, whilst the resting membrane potentials did not change. Denervated muscles which had been treated with acetylcholine bound more 125I-labelled alpha-bungarotoxin than muscles which had not been treated with acetylcholine. Denervated soleus muscles which had been previously blocked with unlabelled alpha-bungarotoxin responded to applications of acetylcholine with a gradually increasing depolarisation response and subsequently bound more [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin than muscles left without acetylcholine treatment. The possibility is discussed that acetylcholine acts upon the surface membranes of denervated muscles to increase the number of active acetylcholine receptors.
In an earlier study we have shown that local application of capsaicin directly to one sciatic nerve induces a decrease of substance P and cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK8)-like peptide from the dorsal spinal cord using immunocytochemical analysis. Here the effect of locally applied capsaicin on seven peptides known to be present in the L4 segment was assessed by radioimmunoassay and immunocytochemistry. The peptides investigated were substance P, somatostatin and CCK8-like peptide (which are present in small diameter primary afferent fibres), neurotensin, enkephalin (which are intrinsic to the spinal cord), neurophysin (of supraspinal origin) and bombesin (whose origin is unknown). Fourteen days after a single application of 49 mM solution of capsaicin a significant depletion of substance P and somatostatin was detected. These results were confirmed by parallel immunocytochemical analysis which localised the dramatic decreases of substance P and somatostatin to lamina 1 and lamina 2. In addition a depletion of CCK8-like immunoreactivity was observed by immunocytochemistry in this area, but quantitative radioimmunoassay of CCK8-like peptide did not detect this depletion. The capsaicin-induced changes were dose-dependent and reversible. Small decreases were noted with concentrations of capsaicin as low as 0.1 mM. The changes were apparent from day 9 onwards, maximal depletion seen by day 14. By 200 days post-operatively, a recovery to normal peptide levels in the ipsilateral dorsal horn was observed. In addition, a significant depletion of cutaneous substance P was noted in the area of the skin innervated by the capsaicin-treated nerve. These changes were accompanied by a significant increase in noxious thermal response (hind paw immersion test, T = 49 degrees C, ipsilateral leg 9.11 +/- 1.3 seconds, contralateral leg: 5.1 +/- 1.3 seconds, P = less than 0.005). The peptides neurotensin, enkephalin, neurophysin and bombesin were not affected by capsaicin treatment. These findings suggest that local application of capsaicin induces an indiscriminate depletion of peptide-containing primary sensory afferent fibres which is dose-dependent, long-lasting, but reversible.
Olfactory receptor neurons begin to differentiate from stem cells on day E10 of embryonic life in the rat. By day E16, the receptor epithelium is well populated. On this day single neuron action potentials could be recorded with some ease and the electro-olfactogram was well developed. The receptor neurons were functional in that they responded to the vapors of odorous substances. However, they were not selective. Each cell responded to nearly all of the substances in the stimulus set. The first synaptic connections between receptors and mitral cells are established on day E18. The olfactory marker protein is reported to appear first in the receptors on the same day. By day E21, single unit responses changed dramatically. The cells became selective, responding to about half of the substances in our set. The electro-olfactogram reached its limiting amplitude well before this time.
Activity was recorded from mitral cells in newborn to six-day-old rat pups during odorous stimulation. Twenty-eight neurons were studied in pups with unopened nasal cavities which sampled stimuli during intermittent periods of inhalation. Forty-six neurons were studied in pups with opened nasal cavities which were stimulated by delivering odorants directly to the olfactory epithelia. We show that mitral cells are selectively excited by different odorants on the day pups are born; prior to the maturation of bulb interneurons, the responses of neonatal mitral cells are time-locked to the inhalation cycle; neonatal mitral cells preserve the temporal patterns of activity exhibited by receptor neurons during stimulation with different concentrations of odorants; and the response patterns of mitral cells differ qualitatively between newborn and adult rats. We conclude that receptor-to-mitral cell synapses are functional in newborn rat pups and that the activity of this afferent pathway is modulated by the pups' respiratory behavior. We argue that without interneurons, mitral cells repeat the temporal code exhibited by receptor neurons and do not produce the types of response patterns characteristic of neurons in the adult rat olfactory bulb.
Mitral cells are formed prenatally whereas most granule cells originate postnatally. Material was taken from 2-day-old, 14-day-old, 28-day-old, and adult rat olfactory bulbs and processed for rapid Golgi or Cresyl Violet staining. We show that the number of granule cell bodies/mitral cell body increases from 7.0 to 46.3 during the first two weeks of life; most mitral cells appear morphologically functional during the first postnatal week; few granule cells appear to be functional until the second postnatal week; and the number of short axon interneurons increases dramatically during the second postnatal week. We conclude the newborn rats have an intact afferent pathway from olfactory receptors to primary cortex that lacks the extensive interneuronal circuitry characteristic of adults.
We have studied the posterior division of the anteroventral cochlear nucleus, where the cochlear nerve root enters the brain, in the cat. In Nissl preparations, this region contains two types of neuronal cell bodies: globular and multipolar. The two types can be identified in the electron-microscope by comparing Nissl substance and rough endoplasmic reticulum. Globular cell bodies receive many synaptic terminals, which cover 85% of the surface. In contrast, multipolar cell bodies are almost entirely wrapped by thin glial sheets--synaptic terminals contact less than 15% of the surface and tend to cluster at the bases of dendrites. Synaptic terminals are of three kinds, types 1, 2, and 3, which contain large round, small round-to-oval, and small flattened synaptic vesicles, respectively. Terminals of all three kinds synapse on both types of cell bodies. However, only globular cell bodies receive the largest type 1 terminals, which correspond to end-bulbs, seen in Golgi impregnations to arise from cochlear nerve axons. Cochlear ablation leads to degeneration of type 1, but not type 2 or 3 terminals. We conclude that neurons with globular cell bodies receive heavy somatic input from the cochlear nerve, as well as from other sources. Neurons with multipolar cell bodies receive very little input to their perikarya--giving their dendrites a more important role in determining their response properties. We suggest a morphological basis for correlating individual kinds of neurons with certain electrophysiological response types.

The concept of space-time representation in the brain is redefined using tensor network theory. We make the following suggestions. (a) In order to deal with the external world, the brain embeds the external space-time continuum into a high dimensional internal space. External space-time events are represented within the CNS in overcomplete, inherently oblique, reference frames where space and time information is detected as a continuum over each coordinate axis. (b) The central nervous system may be seen as imposing a geometry on this internal hyperspace in such manner that neuronal networks transform inputs in a metric tensor-like manner. (c) In order to coordinate movements the cerebellum acts as a predictive motor space-time metric which allows the establishment of coincidences of goal-directed movements of limbs in space-time with external targets.

The effect of the noradrenaline neurotoxin DSP4 on the postnatal development of central noradrenergic neurons in the rat has been investigated using neurochemical techniques. The results demonstrated a preferential effect of DSP4 on the locus coeruleus noradrenergic neuron system without any notable effects on the dopamine and adrenaline neurons and only a minor neurotoxic effect on the serotonin neurons. The effect of DSP4 on the serotonin neurons could be completely prevented by pretreatment with the uptake blocker zimelidine, without affecting the action of DSP4 on noradrenergic neurons. Neonatal DSP4 treatment systemically led to permanent depletions of noradrenaline in the cerebral cortex and spinal cord and marked increases of noradrenaline in the cerebellum and pons-medulla. These effects of DSP4 were dose-dependent and could be blocked by pretreatment with the noradrenaline uptake blocker desipramine. The alterations in endogenous noradrenaline levels were quantitatively similar to changes observed in [3H]noradrenaline uptake in slices in vitro. There were no significant changes of these noradrenergic parameters when analysing the whole CNS after neonatal DSP4 treatment, in spite of marked regional changes in both directions. Administration of DSP4 to rats of different ages produced acutely marked depletions of noradrenaline in all regions including the pons-medulla and the cerebellum at all developmental stages. Marked and permanent depletions of noradrenaline were found in the distant noradrenergic nerve terminal projections after treatment at all ages, whereas increases in noradrenaline levels in the pons-medulla and cerebellum were only observed in rats treated with DSP4 up to the age of 3-5 days, whereas a DSP4 administration in older rats led to substantial and permanent depletions of noradrenaline in both these regions. The results indicate that the alteration of the postnatal development of noradrenergic neurons after treatment of rats up to the age of 3-5 days is mainly related to a 'pruning effect' of DSP4, in which prevention of the development of distant nerve terminal projections causes an increased outgrowth of nerves in collateral systems spared by the neurotoxin. The results indicate that DSP4 may be a useful denervation tool for studying various aspects of noradrenergic neurotransmission of developing locus coeruleus neurons.
Push-pull cannulae were implanted acutely in both substantiae nigrae and both caudate nuclei of the rabbit under urethane anesthesia. Direct infusion of d-amphetamine (10(-6) M) to one substantia nigra evoked a release of acetylcholinesterase and aminopeptidase not only locally, but also from the contralateral caudate nucleus and substantia nigra. The spontaneous release of acetylcholinesterase was reduced in the ipsilateral caudate nucleus. Gel electrophoresis showed that only one molecular form of each enzyme was released. Since the electrophoretic mobilities of these two enzymic activities were different, the released acetylcholinesterase and aminopeptidase belong to separate molecular species. As amphetamine is known to modify dopamine metabolism the evoked release of these two enzymes is probably related to the dopamine-containing nigrostriatal system.
The actions of a tripeptide, methionyl-tyrosyl-lysine (Met-Tyr-Lys), isolated from spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia have been investigated by iontophoretic application to single neurones in the spinal cord of the cat. Met-Tyr-Lys inhibited a group of neurons located mainly in laminae V and VI of the lumbar dorsal horn: excitation was never observed. The inhibition was rapid in onset and was not mimicked by the action of the constituent amino acids. Neurons inhibited by Met-Tyr-Lys received proprioceptive inputs as shown by their excitation or inhibition from stimulation of deep receptors and by their responses to leg or foot movement. Bicuculline and strychnine separately, at doses which antagonized responses to gamma-aminobutyric acid and glycine, respectively, had no or little effect both on responses to Met-Tyr-Lys and on the inhibition evoked in the same neurons by low-intensity (1.5-4T) stimulation of the tibial or common peroneal nerves. Thus receptors for Met-Tyr-Lys are different from those for glycine or gamma-aminobutyrate. In addition it is possible that there is a component of the inhibition evoked by peripheral nerve stimulation which is not mediated by either glycine or gamma-aminobutyrate. Met-Tyr-Lys may have an inhibitory role in relation to proprioception.
The effects of neonatal midbrain lesions on populations of retinal ganglion cells with ipsilateral or contralateral projections were investigated in hooded rats with the use of horseradish peroxidase. After bilateral lesions of the superior colliculus performed at birth, the number of contralaterally projecting ganglion cells is reduced but the number of ipsilaterally projecting cells is increased. Bilateral tectal lesions performed 5 days after birth reduce the number of both contralaterally and ipsilaterally projecting ganglion cells. Unilateral tecto-pretectal lesions performed at birth lead to extensive retrograde degeneration of contralaterally projecting ganglion cells in the opposite retina: but both the ipsilateral terminal fields of the same retina and its population of ipsilaterally projecting ganglion cells are increased. Cells located at the border between the temporal crescent and the nasal areas of the retina opposite an unilateral tecto-pretectal lesion were found to have their dendrites pointing towards the severely depleted nasal areas more frequently than in normal rats. These observations suggest that competitive interactions between retinal dendrites may play a role in regulating ganglion cell death in the developing retina. The increased population of ipsilaterally projecting ganglion cells would reflect the survival of neurones which would otherwise normally degenerate, resulting from reduced local interactions as a consequence of the massive removal of neighbouring contralaterally projecting cells.
The entry of prolactin into the cerebrospinal fluid from the blood, and the relation between levels in the two compartments were studied under a variety of conditions in ovariectomized rhesus monkeys. Prolonged treatment with either domperidone or sulpiride, both dopamine-receptor blockers, elevated prolactin levels in serum and cerebrospinal fluid proportionally equally, so that the cerebrospinal fluid serum ratio was unchanged from controls (circa 12-20%). Gel filtration showed that only 'little' (monomeric) prolactin entered the cerebrospinal fluid in such monkeys. Following acute elevations of blood prolactin after a single injection of either sulpiride or ovine prolactin, cerebrospinal fluid levels increased linearly over a 90 min sampling period, despite falling serum levels. The rate of entry of prolactin into the cerebrospinal fluid was similar after either procedure, and was independent of absolute serum or cerebrospinal fluid levels, suggesting a rate-limiting mechanism. Furthermore, retrograde portal blood flow from the pituitary is not necessary to account for these results. Clearance of prolactin from the third ventricle was studied following intraventricular injection of prolactin. Prolactin was removed from the cerebrospinal fluid by a mechanism whose efficiency compares with that in serum, so that the half-life of prolactin in either compartment is about the same. Measurement of sodium, potassium and calcium in the cerebrospinal fluid during prolonged hyperprolactinaemia showed no change, indicating that the central effects of prolactin are not due to alteration of these electrolytes. These results show that cerebrospinal fluid levels of prolactin, and hence, those surrounding the brain, can be inferred accurately from those in the blood, and suggest that there may be a selective mechanism regulating the entry of prolactin into the cerebral compartment.

Participation of both the lateral septum and the medial hypothalamus in similar behavioral and homeostatic functions, combined with anatomical data indicating a modest descending lateral septum projection to medial hypothalamic areas, prompted an investigation of the electrophysiology of lateral septum--medial hypothalamic connections in pentobarbital-anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats. Field potentials evoked by lateral septum stimulation were prominent within the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus: their distribution closely overlapped with amygdala-evoked field potentials. Lateral septum stimulation evoked orthodromic responses from 67% of 800 medial hypothalamic and preoptic neurons (55.5% excitatory, latency 17.5 +/- 0.5 ms; 11.5% inhibitory, latency 19.1 +/- 1.4 ms), including 15 of 31 tuberoinfundibular neurons activated antidromically from the median eminence, 37.4% of cells responded orthodromically to both lateral septum and amygdala stimulation, whereas only 5.8% of cells demonstrated orthodromic responses to both lateral septum and midbrain periaqueductal gray stimulation. These observations suggest that lateral septum neurons influence the excitability of many medial preoptic and hypothalamic neurons, and indicate a convergence of lateral septum and amygdala influences onto 37% of medial hypothalamic cells. In the rat, the lateral septum's influence on adenohypophyseal hormone secretion appears to be mediated indirectly, i.e. through monosynaptic connections with medial hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular neurons.
There is considerable evidence that the periaqueductal grey and the dorsal raphe contribute to an endogenous analgesia system and to the regulation of a wide variety of other responses, many of which involve spinal sites of action. To map the areas of the periaqueductal grey and dorsal raphe which contain neurons that project to the spinal cord, wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase was injected into hemisected spinal cords in rat, cat, and monkey. After cervical or lumbar injections labelled neurons were found in the periaqueductal grey and dorsal raphe in all species examined. In the rat, labelling of the dorsal raphe is sparse but numerous labelled neurons are present in the mid and rostral periaqueductal grey. In the cat, the number of retrogradely-labelled neurons in both the dorsal raphe and the periaqueductal gray are considerable. In the monkey, like the rat, the labelling in the dorsal raphe was light but numerous labelled neurons were present in the periaqueductal grey and the adjacent nucleus cuneiformis. Injections into the lumbar spinal cord produced the same pattern of labelling as seen after cervical level injections with approximately 40% fewer labelled cells in all areas. Thus, while each species had a similar pattern of spinal projections from the periaqueductal grey and dorsal raphe, quantitative differences were evident among the species examined. These results suggest that the number of periaqueductal grey and dorsal raphe neurons projecting to the spinal cord in the rat, cat and monkey are considerably more numerous than previously reported and that the effects described during the stimulation of these regions could be, at least partly, due to the involvement of these direct pathways.
The efferent connections of the thalamic nucleus dorsointermedius posterior were studied in the pigeon. In pigeons, this thalamic nucleus receives both paleostriatal (basal ganglia) and cerebellar input and has been compared to nuclei of the mammalian thalamic ventral tier on this basis. The present results show that neurons of nucleus dorsointermedius posterior project upon a crescent-shaped neuronal field within the neostriatum intermedium as well as upon the ventral paleostriatum and nucleus intrapeduncularis. The relationship of the neostriatum intermedium field to avian motor pathways is discussed and it is suggested that nucleus dorsointermedius posterior thalami of birds may play a role comparable to that of the mammalian ventral tier nuclei in the neural control of motor functions. The efferent projections of dorsointermedius posterior were contrasted with those of adjacent structures within the avian posterior thalamic complex. Neurons within nucleus dorsomedialis posterior appear to be related to the avian limbic system and project to a neuronal field within the rostromedial portion of the neostriatum intermedium. Neurons in nucleus dorsolateralis posterior have been shown to receive input from the optic tectum; efferents from dorsolateralis posterior were traced to a small triangular wedged-shaped field within the ventromedial portion of the periectostriatal belt.
Although the subthalamic nucleus is thought to exert a major influence on the corpus striatum output cells, there is little information available on the transmitter or transmitters involved. In a series of autoradiographic experiments in which various different radiolabeled putative transmitter substances were injected separately into the pallidal complex of cats, it was noted that 3H-gamma-aminobutyric acid injection consistently resulted in perikaryal labeling in the subthalamic nucleus. 3H-gamma-aminobutyric acid injection in the lateral part of the external pallidal segment resulted in labeled cells situated laterally in the subthalamic nucleus, while 3H-aminobutyric acid injection in the internal pallidal segment (entopeduncular nucleus) resulted in cell labeling more medially in the subthalamic nucleus. Perikaryal cell labeling was also noted in the lateral putamen following 3H-gamma-aminobutyric acid injection in the external pallidal segment in cats pretreated with systemic amino-oxyacetic acid. No cell groups other than the striatum and subthalamic nucleus could be made to label with 3H-gamma-aminobutyric acid. Furthermore, no perikaryal cell labeling in the subthalamic nucleus was seen to follow injections of 3H-D-aspartate or 3H-serotonin into the pallidal complex. The findings suggest that 3H-gamma-aminobutyric acid, but not aspartate or serotonin, undergoes high affinity uptake and retrograde transport by subthalamo-pallidal neurons. Bearing in mind the many reservations discussed, the observation implies that 3H-gamma-aminobutyric acid may be a transmitter in the subthalamo-pallidal pathway.
The present study demonstrates distinct distribution patterns of glycoproteins in rat hippocampus, with respect to synthesis from precursors (autoradiography) and endogenous contents (lectin binding). The autoradiographic analysis performed 1, 2, 8 and 24 h after intraventricular injections of tritium-labelled L-fucose. N-acetyl-D-glucosamine and D-mannose revealed that up to 2 h after application of any of the three precursors, radioactivity occurred in the pyramidal and granular cell layers. Afterwards, however, rapid migration of label proceeded from the cell bodies into the neuropil after application of fucose and acetylglucosamine, while after injection of mannose a considerable amount of radioactivity stayed in the cell body layers, even 24 h after administration of labelled precursor. These findings were consistent with the histochemical visualization of glycoprotein constituents by fluorescent wheat germ lectin (preferentially binding to glucosaminyl residues) and concanavalin A-horseradish peroxidase (preferentially binding to mannosyl residues). These showed a heavy staining predominantly in neuropil and somata, respectively, with concanavalin A-binding giving more distinct patterns than the application of labelled mannose. The usefulness of the three glycoprotein precursors as correlates with functional behavioural changes in discussed.
The neurons of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus have a substantial vasopressin-containing projection to the zona externa of the median eminence. Several parameters of neuronal function are increased in these cells following adrenalectomy; these increases can be prevented by glucocorticoid treatment. We have now used this system to study the effect of adrenal removal on the sprouting of axons in response to a unilateral lesion of the paraventricular nucleus. Results obtained from both immunocytochemical and anterograde tracing experiments indicate that the capacity of the paraventricular nucleus axons to sprout is enhanced in adrenalectomized animals. Anterograde tracing experiments indicate that the projection from the paraventricular nucleus to the zona externa is predominately ipsilateral confirming the findings of Alonso &amp; Assenmacher and that sprouting does not occur in intact animals with a unilateral paraventricular nucleus lesion. However, the zona externa of adrenalectomized animals with a unilateral paraventricular nucleus lesion is filled bilaterally with neurophysin terminals: the volume occupied by such fibers is the same as in non-lesioned, adrenalectomized animals. These findings are interpreted to indicate that sprouting can occur in this system if the animal is adrenalectomized. To estimate the time course of sprouting, animals were first adrenalectomized for 2 weeks and then a unilateral lesion placed in the paraventricular nucleus. Animals were killed 1-26 days following lesion placement and the brains processed for immunocytochemistry. Initial denervation in the zona externa due to the lesion can be detected by day 6 post-lesions while reinnervation (sprouting) is seen by day 26. The results suggest that the increase in metabolic activity induced by adrenalectomy in the vasopressin neurons under study may influence the ability of the axons of these cells to produce new terminals.
Olfactory marker protein is a cytoplasmic component unique to fully-differentiated olfactory sensory neurons. It has been proposed that expression of this protein occurs only if the neurons make synaptic contact with the central nervous system. In the present experiments, adult olfactory epithelium was transplanted as an autograft to the anterior chamber of the eye. This procedure destroys the mature sensory neurons, which are subsequently replaced by division and differentiation of stem cells. The newly-formed sensory neurons differentiate sufficiently to produce olfactory marker protein, without apparently contacting central nervous tissue. We conclude that contact with the central nervous system is not necessary for expression of olfactory marker protein.
This study on the organization of the olivary projections to the ansiform lobule in the cat was aimed at defining the longitudinal zonal pattern and the internal topography within the zones. The horseradish peroxidase method was used. Two types of injections were made: large injections covering the full extent of small groups of folia, and small injections aimed to be restricted to the single zones proposed by Voogd. It was shown that olivary projections to these parts of the cerebellum originate from the dorsal and medial accessory nuclei and from the principal nucleus, in agreement with previous studies. Moreover it was found that the ventral lamella and the dorsal lamella (and bend) of the principal nucleus give rise to two distinct, non-overlapping, cerebellar projections to D1 and D2 zones, respectively. It is thus concluded that in the cat four separate olivo-cerebellar strips, corresponding to the C2, C3, D1 and D2 zones of Voogd, are present in the ansiform lobule. In addition a transverse rostro-caudal organization was found, in which discrete regions of each olivary subdivision are connected to discrete areas of the crural cortex, within each olivo-cerebellar strip. The old idea of a point-to-point topography in the olivo-cerebellar system is consequently still valid, being compatible with the now proven longitudinal zonal pattern of the olivo-ansiform projection. The fact that the two subdivisions of the principal olive, here shown to project to separate D1 and D2 zones of the ansiform lobule, receive specific sets of afferents suggests that the two cortical zones are part of two different cerebellar operational units.
The anterior portion of rodent agranular insular cortex consists of a ventral periallocortical region (AIv) and a dorsal proisocortical region (AId). Each of these two cortical areas has distinct efferent connections, but in certain brain areas their projection fields are partially or wholly overlapping. Bilateral projections to layers I, III and VI of medial frontal cortex originate in the dorsal agranular insular cortex and terminate in the prelimbic, anterior cingulate and medial precentral areas; those originating in ventral agranular insular cortex terminate in the medial orbital, infralimbic and prelimbic areas. The dorsal and ventral regions of the agranular insular cortex project topographically to the ipsilateral cortex bordering the rhinal fissure, which includes the posterior primary olfactory, posterior agranular insular, perirhinal and lateral entorhinal areas. Fibers to these lateral cortical areas were found to travel in a cell-free zone, between cortical layer VI and the claustrum, which corresponds to the extreme capsule. The dorsal and ventral regions send commissural projections to layer I, lamina dissecans and outer layer V, and layer VI of the contralateral homotopical cortex, via the corpus callosum. Projections from the ventral and dorsal regions of the agranular insular cortex to the caudatoputamen are topographically arranged and terminate in finger-like patches. The ventral, but not the dorsal region, projects to the ventral striatum and ventral pallidum. The thalamic projections of the ventral and dorsal regions are largely overlapping, with projections from both to the ipsilateral reticular nucleus and bilaterally to the rhomboid, mediodorsal, gelatinosus and ventromedial nuclei. The heaviest projection is that to the full anteroposterior extent of the medial segment of the mediodorsal nucleus. Brainstem areas receiving projections from the ventral and dorsal regions include the lateral hypothalamus, substantia nigra pars compacta, ventral tegmental area and dorsal raphe nucleus. In addition, the ventral region projects to the periaqueductal gray and the dorsal region projects to the parabrachial and ventral pontine nuclei. These efferent connections largely reciprocate the afferent connections of the ventral and dorsal agranular insular cortex, and provide further support for the concept that these regions are portions of an outer ring of limbic cortex which plays a critical role in the expression of motivated, species-typical behaviors.
The synaptic connections of a specific type of identified cortical interneuron, the axo-axonic cell, were studied using Golgi methods. In the light-microscope axo-axonic cells were demonstrated in certain layers of the primary and secondary visual cortex of rat, cat and monkey, in the motor cortex of cat and in the subiculum and pyriform cortex of rat. The dendrites originating from the oval soma were oriented radially in a lower and upper spray within a cylinder about 100-150 microns wide. Electron-microscopy of Golgi impregnated, gold-toned axo-axonic cells showed predominantly but not exclusively asymmetrical synaptic contacts on their dendrites and spines, few synaptic contacts on the perikarya some of which were asymmetrical, and no synaptic contacts on the axon initial segment. The axon usually arborized within the vicinity of the cell's own dendritic field in an area 100-200 microns in diameter. In the kitten motor cortex the axon of a neuron in layer III descended to layer VI, providing a columnar arborization. The axon formed specialized, 10-50 microns long terminal segments invariably oriented parallel with the axon initial segment of pyramidal cells. All 85 identified symmetrical-type synaptic contacts, deriving from 31 specialized terminal segments, were found exclusively on the axon initial segment of pyramidal neurons. Rare, lone boutons of axo-axonic cells also made synaptic contact only with axon initial segments, confirming the exclusive target specificity of these cells. In identified gold-toned boutons, flattened pleomorphic vesicles were present. Electron-microscopy showed that axons ending in specialized terminal segments may originate from myelinated fibres, indicating that Golgi impregnation has revealed only part of the axon. Counting of axon terminal segments, each of which was in contact with the axon initial segment of a pyramidal neuron, revealed 166 pyramidal neurons receiving input from a partially reconstructed axo-axonic cell in the motor cortex of the kitten, and 67 from another cell in the visual cortex of the cat. The convergence of five axo-axonic cells onto one pyramidal cell was demonstrated in the striate cortex of the cat by counting all synaptic contacts on three initial segments. Cells from a one-month-old kitten were compared with those of the adult. The axon of the developing neurons was more diverse, having many growth cones and filopodia which made no specialized membrane contacts. However, the developing specific terminal segments formed synapses only with axon initial segments. It is concluded that the presence of axo-axonic cells in all the species and cortical areas we have examined suggests their association with the structural design of pyramidal cells, wherever the latter occur, and with their participation in the information processing of pyramidal cells. Axo-axonic cells are uniquely endowed with the means of simultaneously influencing the action potential at the site of origin in groups of pyramidal cells...
The possibility that opioid peptides and noradrenaline co-exist not only in the desheathed bundle of bovine splenic nerve which contains approximately 98% sympathetic C-fibers, but also in the population of large dense-cored noradrenergic vesicles from these fibers, has been investigated. The primary fraction of large dense-cored vesicles which can be prepared at about 85% purity has been further subjected to density gradient and fractional centrifugation procedures, including D2O-loading and unloading on modified second gradients, in an attempt to separate any minor population of particles which potentially could contain opioid peptides and contaminate the large dense-cored vesicle fraction. Measurement of opioid peptides, noradrenaline, dopamine and dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity supports the conclusion that opioid peptides are stored in the primary population of large dense-cord vesicles per se, rather than in a minor population of contaminating particles from cells other than sympathetic C-fibers. This conclusion has implications for exocytotic release and the physiological role of the opioid peptides intra- and extra-neuronally. Nerve vesicle opioid peptides have a size less than 5000 daltons, in contrast to the high proportion of large peptides containing enkephalin sequences in the bovine adrenal medulla.

Leaner is an autosomal recessive mutation of the mouse which results in a severe ataxia accompanied by cellular losses in the cerebellar cortex. The purpose of this report is to construct a developmental profile of these losses. Of the three cerebellar cell types studied, the granule cells are the first to show obvious degenerative changes. Pycnotic cells are numerous in the internal granule cell layer at postnatal day 10, and, while they are found throughout the cortex, they are more concentrated in the anterior folia. Initially, there is a strong tendency for the pycnotic cells to be located in the deep half of the internal granule cell layer. By four postnatal months the rate of loss has slowed but the finding of occasional pycnotic cells in animals up to one year old suggests it continues for the life of the animal. Quantitative analysis of Purkinje and Golgi cells in leaner cerebella reveals a progressive loss of these cells as well. The number of Golgi cells falls uniformly to around half of the wild-type number. By contrast, the Purkinje cells show much more extensive degeneration. Further, the rate of cell death shows a regional variation; it is significantly more rapid in anterior folia. Overall, the number of Purkinje cells in leaner falls to about one-fifth of the wild-type number. The loss of both Purkinje and Golgi cells occurs late relative to the major events of cerebellar maturation. Significant cell loss is not observed until the end of the first postnatal month. For the next 4 to 6 weeks there is extensive cell death but, rather than abating, it appears to continue at a low rate for the life of the animal. It is hoped that this developmental sketch of the leaner defect will stimulate others to approach leaner and its alleles, tottering and rolling, as models for heterogeneity of disease expression.
Retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase has been used to single out a distinct functional cortical cell type for ultrastructural study. Following injection of horseradish peroxidase into the superior colliculus, labelled pyramidal cells were found in layer V of the visual cortex. Examination of the labelled corticotectal cells from the visual cortex showed that their cell bodies received two types of synaptic contacts, one from boutons containing spherical vesicles and one from boutons containing flattened vesicles. The possible functional significance of this dual type of input is pointed out.
Horseradish peroxidase was applied to the proximal stumps of severed cervical, thoracic and lumbar dorsal roots in the clawed toad, Xenopus laevis, in order to study the course, distribution and site of termination of dorsal root fibers in the spinal cord and brain stem. The anterograde transport of horseradish peroxidase as applied in the present study proved to be a useful and reliable technique. Results show that on entering the spinal cord, dorsal root fibers segregate into a medially placed component entering the dorsal funiculus and a more laterally situated bundle in the dorsal part of the lateral funiculus. As regards its position the latter bundle presumably represents the anuran homologue of the mammalian tract of Lissauer. Moreover, a small intermediate bundle of fibers directly enters the spinal gray matter. The labeled fibers entering the dorsal funiculus and the tract of Lissauer ascend and descend in the spinal cord, displaying a longitudinal arrangement resembling that of higher vertebrates. In the spinal gray, dorsal root fibers terminate in the dorsal, central and lateral fields of Ebbesson, with the last field being a major terminus for dorsal root fibers originating in the limb-innervating segments. No dorsal root fibers were found to project to the motoneuron fields. A dorsal column nucleus, which is divisible into medial and lateral compartments, is present in the obex region and extends from the level of the second spinal nerve to that of the entrance of the vagus and glossopharyngeal nerves. Dorsal root fibers from the lumbar and all thoracic segments project to the medial compartment of the dorsal column nucleus, whereas those of the cervical enlargement project to the lateral compartment. Although the anuran dorsal column nucleus appears to be less differentiated than that of higher vertebrates, its medial and lateral compartments can be considered to be the forerunners of the mammalian nucleus gracilis and nucleus cuneatus, respectively.
The human spinal cord was studied with the Golgi method from 26 weeks gestational age onto adult life. Impregnated neurons were analyzed morphometrically by an adaptation of Sholl's concentric circle method in order to specify dendritic geometry, ramification richness and branching pattern. Neurons were classified according to Rexed's laminar scheme, identified on adjacent Nisslstained sections. The following features were found to be characteristic of the dorsal horn laminae. Lamina I is formed of a uniform population of large, poorly ramified neurons. Their main dendritic domaine is disk-shaped in the tangential plane with a mean diameter of about 800 micrometers. Orthogonal, spiny dendrites penetrating into lamina II are numerous even in adult material. Four cell types, all lying in the sagittal plane, are found in lamina II. (1) &quot;Islet cells' (about 30% of impregnated neurons) have a rostrocaudal, cylindrical dendritic domaine with a long axis of +/- 600 micrometers, a few scattered spines and a richly branched axonal network, confined to the dendritic territory. They are more numerous in the central part of lamina II. A few islet cells have two axons. (2) &quot;Filamentous cells' (about 20%), so called because of their multiple filiform, spiny dendrites, are vertico-sagittally oriented. Their soma is located in inner or outer lamina II, their dendritic tree, trapezod of about 280 micrometers in height, being dorsal or ventral. The axon emits some collaterals in the vicinity of the dendritic tree, then it penetrates into lamina I or Lissauer's tract. (3) &quot;Curly cells' (about 10%) have a complex, twisted, spine-rich dendritic tree. The dendritic domaine can be schematized by a sagittal disk with a diameter of about 200 micrometers, the cell body being eccentric. Curly cells are mainly found in outer lamina II. Their axon penetrates into lamina I or Lissauer's tract. (4) &quot;Stellate cells' (about 40%) are multipolar neurons preferentially found in inner lamina II. They have straight, spine-poor dendrites, which cover a large (longest diameter ca. 500 micrometers), elliptical territory extending into laminae I and III. Their axon gives longitudinal collaterals to lamina II before penetrating deeply into laminae III and IV. Lamina III contains a mixed population of &quot;antenna-like neurons' with a vertical, cone-shaped dendritic domaine and &quot;radiate cells' characterized by a small, spherical territory. All lamina IV neurons are medium or large sized &quot;antenna-like neurons' whose dorsally oriented, cone-shaped dendritic domaine may have a height of 1000 micrometers. It can be concluded that the dorsal horn of the human spinal cord has several distinct dendroarchitectonic features, different from those reported in animals. The possible functional implication of some dendritic features is examined and a laminar dendroarchitectonic scheme of the human cord is proposed as a morphological tool for future neuroanatomical and neuropathological studies.
The origin of fibers containing enkephalin immunoreactivity in the inferior mesenteric ganglion of the guinea-pig was studied by combining retrograde axonal tracing and indirect immunofluorescence techniques. Fast Blue was applied into the inferior mesenteric ganglion. Three days later colchicine was administered into the subarachnoid space in order to increase the peptide content of the spinal cord cell bodies. The drug was injected through a catheter which was inserted into the cisterna magna and moved to the appropriate spinal cord levels. After the colchicine injection the animals were perfused with formalin and the L2-L3 spinal cord segments were dissected. Cryostat sections of the spinal cord were analyzed in a fluorescence microscope and subsequently processed for indirect immunohistochemistry using antiserum against enkephalin. Several sympathetic preganglionic neurons containing both Fast Blue and enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were seem mainly in the intermediolateral cell column of the cord. The observations strongly support the view that at least some of the enkephalin-containing fibers in the inferior mesenteric ganglion originate in the sympathetic preganglionic nuclei of the spinal cord. These findings are discussed in view of recent physiological studies which have shown that enkephalin may have a presynaptic inhibitory action on preganglionic neurons as well as on substance P containing primary afferent neurons in the inferior mesenteric ganglion.
Single unit recordings were obtained in the cochlear nuclear complex of the unanesthetized, decerebrate cat. Sixty-six of 282 units were localized to the posteroventral cochlear nucleus, 17 from the multipolar cell area and 49 from the octopus cell area. Spontaneous rates ranged from less than 1 to 75 spikes per second in the multipolar cell area and from less than 1 to 135 spikes per second in the octopus cell area. Poststimulus time histograms revealed four response types, at the best frequency, in the posteroventral cochlear nucleus. These responses were: (1) primary-like (maximum response shortly after the stimulus onset, followed by a reduction in activity to a steady state); (2) chopper (similar to primary-like but with multiple peaks in the first 10-15 milliseconds); (3) onset-ex (onset response followed by a low level of excitation); and (4) onset-in (onset response followed by inhibition). The onset-in responses represented the first observations of inhibition, at best frequency, for onset units in the mammalian cochlear nuclear complex. Analysis of interspike interval distributions showed that both spontaneous and driven activity consisted of irregular intervals for all four response types. Activity-intensity functions for primary-like, chopper and onset-ex units showed monotonic increases with increases in stimulus intensity. Activity-intensity functions for onset-in units were non-monotonic. Latency-intensity functions for primary-like, chopper and onset-ex units exhibited monotonic decreases with increases in intensity. Latency-intensity functions for onset-in units were non-monotonic. In contrast to primary-like, chopper and onset-ex units, onset-in units do not retain the intensity and temporal information coded in the eighth nerve, as least for stimuli above 2 kilohertz. It is hypothesized that a depolarization block, caused by the massive eighth nerve input to octopus cells, is responsible for the inhibition observed from onset-in units.
In rats under urethane anaesthesia, various cholinomimetics, acetylcholine-antagonists and other agents were released iontophoretically in the pyramidal layer of area CA1. Like acetylcholine, a variety of cholinomimetics readily enhanced population spikes evoked by fimbrial-commissural stimulation. Judging by the equipotent iontophoretic currents, the strongest muscarinic agonist was muscarine. Other potent agonists included carbachol, methacholine, propionylcholine, bethanechol and the much slower-acting arecoline, pilocarpine and oxotremorine. Choline was about 5 times weaker than acetylcholine. Though not as effective as acetylcholine, some nicotinic agonists also consistently enhanced population spikes, particularly dimethylphenylpiperazinium and acetylthiocholine. Other nicotinic agents, such as butyrylcholine, nicotine and tetramethylammonium were much less active. Both scopolamine and atropine, given systematically in high doses (10-80 mg/kg), strongly depressed or abolished the action of muscarinic agonists, but to a lesser and more variable extent the action of ACh. They did not antagonize dimethylphenylpiperazinium. When applied iontophoretically, alpha-bungarotoxin, tubocurarine or mecamylamine did not block the action of any of the cholinomimetics. Indeed, in higher doses they tended to promote population spikes (a comparable enhancement was also seen with larger iontophoretic doses of atropine or scopolamine). On the other hand, gallamine and dihydro-beta-erythroidine antagonized muscarine but not dimethylphenylpiperazinium; a less selective block of cholinomimetics was produced by suxamethonium. It was concluded that both muscarinic and nicotinic receptors (or receptors with mixed properties) appear to be involved in the facilitatory action of acetylcholine on population spikes evoked by fimbrial-commissural stimulation.
The influences of the interpositus nucleus on pyramidal tract neurons were investigated by stimulating, in unanesthetized cats, interpositus nucleus foci which activated single muscles in limbs, while recording unitary discharges of pyramidal tract neurons located in foci (area 4 gamma) from which contraction was obtained in the same muscles as those excited from interpositus nucleus (agonist pyramidal tract neurons), in their antagonist (antagonist pyramidal tract neurons), or in heteronymous muscles (heteronymous pyramidal tract neurons). It was found that agonist pyramidal tract neurons were inhibited from the interpositus nucleus, whereas antagonist pyramidal tract neurons displayed a pure excitatory or an excitatory-inhibitory pattern, and the heteronymous neurons were not significantly influenced. A direct activation of interposito-thalamic efferents could be responsible for these effects. In fact, unitary discharge changes of pyramidal tract neurons, elicited from interpositus nucleus stimulation, persisted after chronic intermediate cortex ablation and dentate nucleus lesions, and disappeared following coagulations in the ventrolateral nucleus of the thalamus. These results suggest that interpositus nucleus efferents, which activate a given muscle, via the rubrospinal pathway, could inhibit the discharge of pyramidal neurons controlling that muscle, via collaterals direct to the thalamic ventrolateral nucleus.
The globus pallidus is characterized by a high iron content and the distribution of the ferric iron in the rat brain provides evidence that globus pallidus extends rostroventrally below the anterior commissure and into the olfactory tubercle. The extension of the globus pallidus into the olfactory tubercle is consistent with the notion of the ventral striatum,14 in the sense that it provides for an expected close proximity between the striatum and the globus pallidus throughout the dorsoventral extent of the corpus striatum. The distribution of enkephalin, and of acetylcholinesterase- and succinate dehydrogenase-positive neurons is also consistent with an extension of the ventral part of globus pallidus to the base of the forebrain in the rat. Since part of the ventral pallidum corresponds to a region that is usually referred to as the subcommissural part of the substantia innominata, it seems reasonable to restrict the term substantia innominata to the more caudally-located sublenticular part of the substantia innominata.
Microexplant cell cultures of fetal rat cerebellum contain essentially monolayer networks of Purkinje cells, occasional granule cells and neurons from the deep nuclei. The neurons and occasional filament-packed glial cells develop on top of a sheet of flattened, non-neuronal cells. In the absence of extrinsic input to the cerebellum and greatly reduced numbers of granule cells, the Purkinje cells develop a stunted and non-oriented dendritic arbor similar to that observed in agranular cerebella. The Purkinje cell dendritic branches, however, are spine-covered. Although the spines are not enveloped by glia and are only rarely contacted by a presynaptic bouton, most spines display a patch of electron-dense material resembling a postsynaptic membrane specialization. The Purkinje cells develop synaptic interactions among themselves and with granule cells. The ultrastructural morphology of boutons derived from both Purkinje cells and large neurons of the deep nuclei, identified after intracellular injection of horseradish peroxidase, is consistent with that observed in vivo. The present study indicates that cerebellar Purkinje cells survive and differentiate in a culture system in which individual neurons are accessible for electrophysiological and morphological analyses.
Responses to visual stimulation were recorded in cells from the border region between cortical areas 17 and 18 in anaesthetized cats. There was found to be a band of ipsilateral representation, the cells of which had rather large receptive fields centered up to 8-12 degrees into the ipsilateral hemifield. The edges of the receptive fields extended 2-3 degrees still further ipsilaterally. The cortical region involved is very small, however, stretching 0.2-1.0 mm mediolaterally, and possibly restricted largely to layers II and III. Hence, in cats, as in sheep and hamsters, there is a band about 20 degrees wide of visual field along the naso-temporal division that is represented in the visual cortices of both hemispheres.

The left superior cervical ganglion of 3- or 23-day-old rats was subjected to pre- and/or postganglionic nerve division or sham operation, while the right ganglion was left intact. The animals were killed 20 or 60 days after the operation. Some animals were injected with 20 mg/kg hydrocortisone daily for 7 days and killed on the 8th day. Fluorescence microscopical examination revealed a normal postnatal increase in the number of small intensely fluorescent cells/ganglion after pre- or postganglionic nerve division, in spite of marked decreases in the volume of the operated ganglia. Combined pre- and postganglionic nerve division, which caused a dramatic loss of ganglion volume, entirely prevented the postnatal increase in the number of small intensely fluorescent cells. Hydrocortisone caused a large increase in the number of small intensely fluorescent cells both in intact and operated ganglia, including those in whom both pre- and postganglionic nerves had been divided. It is concluded that combined pre- and postganglionic denervation, in contrast to either operation alone, prevents the normal proliferation of the small intensely fluorescent cells possibly by causing an extensive loss of principal nerve cells which deprives the small intensely fluorescent cells of their normal contacts with the principal cells. Since the increase in the number of small intensely fluorescent cells due to hydrocortisone injections was not prevented by pre- and postganglionic denervation it must be due to a mechanism different from that responsible for the formation of small intensely fluorescent cells during normal postnatal development.
The right gluteus maximus muscles of young adult mice were paralysed with botulinum toxin for up to 21 days or partly denervated by spinal root section for up to 63 days; the intramuscular and extramuscular nerves were then examined in the electron microscope in thin sections of tissue fixed conventionally or stained with zinc iodide-osmium tetroxide. Contralateral muscles were also examined as controls. The distribution of nodal sprouts in the nerves of the paralysed or partly denervated muscles was determined by calculating the mean ratios of unmyelinated to myelinated axons in nerve profiles containing different numbers of myelinated axons (intact or degenerating) and comparing these with control ratios. In paralysed muscles there was a significantly higher proportion of nerve profiles containing one or two unmyelinated axons alongside a single myelinated axon. Nerve profiles containing two or more myelinated axons did not show any increase in the proportion of unmyelinated axons. Thus, there is probably nodal sprouting in paralysed muscles which is restricted to the most distal nodes of the intramuscular nerves. In muscles partly denervated for 8 days there were significant increases in the proportion of unmyelinated axons in nerve profiles which had contained up to 5-10 myelinated axons. After 21 days of partial denervation, similar increases may have occurred in the larger intramuscular nerve profiles and after 63 days there were large increases in the proportion of unmyelinated axons in the main intramuscular nerve branches and in the extramuscular nerve. Nodal sprouting in response to partial denervation is therefore localised initially to the smaller, more distal nerve branches; at later times, some sprouts probably grow slowly in a disto-proximal direction along denervated Schwann cell pathways. The existence of nodal sprouts in paralysed muscles and their restricted distribution in paralysed and partly denervated muscles suggest that the nodal sprouting stimulus is produced by the muscle and acts only at distal nodes.
The cytoarchitecture of the rat supraoptic nucleus was studied using the Golgi-Cox method with a neutral red or Cresyl violet counterstain to allow the limits of the nucleus to be determined accurately. A small number of stained neurones were seen in each of the brains sectioned but they were unevenly distributed in the supraoptic nucleus. There were more cells posteriorly and close to the optic tract. A minority of cells studied (a total of 4) were round (diameter approximately 20 micrograms) and multipolar and were interpreted as interneurones. The majority of stained cells studied (60) had oval cell bodies (mean long diameter 22.7 micrograms in coronal sections) with a single fine axon directed dorsally and medially and 1-3 heavier dendrites passing ventrally. Both cell bodies and dendrites of the major cell type showed spines and both dendrites and axons had some varicosities. The anatomy of the larger cell group (the presumed neurosecretory cells) is thus consistent with their having a substantial synaptic input and the presence of long dendrites (up to 205 micrograms) implies that caution is necessary in the interpretation of experiments where cell activity is monitored while active materials are placed near the cell bodies.
The gamma-aminobutyrate-containing nature of nigrotectal neurones and the possible involvement of the tectum in circling behaviour were investigated in the rat. Electrolytic or kainic acid lesions of the substantia nigra reduced gamma-aminobutyrate levels on average by 19-29% in intermediate and deep, but not superficial superior colliculus. Placement of lesions or injection of muscimol (40 ng) into these gamma-aminobutyrate-innervated layers of superior colliculus gave only weak ipsilateral posturing or circling that was intensified by apomorphine, but which strongly antagonized contraversive apomorphine-induced circling in 6-hydroxydopamine pretreated rats(lateral greater than medial sites). Contraversive circling to unilateral muscimol (40 ng) was significantly attenuated by lesions or muscimol injections placed in the ipsi- or contralateral superior colliculus. Picrotoxin (40 ng) and tetanus toxin (30 mouse LD50 doses) evoked explosive motor behaviour from medial colliculus and vigorous contraversive circling when injected into the lateral colliculus. The latter offset ipsiversive asymmetries to kainate (0,8 micrograms) in the corresponding substantia nigra. Bilateral intratectal picrotoxin produced hyperactivity that reversed haloperidol catalepsy. Similar bilateral administration of muscimol did not produce catalepsy but a state of frozen immobility. Kainic acid introduced into the superior colliculus gave mixed excitatory-inhibitory responses initially followed by ipsiversive circling only and loss of tectal perikarya. None of these drug effects occurred from the overlying cerebral cortex or subjacent tegmentum. We propose that separate medial &quot;non-postural&quot; and lateral &quot;postural&quot; tectal locomotor regions may exist in the superior colliculus that are situated within a striato-nigrotectal outflow system capable of influencing the animal's motor activity and posture.
The physiological and morphological (light and electron microscopic) properties of four categories of neostriatal neurons (two types of medium spiny cells and two types of aspiny cells) were analyzed using the technique of intracellular recording and intracellular labeling with horseradish peroxidase. All of the neurons in this study had excitatory responses following stimulation of the cortex and substantia nigra except for the large aspiny neuron for which only substantia nigra inputs were tested. Morphologically, these neurons differed with respect to the size and shape of their somata, density and distribution of dendritic spines and distribution of their axons and axon collaterals. Ultrastructurally, observed somatic differences included the quantity and distribution of organelles and conformation of the nuclear envelope. The axons of one type of medium spiny neuron and the large aspiny neuron were myelinated. Unmyelinated axon collaterals arose from the axons of both types of medium spiny neurons and formed synapses on the dendritic shafts and possibly with the necks of spines of other neostriatal neurons. The parent axons of the most common type of medium spiny neurons were followed to the globus pallidus and, in some cases, to the internal capsule.
Descending auditory projections from different subdivisions of the inferior colliculus to the dorsal cochlear nucleus were investigated in experiments using the autoradiographic technique. Tritiated leucine injections confined to the pericentral nucleus of the inferior colliculus resulted in the appearance of dense grain clusters distributed over the outer fusiform cell and molecular layers of the ipsilateral dorsal cochlear nucleus. The pattern and distribution of dense grain clusters strongly resembled the central terminals of glomeruli described previously in the dorsal cochlear nucleus. Injections into the dorsal region of the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus led to a more diffuse distribution of grains over the middle and outer fusiform cell layer and over the innermost molecular layer of the dorsal cochlear nucleus on both sides. Dense grain clusters were also evident after these injections but they appeared to result from the concomitant injection into the overlying pericentral nucleus. Finally, injections of tritiated leucine into the ventral region of the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (which included some cells of the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemnisus) resulted in the heaviest labelling of the dorsal cochlear nucleus. Grains were distributed perisomatically and peridendritically around fusiform cells of the fusiform cell layer and giant cells of the deep dorsal cochlear nucleus on both sides. The results indicate that the pericentral nucleus and the more dorsal region of the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus establish overlapping connections with the outermost fusiform cell and molecular layers of the dorsal cochlear nucleus. Both sets of connections seem to be made principally with interneurons through glomerular and other inputs to scattered small cells which exist in these laminae. Since cortical and thalamic descending fibers directly innervate only the most dorsal regions of the inferior colliculus, it may be that this region of the tectum selectively mediates activity from these higher auditory centers. Such centers may indirectly influence fusiform cell response properties through collicular inputs to small cells of the dorsal cochlear nucleus that contact fusiform cells. A more substantial and direct projection was shown to arise from the ventral region of the inferior colliculus to innervate both the fusiform and giant cells. As such, the descending connections from the ventral inferior colliculus may be more likely to influence directly the output of both the fusiform and giant cells and, therefore, the projection of auditory information from the dorsal cochlear nucleus to higher levels.
The retrograde transport technique was utilized in the present study to investigate the afferent projections to the periaqueductal gray of the rat. Iontophoretic injections of horseradish peroxidase were made into the periaqueductal gray of 22 experimental animals and into regions adjacent to the periaqueductal gray in 6 control animal. Utilization of the retrograde transport method permitted a quantitative analysis of the afferent projections not only to the entire periaqueductal gray, but also to each of its four intrinsic subdivisions. The largest cortical input to this midbrain region arises from areas 24 and 32 in the medial prefrontal cortex. The basal forebrain provides a significant input to the periaqueductal gray and this arises predominantly from the ipsilateral lateral and medial preoptic areas and from the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca. The hypothalamus was found to provide the largest descending input to the central gray. Numerous labeled cells occurred in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, the lateral hypothalamic area, the posterior hypothalamic area, the anterior hypothalamic area, the perifornical nucleus and the area of the tuber cinereum. The largest mesencephalic input to the periaqueductal gray arises from the nucleus cuneiformis and the substantia nigra. The periaqueductal gray was found to have numerous intrinsic connections and contained a significant number of labeled cells both above and below the injection site in each case. Other structures containing significant label in the midbrain and isthmus region included the nucleus subcuneiformis, the ventral tegmental area, the locus coeruleus and the parabrachial nuclei. The medullary and pontine reticular reticular formation provide the largest input to the periaqueductal gray from the lower brain stem. The midline raphe magnus and superior central nucleus also supply a significant fiber projection to the central gray. Both the trigeminal complex and the spinal cord provide a minor input to this region of the midbrain. The sources of afferent projections to the periaqueductal gray are extensive and allow this midbrain region to be influenced by motor, sensory and limbic structures. In addition, evidence is provided which indicates that the four subdivisions of the central gray receive differential projections from the brain stem as well as from higher brain structures.
Of 207 monoclonal antibodies produced against cultured mouse cerebellar cells, 16 reacted with cerebellar cell surfaces and 4 reacted with glycoproteins. One of them, called an anti-BSP-3 (Brain cell Surface Protein-3) defines a 48,000 molecular weight protein which can be iodinated at the surface of cultured cerebellar cells. Lectin-binding and sugar incorporation studies established the glycoprotein nature of the antigen. Astroglia (glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells) in primary cerebellar cultures were labelled intensely for this antigen by the indirect immunofluorescence method while neuronal cells and their processes were more weakly labelled. Fibronectin-positive cells were negative for BSP-3. In cerebellar sections using the immunoperoxidase method at both the optical and electron microscope levels, the difference in staining intensity between astrocytes and neuronal cells was not significant: in Purkinje cells and in the large neurones present in the deep cerebellar nuclei the immunoperoxidase percipitate was confined to the plasma, membrane while in both astrocytes and granule cells cytoplasmic labelling was also observed. Oligodendrocytes do not appear to react with the anti-BSP-3 monoclonal antibody; neither do endothelial or leptomeningeal cells. The availability of a monoclonal antibody produced by a stable hybridoma line will be a powerful tool in attempts to purify the BSP-3 antigen and to elucidate its function.
The cellular localization of the brain-specific, soluble, acidic alpha 2-glycoprotein was studied in rat cerebellum by using the immunoperoxidase technique at the light-and electron-microscopy levels with monospecific immune serum directed against this glycoprotein. Only astrocytes, their processes, and their end feet (subpial or perivascular) contained heavy immunoperoxidase reaction product. Cerebellar neurones, oligodendrocytes, myelin and blood vessel endothelia did not stain. Thus it appears that alpha 2-glycoprotein is an astrocyte marker.
A post-tetanic membrane hyperpolarization following repetitive neuronal activity is a commonly observed phenomenon in the isolated frog spinal cord as well as in neurons of other nervous tissues. We have now used double-barrelled Na+- and K+-ion-sensitive microelectrodes to measure the intracellular Na+- and K+-concentrations and also the extracellular K+-concentration of lumbar spinal motoneurons during and after repetitive stimulation of a dorsal root. The results show that the post-tetanic membrane hyperpolarization occurred at a time when the intracellular [Na+] reached its maximal value, intracellular [K+] had its lowest level and extracellular [K+] was still elevated. The hyperpolarization was blocked by ouabain and reduced by Li+. These data support the previous suggestion that an electrogenic Na+/K+ pump mode may be the mechanism underlying the post-tetanic membrane hyperpolarization.
Ciliated olfactory receptor neurons in vertebrates turn over throughout life. We show that these neurons bear different types of cilia at different developmental stages; cilia on newly differentiating cells are short and motile; cilia on mature cells are longer and immotile; Mg2+ and adenosine 5'-triphosphate are requisite for ciliary motion; stimulation with odorants can induce synchronous motion and that this process is mediated by Ca2+. We propose that receptor neurons have two distinguishable developmental states. In the first, before the growing axon establishes synaptic connection to the brain, the cells bear motile cilia and are generally irritable. In the second, the cilia are long and immotile and the cells can distinguish between odorants.
Radioactivity above background level can be detected in the contralateral visual pathway of normal rats as long as 250 days after intraocular injection of tritiated proline. Silver grains disappear first from the retina, and last from the superior colliculus. In the optic tectum and the isthmic nucleus of the frog, more than 500 days are necessary to reach background level of radioactivity, when labelled retinal fibres are undergoing Wallerian degeneration. The intensity of label in tectal laminae formed by myelinated fibres is markedly reduced 12 days after the removal of the labelled eye. In the laminae of unmyelinated fibres, the decrease in the number of silver grains is less than 50% during a 150-day degeneration period. In the isthmic nucleus radioactivity was less intense, when labelled retinal fibres were degenerating in the tectum, as compared to that in normal animals. Radioactivity in the superior colliculus decreased 3 times faster than in the tectum after removal of the labelled eye. We conclude that proline is reutilized for protein synthesis. Unmyelinated fibres degenerate slower than myelinated ones in frogs, and transneuronal transport cannot be enhanced by increased protein breakdown.
The organization of the cytoskeleton in myelinated axons of the rat has been analyzed without chemical fixation in replicas of deep-etched materials after rapid freezing. Freeze-etch replicas of trigeminal nerves provided three-dimensional views of the well-developed cytoskeleton inside axons. In these preparations, the axonal cytoskeleton was seen to be composed of longitudinally-oriented microtubules and neurofilaments which were interconnected by slender strands. Such strands also connected membranous organelles with microtubules and neurofilaments. After Triton X-100 extraction, the neurofilament-associated interconnecting strands (cross-linking filaments) persisted, indicating that they are not artifactual products of soluble protein condensation during freeze-etching. In non-extracted axons many granular structures were closely associated with cytoskeletal components. These granular elements were not seen after Triton treatment. These findings, together with fluorographic analyses, suggest that the granular structures may represent. These findings, together with fluorographic analyses, suggest that the granular structures may represent slowly transported &quot;soluble proteins' in axoplasm. This freeze-etch replica study, without any chemical fixation, substantiates the reality of the axonal cytoskeleton which is directly involved in the axonal transport. Furthermore, using this approach ultrastructural evidence was obtained of the close association of membranous structures with the cytoskeleton.
The appearance and distribution of varicosities containing small granular vesicles in Auerbach's plexus of the guinea-pig ileum, distal colon and rectum has been studied with the electron-microscope. Two types of varicosity were recognised. The first type was located predominantly at the surface of the plexus and did not form synapses on intrinsic neurons. This type became labelled with 5-hydroxydopamine, a specific marker for noradrenergic axons, and was destroyed by 6-hydroxydopamine and extrinsic denervation, procedures which lead to degeneration of noradrenergic nerves in the gut. The second type formed axodendritic and axosomatic synapses on intrinsic neurons and the morphology of its synaptic vesicles differed subtly from that of the first type. The second type was unaffected by 5-hydroxydopamine, 6-hydroxydopamine, or extrinsic denervation. It is concluded that the two types of small granular vesicle-containing varicosities belong to different neurons and that the first type is noradrenergic. Noradrenergic varicosities do not, therefore, form synapses in Auerbach's plexus. This conclusion is in accord with the electrophysiological findings. The second type of small granular vesicle-containing varicosity is not noradrenergic although it was formerly thought to be so. It is intrinsic to the gut and is resistant to the serotoninergic neurotoxin, 5,6-dihydroxytryptamine.
Efferent projections from the hippocampal formation to the cat's cortex were traced with the retrograde horseradish peroxidase technique. Different areas of the cortex of 31 cats were injected with small amounts of horseradish peroxidase. All subregions of the hippocampal formation were screened for labeled cells. It was found that, with the exception of the entorhinal injections, only subicular areas of the hippocampal formation contain labeled neurons. When HRP was injected into the entorhinal cortex, labeled cells are also found in the hippocampus proper. The most dense projection from the subicular cortex is directed to the medial part of the cortical hemisphere. Here, cingulate, retrosplenial and medial prefrontal fields receive a substantial number of subicular efferents. Furthermore, the entorhinal cortex is reached by a number of axons originating in the subicular area. Scarce projections from the subicular cortex terminate in the dorsal prefrontal, temporal, parietal and prepiriform cortex. It is suggested that the projection from the subicular cortex to the neocortical areas of the frontal pole (medial prefrontal cortex) is of special importance as it may constitute a link between the association areas of the neocortex and those regions of the limbic system thought to play a role in memory (subicular cortex, mamillary bodies, anterior thalamus, cingulate gyrus).
The ultrastructure of the myenteric plexus from the rabbit colon was examined in both conventionally fixed tissue and also material fixed with the chromaffin method. Montages of the ganglia were analysed semi-quantitatively. Six main types of axon profile are described and classified on a morphological consideration of the vesicle population. Most axon types formed synapses with myenteric neurons. Two kinds of chromaffin-positive nerve fibre were seen, one containing a predominance of small granular vesicles, the other containing many flattened vesicles. The difficulties in relating axon profile types to putative transmitters are discussed.
Nerve cells have been found in hydra, which react with antisera to oxytocin, vasopressin and mesotocin. These nerve cells have a high density in the ectoderm of basal disk and tentacles and lower density in the ectoderm of peduncle, gastric region and hypostome. A very small number of nerve cells occur also in the endoderm of foot, gastric region and hypostome. By using a technique for simultaneous visualisation of nerve cells reacting with antisera to oxytocin and vasopressin, it can be shown that these nerve cells belong to a single population. In agreement with this, the staining of the nerve cells can be abolished by absorbing each antiserum with either oxytocin, vasopressin, [Lys8]vasopressin, vasotocin, mesotocin or isotocin, indicating that the antigenic determinant of hydra cross-reacts with those antibody subpopulations, which recognize common portions (sequence 1-2, 5-7, 9) of the oxytocin/vasopressin-like peptides. With radioimmunoassays that are specific for either oxytocin or vasopressin, only very low amounts of immunoreactivity were measured. In addition, the dilution curves in these assays were not parallel to the standards, indicating that the antigenic determinant of hydra is not oxytocin or vasopressin. The presence of oxytocin/vasopressin-like material in coelenterates, shows that this family of peptides is of great antiquity.
Two antisera to glial fibrillary acidic protein from human brain and an antiserum to a 49 k dalton glial filament protein from human brain detected a cross-reacting antigen in the Schwann cells of the olfactory and vomeronasal nerves. The antigen was demonstrated at light- and electron-microscope levels. It was found throughout the cytoplasm and in association with cytoplasmic filaments of olfactory nerve Schwann cells in intact tissue and in Schwann cells grown in vitro. This observation, together with observations on the ultrastructure of olfactory nerve Schwann cells, relates them to central astroglia and to glial cells of the myenteric plexus, rather than to Schwann cells of other peripheral nerves. The unusual properties of olfactory nerve Schwann cells are of interest in relation to the regenerative abilities of the olfactory nerves.
Embryonic cerebral cortex was transplanted over the cerebellum of one- to two-day-old rats. In mature rats, clusters of granule cells that failed to migrate into the internal granule cell layer were now found within the graft tissue. Immunocytochemical staining of astrocytic glial cells in the cortical transplants revealed that glial processes were distributed in an unusual polarized orientation in those regions that contained host granule cells. Other areas of the graft exhibited glia cells with processes that projected radially from their cell body, thus resembling fibrous astrocytes. Fibrous astrocytes in transplants, however, were more heavily stained than similar glial cells in the intact cerebral cortex of the host, indicating a quantitative difference in the glia fibrillary acidic protein. Acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers were observed between the clusters of granule cells in the cortical grafts. Such fibers traversed the molecular layer and, since they could be traced from the white matter of the host cerebellum, they were presumed to be mossy fibers. It is concluded that migration of external granule cells in the cerebellum can altered by placing embryonic cerebral cortex next to the developing cerebellum. Granule cells that have migrated into the grafted cerebral cortical tissue nevertheless receive afferent fibres.
Isolated segments of cervical sympathetic trunk were transplanted onto the olfactory mucosa and bulb in adult rats, and olfactory nerve fascicles were sectioned in the region of the transplant. Olfactory axons, presumably arising from newly-formed sensory neurons, were observed to grow into the transplanted segments of peripheral nerve and were ensheathed by Schwann cells of the transplant. The axons were ensheathed as large bundles containing many axons in direct contact, an arrangement characteristic of the normal olfactory nerves, and not of the normal sympathetic trunk. However, single Schwann cell 'units' were each surrounded by basal lamina, an arrangement typical of the sympathetic trunk, not of olfactory nerves. The results indicate that olfactory axons, like other peripheral axons, are capable of directing some aspects of the manner in which they are ensheathed by Schwann cells.
Golgi impregnations of the posterior part of the cat's anteroventral cochlear nucleus have revealed two types of neurons, bushy cells with short bush-like dendrites and stellate cells with long, tapered processes; Nissl stains have revealed globular and multipolar cell bodies with dispersed and clumped ribosomal patterns, respectively. In the present study, we injected horseradish peroxidase into the trapezoid body. Ipsilaterally, retrograde, diffuse labelling of neurons, presumably through damaged fibers, yielded Golgi-like profiles of numerous bushy cells with typical dendrites and with thick axons projecting toward the trapezoid body. Stellate cells were almost never labelled in this way. Anterograde diffuse labelling of thick axons demonstrated calyx endings in the contralateral medial nucleus of the trapezoid body. In the electron-microscope, the perikarya of diffusely-filled bushy neurons were found to have the dispersed ribosomal pattern and the kinds of synaptic endings typical of globular cells, including large profiles of end-bulbs from cochlear nerve axons. After injections restricted to the medial trapezoid nucleus, granularly-labelled cells in the cochlear nucleus were almost completely confined to the contralateral side; Nissl counterstaining showed them to be globular cells in the posterior part of the anteroventral cochlear nucleus. After larger injections, involving surrounding regions of the superior olivary complex, granular labelling occurred throughout the ventral cochlear nucleus on both sides. There is also evidence that stellate cells in Golgi impregnations correspond to multipolar cell bodies in Nissl stains. We conclude that bushy cells typically correspond to globular cells, which receive end-bulbs from the cochlea and send thick axons to the contralateral medial trapezoid nucleus, where they form calyces on principal cells. Principal cells, in turn, are known to project to the lateral superior olive and to one of the nuclei of origin of the crossed olivo-cochlear bundle, which feeds back to the cochlea. In this circuit, correlations between synaptic patterns and particular physiological signal transfer characteristics can be suggested. These could be related to binaural intensity interactions in the lateral superior olive and to a regulatory loop involving the olivo-cochlear bundles.
The olivo-cerebellar projection to the flocculus and adjacent parts of the ventral paraflocculus was investigated by means of anterograde transport of tritiated leucine. Four subdivisions of the principal olive (caudal lateral bend, ventro-lateral outgrowth, rostral and caudal dorsal cap) and the rostral tip of the medial accessory olive were involved in the projection. In the flocculus contralateral to the injection site, eight different climbing fiber strips are distinguished, most of which extend into the most caudal lobule of the ventral paraflocculus and the area of cortex connecting it with the flocculus. One of these, present in the extreme caudal edge of the area under study, originated from the rostral part of the medial accessory olive and was labeled C2. The others originate in the principal olive and are labeled F-strips. Whereas the caudal lateral bend is connected with a single strip (F7), the remaining subdivisions give origin to two separated strips. The ventro-lateral outgrowth, the rostral and caudal dorsal cap are the respective sites of origin of the strips F2 + F5, F3 + F6 and F1 + F4. The significance of the strips is discussed in relation to the cerebellar relay nuclei, known to receive floccular efferents. A new nomenclature is proposed for the lobular subdivision of the flocculus and adjacent parts of the ventral paraflocculus, together with a simple method for the construction of a two-dimensional diagram of these areas.
The cellular localization of the binding of radioactive noradrenaline and alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor antagonists was studied in organotypic cultures of rat cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord using autoradiography. In cerebellar cultures, many neurones, which appeared to be Purkinje cells, were labelled by [3H]noradrenaline and by the beta-antagonists [3H]dihydroalprenolol and [3H]carazolol, whereas no binding of the alpha-antagonists [3H]prazosin and [3H]rauwolscine was detected. In cultures of spinal cord and brain stem, [3H]noradrenaline and the beta-antagonists were bound to many large neurones. Binding of [3H] alpha-antagonists was observed to a small number of brain stem and spinal neurones, the labelling being much weaker than that produced by the [3H] beta-antagonists. The antidepressant [3H]desmethylimipramine was bound to many neurones and glial cells in cerebellar, brain stem and spinal cord cultures. Glial cells also possessed binding sites for [3H]noradrenaline and alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor antagonists, findings that are consistent with recent electrophysiological observations which indicate the existence of alpha- and beta-adrenoceptors on cultured astrocytes.
The action of adrenergic alpha- and beta-agonists and antagonists has been studied on the membrane potential and resistance of glial cells of cultured rat central nervous system. Noradrenaline and the alpha-adrenoceptor stimulating agents phenylephrine and clonidine (10(-7) to 10(-4)M) depolarized the glial membrane, whereas the beta-agonist isoprenaline caused a hyperpolarization at low concentrations (10(-7) and 10(-6)M). The effects of noradrenaline and phenylephrine were reversibly blocked by the alpha-antagonist phentolamine, whereas those of isoprenaline were antagonized by the beta-blocker atenolol. Atenolol did not affect the depolarization by noradrenaline. The glial depolarization induced by the alpha-agonists was not the consequence of a change in the extracellular K+-concentration unlike that produced by amino acid transmitters. The present results, together with those of biochemical and autoradiographic binding studies, suggest that alpha- and beta-adrenoceptors occur on glial cells and that the glial depolarization is mediated by alpha-receptors, whereas the hyperpolarization is due to activation of beta-receptors.
Rat cerebral cortical explants prepared from 18-day-old embryos were grown for 18 days in vitro. Cultures were exposed to Na+, Li+ and choline+ media, respectively, in the presence or absence of tetrodotoxin and/or veratridine, and processed for electron-microscopy. Veratridine (50 microM) induced an increase in summated and mean areas of neuronal profiles in Na+- and Li+-media but not in the choline+-medium: the summated perimeters did not change. The mean value of the neuronal form factor was significantly elevated following exposure to veratridine in a Na+- or Li+-dependent manner, indicating that the shape of the sectioned neuronal elements shifted towards an (ideal) circle. Qualitative assessment revealed an increased electron-lucency of the cytoplasm of neuronal profiles in Na+- and Li+-media containing veratridine. The veratridine-induced neuronal changes were inhibited by simultaneous addition of tetrodotoxin (1 microM) to the media. In the case of the glial cells, the values of the summated area and form factor did not change in the various experimental groups. The area of the extracellular space per unit area of sections significantly decreased in the Na+- and Li+-media following veratridine exposure; this did not occur in the choline+-medium. The results indicate a considerable swelling of the neuronal elements, reflecting cation, Cl- and water uptake following prolonged sodium channel activation in the presence of Na+ or Li+ ions. The quantitative ultrastructural data strongly suggests an entry of Li+ ions into cultured rat cerebral cells via sodium channels.
The development of beta-adrenergic receptors in the rat visual cortex was examined and the density of beta-receptors and associated subtypes (beta 1 and beta 2) was compared between visual and non-visual or whole cortical tissues using radioreceptor assays employing [125I]iodohydroxybenzylpindolol and [125I]iodocyanopindolol as ligands. Saturation assays revealed not only similar affinities of beta-receptors for [125I]iodohydroxybenzylpindolol in visual cortical samples at 10, 24 and 160 days after birth but also practically identical saturation curves for visual and non-visual cortical samples at 160 days of age. Displacement of [125I]iodohydroxybenzylpindolol with propranolol in visual cortical membranes at various postnatal ages showed a gradual increase in receptor density from day 4 to day 24 with no change thereafter. No significant differences were observed in the overall density of beta-receptors or in the distribution and density of beta 1 and beta 2-receptors between visual and non-visual or whole cortical samples; however, there was a definite decline in the density of beta-receptors in these samples between 40 and 160 days of age. The results indicate that the developmental pattern of beta-receptor density and the distribution of beta 1 and beta 2-receptors are similar between visual and whole cortical tissues. In addition, the results emphasize the importance of maintaining the dissociation constant at a fixed value when comparing receptor densities between experiments, and also show the utility of employing the high-affinity ligand, [125I]iodocyanopindolol, with a combination of serotoninergic, dopaminergic and alpha-adrenergic antagonists to examine beta-adrenergic receptors in a specific region of the brain. Study of beta-receptors in the visual cortex may be beneficial in elucidating the role of norepinephrine in this region.
In chronically implanted awake rats, microinjections of chlordiazepoxide (5 x 10(-7) M) into the dorsal raph significantly attenuated the inhibition of lever-pressing for food elicited by a signal of punishment. This effect is abolished by prior application of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine into the dorsal raph (3 weeks after the infusion of the neurotoxin, dorsal raph tryptophan hydroxylase activity was reduced to 25% of control values). Furthermore, the disinhibitory effect of intra raph chlordiazepoxide can be mimicked or potentiated by intra raph dorsalis application of serotonin (10(-7) or 10(-8) M, respectively). Further evidence for a crucial interaction between benzodiazepines and serotoninergic processes are provided by in vitro experiments showing that chlordiazepoxide or diazepam (10(-5) M) are able to facilitate the K+-evoked [3H]serotonin release from rat midbrain slices. Finally, a high density of [3H]flunitrazepam binding sites was found in the dorsal (and the median) raph nucleus, the Kd and Bmax values being not altered by prior infusion of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine. These in vitro data suggest possible means by which intra raph (and perhaps peripherally administered) benzodiazepines may affect the activity of serotoninergic neurons and thereby produce their effects on experimental anxiety.
Trifluoperazine, a calmodulin antagonist, inhibited the secretory response of cultured bovine adrenal medullary chromaffin cells to acetylcholine (10(-4) M) or a depolarizing concentration of [K+] (56 mM KCl) in a dose-related fashion. The ID50s of this effect were 2 x 10(-7) M and 2.2 x 10(-6) M for acetylcholine and high [K+], respectively. A decrease in external [Ca2+] concentration of the incubation medium from 4.4 to 0.275 mM resulted in an increase in the percentage of inhibition produced by trifluoperazine on the acetylcholine-evoked secretory response from 20.7 to 96.5%, respectively. However, trifluoperazine inhibited the acetylcholine-evoked catecholamine output by a similar absolute magnitude for all [Ca2+] concentrations tested with the exception of 4.4 mM [Ca2+]. Trifluoperazine, unlike the [Ca2+] channel blocker Ni2+, in concentrations (10(-6)-10(-5) M) that were found to inhibit significantly [K+]-induced amine output did not modify [K+]-induced 45Ca uptake or 45Ca efflux. However, trifluoperazine at a concentration of 2.5 x 10(-5) M was found to produce a small decrease in the 45Ca efflux curve and a decrease in the [K+]-evoked 45Ca uptake of 30 +/- 14% (n = 6). In addition, 2.5 x 10(-6) M trifluoperazine, a concentration which was found to suppress high [K+]-induced amine release by 64 +/- 5%, did not inhibit the 45Ca2+-Ca2+ exchange mechanism. These results demonstrate that trifluoperazine, an antipsychotic agent with anticalmodulin activity, blocks catecholamine release from cultured chromaffin cells at a step distal from calcium entry and, consequently, suggests a role for calmodulin in the secretory process of these cells.

The release of [3H]noradrenaline into the perfused central canal of the cat lumbar-sacral spinal cord was monitored in vivo. Stimulation of descending tracts produced an increase efflux into artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing 10(-6) M phenoxybenzamine which could be dissociated from any concurrent rise in blood pressure. No release was produced by stimulating dorsal roots over the length of cord perfused. It appears, therefore, that noradrenaline can be released from descending nerve terminals, but not from dorsal root afferents in the spinal cord.
Principal neurons from the superior cervical ganglia of rat fetuses were maintained for up to 101 days in dissociated cell cultures in a serum-free, chemically-defined medium; non-neuronal cells were killed by the periodic addition of fluorodeoxyuridine to the medium. Intracellular recordings, obtained at various times between 16th and 98th day in vitro, showed that these neurons could generate substantial (up to 90 mV) action potentials in response to depolarizing current injections; these responses were dependent on tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ channels, cobalt-sensitive Ca++ channels, and tetraethylammonium-sensitive K+ channels. Action potentials were often followed by prominent, long hyperpolarizing after-potentials (10-15 mV, greater than 150 ms); the duration of these after-potentials was reduced by the addition of Co++ (2-5 mM) to the perfusate. Acetylcholine depolarized these neurons by a hexamethonium-sensitive mechanism. To determine whether sympathetic neurons formed synapses in a defined medium, intracellular recordings were obtained from pairs of neighboring neurons. Synaptic interactions were frequently observed at all times in vitro (up to 60% of all pairs tested). At many synapses, both hyperpolarizing and depolarizing DC potential changes spread from one neuron to another. At other synapses, the spread of DC potential changes could not be directly demonstrated; however, interactions at such synapses were not inhibited by antagonists of several neurotransmitters, by elevation of the Mg++/Ca++ ratio, or by the addition of Co++. Thus most, if not all, of the synaptic interactions among sympathetic neuron were electronic; such electrical synapses were not observed among dorsal root ganglion neurons maintained in the same medium. These data indicate that, when maintained in a chemically-defined culture medium, sympathetic neurons of rat fetuses express many of the basic membrane properties observed in neurons of superior cervical ganglia recently removed from adult rats. However, fetal sympathetic neurons maintained in this defined medium also differ from their counterparts in vivo; they adopt a mode of synaptic transmission (electrical) that has not been observed in the sympathetic ganglia of the adult rat. Thus, as late as the 21st embryonic day, not only the choice of neurotransmitter, but also the mode of transmission has not been irrevocably determined in sympathetic neurons.
The effects of amphetamine upon the terminal excitability of noradrenergic neurons of the nucleus locus coeruleus were studied in urethane anesthetized rats. Terminal excitability was measured by determining the stimulus currents necessary to evoke antidromic responses in locus coeruleus neurons from terminals in the frontal cortex. In most cases, terminal excitability was decreased following local infusion of amphetamine into the frontal cortex, while intravenous administration of the drug tended to increase terminal excitability. The decreased terminal excitability induced by local infusion of amphetamine appeared to be due to activation of alpha-adrenergic receptors located on the terminals of locus coeruleus neurons, since this effect mimics that of clonidine, a direct acting alpha-adrenergic agonist, and since the effect was abolished by pretreatment with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine which disrupts the catecholamine liberating properties of amphetamine. Phentolamine, a direct acting alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist was also found to block or reverse the effect of amphetamine. The changes in terminal excitability following intravenous injection of amphetamine appeared to be related to changes in the spontaneous activity of locus coeruleus neurons. A large decrease in spontaneous activity following intravenous administration of amphetamine was associated with increased terminal excitability, whereas when smaller changes in spontaneous activity occurred, terminal excitability was found to be decreased. These results are discussed with respect to the pharmacological properties of catecholaminergic neurons and the mechanisms of action of amphetamine.

In rats under urethane anesthesia, single shock or tetanic stimulation of the medial septum--which evoked only minimal field potentials--sharply enhanced population spikes evoked in area CA1 by commissural stimulation. An enhancement of population spikes was observed only (a) in areas CA1 and CA2 (adjacent to CA1 in the dorsal hippocampus), but not in the fascia dentata or the deep pyramidal layers CA3 or CA4; (b) in a narrow range of depth, close to the stratum pyramidale; (c) when the intensity of commissural stimulation was of adequate intensity. A comparable facilitation of population spikes was produced at the same sites by microiontophoretic release of acetylcholine. The septal facilitatory action increased in effectiveness with the number of tetanic pulses (up to 10-12) at a given frequency, and it had a maximum at frequencies of 50-100 Hz. It reached a maximum 20-50 ms after the end of septal stimulation, and then decayed slowly, the overall duration being up to 300 ms. The cholinergic nature of the facilitation induced by septal stimulation was confirmed by the parallel potentiation of septal action and that of acetylcholine by physostigmine and their depression by atropine and scopolamine.
In deeply anesthetized cats the temporal characteristics of ventro-lateral (thalamic) excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) induced in pyramidal tract cells were studied with an averaging technique. Stimulation of the ventrolateral thalamus induced EPSPs in all pyramidal tract neurons at latencies of 1-5 ms. It was found that there was a positive relationship between the latency and rise time of stimulation-induced EPSPs and the latency of antidromic invasions of pyramidal tract neurons. In response to two closely spaced shocks the second EPSP had the same latency and amplitude as the first one in both slow and fast pyramidal tract neurons. Moreover, the span of antidromic latencies of ventrolateral thalamic relay cells to motor cortex stimulation showed that these thalamic neurons had the necessary conduction velocities to account for the distribution EPSP latencies recorded in pyramidal tract neurons. From these electrophysiological results, it has been concluded that slow and fast pyramidal tract morphological evidence, obtained at the electron-microscopic level, supporting this conclusion. Terminal degeneration induced by a lesion in the ventrolateral thalamus was found on the apical dendrite of a slow pyramidal tract neurons that had been injected with horseradish peroxidase. It is proposed that the matching between the latencies of EPSPs evoked from the ventrolateral thalamus and the latencies of antidromic invasions of pyramidal tract neurons may reflect a matching between the conduction velocity of thalamocortical and cortico-spinal neurons and/or it may be due to the electrotonic properties of the apical dendrites.

Acetylcholine (greater than or equal to 10(-5) M) applied in the bathing medium to the excitatory nerve-muscle junction of the locust caused a dose-dependent increase in the frequency of spontaneous miniature potentials and in the mean quantal content of evoked potentials. The statistical characteristics of the spontaneous release process were also modified, high frequency bursts of spontaneous potentials and &quot;giant' miniature potentials occurring in the presence of acetylcholine. The response, which was dependent on extracellular calcium concentration, consisted of two distinct phases; these could be induced or abolished selectively by nicotinic and muscarinic drugs, respectively. The results suggest the presence, in low density, of two types of cholinergic receptors on the excitatory motor nerve terminals of the locust. The acetylcholine-induced channels may admit calcium ions. The possible role of these presynaptic receptors is discussed.
Intracellular measurements were made in the in situ spinal cord of the frog at temperatures below 5 degrees C. Responses to volleys in the sciatic nerve, in the descending fibres and in the motor axons were studied. About 30% of the motoneurons responded to sciatic volleys with 1-3 ms segmental latency, which was short enough to assume electrotonic mediation of these responses. Another group of motoneurons responded with 6-8 ms latency, i.e. with the expected delay at chemical synapses at low temperature. Latency distribution of the sciatic-evoked postsynaptic potentials was clearly bimodal in contrast with that found at higher temperatures. Postsynaptic discharges occurred with rather long latency and they were attributed to chemically-mediated excitation. Some of the postsynaptic potentials to descending volleys also occurred with quite short latency, indicating possible electrotonic transmission from supraspinal centres to motoneurons. Latency distribution of the action potentials evoked from the motor axons was bimodal, corresponding to the different, i.e. antidromic and recurrent facilitatory, mechanism of these spikes. Calculated Q10 ratios for the sciatic-evoked reflex discharges and the afferent fibre volleys were about 2.3 and 1.8, respectively. We concluded that cooling helps to separate postsynaptic potentials according to their electrotonic and chemical mediation and that electrotonic excitation does not seem to have a primary role in the generation of postsynaptic discharges initiated by dorsal root volleys in the frog.
Capsaicin, a neurotoxin which acts specifically on sensory primary afferent C-fibres was applied locally to one sciatic nerve of a group of rats. One to sixteen days following this a series of behavioural and electrophysiological studies were performed. The latency of foot withdrawal of the rats to a controlled thermal noxious stimuli was significantly elevated (200%). The peak increase occurred on day 1 after treatment; the response then fell to a steady but elevated level for up to 16 days. Responses to noxious mechanical stimuli were unaffected by capsaicin treatment. Single unit analysis of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord showed that the number of neurones in deep laminae (4, 5 and 6) responding to a C peripheral volley was normal (60%) for the first 2 days after treatment. On day 3 post treatment, the number of cells with a C input began to fall reaching a maximal decrease on day 7 (25%), where it remained up to day 16. In contrast to this delayed effect on C-evoked responses, the number of cells responding to noxious heating of the skin fell from control levels of 60% down to 20% on day 1 and remained decreased for up to 16 days. The onset of thermal analgesia following local, capsaicin treatment, therefore, closely parallels the time course of the decrease of noxious heat-evoked responses in the dorsal horn. Since at early pretreatment times, the electrically C-evoked activity is normal these effects are likely to be due to action on peripheral C-fibre nociceptors in the skin. At a later stage capsaicin also appears to act on the central terminals of fibres reducing transmission to second order dorsal horn neurones.
Localization of luteotrophic hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) was examined by immunocytochemistry in untreated male rats and rats that received an anterior hypothalamic deafferentation. Gonadotrophic function was assessed by examining testicular weight and morphology. All of the antisera used in this study were able to reveal LHRH cell bodies and fibers. Cells from the medial preoptic area, (particularly the preoptic periventricular or median preoptic nuclei) and lateral anterior hypothalamus sent axons to the median eminence. The fiber tracts were loosely organized into (1) a tract that coursed through the organum vasculum of the lamina terminalis between the optic nerves and along the ventral surface of the optic chiasm; (2) a tract that coursed to the organum vasculum from the preoptic area and then traversed along the floor of the third ventricle; (3) a tract that coursed from the medial preoptic area to the median eminence along the lateral walls of the third ventricle; and (4) a tract that arose from the more caudal portions of the LHRH cell field in the lateral preoptic and lateral anterior hypothalamus, coursed along with the fibers of the medial forebrain bundle and turned medially at the caudal hypothalamus to enter the median eminence. An anterior cut which served most of the connections between the medial preoptic area and hypothalamus but did not penetrate through the optic chiasm served tract 3 and most of tracts 2 and 4, but spared the subchiasmatic projection (tract 1). The fibers that remained in the median eminence were sufficient to retain gonadotrophic function. This study provides an explanation for the variable effects of deafferentation and lesions of the anterior hypothalamus and preoptic area on gonadotrophic function.

The projection of the ventromedial nucleus of the thalamus to the neocortex was studied in cat by means of anterograde and retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase, by the depth profile of evoked thalamocortical field potentials, and by superfusion of the cortex with manganese to block transmitter release. Horseradish peroxidase injected into the ventromedial nucleus was anterogradely transported to the outer third of layer I in the neocortex, extending from the depth of the cruciate sulcus anterior to the olfactory bulb and tract. The region of projection from the ventromedial nucleus extended mediolaterally from the medial wall of the proreus gyrus to the ventral tip of the coronal gyrus. Horseradish peroxidase injections or applications in these areas of the neocortex resulted in the retrograde labeling of neurons in the ventromedial nucleus. Injections in many other cortical areas did not result in labeled neurons in this nucleus. Stimulation of the ventromedial nucleus with single pulses elicited surface-negative waves in the medial part of the precruciate region that had superficial isoelectric points. Superfusion of the precruciate area with manganese resulted in the suppression of the ventromedial-evoked wave, whereas control extracellular waves in deeper layers were unaffected. An additional additional finding was that horseradish peroxidase injections in the ventromedial nucleus led to a dense reciprocal retrograde labeling of neurons in layer VI of that part of the cortex to which the ventromedial nucleus projects. We conclude that, in cat, (1) the ventromedial nucleus projects to layer I of the cerebral cortex anterior to the cruciate sulcus and receives a dense reciprocal projection from layer VI; (2) stimulation of neurons in the ventromedial nucleus causes depolarization of structures in layer I and these neurons are responsible for recruiting responses in the anterior cortex.
This electrophysiological study deals with the occurrence and with the mode of release of unusually large miniature end-plate potentials at the rat neuromuscular junction during physiological conditions. A specific limit for the normal miniature end-plate potential amplitude at each cell studied was determined after fitting the observed frequency-amplitude histogram to a Gaussian distribution. The relative abundance of giant miniature end-plate potentials was 4.15% at room temperature. The occurrence of giant miniature end-plate potentials was temperature dependent. The percentage of giant miniature end-plate potentials was 5.8% and 0.61% at 35 degrees C and at 16 degrees C, respectively. The amplitude-independence of the intervals between miniature end-plate potentials was demonstrated at room temperature as well as at 35 degrees C and at 16 degrees C. The results of this study show that giant miniature end-plate potentials are produced by acetylcholine packets which are released independently and that they are not a consequence of the synchronous release of several normal-sized quanta. Moreover, the results indicate that during physiological conditions a minor but regular proportion of the spontaneous release of acetylcholine is made up of larger packets, which produce miniature end-plate potentials of supranormal amplitude.
The nature of the association of substance P (SP) with taste buds in the rat tongue was investigated by immunohistochemical and radioimmunoassay techniques. Both the circumvallate and fungiform papillae were found to receive a rich innervation by substance P-containing fibres. Although these fibres were closely associated with the taste buds in these structures, they assumed a perigemmal rather than an intragemmal location. Bilateral lesions of the glossopharyngeal nerve resulted in the depletion of taste buds from the vallate papilla and a large reduction in substance P immunoreactive fibres in this area. Lesions of the chorda tympani, which led to the degeneration of taste buds in fungiform papillae, had no effect on the immunohistochemical appearance of substance P in these papilla or on the substance P levels in the anterior part of the tongue. Lesions of the mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve or neonatal capsaicin treatment had no effect on the structural integrity of taste buds in fungiform papillae but led to the depletion of substance P-immunoreactive fibres from these papillae. Both of these procedures caused a 71% reduction in the substance P content of the anterior tongue, ipsilaterally after the nerve lesion and bilaterally after capsaicin treatment. The results are discussed in relation to the possible functional role of substance P-containing fibres within nerves supplying taste structures of the tongue.
This report characterizes the cells and fibers in one part of the cochlear nucleus, the posterior division of the anteroventral cochlear nucleus. This includes the region where the cochlear nerve root enters the brain and begins to form endings. Nissl stains reveal the somata of globular cells with dispersed Nissl substance and those of multipolar cells with coarse, clumped Nissl bodies. Both parts of the posterior division contain cells with each Nissl pattern, but in different relative numbers and locations. Golgi impregnations demonstrate two types of neurons: bushy cells, with short bush-like dendrites, and stellate and elongate cells, with long tapered dendrites. Several varieties of bushy cells, differing in the morphology of the cell body and in the size and extent of the dendritic field, can be distinguished. Comparison of the distributions of these cell types, as well as cellular morphology, suggest that the globular cells recognized in Nissl stains correspond to bushy neurons, while the multipolar cells correspond to stellate and elongate neurons. Golgi impregnations reveal large end-bulbs and smaller boutons from cochlear nerve fibers, as well as boutons from other, unidentified sources, ending in this region. The particular arrangements of the dendritic fields of the different cell types and the axonal endings associated with them indicate that these neurons must have different physiological properties, since they define different domains with respect to the cochlear and non-cochlear inputs.
Immunoreactive substance P and neurotensin in extracts of the digestive tract of man, cat, guinea-pig, pig, rabbit, and rat were measured by radioimmunoassay using antisera directed against the C-terminal portions of the two peptides. In all species except the cat, the concentrations of substance P were highest in the small intestine, intermediate in the large intestine and lowest in the stomach and oesophagus: the digestive tract of the cat displayed a rather even distribution of substance P. As observed in the ileum of guinea-pig, rabbit, and rat, the external muscle layer including the myenteric plexus contained 2-5 times higher concentrations of substance P than the whole ileal wall, whereas the substance P concentrations in the mucosa were only about one sixth of those in the whole wall. High performance liquid chromatography of extracts of human, feline and rabbit ileum showed that all the immunoreactive substance P eluted at the positions of substance P and substance P sulfoxide. The distribution of immunoreactive neurotensin along the digestive system of all six species was very similar. The highest concentrations of neurotensin were measured in the distal part of the small intestine, whereas the large intestine, stomach and oesophagus contained only low concentrations of neurotensin relative to the concentrations in the ileum. As examined in the ileum of guinea-pig, rabbit, and rat, the mucosa exhibited 2.5-4 times higher concentrations of neurotensin than the whole ileal wall, while the concentrations of neutrotensin in the external muscle layer including the myenteric plexus were only 4-20% of those in the whole wall. High performance liquid chromatography of the immunoreactive neurotensin extracted from the cat ileum yielded a single peak corresponding to neurotensin while the immunoreactive neurotensin extracted from the ileum of man and rabbit was eluted in two peaks, 55 and 72% of the recovered immunoreactivity, respectively, corresponding to neurotensin. These findings are in line with the proposed roles of substance P in the neural, and neurotensin in the endocrine, control and maintenance of gastrointestinal motility.
Systemic treatment of new-born rats with the catecholamine neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine leads to a permanent and selective alteration of the postnatal development of the central noradrenaline neurons, in particular of the locus coeruleus system. The changes involve a pronounced and permanent degeneration of distant nerve terminal projections (e.g. in the cerebral cortex and spinal cord) and a hyperinnervation of regions close to the noradrenaline perikarya (e.g. in the cerebellum and pons-medulla). Substance P administered intracisternally was found to counteract significantly both the 6-hydroxydopamine-induced denervation and hyperinnervation, as monitored by measuring endogenous noradrenaline levels and [3H]noradrenaline uptake in vitro. The counteracting effect of substance P disclosed a clear dose-response relationship and was most effective when injected on postnatal days one and two, while practically no effects were observed after injection on postnatal days three and four. Substance P treatment alone of new-born rats had no effect on the postnatal development of the regional monoamine levels. Binding studies employing radioligand technique showed substance P treatment to abolish the 6-hydroxydopamine-induced increase in beta-receptor binding in the frontal cortex, suggesting the 'spared' noradrenaline terminals to be functionally active. Substance P was shown to increase the utilization of noradrenaline in the neonatal stage. The results indicate that the counteracting effect of substance P may be due to a prevention of degeneration, growth stimulation and/or trophic influences on central noradrenaline neurons, possibly related to an excitatory effect of substance P on noradrenaline neurons.
Electroencephalographic synchronization and a fall in the multiunit activity was observed in the mesencephalic reticular formation, ventromedial hypothalamus and dorsal hippocampus following intravenous administration of some 5 alpha and 5 beta-reduced testosterone derivatives. The most potent compounds were androsterone and androstanediol which have the 3 alpha-hydroxy-5 alpha ring A configuration. Steroids with 5 beta reduction, i.e. 5 beta-dihydrotestosterone, etiocholanolone and epi-etiocholanolone, at high doses produced the inhibitory effect. Testosterone and its closer 5 alpha metabolites (5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone and 5 alpha-androstanedione) were ineffective. The depressive effect of androsterone on neurones was antagonized by the intraventricular injection of ruthenium red. On the other hand, the convulsant effect of ruthenium red was prevented or diminished by the action of androsterone. These findings support the hypothesis that testosterone metabolites reduced either at 5 alpha or 5 beta position can act in the brain at a membrane level and raise the possibility that testosterone may be a prehormone in the regulation of excitability in some brain functions.
The sites of origin of brain stem enkephalin and substance P projections to the rodent nucleus raphe magnus were studied utilizing the combined horseradish peroxidase retrograde transport-peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunohistochemical technique. Several brain stem areas were found to contain both enkephalin- and substance P-like immunoreactive double labeled neurons following injection of horseradish peroxidase into the raphe magnus. Nuclei providing both enkephalin and substance P inputs to the raphe magnus include the nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis, the nucleus cuneiformis, the nucleus solitarius and the trigeminal subdivision of the lateral reticular nucleus. Enkephalin projections to the raphe magnus were also found to originate from the dorsal parabrachial nucleus, the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis pars alpha and from an area which corresponds to the A5 group of Dahlstrm &amp; Fuxe. Additional neurons containing substance P-like immunoreactivity and horseradish peroxidase reaction product were identified in the superior central raphe nucleus and the nucleus pontis oralis. The midbrain periaqueductal gray contributes very few enkephalin and substance P fibers to the raphe magnus. The nucleus raphe magnus is a key structure in the intrinsic analgesia system and it has also been implicated in other diverse and non-nociceptive functions. The present study identifies several brain stem sites which provide enkephalin and substance P input to this raphe nucleus. Several of these nuclei have been implicated in central analgesic mechanisms or in non-nociceptive autonomic functions. The present investigation raises the possibility that these brain stem regions may modulate neuronal activity in the raphe magnus via enkephalin or substance P projections and thus influence the involvement of the raphe magnus in both opiate related mechanisms of pain control and non-nociceptive functions.
The neurons containing substance P immunoreactivity in the main olfactory bulb of the hamster are located in the glomerular layer. Their cell bodies lie in the periglomerular region and contain spherical or ovoid nuclei which lack invaginations of the nuclear membrane and tend to be positioned eccentrically in the cell body. Dendrites of these neurons extend throughout the periglomerular region and project into the glomerular neuropil. Within the glomerular neuropil, processes with substance P immunoreactivity contain agranular, spherical synaptic vesicles. Primary olfactory axons, and processes of uncertain origin which contain pleomorphic synaptic vesicles, form synaptic contacts with substance P immunoreactive processes. These ultrastructural findings confirm that the substance P immunoreactive neurons are external tufted cells. Their likely physiological properties are considered in relation to the synaptic organization in the glomerular layer of the main olfactory bulb and to the other putative neurotransmitters or neuromodulators located in this layer.
The high affinity binding of 5 tritiated (naloxone, spiroperidol, serotonin, quinuclidinylbenzilate, dihydroalprenolol) ligands to left and right frontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum has been compared in 8-week-old male rats. No lateralization of specific binding was observed between paired brain regions. Also, no regional asymmetry of protein content was found. No significant differences in met-enkephalin and substance P contents were found between paired striata, frontal cortex, and hippocampi. These data suggest that several neurotransmitter and neuromodulator indices are symmetrically distributed within the rat brain.
Electrophysiological and neurochemical experiments were carried out to examine a possible transmitter role substance P in the prevertebral ganglia of the guinea-pig. When potentials were recorded intracellularly from neurons of the isolated ganglia, stimulation of the pre- or postganglionic nerves elicited a non-cholinergic slow excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP). This synaptic potential was compared with the effects of substance P. Brief application of substance P caused a depolarization of the ganglion cells with a similar time course to that of the non-cholinergic slow EPSP. Changes in membrane resistance during the substance P-induced depolarization resembled those associated with the non-cholinergic slow EPSP. During the substance P-induced depolarization the non-cholinergic slow EPSP was markedly depressed. Attempts were made to determine the origin of the fibers eliciting the non-cholinergic slow EPSP. In the inferior mesenteric ganglia isolated together with preganglionic nerves that retained intact connections with spinal nerve roots, dorsal root stimulation evoked a non-cholinergic slow EPSP but not a cholinergic fast EPSP in the ganglion cells, whereas ventral root stimulation caused only cholinergic fast EPSPs. Following the prolonged treatment with capsaicin, the non-cholinergic slow EPSP was greatly depressed or abolished. Radioimmunoassay revealed that after ligation or section of pre- or postganglionic nerves an accumulation of substance P occurred in the proximal stumps of the interrupted nerves. Stimulation with high potassium medium evoked a release of immunoreactive substance P from the prevertebral ganglia and the release was calcium-dependent. The present findings suggests that axon collaterals of certain visceral primary efferents form synapses with principal cells in the prevertebral ganglia and release substance P as a transmitter for the non-cholinergic slow EPSP.
The distribution of six neuropeptides (vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, cholecystokinin octapeptide, substance P, neurotensin, methionine-enkephalin and somatostatin) has been mapped in the amygdala using immunocytochemical methods. Cell bodies containing each peptide showed a differential distribution throughout the various subnuclei. Large numbers of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and cholecystokinin-octapeptide-containing cell bodies were located in the lateral and cortical nuclei respectively, neurotensin-and methionine enkephalin-containing cell bodies in the central nucleus, and substance P-containing cell bodies primarily in the medial nucleus. Somatostatin-containing cell bodies were found in all nuclei. Neuropeptide-containing fibres were also differentially distributed. Substance P and cholecystokinin fibres formed dense plexuses in the medial nucleus whilst the greatest concentration of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, neurotensin and methionine enkephalin fibres were seen in the central nucleus. Close observation of serial sections showed that all the neuropeptides studied had extensive intra-amygdaloid pathways and connections with other brain areas. The central nucleus and stria terminalis have particular importance in the organisation of peptides within the amygdala. The central nucleus acts as a focus for a number of converging/diverging peptide pathways and incoming catecholaminergic afferents. The stria terminalis contains all six peptides and represents the major efferent peptidergic system. The amygdala is thought to control a number of endocrine responses and to regulate complex behavioural functions. The abundance of neuropeptides within the amygdala and their complex pattern imply that they may act to regulate endocrine responses to external events (e.g. stress) or alter emotional tone functions thought to be controlled by the amygdala.
Staining of the presynaptic axonal membrane of the neuromuscular junction with horseradish peroxidase-labeled alpha-bungarotoxin was utilized as a marker for observing directly the fate of this membrane during the process of synaptic vesicle release and recycling. The neuromuscular junctions of frog sartorius-sciatic nerve preparations were stained with horseradish peroxidase-alpha-bungarotoxin and stimulated by electrical stimulation of the nerve, high concentration of external potassium ions, and black widow spider venom. Some preparations were stimulated in the presence of exogenous horseradish peroxidase tracer after incubation in the conjugate and were found to contain horseradish peroxidase within many synaptic vesicles, indicating that the conjugate did not affect the process of synaptic vesicle recycling. Stimulation was followed by depletion of synaptic vesicles and appearance of axolemmal infoldings and membranous cisternae. With the rest after electrical and potassium stimulation, synaptic vesicles were reconstituted and terminals assumed a more normal appearance. Membrane staining after stimulation occurred in the axolemmal infoldings, some of the intra-axonal cisternae, and in a few coated vesicles. However, all synaptic vesicles were unreactive, in either rested or unrested terminals. Thus, axonal membrane labeled with horseradish peroxidase-alpha-bungarotoxin did not become incorporated into new synaptic vesicles. These observations support a mechanism of recycling of synaptic retrieval of vesicle membrane or constituents from the axolemma.
The distribution of fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase, substance P and somatostatin were investigated in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and in dorsal root ganglia. In the dorsal horn, the distribution of fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase closely paralleled that of somatostatin and only partly overlapped with that of substance P. In sensory ganglia, none of the fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase-containing neurones contained either substance P or somatostatin. The results suggest the existence of a population of fluoride-resistant phosphatase-positive sensory neurones which is distinct from neurones containing either of these peptides.
The coexistence of two neuronally-localised peptides, substance P and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), in descending serotoninergic nerve fibres to the spinal cord was investigated using immunocytochemical and biochemical methods. Substance P-like material in the spinal cord was shown to be identical to the undecapeptide substance P by the criteria of gel filtration, high performance liquid chromatography and behaviour in substance P specific radioimmunoassays. Immunocytochemical staining for 5-hydroxytryptamine, substance P, and TRH showed that all three substances had a similar distribution in nerve fibres and terminals in the ventral and lateral grey matter of the spinal cord. After treatment with the serotonin neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine, neuronal elements containing 5-hydroxytryptamine, substance P and TRH degenerated and disappeared from these parts of the spinal cord in parallel with one another. Biochemical measurements of 5-hydroxytryptamine, substance P and TRH in the spinal cord after treatment with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine confirmed that these three substances were all depleted from the ventral horn and, in addition, showed that there was a small depletion of substance P from the dorsal horn. Two other neuropeptides, somatostatin and methionine-enkephalin were not depleted from the spinal cord by treatment with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine nor was substance P in other parts of the brain. Substance P in the spinal cord was unaffected by 6-hydroxydopamine, a drug known to destroy catecholamine-containing neurones. These results are consistent with coexistence of substance P and TRH together with 5-hydroxytryptamine in the descending axons and terminals of bulbospinal neurones.
The occurrence of intra-axonal peroxidase activity in large myelinated nerve fibres to the plantaris longus muscle of the cat was investigated histochemically 10-12 h after intramuscular administration of horseradish peroxidase. Internodal horseradish peroxidase activity was low. Its demonstration required electron microscopical analysis of serial sections. In contrast to this, many nodal regions did, even in the light-microscope, disclose a high and characteristically distributed horseradish peroxidase activity. At such nodes the distal part of the constricted axon segment was crowded with horseradish peroxidase-positive bodies of which several were of the so-called multivesicular type. The proximal part of the constricted axon segment was almost free of horseradish peroxidase-positive bodies and contained a densely-packed vesiculotubular membranous system. This striking polarization of the nodal axon region is discussed and tentatively interpreted as the consequence of a physiological damming-up of both somatofugally- and somatopetally-transported materials.
The ontogeny and distribution of nerve cell bodies and fibres which contain vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, substance P-, enkephalin- and neurotensin-like immunoreactivity have been studied in the chicken gastrointestinal tract, using immunocytochemistry. All four peptides were found in nerve fibres, with characteristic distribution patterns, which, in the cases of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, substance P and methionine enkephalin were similar to those described for the mammalian gut. In addition, many of these fibres were shown to arise from intrinsic neurons, since immunoreactive nerve cell bodies for each of the peptides studied were observed. Neurotensin-immunoreactive nerves were confined to the upper part of the tract and neurotensin immunoreactive cell bodies were only observed in embryonic and newly hatched chicken gut. All four peptides were first observed at 11 days of incubation, or Hamburger-Hamilton stage 37, 20 in the upper part of the tract, particularly in the gizzard. Substance P and methionine enkephalin were subsequently seen in more caudal regions, while vasoactive intestinal polypeptide developed from each end of the tract. Adult patterns of immunoreactivity in nerve fibres were achieved during the first week after hatching. A striking observation was that immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies were much more abundant in the gut of young chickens and chicken embryos than in that of adult birds.
The ontogeny of substance P-containing neuron system in the forebrain and upper brain stem of the rat was investigated by means of the indirect immunofluorescence technique. Substance P-positive structures first appeared in the primordium of the epithalamus and the area which surrounded the commissura posterior of the rat fetus corresponding to gestational day 14 (10-12 mm embryos). On and after gestational day 14, substance P-positive structures gradually made their appearance in various areas of the forebrain and upper brain stem. Substance P-positive structures thus continued to increase in number and in density during the fetus and perinatal stage and showed histochemically maximum content at the stage between postnatal days 5 and 15. After then, substance P-positive neurons tended to decrease in number as the rats grew, while substance P-positive fibers maintained in general their strong immunoreactivity even in the adult rats. The present study demonstrates that substance P-positive structures appear at a very early ontogenetical stage. This suggests that substance P might play an important role in the development of the forebrain and upper brain stem in addition to its neurotransmitter or neuromodulator functions.


Previous studies have demonstrated that individual neurons from neonatal rat superior cervical ganglion express a mixed adrenergic-cholinergic phenotype when grown under certain tissue culture conditions. The expression of this phenotype is critically influenced by a number of undefined components present in the culture medium. In the present study, we have examined whether superior cervical ganglion neurons grown on a chemically defined serum-free medium similarly develop dual transmitter expression, or if under these conditions, neurons express only those properties characteristic of their adrenergic heritage. To address this issue, we established that superior cervical ganglion neurons could be maintained in culture for extended periods on the defined medium described by Bottenstein &amp; Sato in the absence of supporting cells. We then studied the biochemical, immunocytochemical and ultrastructural characteristics of these neurons. We found that in defined medium, superior cervical ganglion neurons continued to express, in a modified form, certain of their expected adrenergic properties, including the development of tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase activities, stores of endogenous norepinephrine, synaptic vesicles with dense cores and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive staining properties. Superior cervical ganglion neurons grown on a defined medium did not, however, acquire cholinergic traits in culture. In this paper we show that choline acetyltransferase activity did not reach detectable levels; the comparison paper documents that cholinergic synapses were not formed. We concluded that superior cervical ganglion neurons, grown under serum-free culture conditions, develop certain properties characteristic of adrenergic neurons and do not express a mixed adrenergic-cholinergic phenotype. A comparison paper describes the electrophysiological properties of these neurons and demonstrates the frequent occurrence of electrotonic synapses in these cultures.
The heart of the toad Bufo marinus contained a substance with somatostatin-like immunoreactivity which eluted with somatostatin on reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography. Immunoreactivity to somatostatin was localised histochemically to nerve fibers in muscle bundles of the sinus venosus, atria and ventricles and to nerve cell bodies in the sinus venosus and inter-atrial septum. Nerve cell bodies were localised both by interference contrast microscopy and immunohistochemistry; all detectable intracardiac neurons were immunoreactive. Synthetic somatostatin inhibited the rate and force of beat of atrial preparations, but did not affect the driven ventricle. Vagal stimulation caused inhibition of all cardiac chambers. After muscarinic blockade with hyoscine, vagal stimulation with 3 Hz or more still caused inhibition of the pacemaker and atrium, but not of the ventricle. The hyoscine-resistant vagal effects were diminished by about 60% after induction of tachyphylaxis to somatostatin. When when the vagus nerves were stimulated intermittently for 1 h at 10 Hz, in the presence or absence of hyoscine, the effect of somatostatin was reduced by about 60%. It is concluded that the cholinergic postganglionic neurons of the cardiac vagus contain somatostatin. When the vagus is stimulated at 3 Hz or more, the neurons release sufficient somatostatin to inhibit the pacemaker and atrial muscle.
An epileptogenic process was induced within the rat frontoparietal cortex by microiontophoretic applications of penicillin. The temporal development of the penicillin-induced activity was divided into (a) a first phase characterized by an increased rate of neuronal firing, (b) a pre-paroxysmal phase wherein neurons began to fire clusters of action potentials and (c) a paroxysmal phase characterized by a discharge of action potential clusters. The excitatory responses to glutamate and to acetylcholine appeared to be enhanced during the first and pre-paroxysmal phases, whereas a loss of the excitatory effectiveness of both glutamate and acetylcholine occurred during the final paroxysmal phase. Forty nine of 69 neurons studied (71%) showed a decreased sensitivity to gamma-aminobutyrate during the first phase of penicillin iontophoresis. However, during this same time, glycine-induced inhibition was not decreased. During the second phase, gamma-aminobutyrate-induced inhibition was even less effective, and glycine started to lose effectiveness. During the third phase, both these inhibitory neurotransmitters failed to affect the neuronal activity. The other 29% of the neurons studied showed a general diminution to the actions of both gamma-aminobutyrate and glycine when penicillin-induced action potential clusters appeared. Our results suggest that penicillin interferes with gamma-aminobutyrate-mediated inhibition in a large proportion of cortical neurons of the rat. Furthermore, these cortical neurons show changes in the responses to both excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters that closely parallel the development of penicillin-induced activity.
Voltammetry has been widely used in attempts to measure catecholamine release in vivo. The voltammogram recorded in the rat striatum using carbon paste electrodes and linear sweep voltammetry with semidifferentiation consists of a number of separate peaks; changes in the height of the first of these peaks have been attributed to changes in catecholamine release. We have found that ascorbate, either microinjected into the striatum or injected intraperitoneally, increases the height of the first peak without changing its potential. Microinjection of dopamine or 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, or intraperitoneal injection of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, caused a shift in the potential of peak 1 of 25-50 mV in a positive direction. Amphetamine, administered intraperitoneally to freely moving animals, caused an increase in the height of the first peak but did not change its potential. Oxidation potentials in vitro and the effect of other drugs on the voltammogram obtained in vivo were also measured. Peak 1 is caused by the oxidation of both ascorbate and catechols whose oxidation potentials differ by only 50 mV in vivo; the contribution of catechols in control animals is negligible. Shifts in the potential of peak 1 caused by drugs are not due to changes in the oxidation potentials of the components but to a change in their relative contributions. Therefore changes in the height of peak 1 with no change in position do not represent changes in the extracellular concentration of catechols but are due to changes in ascorbate concentration. Changes in the concentration of catecholamine-related compounds can be detected at potentials some 50 mV greater than that of the first peak.

Although the excitatory amino acids, aspartate and glutamate are present in large quantities in the layers of the mammalian retina where the bipolar and amacrine cells make contact with the retinal ganglion cells, it was not known whether these amino acids are the actual neurotransmitters which excite the retinal ganglion cells. To answer this L-aspartate, L-glutamate and the recently discovered powerful and selective antagonist for the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, were applied iontophoretically to the &quot;sustained&quot; and the &quot;transient&quot; classes of retinal ganglion cells in the optically intact eye of anaesthetised cats. The visually-driven excitation of all &quot;sustained&quot; cells was significantly suppressed by 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, whereas that of &quot;transient&quot; cells was not. L-aspartate enhanced the visually-driven excitation and increased the spontaneous firing rare of all &quot;sustained&quot; cells but not of &quot;transient&quot; cells and these effects were blocked by 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. The results with L-glutamate were inconclusive. It is suggested that L-aspartate may be an excitatory transmitter mediating the visual response at the receptor field centre of &quot;sustained&quot; retinal ganglion cells, but that excitation of &quot;transient&quot; retinal ganglion cells is mediated by a different transmitter.
In 13 and 15 day-old mouse embryos mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons could already be visualized at the level of the mesencephalic flexure by tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry at day 13. At this time, noradrenergic cells in the locus coeruleus area were not detectable. In most in vitro experiments, dissociated mesencephalic cells of 13 day-old embryos were grown in presence of serum. Four approaches were used to identify the dopaminergic neurons in vitro: fluorescence histochemistry of newly taken up exogenous norepinephrine, radioautography after labelling with (3H) dopamine, tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity and fluorescence histochemistry of endogenous stores of catecholamines. Control experiments performed at various times in vitro with selective inhibitors of amine transport into dopaminergic, noradrenergic and serotoninergic neurons indicated that only dopaminergic neurons were detected by these various approaches, noradrenergic neurons being virtually absent from the cultures. The uptake of exogenous norepinephrine was detected already 24 h after plating and preceded the appearance of tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity (48 h). The number of neurons revealed by these two techniques increased up to 4 and 10 days, respectively. Endogenous stores of dopamine were only seen after three weeks in vitro by fluorescence histochemistry. At this time, the same number of neurons was revealed whatever the method used. The presence of striatal target cells (co-cultures) affected neither the sequential appearance of the markers nor the number of dopaminergic cells. The two main types of dopaminergic neurons (fusiform and multipolar) described in vivo both in the substantia nigra (A9) and the ventral tegmental area (A10) of adult animals were identified in vitro and their development into well-differentiated neurons can be followed for up to six weeks. This in vitro system seems, therefore, to be particularly suitable for biochemical and electrophysiological studies of these dopaminergic neurons.

It has been a common practice to express food and water intake as a proportion of body weight in an attempt to control for weight differences between individuals or treatment groups. It is argued here that, unless extreme caution is taken, this procedure is likely to result in misleading conclusions. Intake per kilogram body weight is not simply a measure of intake and it should not be treated as though it were. Furthermore, use of this technique to measure ingestion is more likely to introduce spurious relations between consumption and body weight than it is to eliminate relations which are actually present. We feel, therefore, that this measure should, at most, be used as a supplement to raw measures of food and water intake.

Two modifications of a flow-through swivel are described for prolonged infusions into and simultaneous blood-sampling from chronically implanted catheters of large, unrestrained animals, e.g., rhesus monkeys. In addition, both offer easy access to the catheters proximal to the swivel and to the lumen of the reinforced nylon tubing which connects the animal to the swivel.

1. A novel rotation sensing device has been developed which consists of a linear potentiometer attached to the top of a spherical testing chamber. The potentiometer constantly monitors the precise angular position of the animal inside the chamber. 2. This device allows the automated monitoring of direction and rate of rotation, as well as a variety of other stereotypic behaviors. 3. The effects of morphine, apomorphine and amphetamine on motor activity were assessed by the apparatus.




This article presents the electrical and optical properties of LEDs for use as visual stimulators in neurophysiological and psychophysical research. one particular circuit is considered in detail which should enable an investigator with minimal technical expertise to build a high quality and versatile stimulator within a few hours and at a minimal cost. Improved circuits and anticipated developments in LED technology are discussed.



For clarification of the assignment of the vibrational modes of the choline group, Raman spectra of choline iodides selectively deuterated at three different positions were investigated. The isotope shifts of the C-N stretching vibrations suggested that they are conformation sensitive. When the Raman spectra of choline chloride, carbamoylcholine iodide, carbamoylcholine chloride, and methoxycarbonylcholine iodide are compared with the crystal structures of these compounds, a correlation between the vibrational frequency and the conformation of the O-C-C-N+ backbone could be established. The Raman bands attributed to the &quot;totally&quot; symmetric stretching (v1) and symmetric stretching vibrations (v2) of the C-N bonds of the quaternary ammonium group appeared at about 720 cm-1 and about 870 cm-1, respectively, for the gauche conformation of the O-C-C-N+ backbone, and in the trans conformation, they shifted to about 770 cm-1 (v1) and about 910 cm-1 (v2), respectively. On the basis of this correlation and from measurements of phosphatidylcholine and sphingomyelin bilayers, it was concluded that most of the choline groups in both bilayers take the gauche conformation not only in the solid state but also in the gel and liquid-crystalline states. These data represent the first direct evidence that a gauche conformation for the O-C-C-N+ bond is preferred in the gel and liquid-crystalline states. These key bands, especially the v1 band, are a powerful tool to study the conformation of the choline group in situ not only in the membrane field but also in the neuroscience in connection with acetylcholine.

A simple method for the concurrent analysis of the noradrenaline metabolites vanillylmandelic acid and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol, the dopamine metabolites dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid, and the serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in human urine is described. Following organic extraction of the metabolites from acidified urine, they are separated by single-step gradient elution high-performance liquid chromatography on a reversed-phase column. Detection and quantification are achieved with an electrochemical detector using a carbon-paste electrode; samples can be injected at 40-min intervals. Optimisation of analytical parameters is described, and examples of the application of the method in the fields of clinical chemistry and clinical neuroscience are given. This provides a convenient method for the concurrent study of the metabolism of three major biogenic amines, and is readily adaptable for studies on cerebrospinal fluid and brain tissue.
This paper describes a simple-to-build minipump-chemitrode assembly which can be used for long term electrophysiological, chemical and behavioural studies. This system consists of an osmotic minipump, a cannula and an array of nine electrodes which are connected to a miniature Winchester Socket. A detailed plan for construction of both the chemitrode and the minipump-chemitrode is given together with some suggestions for possible usages in brain research(such as kindling). The osmotic minipump consists of a collapsible reservoir of flexible, impermeable material, surrounded by a sealed layer containing an osmotic agent--all of which is contained by a semipermeable membrane. Imbibed water generates hydrostatic pressure on the flexible lining of the reservoir, gradually compressing it, producing a constant flow of its contents through the delivery portal.

The binding of labeled batrachotoxinin-A benzoate (BTX-B) to voltage-sensitive sodium channels in broken membrane preparations of mouse cerebral cortex has been measured as a function of the pH. Specific binding is negligible at pH less than 6.0, maximum at pH 8.5, and decreases again at pH 9.0. A major component of nonspecific binding, however, increases linearly in the pH range 7.0-9.0. The pKa of batrachotoxinin-A, an analogue of BTX-B, was found by titrimetric methods to be greater than or equal to 8.2. Analysis of the data shows that at least part of the pH dependence of BTX-B binding is due to the titration of a sodium channel residue(s) associated in some way with the BTX-B recognition site. The possible involvement of a histidine residue is suggested.






This paper reports preliminary data obtained from the combination of extracellular single unit recording, microiontophoretic testing and intracellular staining of single neurons in the diencephalon of the anesthetized rat. Sixty neurons were recorded extracellularly and iontophoretically tested with glass multibarrelled micropipettes. Thirty-four of these neurons were identified by antidromic invasion from median eminence stimulation. Seventeen of these antidromically identified neurons were subsequently impaled with the micropipette and intracellularly stained with the fluorescent dye lucifer yellow-CH. The average diameter of the antidromically identified neuronal cell bodies was 7.4 microns. The iontophoretic response profiles of these stained neurons were similar to the profiles of non-stained antidromically identified neurons. Four of the remaining 26 neurons were synaptically activated from median eminence stimulation and were successfully marked with lucifer yellow. Average soma diameters of these neurons was 12.8 microns. Twenty-two neurons were not antidromically or orthodromically identified from median eminence stimulation. Three of these neurons were intracellularly stained with lucifer yellow and their soma diameters averaged 6.9 microns. Approximately 50% of all staining attempts, subsequent to extracellular recording and iontophoretic testing, were successful. The combination of these techniques is therefore a feasible approach to the in vivo study of the physiologic, pharmacologic and morphologic properties of single neurons.










The glial cells in abdominal ganglia of the horse leech Haemopis sanguisuga were studied by electron microscopy and analysed quantitatively to evaluate the suitability of this easily obtainable carnivorous species for physiological studies. Each abdominal ganglion contains eight giant glial cells, 12,000-14,000 small glial cells, and approximately 300 neurons. The giant glial cells constituted 44.6% and the small glial cells 6.4% of the ganglion's volume. The giant glial cells contain glycogen and bundles of filaments that are chiefly located in their periphery, close to the neurons into which they send processes. The small glial cells are frequently surrounded by the giant glial cells but also occur around neuronal perikarya and axon tracts, as well as against the basal lamina and connective tissue layers. The small glial cells contain lysosomes and sometimes form a trophospongium with the neurons. A system of extracellular channels, which is continuous with the basal lamina, indents the giant glial cells and extends around parts of the neurons. The extracellular channels contain a matrix that appears very similar to the basal lamina and to the cytoplasm in the processes of the small glial cells. Some of the extracellular channels contain collagen fibrils. Hemidesmosomes join the matrix-filled extracellular channels to both the neurons and the giant glial cells. Ionic lanthanum has a free access to the neurons and glial cells via the extracellular spaces and matrix-filled channels. Areas of synaptic intermingling rarely contain glial cell processes.



The superior colliculus is the source of a prominent descending pathway which crosses the midline in the mesencephalon and projects to the paramedian pontine reticular formation. The primary goal of the present study was to identify the cells in the superior colliculus of the grey squirrel which give rise to this pathway by using a combination of anterograde and retrograde tracing techniques. Results from the anterograde studies demonstrated the course and terminal distribution of this pathway and suggested that its laminar origin is the intermediate grey layer, stratum griseum intermediale. The retrograde studies were used to confirm the results of the anterograde experiments and to provide a more quantitative estimate of the laminar distribution of the cells which give rise to this pathway. In most cases, over 90% of the cells retrogradely labeled following injections of horseradish peroxidase along the course of this pathway were located in the intermediate grey lamina. This origin is in contrast to that of the ipsilateral tectoreticular pathway which originates primarily in stratum griseum profundum (Holcombe, V., and W. C. Hall (1981) Neuroscience 6: 255-260) and suggests that these two grey layers of the deep tectum are functionally distinct.



Gas chromatographic/mass spectrometric data are presented which demonstrate the presence of 6,7-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (DHTIQ) as a normal constituent of rat brain. The level of DHTIQ was calculated to be 10.0 +/- 3.0 ng/g wet weight (+/- S.D., N = 9) of brain tissue while the level of dopamine (DA) was measured as 1.22 +/- 0.22 microg/g (N = 14). The ratio of DHTIQ:DA was thus observed to be approximately 1:100. The possible formation of DHTIQ in alcoholism and schizophrenia is discussed.




The President of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons (AANS) emphasizes the need to participate actively in the burgeoning field of neuroscience, and the unique opportunity of neurological surgeons to apply the new knowledge to the treatment of their patients. Clinician-investigators need to be trained in their formative years in the methodology and techniques of modern neurobiology. Diminishing governmental support for training poses a grave threat to carrying on the tradition of research in neurological surgery. To meet a critical need, the formation of a Research Foundation is announced as a function of the AANS. As Science is expanded and applied, the Art of neurosurgery will continue to be refined, along with the high tradition of Ethics which has been handed down over the years as part of the heritage of neurological surgeons.


In 1975 and 1976 190 head injury patients died after admission to 19 general hospitals in Mersey Region or after transfer to the regional department of neurosciences. Their hospital case-notes were examined. Avoidable factors definitely contributing to death were identified in 58 (30%), and those possibly contributing to death in another 45 (24%). Of the avoidable factors 38% occurred in patients who &quot;talked and died&quot; and 77% in patients with intracranial haematomas. The most common avoidable factors were failure to recognise the development of a haematoma, respiratory difficulty leading to hypoxia, hypotension, and convulsions. The following recommendations are made: hospital case-notes of all head injury deaths should be assessed by a panel of senior consultants; all patients unconscious for 4 h in primary surgical wards in general hospitals should be transferred to the regional department of neurosciences; and fewer patients with minor head injuries should be admitted for observation.

This review article emphasizes the role of computed tomography in the diagnosis and management of brain tumors. The head CT scan has become one of the most precise noninvasive tests in the neurosciences. It has given clinicians more information than they were able to obtain in the past. The subject is covered by subdividing it into several categories: detection of true tumor extent, radiation treatment planning, the immediate postoperative period, treatment responses, failure patterns, detection of radiation-induced damage, and the potential to predict histopathology. The paper is illustrated with examples that emphasize the advantages and some of the limitations of computed tomography as it exists today.

A low cost multi-channel (8 single ended or 4 differential) recording and/or stimulating cable assembly is described. The assembly is shown to be suited for derivation of slow and fast brain electrical activity in small laboratory animals confined to an experimental cage. A light-weight impendance transforming circuit (ITC) at the input stage minimizes the movement artifacts associated with the use of the high impedance electrodes. The easy rotating pressurized air-operated commutator equipped with gold-gold slip ring contacts makes the assembly suited for 24 hr recordings and/or stimulation of brain electrical activity. The number of the channels in the assembly can be increased readily with little increase in the weight of the ITC and in the inertia of the commutator.
This paper treats a number of topics relative to functions of the autonomic nervous system: its role in the sympathies and emotional inter-reactions essential to society and common endeavor; the history and evolution of our knowledge of the structure, composition and function of this system; the recent concurrent genesis of concepts of the roles this system plays. Among the most recently developed ideas of autonomic system function is that of its integrating role and that of its molding role in determining the color and intensities of behavioral responses. These latter concepts are supported by recent discoveries of the role played in sensory reception, in several disease states, in control of the neuroendocrine and endocrine systems, in modulation of cardiovascular function, in regulation of energy release and use, and, finally, in conditioned behavior. It appears that there is considerable plasticity and possibility of drastically modifying cell of this system which normally would have functioned in a quite different way. Modern methods of anatomical analysis have shown that the central representation of the autonomic outflow is not as simplistically and independently organized as often visualized. Furthermore the same centers which control somatic responses also affect autonomic system activity. There is only one nervous system and the autonomic complex is an integral part thereof, participating in all behavior. It is, however, specially concerned with the emotional component, reactions to real or anticipated emergencies, control of the viscera and maintenance of homeostasis. In addition to integrating the activity of body parts it has a modulatory effect on all functions.









A technique for the preparation and in vitro maintenance of slices of neocortex from cats anesthetized with Nembutal has been described in detail. The visual cortex (posterior lateral gyrus) was cut in slices in situ using a knife consisting of two razor blades with separation of 0.7--1.0 mm. An artificially-defined medium was sprayed abundantly over the brain throughout the slicing procedures. Slices thus obtained were immediately placed between nylon meshes and incubated in a well-oxygenated medium. For recording, one of the slices was transferred to an experimental chamber in which a medium was bubbled and circulated with a gas mixture (5% CO2 in O2) introduced through a glass filter fitted at the bottom. Slices thus treated gave large evoked potentials in response to stimulation of the white matter and high-frequency injury discharges as a macroelectrode was inserted into the tissue. They also allowed stable and high-quality intracellular recordings from single neurons.
The single electrode voltage clamp has been used to perform fluctuation analysis (&quot;noise&quot; analysis) and relaxation experiments in order to study the average lifetime and conductance of ACh-activated sodium channels in Aplysia neurons. Measured values of average channel lifetime, which is approximately 20 msec at --80 mV and 11 degrees C, and elementary conductance, which is approximately 8 pS, are consistent with previously published results using two electrode clamping. The frequency response of the clamp was evaluated to determine its capabilities and limitations for the study of membrane currents. Sinusoidal currents injected into a voltage-clamped model membrane to simulate the frequency components of membrane noise are accurately reproduced at frequencies up to 500 Hz. Following a voltage clamp command, the new membrane potential is established in less than 2 msec, and current relaxations recorded after that time can be used to determine average channel lifetime. Since the frequency response of the clamp is much greater than the average lifetime of ACh-activated channels in Aplysia neurons, the single electrode voltage clamp is comparable to conventional two-electrode systems for investigating the properties of these channels, and may also be useful in other systems in which the time course of membrane currents is much slower than the frequency response of the clamp.


On the basis of the books by Barber, Spanos and Chaves &quot;Hypnosis, imagination and human potentialities&quot; recently translated into Italian and &quot;Hypnosis, a scientific approach&quot; by Barber and on the basis of personal experience and researches carried out over 45 years, some personal ideas on the clinical and scientific aspects of hypnosis are presented. The conclusions of the above mentioned Authors are confuted as well as their approach to hypnosis defined as &quot;objective-behavioural&quot;.
The difference between age regression and revification is pointed out and the neurophysiological and psychological bases of hypermnesia of the past are discussed. Moreover, mental, neurological, somatic and visceral symptomatology of revification, the usual techniques to obtain it and its therapeutical usefulness are described. Possible artifacts of age regression and methods to avoid then are then presented.



A new form of multibarrel micropipette is described. The special holder has several advantages: it can be quickly replaced if it is damaged; the multi-barrel injection portion of the pipette and the drugs it contains can be reused; contamination by spill-over of drugs from one barrel to another is prevented and pressure techniques can be applied using this micro-electrode.
Methods are proposed to isolate nearly simultaneous events or events with specific time relations to each other from two (or more) stimulus or spike trains. The methods can be implemented by means of a digital computer, but were implemented here with simple electronic hardware to present an alternative. The usefulness of these methods is demonstrated on data from cat experiments in which the influences of several motor units activated in parallel upon muscle spindle discharge patterns were studied by use of poststimulus time histograms (PSTHs). The contractions of one motor unit can interfere with the effects of others on muscle spindle discharges. In order to show this conditioning influence quantitatively, the integral of the PSTH is shown graphically as a function of the time interval between contractions of two motor units. These methods may help to elucidate some features of interactions between parallel neuronal channels bearing on the problem of the kind of information and how the latter is transmitted through complex multichannel systems.










A summary is given of the German contribution to the development of our knowledge of the autonomic system. Although no major contributions were made in the early centuries and even during and immediately following the Renaissance and the Reformation (1517), there ultimately was a development of strength in the physiological sciences during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries which remained dominant even during the early decades of the twentieth century. Discovery of the inhibitory action of the vagus nerves by the Weber brothers in 1845 and the description of the depressor reflex and the principle of &quot;feedback&quot; by Cyon and Ludwig in 1866 are examples of high attainment in the study of autonomic nervous system physiology. Many of the other discoveries and subsequent development which occurred in Germany are described. The present symposium has demonstrated the present high attainment in this field.
A method is described for measuring with nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy the binding of ligands to particulate components of cells. This method is sensitive to intermediate-strength binding, which is difficult to measure with standard radiotracer binding assays, and is insensitive to 'tight' binding. Nonspecific binding and entrapment can be distinguished from specific binding even when a pharmacological agent is not available for competitive binding assays. Thus, the experimental approach presented provides a means of studying the possible physiological roles in neural tissue of metabolites that have not been implicated by neuropharmacological and neurophysiological experiments. The utility of this technique is discussed in terms of the information it has provided about the binding of enkephalin, epinephrine, acetylcholine and carnosine. This technique, although it uses technology new to most neuroscience laboratories, should be relatively easy to apply to existing research topics. The NMR spectrometer required for the binding assay is the type already found on most academic campuses, and the ligand need not have any special isotopic label. The particulate fraction can be prepared in the same way as for the radiotracer binding assays, which means that both tight and intermediate-strength ligand binding can be measured with the same preparation.
Great advances have been made in fundamental scientific research in recent years. The new knowledge gathered, in addition to deepening our understanding of the physical universe, contributes a range of abilities and opportunities to society that would not otherwise be available. Much research that may be called applied because it addresses needs of society is quite fundamental in character, and support of such research at the National Science Foundation is to be handled in tandem by the research directorates. Other areas that require a refocusing of support are engineering science and education, at all levels, in science and engineering. Increasing our strength in these areas is essential to achieve our national economic, social, and political goals. Steps are being taken by the National Science Foundation to make its structure better able to deal with engineering and applied research and to provide greater mutual reinforcement between applied and basic research.

A procedure has been suggested for simultaneous recording of 14C-noradrenaline active uptake and induced secretion by rat brain synaptosomes. Active noradrenaline uptake was shown to depend on the presence in the incubation medium of Ca2+. Removal of Ca2+ from the incubation medium considerably reduces the intensity of noradrenaline uptake by the synaptosomes. Unlike the induced secretion in potassium depolarization of synaptosomal membranes, spontaneous release of noradrenaline does not depend on the presence of Ca2+ in the incubation medium.
A thermal stimulation system is described which is suitable for use in psychophysical, behavioral and neurophysiological studies of temperature sensation. Skin temperature over a restricted area can be maintained at temperatures of 30 to 60 degrees C. Heating from this initial temperature can be achieved at rates from 1.0 degrees C to 30 degrees C/second, up to a maximum temperature of 70 degrees C. Stimulus duration can be varied from 1-15 sec. Safety features are employed to avoid accidental burning of subjects. The system can be used during electrophysiological recording with no electronic interference.



A paper presents a versatile computer program for averaging evoked responses. The program, called AVG is set up interactively on a DEC-PDP-12 computer, equipped with 12 kbytes memory. A protocol, recording the experimental conditions, as well as messages and prompters are displayed on the screen to inform the operator and indicate which action must be taken. AVG is written in assembly program LAP-6. The program has been useful for averaging cortical visual evoked responses.
An original programmable stimulation and data acquisition system of general interest for electrophysiology is presented. It can be used as a peripheral of any 12 (or more) bits mini- or microcomputer. With the software described it is possible to determine stimulation parameters automatically as a function of results obtained during the experiment or from the keyboard. Verification of parameters is carried out by permanent registration on the terminal screen, in numerical and analog form, and by facultative printout from the teleprinter. Two applications in electrophysiology are presented: the measurement of thresholds and the establishment of response curves.



Opossum fetuses undergo most of their neurological development within the mother's pouch. This extrauterine growth offers unique opportunities not shared by placenta mammals for early behavior studies. Described here are an apparatus and technique for observing the behavior of pouch young. The apparatus restrains the mother and retracts the pouch flaps within an environmentally controlled setting similar to that inside the mother's pouch, allowing the opossum young to be observed in an almost natural state. The investigator has ready access to the young pouch through side windows that have slotted curtains to prevent sudden changes in the chamber environment. Because this apparatus provides a simple noninvasive approach, fetal behavior can be observed long-term, encompassing the entire sequence of behavior development within a chosen time-interval.
In the first part of the paper supplementary information on Flechsig's personality and his attitude to work is given which had not been sufficiently appreciated in English biographical notices. This is followed by translated excerpts from &quot;Gehirn and Seele&quot;, published in 1896, in which Flechsig introduced his myelogenetic localization of the cerebral cortex. The second part is mainly a review of recent advances in neuroanatomical and neurophysiological research within those cortical regions in which Flechsig had been interested. A comparison between recent advances and Flechsig's work demonstrates that Flechsig had definitive ideas on the solution of some of the outstanding problems but had been unable to resolve these with the techniques available at his time.
A frequency modulation system to be used for electrophysiological signal recording on a standard Hifi tape recorder is described. This system can be built using a few common, easy-to-use and cheap integrated circuits. Its performance allows reliable recording of either DC potentials or fast transients (action potentials for instance). Possible uses (EEG, intracellular recording ....) are illustrated. The main advantages of this system are simplicity and low cost.







On the occasion of the edition of the 150th volume of the Anatomischer Anzeiger a survey is given on some important papers in neuroanatomy and especially brain research, published in the first 50 volumes of this journal. Such excellent workers in neuroscience as Albert Koelliker, Wilhelm His, Camillo Golgi, Carl Weigert, Aleksander Dogiel,Santiago Ramn y Cajal, Ludwig Edinger, Ferdinand Hochstetter, Fridtjof Nansen, Adolf Wallenberg, Theodor Ziehen, Stephan von Apthy, Michael von Lenhossk, Gheorghe Marinesco, Korbinian Brodmann, Max Bielschowsky, Oskar Vogt, Grafton Elliot Smith, Giuseppe Levi, Cornelius Arins Kappers and many others are contributors to the Anatomischer Anzeiger during the first 32 years of its existence (1886-1918). In particular the long-lasting struggle for a general acceptance of the &quot;neurone doctrine&quot; (Neurohenlehre) is reflected by the Anatomischer Anzeiger before and after the turn of century.
The A.A. insert the life and work of the naturalist and chemist Felice Fontana, born in Pomarolo (Trentino), in the frame of 18th century sciences, beside other great names of that century like Carolus Linnaeus, Raumur, von Haller, Spallanzani, Morgagni, Priestley and Lavoisier. In the field of general biology, the discovery of nucleus and nucleolus and consequently the discovery of the eukaryotic cell, as we say in our days, in his, as well as the one of anabiosis. The A.A. enucleate and analyse the contributions of Fontana to the neurosciences; he has discovered the axon and the myelinic sheath half century before Remak and Purknije; he found out that the white matter of the brain is made of fibres alike those of nerves and the grey matter is made of globules (i.e. cells) mixed up with fibres; he discovered in the retina a part of coming out from the brain; he described the transversal bands of fibres of the skeletal muscles; he was the first to introduce into physiology the law of &quot;all and nothing&quot;; he attributed the irritability to the whole animal life; he identified the pupillar reflexes to the light, the reflex of accommodation, the consensual reflex, the psycho-emotive mydriasis and at last the myosis of sleep. He made experimental searches about nerves and recognised their regeneration, he enumerated various pathological intracranial masses, he made an important anatomopathological research about hydatid cyst in the brain of the sheep affected by &quot;capostorno&quot; and madness, he demonstrated their parasitical nature (he said that the hydated cysts were covered inside by small animals), he come out to formulate the hypothesis that some neuropsychiatric diseases of man can depend from similar aetiology. He declared that passions may have pathological effects (psyco-somatic aetiology), but he has also drawned the attention against the danager of aprioristical generalisation of neurogenical causes in all diseases. The A.A. give to Fontana the palm of precursor of modern neurosciences and of neurology intended as synthesis and unified corpus of these sciences.
In the context of today's mounting global problems the relative demand for medical, educational, and related social benefits that derive from the neurosciences is diminished. At the same time the human value spin-offs of brain research are thrust into a strategic position of top concern because of their key role as criteria or policy priorities and decision-making guidelines. Recent conceptual developments in the mind-brain sciences rejecting reductionism and mechanistic determinism on the one side, and dualisms on the other, clear the way for a rational approach to the theory and prescription of values and to natural fusion of science and religion. Science can be upheld as the best route to an increased understanding and report with the forces that made and move the universe and created man. The outlines of the value-belief system emerge that include an ultimate respect for nature and the evolving quality of the biosphere, which, if implemented, would set in motion the kind of social change needed to lead us out of the viscious spirals of increasing population, pollution, poverty, energy demands, etc. The strategic importance of neuroscience and the central role of prevailing concepts of the mind-brain relation to all of the foregoing remain evident throughout, as does also the direct relevance of efforts to bring added insight and substantiation of these mind-brain concepts through further advances in brain research.


A discussion of the evolution of neurochemical transmission is divided into three main topics: evolution of biochemical signalling devices, evolution of neurotransmitter substances, and evolution of signal meaning. Models of signalling devices are developed from a primitive chemoceptive process through open and closed loop communications to a neuronal communications network and to its development into a symbolic logic exchange. The evolution of neurotransmitter substances is extrapolated from experimental evidence which has been obtained under primitive earth atmosphere conditions. Examples from comparative biology suggest that the evolution of transmitter use was not unidirectional and that purine derivatives may well have been the primordial transmitter substances. The classical neurotransmitters, such as acetylcholine and norepinephrine have a limited information content in their molecular structure, whereas inherent message content of peptidergic transmitters is potentially significant. If there are mnemotypic genes, they may be expressed as informational macromolecules which specify behavioral patterns. Such information transfer would represent a second order of neurochemical transmission and its evolution would be closely coupled to that of molecules which contain a universal meaning.
Most of the present biological hypothesis postulate biogenic amines disorders in schizophrenia: transmethylation and dopaminergic theory. Other systems which can modulate this neuro-transmitter, specially in the mesolimbic dopaminergic system, may be concerned: nor-epinephrine, serotonin or endorphins. A dysfunction in arousal and cerebral dominance has been described by the quantitative electroencephalography. Other electrophysiological studies are consistent with these results; they indicate an impairment of the level of arousal to which the disorders of attention and adaptation could be related. In affective psychoses the major hypothesis bear on norepinephrine or serotonin disorders. But other substances may have a role: acetylcholine and dopamine as well as electrolytic modifications of cell membranes or immunological or neuroendocrine disturbances. This biological and physiological fundamental research has numerous practical consequences as the discovery of compounds with a more specific effect, the research of biological and biochemical diagnostic indices, or the drawing up of biological indices for neuroleptics, antidepressants or lithium sensitivity.

A study was carried out to examine the validity of social dysfunctioning as a measure of severity of illness. Modified version of KAS, R2 inventory was used to measure social functioning. Since there can be no absolute measure of severity of psychiatric illness, the validity was tested through indirect means. It was decided that if the scores on social dysfunctioning were higher amongst the mentally ill compared to normals, higher in Psychotics compared to Neurotics and higher in those assessed by a relative as well as the Consultant Pyshciatrist to be more severely ill than those judged as less severely ill, the validity of social dysfunctioning as a measure of severity of Psychiatric illness would stand established. This was indeed found to be the case in the study which was carried out with 200 consecutive patients from a psychiatric out-patient department and their matched normal controls.










































































































































































































































It is sometimes stated that Wundt believed in the primacy of 'sensations of innervation' in the control of eye and limb position, to the exclusion of afferent feedback. Wundt's own statements on the subject are traced through the six editions of the Grundzge: he believed that sensations of innervation were a contributory factor along with peripheral feedback; but in the fourth edition he dropped the term and subsumed them under 'central sensations of senses', because increased neurophysiological knowledge made a literal interpretation of the original term impossible. In the fifth edition he developed a more precise model of central processes, described as 'sensory costimulation', and an additional idea of 'reproduced' or conditioned sensations. He mentions clinical evidence on the perception of eye and limb position of weight by paralysed and other subjects. This evidence is discussed in relation to modern theories. It is concluded that Wundt's later theories have some similarities with modern &quot;hybrid' theories of efference-contingent afference.





If a spinal root of a baboon or rhesus monkey is trapped in an initially loose-fitting silicone rubber channel containing two or more platinum electrodes, electrical pulses sent through these electrodes can stimulate nerve fibres close to the cathode and block the resulting impulses close to the anode. We show (1) how anodal break excitation and excitation of fibres outside the silicone rubber channel can be avoided; (2) that an implant 26 months old behaves like a recent one; (3) that in a root containing somatic motor fibres and parasympathetic fibres, all somatic motor fibres can be blocked and most or all parasympathetic fibres excited but not blocked; (4) that provided that the electrodes pass no net direct current, prolonged stimulation with block can be harmless; (5) how block can be achieved in one direction only along a root; (6) that a peripheral nerve can be blocked by the same techniques.

Piezoelectric bimorph elements are versatile and inexpensive electromechanical transducers which may be used to construct fast mechanical stimulators and finely controlled micromanipulators. The mechanical stimulators described provide continuously graded displacements ranging from nanometers to about a millimeter, or forces equivalent to 0-7 g. Appropriately designed units can produce small step displacements complete within 100 microseconds. Micromanipulators are described which generate 3-dimensional motion under remote electrical control and which enable positioning within a few tenths of a micrometer. They are sufficiently stable to hold glass microelectrodes for cell penetration or probes for microdissection. The two significant drawbacks of bimorph elements are mechanical resonance and continued movement following displacement, or 'creep&quot;, but methods have been developed to compensate for these. A number of methods are available to measure motion of bimorphs with spatial resolution of 10 nm and temporal resolution of 2 microseconds in favorable situations.

Numerous investigators endeavored to make clear pathophysiological changes in a traumatic spinal cord lesion. The development of neuroscience contributed to have an influence on methods of these researches. This study was undertaken to assess electrophysiological changes resulting from variable periods of experimental spinal cord compression or ischemia by using the evoked spinal cord potentials. Experiments were performed on dogs. Following laminectomies at Th7-9 and L3-4 levels under anesthesia, cord injuries were produced at the lower thoracic level by inflation of an extradurally placed balloon which produced slow graded compression of cord dorsum. Evoked spinal cord potentials to sciatic nerve stimulation were recorded from bipolar electrodes in the midline dorsal subdural space at the operative sites. The normal wave forms of two responses consisted of initially positive triphasic potentials (P1, N1, P2). The conduction velocity of the ascending afferent from the leg was found on the average to be 54.8 +/- 9.7 m/sec between lumbar and dorsal cord. On the basis of the conduction velocities and the responses to stimulus intensities, the afferent volley recorded in the present experiments might reflect synaptic cord afferent pathways originated without Group I fibers in the cord dorsum which were situated ipsilateral to the stimulated nerve. After inflation of the balloon with 0.1 cc of water, spinal canal narrowing rate increased to 14.3 +/- 2.9%. The evoked spinal cord potentials in the lead rostral to the site of compression began to decrease in amplitude. When more water was added into the balloon up to 0.4 - 0.6 cc, spinal canal narrowing rate was enhanced to 42.5 - 77.7% in which potentials were abolished. P2 wave was the first to be abolished and subsequently N1, P1 disappeared in order. On the other hand, the potentials reappeared after decompression in the reverse of their disappearance in order. Responses in dogs with complete recovery from paraplegia returned to the precompression wave pattern both in the amplitude and in latency. On the contrary, in dogs with spastic paraparesis, the recovery of wave form was shown as P1, N1 or P1, N1 with depressed P2. Despite this variability, the evoked response from animals with reversible cord injury were discernible in the early period of spinal shock phase. The degree of recovery varied and had no linear relationship to the recovery grade of clinical symptoms. The experimental cord ischemia was made by inflation of a balloon catheter which was inserted from femoral artery into the upper thoracic aorta. The evoked spinal cord potentials were recorded at the midthoracic and lumbar level. Changes of wave form resulting from the ischemic period of 30 minutes were first the amplitude loss of N1 and subsequently that of P2, P1. On the other hand, the responses gradually returned to their pre-ischemic characteristic about 30 minutes after circulatory reestablishment...


A circuit for an electronic switch is described that suppresses large unwanted signals that might overload physiological amplifiers during recording of weak neural signals. The circuit, made from inexpensive and easily available integrated circuits, can be operated from any timer that produces at least a +5 volt output pulse. It operates by connecting a low gain preamplifier to a high gain amplifier only during the signal of interest.













A method is described for achieving gaze control in cats, by rewarding them for pushing against a lever with their tongue, only when a light-emitting diode (LED) was flickering. Since the state of the LED was changed sequentially from OFF to ON to flickering and the duration of flickering was short, the cats were required to gaze continuously at the LED during its ON period, in order to detect the flickering. After the preliminary training stage, 2-3 weeks were required before the cats performed the task at a higher level than could be predicted by chance. The electro-oculogram indicated that the eyes fixated during the ON period of the LED.







