The melanotrope cells in the pituitary gland of Xenopus laevis are innervated by neurons containing neuropeptide Y (NPY). In the present study, the mechanism of action of NPY on the melanotropes has been investigated. NPY inhibited in vitro secretion from melanotropes in intact neurointermediate lobes as well as from isolated, single melanotropes. Inhibition of secretion from neurointermediate lobes was mimicked by the NPY analogues PYY and [Leu31,Pro34]NPY, whereas NPY(13-36) was inactive. Secretion from isolated melanotropes was inhibited by [Leu31,Pro34]NPY and NPY(13-36), but NPY(13-36) was 10-fold less potent than [Leu31,Pro34]NPY. Studies on isolated cells revealed that NPY and its analogues inhibited the occurrence of intracellular Ca2+ oscillations with the same potency as they inhibited secretion from isolated cells. In addition to inhibiting basal secretion and spontaneous Ca2+ oscillations, NPY inhibited the basal production of cyclic AMP. On the basis of these results it is proposed that NPY inhibits secretion from Xenopus melanotropes by inhibiting cyclic AMP-dependent spontaneous Ca2+ oscillations through a Y1-like receptor.
Isolated cell bodies of the locust vasopressin-like immunoreactive (VPLI) neurons, analyzed by HPLC separation and radioimmune assay, contain three arginine vasopressin-like peptides: a previously identified monomer (Fl, Cys-Leu-Ile-Thr-Asn-Cys-Pro-Arg-Gly-NH2) and its antiparallel homodimer (F2), but also the previously unreported parallel homodimer (PDm). VPLI neuron activity significantly reduces the level of cAMP in the CNS. Of the three synthetic peptides, only the monomer (F1, 10(-8) and 10(-6) M) is capable of inhibiting a forskolin-stimulated increase in cAMP in isolated neural membranes. The antiparallel (F2) and parallel dimers (PDm) of this peptide have no effect on this second messenger.
The present study focused on the development of a procedure to assess perceived self-motion induced by visual surround motion--vection. Using an apparatus that permitted independent control of visual and inertial stimuli, prone observers were translated along their head x-axis (fore/aft). The observers' task was to report the direction of self-motion during passive forward and backward translations of their bodies coupled with exposure to various visual surround conditions. The proportion of &quot;forward&quot; responses was used to calculate each observer's point of subjective equality (PSE) for each surround condition. The results showed that the moving visual stimulus produced a significant shift in the PSE when data from the moving surround condition were compared with the stationary surround and no-vision condition. Further, the results indicated that vection increased monotonically with surround velocities between 4 and 40 degrees/sec. It was concluded that linear vection can be measured in terms of changes in the amplitude of whole-body inertial acceleration required to elicit equivalent numbers of &quot;forward&quot; and &quot;backward&quot; self-motion reports.


Glial cells have long been recognized as participating in development of neural tissue by providing a scaffolding for migration and by synthesis and secretion of a variety of growth factors and extracellular matrix components. An additional role for glia and other non-neuronal cells in the electrical differentiation of neurons has been suggested by several recent articles, in particular a group that has focused on the potassium currents that influence action potential repolarization and repetitive activity. In this review I present examples of developmental regulation of potassium currents by interactions with non-neuronal cells and discuss some implications of this regulation.
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether neuropeptide substance P (SP) has reinforcing effects in Carassius auratus and whether this effect could be related to dopaminergic neurotransmission. For this purpose fishes were put in a three-compartment box in which one compartment gave access to two others that did not directly link. The time spent in each compartment was registered for 10 min to determine a possible preferred compartment. Twenty-four hours later, the fish were given one of the following intraperitoneal treatments: a) Group VEH, injected with the vehicle of substance P; b) Group SP25, injected with SP, 25 micrograms/kg body wt.; c) Group SP50, injected with SP, 50 micrograms/kg; or d) Group HALO, injected with haloperidol (2 mg/kg) 30 min before an injection of SP (50 micrograms/kg). Immediately after the treatment the fish were kept for 30 min in the compartment preferred least the day before. On the next day the fish were retested for 10 min to verify the time spent in each compartment. The results indicate that SP at the dose of 50 micrograms/kg enhanced the time spent on the paired compartment, and that the pretreatment with haloperidol abolished this enhancement. It is suggested that SP has reinforcing effects in C. auratus that may be mediated by the dopaminergic system.
GABAB receptors are a distinct subclass of receptors for the major inhibitory transmitter 4-aminobutanoic acid (GABA) that mediate depression of synaptic transmission and contribute to the inhibition controlling neuronal excitability. The development of specific agonists and antagonists for these receptors has led to a better understanding of their physiology and pharmacology, highlighting their diverse coupling to different intracellular effectors through Gi/G(o) proteins. This review emphasises our current knowledge of the neurophysiology and neurochemistry of GABAB receptors, including their heterogeneity, as well as the therapeutic potential of drugs acting at these sites.

Recent studies have suggested that long-term lithium treatment reduces the high mortality rates of recurrent mood disorders in patients selected for and compliant with treatment at specialized lithium clinics. Whether lithium also generally reduces mortality in this diagnostic category under less select treatment conditions is a question of vital public health interest. The impact of prophylactic lithium on mortality was studied in a complete population of 362 unselected patients with DSM-III-R diagnoses of mood disorders or schizoaffective disorder, hospitalized at least once between 1970 and 1977 and treated with lithium for a minimum of one year. The patients were followed until 1991 or until date of death. The final analyses included 3911 patient years with lithium and, because of temporary or permanent discontinuations, 1274 patient years without lithium prophylaxis. A total of 129 deaths were recorded, compared with the 60.7 deaths that would normally be expected in the general population, yielding a Standard Mortality Ratio (SMR) of 2.1, significantly different from 1.0 (p &lt; 0.001, 95% confidence limits 1.8-2.5). The relative risk of death was 1.7 times higher (p &lt; 0.01, 95% confidence limits 1.2-2.6) during periods off lithium than during periods on lithium. The relative risk of suicide was 4.8 times higher off lithium than on lithium (p &lt; 0.02, 95% confidence limits 1.1-12.6). Suicide, pneumonia, pyelonephritis, and, unexpectedly, pulmonary embolism contributed to the excess mortality both on and off lithium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) has been shown to reduce ethanol consumption and suppress ethanol withdrawal syndrome both in laboratory animals and humans. The present study was designed to assess the similarity between the discriminative stimulus effects, or subjective feelings, of GHB and ethanol using a T-maze, food-reinforced drug discrimination procedure. Three groups of rats were trained to discriminate ethanol (1.0 or 2.0 g/kg; p.o.) or GHB (300 mg/kg; p.o.) from water. In the 1.0 g/kg ethanol-trained rats, substitution for ethanol was an inverted U-shape function of GHB dose, with only 300 mg/kg GHB resulting in complete substitution for ethanol. No dose of GHB elicited selection of ethanol-appropriate arm higher than 10% in the 2.0 g/kg ethanol-trained group. In the 300 mg/kg GHB-trained rats, complete substitution for GHB occurred only at the dose of 1.0 g/kg ethanol. Doses of ethanol lower or higher than 1.0 g/kg did not substitute for GHB. The results of the present study indicate that symmetrical generalization between ethanol and GHB occurred within narrow dose ranges. They are discussed in terms of common neurotransmitter systems involved in the mediation of GHB and ethanol effects.
This work evaluates the myocardial protective potential of potassium cardioplegia on ischaemically arrested and reperfused hearts by two cardioplegic solutions: the University of Wisconsin solution (UW) and the standard crystalloid solution of St. Thomas' Hospital (ST). Evaluation of myocardial preservation was based on creatine kinase and lactate releases and on high-energy phosphate preservation of isolated rabbit hearts after 4 hours' hypothermic ischaemia. A morphometric ultrastructural evaluation of mitochondria in cardiomyocytes was also performed. The hearts of 24 rabbits were normothermally perfused with oxygenated Krebs-Henseleit solution for 30 min (Langendroff preparation), and the baseline contractile performance and biochemical parameters were evaluated. The hearts were then arrested and stored in the cardioplegic solutions (12 UW and 12 ST) at 4 degrees C for 4 hours. The hearts were then rewarmed and reperfused with oxygenated Krebs-Henseleit solution for further 30 min. At the end of reperfusion, creatine phosphate and high energy phosphates were higher with UW (p &lt; 0.05); creatine kinase release during reperfusion was significantly lower with UW both at 15 min (p &lt; 0.01) and at 30 min (p &lt; 0.05). Lactate release during the first 15 min of reperfusion was about doubled (p &lt; 0.05) with respect to controls in both groups; at 30 min this increase had almost vanished (+8%) with UW but not with ST (+30%). Ultrastructural morphometry did not show any significant difference at the level of mitochondria between the two treatments. The results indicate, for UW, an improved myocardial preservation associated with relative retention of high-energy phosphates and higher recovery of mechanical function, accelerated metabolic recovery and reduced stress of cell membranes.
The interactive image format and tool were developed by the Stanford University Medical Media and Information Technologies (SUMMIT) group to allow medical educators to add interactive annotations and outlines to medical cross-sections, gross dissections, and clinical images. The interactive image tool (IIT) format offers a general specification for adding structural information to images. The IIT format has been used to create rich databases of image/structure information which are employed in educational software created at SUMMIT. These databases consist of information which is re-usable in other applications as well as a standalone image database. Future extensions to the IIT format will provide a means to organize information based on the structure of that information rather than on the arbitrary or haphazard links of current hypertext and hypermedia information networks.

In vitro filtration binding revealed high-affinity specific [3H]tryptamine binding sites in human brain. These binding sites are heterogeneously distributed throughout brain, ranging from 280 fmol/mg protein in hippocampus and thalamus to approximately 90 fmol/mg protein in medulla oblongata and cerebellum. Preliminary autoradiographic studies indicate a heterogeneous distribution within layers of the frontal cortex. The observed stereoselectivity of the site, the interaction of the site with a G protein and the observed region-selective downregulation of the site in a human pathological condition, i.e. hepatic encephalopathy (Mousseau et al., 1994), suggests that this binding site is a functional [3H]tryptamine receptor. A similarity in kinetics and distribution of the [3H]tryptamine receptor in human and rat brain indicates that these two entities represent homologous structures, although the difference in pharmacological profiles suggests species variants. One cannot exclude the possibility that the rat and human [3H]tryptamine receptors do represent distinct subtypes. Finally, the suggested role for tryptamine in neuropsychiatric disorders as originally suggested by Dewhurst (1968) is supported by the present series of experiments.
In 1971 Fischer and Baldessarini proposed the hypothesis that hepatic encephalopathy (HE), a neuropsychiatric syndrome associated with hepatic dysfunction, could result from the direct decarboxylation of amino acids leading to trace amines such as tyramine and octopamine which could then act as false neurotransmitters. This was supported by the observation that the clinical symptoms of HE appeared to improve following treatment with L-Dopa, which cannot be metabolized to either of these trace amines. In addition to serum and urine levels of octopamine correlating roughly with the grade of clinical HE, levels of octopamine were also significantly increased in rat brain following coma induced by hepatic devascularization and in portacaval-shunted rats fed high aromatic amino acid content diets. This hypothesis was questioned, however, given the lack of observable adverse behavioural effects following treatments with octopamine. Finally, the equivocal results of a limited number of clinical trials (using L-Dopa) argued against a direct intervention by catecholamine-like trace amines in HE. An alternative hypothesis was advanced by Sourkes in 1978 implicating increased tryptophan metabolism as a factor in the etiology of HE. Hepatic dysfunction in humans alters CNS concentrations of tryptophan which correlate well with levels of the tryptamine metabolite indoleacetic acid (IAA). Furthermore, regional densities of [3H]tryptamine receptors in HE patient brain tissue are significantly decreased. These data support a pathophysiologic role for tryptophan and its neuroactive trace amine metabolite tryptamine in HE.




Gene targeting allows mutations to be introduced selectively into any mouse locus of interest. This approach has already been used to demonstrate that insulin-like growth factor (IGF) peptides and receptors are required in vivo for normal prenatal growth. One of the IGFBP genes, IGFBP-2, has also been disrupted using gene targeting, and homozgyous null BP-2 mice are characterized by a decreased spleen size most apparent during early postnatal stages and increased adult circulating levels of several other IGFBPs. These alterations are considered less dramatic than the phenotypes initially predicted based on the fetal IGFBP-2 expression pattern, although several physiological paradigms can be envisioned that will provide additional tests for specific aspects of IGFBP function. Since all six IGFBP genes are expressed during prenatal rodent development, as well as in adult tissues, the IGFBP-2 null phenotype must also be compared with genetic ablations involving members of other gene families and in the context of the other IGFBP expression patterns in rodent embryonic, extraembryonic, and uterine tissues.
Growth factor induction is a major component of the response to central nervous system trauma. The insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) and IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs) are among the molecules induced by injury that have demonstrated neuroprotective actions. Induction of IGFBPs 2, 3, 4 and 5 have been documented following injury and are hypothesized to function in transport or localization of the IGFs to injured cells. It is unclear what factors lead to induction of these molecules following trauma, however, several cytokines including ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) and interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) have been described as major injury signals and can induce aspects of reactive gliosis. To establish whether these cytokines also are responsible for inducing the IGFBPs following CNS injury, we injected CNTF or IL-1 beta intracerebrally into the neocortex of adult rats and measured changes in mRNA expression for the IGFBPs. IGFBP-2 mRNA showed a dramatic increase by 24-48 h following either CNTF or IL-1 beta injection as compared with the contralateral side injected with heat-inactivated cytokine. Neither CNTF nor IL-1 beta caused alterations in BP3 or BP5. Levels of BP4 and BP6 mRNAs also were unchanged following CNTF injection. These results suggest that IGFBP2 is uniquely regulated among the IGFBPs in the CNS and is induced by cytokines that signal CNS injury.
Progress regarding the kinesins is now being made at a rapid and accelerating rate. The in vivo-functions, and biophysical and enzymatic properties of kinesin itself are being explored at ever increasing levels of detail. The kinesin-related proteins now number several dozen, and although more is known about primary structure than function for most of the proteins, this trend is already reversing. For example, knowledge about the kinesin-related protein, ncd, is expanding rapidly, and more is already known about its three-dimensional structure than is known for kinesin heavy chain. This volume presents a comprehensive review of the major published works on kinesin and kinesin-related proteins. Hopefully, this manuscript will complement other recent review articles [17, 20, 25, 37, 60-62, 67, 69, 75, 85-88, 231, 233, 238, 244, 269-271, 281, 282, 292] or books [49, 227, 293] that have focused on more selective aspects of the kinesin family, or have been aimed more generally at MT motor proteins. In line with the stated purpose of the Protein Profile series, annual updates of the review on the kinesins are planned for at least the next few years.
The author tries, in is own, name to translate the French position on early child autism. This position can be expressed through a few acceptable points for the majority of French professionals, obviously without any idea of a consensus. The concept of a plurifactorial determinism and the psychopathological view of the disorder which is not thought of in France as susceptible to be reduced to a handicap of a primarily cognitive nature are therefore underlined. Thus the importance of a unified multidimensional therapeutic approach that considers the different consequences of the illness without forgetting its fundamentally interactive nature (&quot;autistic-making process&quot;). Today, the psychoanalytic approach tends to concentrate on the analysis of secondary factors of upholding and on the significance given in the after-thought by the autistic disorders within the family group. This opens the way to a collaboration between specialists of the different disciplines that are involved, including those who work in the field of neuroscience.
Chromosome 12q is a region of interest for the genetics of bipolar affective disorder because of reports of apparent cosegregation between this disorder and Darier's disease in a small number of families. Findings from a recent linkage study suggest that this chromosomal region may contain a susceptibility gene for bipolar affective disorder. We have found evidence of an allelic association between bipolar disorder and a marker at the pancreatic phospholipase A2 gene (PLA2A) in this region (p &lt; or = 0.01). These results are consistent with the linkage study, and warrant additional investigations.
Patients diagnosed using DSM-III-R criteria as having schizophrenia and other related disorders (n = 128) were assessed for CGG trinucleotide repeat expansion in the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR-1) gene. One subject, a woman with schizophreniform disorder, was found to have a premutation of the gene. Her case report is given. The present investigation supports the view that mutation or premutation of the FMR-1 gene is not of importance for the aetiology of the vast majority of schizophrenic patients.
First degree relatives of alcoholics show significantly reduced P300 amplitudes. This phenomenon is though to be a vulnerability marker of alcoholism. Relatives of alcoholics with higher family loading and early onset alcoholism are at greater risk for developing alcoholism. The high risk population may comprise subtypes differentiated by family history and/or age at onset of alcoholism, with differing risks, measurable in terms of the expression of the vulnerability marker. Four groups of alcohol-naive sons/male siblings of alcoholics (n = 64) were studied. The groups were constructed on the permutation of two defining characteristics: high family loading (two or more first degree alcoholic relatives) and early onset alcohol dependence (before 25 years) in the relatives. Comparison of P300 amplitude in an auditory paradigm showed significant inter-group differences as well as progressive increase/normalization of amplitudes from the high loading-early onset group (HR1) to the low loading-late onset group (HR4), with the latter being indistinguishable from a separate group of (control) normals. There were no significant differences of P300 latency among the groups. We conclude that P300 amplitudes vary inversely with the presumed continuum of risk in those at high risk for developing alcoholism.
The increasing diversity of, and disparities between, psychoanalytic theories raises the question of whether, and to what extent, these various formulations remain firmly rooted in Freud's basic psychoanalytic concepts. Many analysts believe that these theories exemplify &quot;unity in diversity.&quot; This view is contested in this paper. It is argued that Freud's basic concepts are his metapsychological concepts which, although capable of modification in the light of fresh clinical and theoretical findings are, in their fundamentals, indispensable. It is contended that it is precisely these fundamentals that are dislodged or put at risk by a great deal of current psychoanalytic thinking, and that it is in this (negative) respect that many diverse approaches are in concert. The argument is pursued with special reference to infant observational research, contemporary affect theory, and the neuroscience of Luria.
To determine the extent of dysregulation of gonadotropin secretion in depressed women, we measured nocturnal and diurnal serum luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) concentrations and the responses of these hormones to gonadotropin releasing hormone (LHRH) in 20 Research Diagnostic Criteria primary, definite endogenous female depressives and in 20 individually matched female normal controls. Fourteen patients and 14 controls were premenopausal, and six patients and six controls were peri/postmenopausal or panhysterectomized. None of the latter was receiving estrogen replacement therapy. The premenopausal patients showed no significant differences in basal nocturnal or diurnal gonadotropin concentrations and no significant differences in hormone concentrations post-LHRH compared to their premenopausal matched controls. In contrast, in the postmenopausal subjects there were (1) significantly increased diurnal vs. nocturnal serum FSH concentrations in the depressives; (2) marginally increased nocturnal, diurnal, and LHRH-stimulated LH concentrations and highly significantly increased LHRH-stimulated FSH concentrations in the depressives compared to their controls; and (3) positive correlations between the LH measures and ratings of depression severity in the patients. These results suggest a dysregulation of the HPG axis in peri/postmenopausal and panhysterectomized female endogenous depressives.
To clarify the influence of opioids on social play, the effects of morphine on playful and non-playful social behavior in juvenile rats was investigated under different conditions. Environmental variables employed were different (dim and intense) levels of illumination during testing, familiarity to the test cage, and different periods of social isolation prior to testing. Under dim light conditions, morphine markedly increased playful social behavior, such as pinning, boxing/wrestling and following/chasing, whereas non-playful social behavior such as social exploration and contact behavior was hardly affected. This effect of morphine was independent of duration of previous isolation and dose-dependent, with a maximal effect at 1.0 mg/kg. The mechanism of this effect is interpreted as an action on the rewarding aspects of play. A dose of 0.1 mg/kg of morphine abolished the initial suppression of play induced by unfamiliarity to the test cage, without influencing total levels of play. This may be an effect of morphine on the integration of sensory stimuli. Under intense light conditions, whereas playful behavior was completely suppressed, morphine itself hardly affected such behavior, but decreased some aspects of non-playful social behavior. These results suggest that in juvenile rats playful and non-playful forms of social behavior are differentially regulated. In addition, opioid systems may be involved at different levels in the regulation of social play.
The outcome of intra-accumbens infusions of the dopamine D1 receptor family agonist SKF-38393 and the D2 receptor family agonist LY-171555 upon measures taken during the behavioural satiety sequence was assessed (0.01 micrograms, 0.1 micrograms, 1.0 micrograms in each case). Each drug was infused either separately, or together as a co-infusion in order to examine the functional relationship between these dopamine receptor subtypes within the nucleus accumbens. Measures of feeding did not change following infusions of SKF-38393 or LY-171555, whether infused separately or together. However, following separate infusion of the lowest dose tested of each drug (0.01 micrograms), the onset of resting was advanced. Moderate to high doses of SKF-38393 and LY-171555 (0.1 micrograms, 1.0 micrograms) infused separately resulted in a marked increase in activity at the expense of resting. Co-infusion of 0.01 micrograms of each drug also resulted in a dramatic increase in activity. Thus, measures of feeding behaviour were unchanged following excitation of D1 and D2 dopamine receptor families within the nucleus accumbens. In marked contrast, locomotor behaviour appeared to be under the potent synergistic control of these receptor families.
Rats treated chronically with neuroleptics develop vacuous chewing movements (VCMs), similar in some respects to tardive dyskinesia (TD) in man. The VCM syndrome was used as a model of TD to examine the ability of increased neuroleptic doses to produce long-term suppression of dyskinetic movements. The incidence and persistence of the VCM syndrome in individual rats were also assessed to look for affected and unaffected subgroups. Rats were initially treated for 15 weeks and haloperidol decanoate. For the next 21 weeks, half the group received a 50-150% increase in dose while the other half continued to receive the same dose. Animals were also followed during a 28-week withdrawal period. Total VCM ratings showed a skewed distribution, with some rats exhibiting few movements while others developed marked and persistent movements. Increasing doses did not suppress VCMs, nor did they exacerbate movements during the withdrawal period. To the extent that the VCM syndrome models TD, the absence of long-term suppression of the VCM syndrome suggests that, at this dosage range, increasing depot neuroleptic doses may not be a useful long-term strategy for TD suppression.
Recent studies have implicated central serotonergic systems in the modulation of prepulse inhibition (PPI), an operational measure of sensorimotor gating, which has been used to identify gating deficits in psychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia, Huntington's disease, and obsessive compulsive disorder. Both serotonin (5-HT) releasers and agonists at 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, and 5-HT2 receptors reduce PPI in the rat. The present experiments demonstrate that the disruption of PPI in rats induced by the systemic administration of the 5-HT1A agonist, 8-OH-DPAT (8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propylamino)tetralin; 0.2 mg/kg), can be attenuated by the novel, selective 5-HT1A antagonist (+)WAY 100,135, (20.0 mg/kg), N-tert-butyl-3-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-piperazin-1-yl)-2-phenyl-propa namide. Further experiments addressing the central site of action of 8-OH-DPAT revealed that the microinjection of 8-OH-DPAT (5.0 micrograms/0.5 microliter) into either the median raphe nucleus (MR) or dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) disrupts PPI. The reduction in PPI produced by intra-raphe microinjections of 8-OH-DPAT was prevented by a systemic injection of (+)WAY 100,135. These results support the hypothesis that somatodendritic 5-HT1A autoreceptors within the midbrain raphe subserve the PPI-disruptive effects of systemically administered 8-OH-DPAT. The decrement in PPI after intra-raphe infusions of a high dose of 8-OH-DPAT, however, was substantially less than the decrement in PPI after systemic administration of the drug. Hence, sites in addition to the somatodendritic autoreceptors may also play an important role in 8-OH-DPAT-induced disruption of PPI.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Results from a questionnaire study on work conditions, job satisfaction, job influence, health and well-being, based on a representative sample of 3,500 Swedish nurses, indicate a high rate of overall job satisfaction. High decision latitude, consistency between work assignments and education, as well as low sickness absenteeism did all associate with high job satisfaction, number of working years did not. Compared to nurses satisfied with their jobs, twice as many sick days were found among those dissatisfied. Greater job influence related to lower job demands, more stimulating work and skills development as well as more responsibility and involvement. Anxiety and depression, intellectual satisfaction, job demands, job control and perceived general health explained 22% of the total variance in job satisfaction. The study has identified some key factors influencing overall job satisfaction. By focusing on these, job satisfaction among nurses should improve.
Nurses make up a considerable proportion of the Swedish health care staff. Few nationally representative studies of their work environment and health, however, have been published. The present questionnaire study on work conditions, skill utilization, health and well-being of a national representative sample of 3,500 Swedish nurses, indicates a high degree of job satisfaction. Despite high satisfaction, 40% of the respondents felt too tired after work to socialize with family and 45% had seriously considered quitting their jobs. Factors such as improved work climate and development of supervisory skills were suggested as psychosocial interventions. Improvement in physical work environment factors had low priority. Medical care nurses perceive a higher work load and higher job demands in relation to decision latitude, and geriatric nurses report less work development. No differences between disciplines were found in work relations. In conclusion, there is a need to further develop skills development and utilization and work organization. Results will be used in interventions to enhance the work environment for nurses.
Five synthetic opioid peptides that were designed to have specific opioid receptor-binding properties were studied by low energy collision-induced dissociation (CID) tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). The MS/MS data are required for the analysis of those peptides in ovine plasma in a study to determine the placental transfer of the peptide to the fetus. The synthetic enkephalin-related peptides were: Tyr-D-Arg-Phe-Lys-NH2, (DALDA), N,N-diallyl-Tyr-Aib-Aib-Phe-Leu-OH, (ICI 174,864), Tyr-D-Thr-Gly-Phe-Leu-Thr, (DTLET), Tyr-D-Pen-Gly-Phe-D-Pen-OH, (DPDPE), and D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2, (CTAP). Liquid secondary ion mass spectrometry (LSIMS) was used for sample desorption-ionization, and a hybrid (E1BE2qQ) tandem mass spectrometer was used to collect the product-ion spectra. A protonated molecule ion, [M + H]+, was observed for each peptide. Amino acid sequence-determining fragment ion were produced by CID and collected by MS/MS for the three linear peptides, and also for the two disulfide-bond-containing peptides in their unreduced and dithiothreitol (DTT)-reduced forms. The detection level for the [M + H]+ ion of DTLET was ca. 3 pmol; and the stabilities of the CTAP and ICI analogs in plasma were studied.
General population surveys suggest that the percentage of US women who drink declined slightly during the 1980s. Comparisons of 1981 and 1991 national surveys using the same drinking measures show that fewer women drank heavily in 1991, and women drinkers drank less frequently and had fewer episodes of heavy drinking, although younger drinkers reported more frequent intoxication. Longitudinal analyses of 5-year changes in drinking behavior indicate that movement both into and out of problem drinking is greatest among women aged 21 to 34. Subgroups of women with elevated rates of heavy drinking and/or adverse drinking consequences include younger women; women lacking social roles or occupying unwanted social statuses; women in nontraditional jobs; cohabiting women; and ethnic minority women experiencing rapid acculturation. Risks of heavy and/or problem drinking are also greater among women with a heavy-drinking husband or partner; depression; sexual dysfunction; or violent victimization in childhood or adulthood. Future research should focus on (1) the causes and consequences of recent declines in women's drinking; (2) antecedents and consequences of specific patterns of multiple substance use in women; (3) social and relational contexts of women's drinking, including occupational influences, drinking behavior of significant others, sexual dysfunction, and relationship violence; (4) longitudinal predictors of both problem drinking onset and &quot;spontaneous&quot; remission of women's alcohol problems; and (5) childhood sexual abuse as a potentially powerful risk factor for later alcohol abuse in women.

A family of G-protein-coupled receptors is believed to mediate the recognition of odor molecules. In order to identify potential ligand-binding residues, we have applied correlated mutation analysis to receptor sequences from the rat. This method identifies pairs of sequence positions where residues remain conserved or mutate in tandem, thereby suggesting structural or functional importance. The analysis supported molecular modeling studies in suggesting several residues in positions that were consistent with ligand-binding function. Two of these positions, dominated by histidine residues, may play important roles in ligand binding and could confer broad specificity to mammalian odor receptors. The presence of positive (overdominant) selection at some of the identified positions provides additional evidence for roles in ligand binding. Higher-order groups of correlated residues were also observed. Each group may interact with an individual ligand determinant, and combinations of these groups may provide a multi-dimensional mechanism for receptor diversity.
In chick embryos of the black sex-link strain, the concentration of testosterone was much lower on Days 17 and 18 of the incubation period in both gonads (tests and left ovary) than on the next two days. Then, at hatch, and especially at 1 h after hatching, the concentration decreased in both gonads. Between 2 and 4 h after hatching, the concentration of T reached the highest value in each sex and then decreased progressively within the next 18 h. Concentrations on Days 19 and 20 (in both gonads) differed significantly from those on Days 17 and 18 of the incubation period, but no significant sex differences were found at these four sampling times. In newly hatched chickens, significant differences were found only between the values obtained at 1 h after hatching (in both sexes) and those from 2-4 h after hatching; no significant sex differences in T concentrations were found in gonads on Day 1 after hatch. The concentration of T in plasma from females was a little higher than in males on Day 19 of incubation, but no significant differences were found. At hatch, the concentrations were of the same order of magnitude in both sexes. At 1 and 2 h after hatching, increased values were found only in males; pooled values of these two sampling times were significantly different from those obtained either in embryos or at two periods after hatching (8-20 h and 48-68 h respectively). No significant changes occurred in T concentration in plasma from females over all these sampling times. By 3-6 h after hatching, the concentrations of T returned to near hatching concentrations in both sexes, and then decreased progressively between 8 and 68 h after hatching. No significant differences in plasma T concentrations were found between males and females, at hatch, or within the next 68 h. In red sex-link strain chickens, the concentrations of T in plasma were about the same in both sexes, at hatch and on Day 1 after hatching, but the concentrations were much lower than those recorded in black sex-link strain chickens at the same sampling times. A peak of T was found only in plasma from newly hatched male chickens of the black sex-link strain at 1-2 h after hatching but not in females, and not in red sex-link strain (of both sexes) either.
Localized lesions of the medial and lateral frontal cortex were used to study gliosis, neurofilament content and changes in synaptic density in the mouse striatum. Relationships between the sites of cortical lesions and the localization of changes in different regions of the striatum were examined after 3 and 12 weeks. Independent of the location of frontal cortex lesions, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity was increased throughout the entire striatum after 3 weeks. Twelve weeks after lesioning, increases in GFAP were confined to the dorsomedial (DM) striatum following medial cortical lesions, and to the dorsolateral (DL) striatum following lateral cortical lesions, suggesting persistent gliosis only in areas of striatal deafferentation. It appears, therefore, that the mechanisms which induce gliosis after short and long time periods are different.
In the present study, we have examined the expression and distribution of the metabolic marker neuron-specific enolase (NSE) in solid-tissue transplants of fetal substantia nigra (SN) to the striatum of intact and 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned mature rats. Immunocytochemistry was applied to label NSE and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) respectively. Cellular content of NSE is indicative of metabolic activity as well as synaptogenesis/maturation. Three months after implantation, the fetal grafts exhibited intensely TH-immunoreactive neurons, typically organized in elongated clusters, especially along the graft-host border and along blood vessels penetrating into the graft interior. Moderate to high metabolic activity as indicated by NSE immunoreactivity was observed in neuronal perikarya, principally in non-TH immunoreactive areas. In contrast to these immunohistochemical findings, in situ hybridization for TH mRNA, carried out exclusively on grafts into the intact striatum, demonstrated DA cell bodies both at the graft-host interface and, significantly, throughout the graft interior. The number of transcripts per cell, moreover, did not differ significantly in these two locations. We propose that conditions at the graft-host border promote tissue-specific regulation of nigral DA neurons, and that this regulation occurs post-transcriptionally. Thus, DA neurons relatively distant from the host parenchyma are underregulated, resulting in a higher level of metabolic activity and an increased turnover of TH in the grafted neurons.

The transplantation technique has been invaluable for studying the CNS. Recently, the use of genetically modified cells for CNS grafting has further increased the utility of this technique. Studies conducted during the past 10 years have shown that a variety of genes can be successfully expressed in both neural and non-neural populations. Depending on the cell type used for gene transfer, engineered cells survive well within the CNS and continue to synthesize engineered products. In addition to providing insights into CNS development and plasticity, genetically modified cells have revealed the therapeutic role of different factors in neural disease. Cells engineered to produce growth factors have been shown to prevent and/or minimize neural degeneration following an experimental damage while the intracerebral transplantation of cells genetically modified to produce neurotransmit-ters have successfully reversed behavioral impairments of animals with experimental Parkinson's disease or Alzheimer's disease. Recent results with engineered cells transplanted into the brain of non-human primates suggest the potential of engineered cells for human therapy. Work with encapsulation techniques to isolate engineered cells from a host brain offers one of several approaches for ensuring the safety of genetically modified cells grafted into the CNS. Identifying factors that influence the survival and gene expression of engineered cells following transplantation will enhance the usefulness of these cells for studying and repairing the CNS.



The experiments described in this review reveal that the expression and modulation of aggressive responses in the cat are organized by two distinct sets of pathways. One set of pathways is associated with the elicitation of a specific form of attack behavior. It includes the medial hypothalamus and its projections to the PAG for the expression of defensive rage behavior and the lateral hypothalamus and its descending projections for the expression of predatory attack behavior. The primary focus of the present review is upon the analysis of defensive rage behavior. It was demonstrated that the pathway from the medial hypothalamus to the PAG, which appears to be essential for elicitation of defensive rage, is powerfully excitatory and utilizes excitatory amino acids that act upon NMDA receptors within the PAG. The other pathways examined in this review arise from different nuclei of the amygdala and are modulatory in nature. Here, two facilitatory systems have been identified. The first involves a projection system from the basal complex of amygdala that projects directly to the PAG. Its excitatory effects are manifest through excitatory amino acids that act upon NMDA receptors within the PAG. The second facilitatory pathway arises from the medial nucleus of the amygdala. However, its projection system is directed to the medial hypothalamus rather than the PAG. Its neurotransmitter appears to be substance P that acts upon NK1 receptors within the medial hypothalamus (see Figure 10). It has yet to be determined whether substance P acts upon any of the other neurokinin receptor subtypes. It should also be pointed out that the substance P pathway from the medial amygdala to the medial hypothalamus functions to suppress predatory attack behavior elicited from the lateral hypothalamus. In this network, it is likely that the modulatory effects of the medial amygdala require the presence of a second, inhibitory pathway from the medial hypothalamus that innervates the lateral hypothalamus. At the present time, the neurochemical nature of this second pathway remains unknown, although it is suggested that such neurons may be GABAergic. One major inhibitory pathway was also identified. It arises principally from the central nucleus of the amygdala and projects to the PAG. Its powerful suppressive effects upon PAG elicited defensive rage behavior are mediated through opioid peptides that act upon mu receptors within the PAG. While the present series of studies have begun to define the structural and functional nature of the neural systems that regulate aggressive behavior, our understanding of the overall mechanisms regulating different forms of aggressive behavior remains incomplete.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A number of approaches have been developed to deliver growth factors within the central nervous system of adult mammals. Initially a variety of neurotrophic factors were administered either by single intracerebroventricular or local injections directly into brain tissues or via permanently installed cannulae for chronic administrations. More recently delivery systems including conjugates, biodegradable and non-biodegradable implants and microspheres as well as genetically engineered cells have been introduced in order to provide a prolonged supply of neurotrophic factors and to prevent their enzymatic degradation. In this review we examine a variety of means of delivering neurotrophic factors (mainly nerve growth factor) with the primary focus upon the use of microencapsulated neurotrophins and cells genetically modified to produce them. In addition, this review highlights some difficulties and future trends in the development of novel delivery systems hopefully more suitable for investigations in different areas of neuroscience.
Mismatch negativity (MMN), an auditive event-related potential (ERP) component, evoked by deviant stimuli in a homogeneous stream of standard stimuli was studied in a unilateral stimulation and contralateral white noise masking condition. Eleven subjects (Ss) with normal hearing (aged 20-35 years) were examined using sine tone stimuli (70 dB HL, interstimulus interval 300 ms, duration 40 ms with 5 ms rise and fall times). Three blocks of standard (std)/deviant (dev) series of stimuli were used: std 500/dev 600 Hz, std 2000/dev 1900 Hz, and std 2000/dev 1600 Hz. The first block was repeated for another group of 11 Ss with normal hearing (aged 17-27 years). The MMN was analysed from the difference curves recorded at Fz, Cz and Pz. The stimuli were delivered unilaterally, either with or without 50 dB effective masking level white noise to the contralateral ear. The MMN amplitude attenuated significantly when contralateral masking was used. In addition, there was interaction between noise masking and the stimulated ear. The MMN latencies were not affected by white noise masking.
To examine the complex role of cytokines in the pathogenesis of actively induced murine EAE we measured the levels of a number of cytokines (IL-6, IFN gamma and TNF) in the spinal cord and CSF of mice with active experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and found them all to be elevated. We next treated mice with antibodies to these three cytokines, which were over expressed in the CNS, to determine if they would alter disease and found the following: anti-IL-6 had no significant effect on disease, anti-IFN gamma exacerbated disease, and anti-TNF either enhanced, had no effect or inhibited EAE depending on the antibody used. We then treated mice with exogenous cytokines, delivered using a recombinant vaccinia virus system, and found that the IL-6 and TNF virus constructs inhibited EAE whereas the IFN gamma construct had no effect on disease. Other cytokine recombinant viruses were also tested and it was found that the IL-1 beta, IL-2 and IL-10 viruses inhibited EAE while an IL-4 virus either had no effect or enhanced disease. We do not know the mechanism of action of the various cytokines in this system, but irrespective of the mechanism(s), this work clearly demonstrates that delivery of select cytokines using recombinant virus-cytokine constructs can provide a powerful means of down-regulating experimental organ-specific autoimmune disease.
Elliptical cells (E-P) are present at the perilymphatic interface lumen (PIL) of the lagena. The E-P cells often separate from the tegmentum vasculosum (TV) and have touching processes that form a monolayer between the K+ rich perilymph and the Na+ rich endolymph, similar to the mammalian Reissner's membrane. We examined the TV of chicks (Gallus domesticus) and quantitated the expression of anti-S100 alphaalphabetabeta and S100 beta. There was a 30% increase of S100 beta saturation in the light cells facing the PIL when compared to other TV light cells. We show that: (1) the dimer anti- S100 alphaalphabetabeta and the monomer anti-S100 beta are expressed preferentially in the light cells and the E-P cells of TV; (2) expression of S100 beta is higher in light cells facing the PIL than in adjacent cells; (3) the expression of the dimer S100 alphaalphabetabeta and monomer S100 beta overlaps in most inner ear cell types, including the cells of the TV, most S100 alphaalphabetabeta positive cells express S 100 beta, but S100 beta positive cells do not always express S100 alphaalphabetabeta; and (4) the S100 beta expression in light cells, the abundant Na+-K+ ATPase on dark cells of the TV, and previously demonstrated co-localization of S100 beta/GABA in sensory cells suggest that S100 beta could have, in the inner ear, a dual neurotrophic-ionic modulating function.
Studies have suggested that some cases of schizophrenia may be caused by viruses. We hypothesize that such cases may be cases of viral zoonosis transmitted primarily from house cats. Epidemiological aspects of schizophrenia and a case-control questionnaire support this hypothesis.
The spongiform encephalopathies occur in both animals and humans, with kuru, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, Gerstmann-Strussler-Scheinker syndrome, and Fatal Familial Insomnia constituting the currently recognised spectrum of such disorders in man. All have proven to be transmissible, including familial cases. Important determinants of transmissibility include the route of inoculation (intracerebral is most effective) and the titre of the inoculated material (brain and spinal cord have greatest infectivity). However, in familial cases, the pathogenic mutations in the PrP gene additionally influence the efficacy of transmission. Recent progress in the molecular biological basis of these diseases suggests that most of the infectivity resides in an abnormal, relatively protease resistant, isoform of the constitutively expressed PrP. The abnormal isoform is postulated to serve as a template for auto-catalytic polymerisation and the consequent deposition of amyloid. Extensions of this hypothesis attempt to reconcile the paradox of how these disorders can be both infectious and also inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion.
Pick's disease are more often complicated than Alzheimer's disease by behavioral disturbances such as social misconduct and stereotypy, that are troublesome and clinically difficult to manage. The purpose of this study was to investigate the possibility of improvement in care for patients with Pick's disease by using their presumably preserved procedural memory. Four inpatients and two outpatients with Pick's disease were studied. Case 1: A 54-year-old right-handed retired clerk presented with a 3-year history of increasing restlessness, word-finding difficulty and impaired comprehension of nominal terms. He was forced to retire from his work because of his social misconduct and incommunicability. On admission he wandered about the ward irritably, did not enter into any conversation, and destroyed all keys in the ward by putting a pencil into keyholes. Neuroradiological examination revealed circumscribed bilateral frontotemporal atrophy which was more marked on the left side. However, he has become more adaptive to the life in the ward and his expression has become peaceful since he began to play othello games with other patients and his doctors. Case 2: A 71-year-old right-handed housewife had progressively altered in her personality and behavior over 4 years. She was restless and showed striking palilalia with marked right frontotemporal atrophy when initially evaluated 2 years after her initial symptoms. Subsequently, her verbal output decreased. She ate large amounts of food and her overweight became a serious problem in her care at home. On admission she wandered about the ward irritably, ate meals of other patients, and put on a quilt on their head. However, these troublesome behavior disappeared when she was bent on knitting that was her former hobby. Case 3: A 63-year-old right handed physician presented with a 5-year history of increasing word-finding difficulty and impaired comprehension of nominal terms. His conversation was limited to continuous repetition of a few phrases. He wandered into several hospitals around his house in fixed order every day. On examination, he was mildly disinhibited and distractible with circumscribed bilateral frontotemporal atrophy which was more marked on the left side. Wandering away from home overnight necessitated admission to the hospital. In the ward he wandered about and tried to open each door restlessly and irritably. However, he has become calm and his expression has become peaceful since he was conducted to measure blood pressures of his nurses. Case 4: A 65-year-old right-handed retired office worker.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Impairment of cognitive executive functions previously has been suspected to occur in association with sleep apnea syndrome (SAS), as suggested by some neuropsychological studies. However, such functions have not been assessed directly. In the present study, 17 patients with SAS were evaluated with various focused frontal lobe-related tests in comparison with 17 normal controls. Such tasks explored attention, short-term memory spans, learning abilities, planning and programming capacities, categorizing activities and verbal fluency. Patients were found to have a significantly decreased ability to initiate new mental processes and to inhibit automatic ones, in conjunction with a tendency for preservative errors. They were also affected with deficits of verbal and visual learning abilities and had reduced memory spans. Such defects were further evaluated via logistic regression against two criteria of the severity of the disease: the number of apneas and hypopneas per hour of sleep and the level of nocturnal hypoxemia. Memory deficits were rather related to the former, whereas typical frontal lobe-related abnormalities seemed rather consistent with the latter. These findings are discussed in light of data from the literature concerning cognitive impairments described for patients with isolated daytime sleepiness versus hypoxemia, as illustrated in other pathological or physiological circumstances.
This paper summarizes work to validate and develop further the homeostatic and circadian component of a quantitative (computerized) three-process model for predicting alertness/sleepiness in daily living. The model uses sleep data as input and contains circadian and homeostatic components (amount of prior wake and amount of prior sleep), which are summed to yield predicted alertness on a scale between 1 and 16. The present validation was carried out using regression analysis, with sleepiness-related electroencephalographic parameters (alpha power density) from field and laboratory studies as criteria. The results showed that variations in alpha-power density in truck drivers, train drivers and laboratory subjects could be predicted with considerable accuracy (r2 &gt; 0.70) from the model, as could subjective alertness. Levels &lt; or = 7 on the 16-point scale were defined as critically low alertness. The paper also describes a simplified, graphic, paper version of the computation model, visualized as a two-dimensional &quot;alertness nomogram&quot;. It is suggested that the studied components of the model may serve as tools for evaluating work/rest schedules in terms of sleep-related safety risks.
Although many studies have examined the columnar organization of primary somatosensory (SI) cortex, the functional relationship among neurons in different layers remains unclear. To understand how activity is coordinated among different cortical layers, the present investigation tested the hypothesis that the initial part of a peripheral stimulus produces a serial pattern of laminar activation in SI cortex. Extracellular discharges of 334 histologically recovered neurons were recorded from the medial bank of the coronal sulcus in nine anesthetized cats during electrical or cutaneous stimulation of the distal forelimb. Mean responses during the initial 50-msec period following stimulus onset were largest in layers IIIb or IV for both types of stimulation, but laminar differences in the magnitude of onset responses were not statistically significant. Among 175 neurons with responses exceeding 0.5 spikes per stimulus, electrical stimulation consistently produced shorter response latencies than mechanical indentation in the extragranular (II, IIIa, V, VI), but not in the middle (IIIb, IV), cortical layers. The average minimum latencies for different cortical layers ranged from 7.4 to 10.1 msec for responses to electrical stimulation and from 10.3 to 11.6 msec for responses to mechanical indentations, but these laminar differences were not statistically significant. In some experiments, neurons in different layers of a cortical column were recorded simultaneously with dual-electrode assemblies; among 37 neuron pairs in which both neurons responded with more than 0.5 spikes per stimulus, response latencies were similar, even though the neurons were separated by several hundred microns. Cross-correlation analysis of the onset responses for neurons recorded simultaneously from different layers also indicated that many cells throughout a cortical column were activated nearly simultaneously by the initial phase of a peripheral stimulus. Results from the present study are compared with previous reports examining laminar patterns of activation.
In order to determine the effects of spinal cord lesions on nociceptive sensitivity of rodents, methods were developed to assess the speed of operant escape responses to electrocutaneous stimulation (ES). ES was delivered across the dorsal and ventral surfaces of either hindpaw, producing a current path through deep tissues. In order to guide establishment of a range of stimulus intensities for this manner of stimulation, a preliminary human psychophysical experiment was conducted with stimulation between the dorsal and ventral surfaces of a finger. For the human subjects, detection thresholds averaged 0.13 mA, and thresholds for a sharp (but nonpainful) sensation were 0.42 mA. Levels of stimulation between these thresholds for detection and a sharp quality elicited sensations of tingle or itch. Thresholds for reports of pain averaged 0.67 mA. On the basis of these results, intensities of ES ranging from 0.05 to 1.0 mA were presented to the feet of rats that were trained to perform an escape response with one forelimb. Thresholds for escape averaged slightly less than 0.1 mA; responding was consistent at 0.4 mA; and response probability and speed were maximal at approximately 0.8 mA. Thus, the rats responded aversively at intensities below those rated as sharp or painful by the human subjects, but the speed of escape reached a plateau at intensities that were above pain threshold for the human subjects. Unilateral thoracic lesions of the lateral spinal column of rats produced a contralateral hypalgesia. Escape thresholds were elevated, and the speed of escape responses to all intensities was reduced. This effect depended upon interruption of axons in the middle and anterior portions of one lateral column, corresponding to the location of long ascending pathways for nociception, including the spinothalamic tract. The speed of escape responding increased over 20 weeks of postoperative testing of animals with the largest lesions. This confirms results obtained previously from monkeys (by means of a similar paradigm), and corresponds to clinical reports of humans who have received spinal lesions for control of intractable pain. Thus, the location and organization of nociceptive pathways in the spinal cord of rodents appear to be similar to those of primates, and similar adaptations occur following interruption of these pathways.

Textural segmentation plays an important role in the figure-ground discrimination process. Evidence from neuroscience and psychophysics suggests that the segregation of texture patterns composed of oriented line segments is strongly influenced by the orientation contrast between the patterns (Nothdurft, Vision Res. 31, 1073-1078, 1991). In contrast to models available in the literature, this paper presents a neural network architecture for textural segmentation that can adaptively delimit the boundaries of uniformly textured regions. Cells with adaptive receptive fields encode uniformly textured regions by diffusively interpolating the estimates of feature orientations across the image. Orientation contrast boundaries are detected at gradients across the interpolated regions to produce the final segmentation. Consistent with neurophysiological data from simple and complex cells sensitive to static and moving textural patterns (Hammond and MacKay, Exp. Brain Res. 30, 275-296, 1977), the present model suggests that preattentive textural segregation can be performed by early visual processes localized to areas V1, V2, and perhaps V3 or V5. The computational results further support the idea that textural segmentation should not be thought of as a 'static' process, but as a system that employs cells with context-dependent response characteristics (Gilbert and Wiesel, Vision Res. 30, 1689-1701, 1990), here modeled as adaptive receptive fields.
This paper describes the current status of the utilisation of clinical practice guidelines (protocols) in the ESTEEM project as one form of the clinical quality assurance procedures considered in the project. The performance of electrodiagnostic studies, in terms of which types of conclusions need to be inferred during the examination plan, is briefly described. The main focus of the paper is a description of an European multicentre clinical audit in the field of Clinical Neurophysiology, using a common data-entry protocol for prospective EMG case collection and assessment with the ultimate objective of building up a multicentre reference database of EMG cases.
Eight healthy adults (56-85 yrs) were exposed in an environmental chamber to filtered air (FA), 0.60 ppm NO2, 0.45 ppm O3, and 0.60 ppm NO2 + 0.45 ppm O3 to investigate the effects of NO2 and O3 exposure on cardiac output. The subjects were exposed to each condition for two hours, while they exercised and rested in alternating 20-min periods. Minute ventilation averaged 26-29 l/min among the four exposures. Cardiac output was measured by the noninvasive impedance cardiography method, and was recorded prior to each exposure with the subject at rest, and during the last five minutes of each exercise period. There were no differences in cardiac output at preexposure among the four exposures. The exercise-induced increase in cardiac output with NO2/O3 exposure was significantly smaller (P &lt; 0.05) than with the FA or O3 alone exposures. Reaction products of inhaled NO2 are known to cross the lung membranes, probably as a nitrate or nitrite. NO2 and O3 are also known to react together to form nitrate and nitrite. We hypothesize that a nitrate or nitrite reaction product of inhaled O3 and NO2 crosses the lung membrane into the general circulation, where it functions as a vasodilator, thereby reducing cardiac output.

Examination of the Limulus median optic nerve with low-magnification light microscopy allows clear visualization of an ultraviolet-sensitive mini-ommatidium enshrouded by pigment cells, glial cells, and guanophores. Serial 1-micron sections of median optic nerves containing mini-ommatidia revealed the presence of a single, heavily pigmented photoreceptor (retinular) cell and a single, unpigmented arhabdomeric cell. Computer-assisted serial reconstructions from 1-micron sections confirmed the presence of two cells, each bearing a nucleus, and two axons leaving the mini-ommatidium. The retinular cell is morphologically similar to retinular cells from the median and lateral eyes. Its rhabdomere appears to be a continuous sheet of microvilli with much infolding. The structure of the arhabdomeric cell is nearly identical to those found in the median ocellus. As in other photoreceptors in Limulus, the retinular cell of the mini-ommatidium is innervated by efferent fibers from the brain. Each mini-ommatidium generates a single train of nerve impulses in response to light, presumably from the arhabdomeric cell. Measurement of the spectral sensitivity of the mini-ommatidium based upon a constant-response criterion indicated that the retinular cell is maximally sensitive to near ultraviolet light with lambda max = 380 nm. Comparison of intensity-response functions revealed that those of the mini-ommatidium are significantly steeper than those of the ocellus almost certainly as the result of neural processing in the ocellus which is absent in the mini-ommatidium.
Computer simulations were carried out to evaluate the influence of varying the membrane resistance (Rm) on the dendritic integration capacity of three classes of ganglion cells in the mudpuppy (Necturus maculosus) retina. Three broadly different morphological classes of ganglion cells were selected for this study and represent the range of dendritic tree sizes found in the ganglion cell population of this species. Simulations were conducted on anatomical data obtained from cells stained with horseradish peroxidase; each cell was traced, using a computer as an entry device and later converted to a compartmental (electrical) representation of the cell. Computer-simulation analysis used a time-variant conductance change which was similar in waveform to light-activated bipolar cell input. The simulated membrane resistance for each cell varied between 5000 and 100,000 omega cm2, and conductance changes were introduced into different regions of the soma-dendritic tree to evaluate dendritic integration efficiency. When higher values of Rm are used, even the largest cells become electronically compact and attenuation of voltage responses is minimized from distal to soma regions. Responses were less attenuated from proximal to distal regions of the cell because of the favorable impedance matching, and because less current is required to polarize small &quot;sealed&quot; dendritic terminations. Steady-state responses integrate more effectively than transient responses, particularly when Rm is high, since transient responses were more attenuated by the membrane capacitance. The possibility that Rm is a dynamic property of retinal ganglion cells is discussed in view of the functional organization of dendritic integration efficiency as Rm fluctuates from low to high values.
There is controversy in the literature concerning whether or not neurons in the cat's posteromedial lateral suprasylvian (PMLS) visual cortex are orientation selective. Previous studies that have tested cells with simple bar stimuli have found that few, if any, PMLS cells are orientation selective. Conversely, studies that have used repetitive stimuli such as gratings have found that most or all PMLS cells are orientation selective. It is not known whether this difference in results is due to the stimuli used or the laboratories using them. The present experiments were designed to answer this question by testing individual PMLS neurons for orientation sensitivity with both bar and grating stimuli. Using quantitative response measures, we found that most PMLS neurons respond well enough to stationary flashed stimuli to use such stimuli to test for orientation sensitivity. On the basis of these tests, we found that about 85% of the cells with well-defined receptive fields are orientation sensitive to flashed gratings, and a similar percentage are orientation sensitive to flashed bars. About 80% of the cells were orientation sensitive to both types of stimuli. The preferred orientations typically were similar for the two tests, and they were orthogonal to the preferred direction of movement. The strength of the orientation sensitivity (measured as the ratio of discharge to the preferred and nonpreferred orientations) was similar to both types of stimuli. However, the width of the orientation tuning curves was systematically broader to bars than to gratings. Several hypotheses are considered as to why previous studies using bars failed to find evidence for orientation sensitivity. In addition, a mechanism for the difference in orientation tuning to bars and gratings is suggested.
Minimum angles of resolution (MAR) were measured at 0-10 deg horizontal eccentricity in three normal subjects, using high-pass spatial frequency filtered targets, at four different contrast levels. Results were correlated with recent data on human cone and ganglion cell separations in corresponding retinal locations. MARs and cone separations showed a close proportionality through the origin for all contrast levels. Ganglion cell correlates were more difficult to elucidate as the cell bodies are displaced from their input cones. Taking a functional estimate of the displacement into account, the number of ganglion cells appeared to be large enough to uphold an &quot;effective&quot; distribution that obeys the same proportional relationship to MAR that previously has been demonstrated outside 10 deg. Analysis of the nature of age effects provided support for this model.
Photoreceptor sensitivity changes explained the effect of large uniform backgrounds on the color appearance of small targets in a dichoptic asymmetric color matching experiment. Subjects viewed in each eye a target superimposed on a large background. The backgrounds presented to the two eyes had different spectral compositions. Subjects adjusted the target seen by the right eye to match the appearance of the target seen by the left eye. Receptor sensitivity changes explained the effect of numerous adapting backgrounds on the color appearance of many targets with high precision. Post-receptoral sensitivity changes provided a poorer account of the data. The apparent sensitivity of each receptor class varied inversely with changes in background light absorbed by that receptor class, but did not depend on background light absorbed by the other two receptor classes.
This chapter has presented a somewhat complex view of the gonadotrope population, indicating that it consists of independent subsets. There may be regulatory cells that influence development and other ancillary processes needed for normal reproduction. For example, normal differentiation of PRL cells requires a functioning population of gonadotropes (Kendall et al., 1991). In addition, gonadotropes appear to be autoregulatory; subsets may produce inhibin or activin (in rats) and follistatin. Production of GnRH itself may serve as another regulatory tool. The gonadotrope population appears to be quite dynamic and convertible in the female rat. Cytological and cytochemical changes with the stage of the cycle are obvious. Increases in the numbers of immunoreactive gonadotropes parallel increases in GnRH target cells and culminate in peak expression of LH and FSH beta subunit mRNAs. The immunoreactive gonadotropes are greatly reduced after the surge activity, as though the cells had disappeared from the population. However, gonadotropes can still be detected by their content of gonadotropin mRNAs. This finding has led to the hypothesis that the gonadotropes recycle themselves. However, do they go through a resting phase? Is there a normal cycle of cell death and turnover? These are basic questions that must be answered in order to understand how the population is organized and renewed. Finally, we have returned to one of our original problems. Whereas it is clear that nonparallel release can be brought about by granules or cells with only one gonadotropin, the exact mechanisms that sort the gonadotropin molecules or turn off bihormonal expression are not known. A combination of autoregulatory events involving follistatin, activin, inhibin, and possibly steroids may play a role in modulating expression by a given subset. Delays in maturation may also prevent secretion of FSH and, hence, effect the delayed rise seen during late proestrus. The nonsecretory FSH cells seen in the studies by Lloyd and Childs (1988a) may be delayed maturers, requiring additional receptor types or changes in the calcium flux pattern to secrete their product. We also have a new question to address. What is the significance of the presence of GH in proestrous gonadotropes? Is GH a regulatory hormone, bound to receptors inside gonadotropes, or do subsets of somatotropes augment the population, producing a cocktail of GH and gonadotropins to aid ovulation? Either hypothesis is intriguing. Co-storage of GH and gonadotropins would be an efficient way of providing the hormones needed by the ovary. However, further work with in situ hybridization is needed to detect GH mRNA in such cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
International scientific journals dealing with the broad subject of emergency medicine are listed. The following standards were applied: only journals from Europe or North America published in English or German were selected; whenever possible, the actual number of copies printed is mentioned; listing in the &quot;Index Medicus&quot; is stated; and, finally, the time course of the so-called &quot;impact factor&quot; from 1984 to 1992 is shown. The impact factor is a measure of how often the &quot;average article&quot; in a journal has been cited in a particular year. Basically it describes a ratio between actual citations and citable items published. It permits some qualification of quantitative data since it discounts the advantage of large journals over small journals and that of frequently published journals over less frequently issued ones. Journals from 12 different medical specialties have been selected for analysis: Emergency Medicine; Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine; Biomedical Engineering; Neurosciences; General Internal Medicine; Internal Medicine: Cardiology, Pulmonary Medicine, Infectious Diseases, and Public Health; Surgery; Pediatrics; Pharmacology; Physiology; Experimental Medicine. In addition, a few remarks are made dealing with ethics of publication and the increasing number of medical authors per article published. The terms &quot;irresponsible authorship&quot;, &quot;author inflation&quot;, &quot;wasteful publication&quot;, and &quot;abstract creep&quot; are introduced and explained. Furthermore, strategies adopted from the literature to restrain those developments are introduced.

The vomeronasal organ of rat was cultured from embryonic 15-day littermates. During 4-8 days in vitro, vomeronasal axons originating from the explants of vomeronasal organ formed 2-3 large fascicles. When Vicia villosa agglutinin (VVA) was added to the culture medium, fasciculation of the vomeronasal axons was inhibited. The timing of addition and the duration of the presence of VVA were related to the inhibition of fasciculation of vomeronasal axons. Glycocojugates that bind with the VVA may therefore play an important role in the fasciculation of developing vomeronasal axons.
This study focuses on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) in the cerebellar cortex and changes within this system after mechanically induced cerebellar injury. Using radioactive and non-radioactive in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry angiotensinogen mRNA, angiotensinogen, angiotensin II and, for the first time, N-terminal angiotensin fragment (1-7) immunoreactivities, respectively, were demonstrated in the rat cerebellum. Angiotensinogen mRNA and angiotensinogen immunoreactivity (IR) were both present in glial cell populations of all layers, especially in the Purkinje and granular cell layers and within the cerebellar nuclei. Angiotensin II IR was demonstrated in glial cell populations in all layers using a monoclonal angiotensin II antibody, while with a polyclonal angiotensin II antiserum (Denise) some Purkinje cell bodies were labelled. After lesioning the cerebellar cortex mechanically by an injection cannula a strong increase in angiotensinogen gene expression as well as in angiotensin II and angiotensin (1-7) immunoreactivities were observed in the glial cell populations. Furthermore, putative Bergmann glial processes, as indicated from the morphological appearance became strongly angiotensin II and angiotensinogen immunoreactive in the region close to the mechanically induced lesion. It could inter alia be demonstrated for the first time using confocal laser microscopy of ANG II IR and GFAP IR that ANG II in vivo in the intact cerebellar cortex is present in astroglial processes in the molecular layer and presumably secreted into the extracellular space in form of small spheric bodies and/or taken up by other cell types. In contrast, the N-terminal fragment angiotensin (1-7) IR was restricted to the glial cell populations and appeared only after the lesion event. Thus, it is suggested that the cerebellar RAS shows marked changes in response to mechanically induced lesions. The expression of angiotensinogen as well as the production of angiotensinogen IR and angiotensin II like IR is even after mechanical lesion restricted to astrocytes, i.e., cerebellar astrocytes and putative Bergmann glial cells, and in case of immunoreactivities it spreads to the radially oriented Bergmann glial processes in the molecular layer.
Behavioural and biochemical evidence for the existence of a powerful specific postsynaptic interaction between adenosine A1 and dopamine D1 receptors in the mammalian brain was found. Behavioural data showed that A1 receptor stimulation induced a decrease in the D1-induced motor activation in reserpinized mice and a decrease in the D1-dependent oral dyskinesia in rabbits. Biochemical data suggested that A1 receptor stimulation could produce a GTP-independent uncoupling of the rat striatal D1 receptor to the G protein. The A1-D1 receptor-receptor interaction might represent an important additional mechanism of action responsible for the motor depressant effects of adenosine agonists and for the motor stimulant effects of adenosine antagonists, like the methylxanthines caffeine and theophylline.
Changes in AMPA receptors have been proposed to underlie changes in synaptic efficacy in hippocampus and other brain structures. Activation of calpain has also been discussed as a potential mechanism to produce lasting modifications of synaptic structure and function. We report here that preincubation of thin (10 microns) frozen rat brain sections with calcium at physiological temperature changes the immunological properties of AMPA receptors, an effect totally blocked by calpain inhibitors. Immunocytochemistry indicates that in situ calpain activation produces a decreased immunoreactivity for GluR1, and to a lesser extent for GluR2/3, in the neuropil throughout the brain and an increased immunoreactivity in cell bodies, particularly in hippocampus. Western blots of calcium-treated sections suggest that the decreased immunoreactivity for GluR subunits is due to partial proteolysis. These results strongly suggest the involvement of calpain in the regulation of glutamatergic synapses.
Animal studies have shown that lesions of the parahippocampal cortex impair learning of visual stimulus-stimulus associations. We tested the hypothesis that recall of paired associates, in contrast to recall of non-associated items, activates the parahippocampal cortex in humans. Ten volunteers had their regional cerebral blood flow measured with positron emission tomography during non-associative recall, and during two conditions with associative recall of visual stimuli. Compared with non-associative recall, associative recall specifically increased the blood flow in a field located in the entorhinal cortex, extending into the presubiculum. Our results demonstrate functional differences between the human hippocampal and parahippocampal cortex, and show that the entorhinal cortex is engaged in associative memory.
The expression of mRNA coding for the long (D2L) and short (D2S) isoforms of the dopamine D2 receptor was measured by in situ hybridization histochemistry in embryonic striatal tissue grafts implanted into the ibotenic acid-lesioned neostriatum of adult rats. The intact, lesioned and grafted neostriata were evaluated 3 months after transplantation using 35S-labelled 'antisense' oligonucleotide probes (45-mer) specific for each mRNA isoform. In the adult neostriatum each mRNA isoform exhibited a strong lateral-to-medial gradient in expression in terms of both the number of expressing cells and the hybridization signal (grain density) per cell. Although there were no significant differences in the numbers of cells expressing the two isoforms in each striatal compartment, the hybridization signal per cell for D2S was significantly greater than that for D2L in the lateral and central striatum. The mRNA expression of each isoform was markedly reduced by the lesions. In the striatal grafts, the expression of both D2L and D2S occurred in 'patches' that corresponded to patches of intense acetylcholinesterase activity, and which are believed to involve reaggregation of striatal-like tissues within the graft. In contrast to the situation in the intact neostriatum the striatal grafts contained significantly greater numbers of cells expressing D2S mRNA; however, similar to the findings in the intact striatum the mRNA signal per cell was significantly greater than that for D2L mRNA. These results indicate that the D2 receptor isoforms are differentially expressed in mature striatal tissue grafts, and suggest that the dopamine regulation of striatal grafts via D2 signal transduction mechanisms may be similar to that observed in the normal neostriatum.
Programmed cell death is considered to play a key role during development and also during physiopathological events such as neurodegenerative diseases and ischaemia. We have recently shown in PC12 cells that glutamate induces a progressive cytotoxicity which is only visible 8-10 h after incubation with glutamate for at least 4-6 h. We now present evidence that the toxic action of glutamate may correspond to programmed cell death because it is blocked by either actinomycin D or cycloheximide. This effect, however, may not be due to apoptosis since it is not blocked by aurintricarboxylic acid, a non-specific inhibitor of endonucleases, and neither chromatin condensation nor DNA fragmentation or liberation is seen after glutamate treatment.
Antibodies to the NMDAR1 glutamate receptor subunit and the GluR1 and GluR2/3 subunits of the AMPA glutamate receptor were used to localize these receptor components in the basolateral amygdala (ABL) of the rat and monkey. A similar localization pattern was observed in both species. Pyramidal neurons exhibited high levels of NMDAR1 and GluR2/3 immunoreactivity (ir), but low levels of GluR1-ir. Some non-pyramidal cells exhibited high levels of NMDAR1-ir or GluR1-ir, but none exhibited significant levels of GluR2/3-ir. This differential localization of receptor subunits suggests that glutamate receptors will exhibit specific functional properties in distinct subpopulations of ABL neurons.
Calcium-uptake into PC12 cells was measured by incubation with 45Ca after the cells were exposed for 24 h to beta-amyloid peptide(1-40) at concentrations between 0 and 46 microM. The rate of influx of 45Ca into PC12 cells was constant for the first 10 min. For 46 microM beta-amyloid peptide(1-40), the rate of influx was about 1,300 ions/s/microns 2 and the number of cells decreased significantly. There was no significant decrease in cell number when cells were exposed to beta-amyloid in calcium-free medium. These results indicate that beta-amyloid increases calcium uptake into PC12 cells, and suggest that the increased uptake is responsible for the toxicity of beta-amyloid in PC12 cells.
The calcium-binding protein calretinin was localized in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of the rat and monkey using immunohistochemical techniques. In both species the predominant cell type exhibiting calretinin-like immunoreactivity (CR-ir) was a small non-pyramidal neuron with a bipolar or bitufted dendritic arborization pattern. Some pyramidal neurons also exhibited light CR-ir. In the monkey there was an additional population of large moderately-stained neurons with well-stained dendrites. These results indicate that calretinin is found in specific cell types in BLA. The small non-pyramidal CR-ir neurons are morphologically similar to BLA neurons that exhibit immunoreactivity for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP). These CR-ir neurons in BLA closely resemble the small bipolar CR-ir neurons of the cerebral cortex.

Dynamin 1 (D100) is a microtubule-activated GTPase that is believed to play a role in the early steps of receptor-mediated endocytosis. Previous studies on the characterization of the Drosophila dynamin gene homolog, known as shibire, suggest that this protein may also participate in the formation of neuronal processes. To understand the role of rat brain dynamin 1 in neuronal morphogenesis, we correlated the intracellular levels of dynamin with the formation of neurites in rat hippocampal neurons and neuroblastoma N1E-115 cells in vitro. Quantitative Western and Northern blot analyses show that dynamin levels increase during neurite formation in both the hippocampal neurons and N1E-115 cells and decrease in N1E-115 cells during serum-induced neurite retraction. Furthermore, using antisense technology, we investigated the effect of decreased intracellular levels of dynamin on neurite formation in cultured embryonic hippocampal neurons. Antisense oligonucleotides against sequences surrounding the initiation codon of the rat brain dynamin gene (D100) reduce the intracellular levels of dynamin by approximately 90% and impair the formation of the minor and axon-like processes in a dose-dependent manner. Taken together, these results suggest that dynamin-mediated processes are necessary for normal neuronal morphogenesis.
Ligands which activate neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) represent a potential approach for the palliative treatment for the symptoms of memory loss associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Based upon this approach, a series of novel 3,5-disubstituted isoxazoles and isothiazoles were prepared and evaluated in vitro as cholinergic channel activators (ChCAs) of neuronal nAChRs. Many of the 3-substituted 5-(2-pyrrolidinyl)isoxazoles were found to have nanomolar binding affinities comparable to (S)-nicotine (2a) in a preparation of whole rat brain. However, in a paradigm measuring the evoked release of [3H]dopamine from a preparation of rat striatum, there were differences in the agonist potencies and efficacies of these analogues relative to 2a. The differences in agonist potency observed between compounds of comparable binding potency may be due to differences in ligand interactions with various subtypes of neuronal nAChRs.
Rilmenidine and idazoxan reduce the volume of focal ischemic infarctions produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery in the rat by 33% and 29%, respectively, by preserving neurons within the ischemic penumbra. In contrast, the alpha 2-selective antagonist SKF-86466 is without effect. The neuroprotective action of rilmenidine is dose dependent and parallels its antihypertensive actions. Neuroprotection cannot be attributed to changes in cerebral blood flow. We conclude that the neuroprotection produced by rilmenidine is attributable to an interaction with imidazoline receptors (IRs). However, the mechanism of action is not obvious. If it results from an action within the penumbra (direct), it is mediated by mitochondrial I-2 receptors on astrocytes, since cortical neurons are devoid of IRs. Neuroprotection might occur by selectively stimulating Ca2+ uptake into astrocytes, and thereby reducing Ca2+ uptake into neurons. Alternatively, rilmenidine may act indirectly to activate pathways in the brain that are neuroprotective. Neuroprotection may be a therapeutic target for rilmenidine and allied agents that act at central IRs.
Both the nucleus of the optic tract (NOT) and the superior colliculus (SC) are thought to play important roles in the regulation of eye movements. The superior colliculus contributes to visual orientation and saccades, and the nucleus of the optic tract contributes to the detection of slow movements of the visual surround. Recently, a GABAergic projection has been described between these two nuclei in the cat, a species with frontal vision. The present study aimed at determining whether a similar GABAergic pathway exists in the rabbit, a species with lateral vision. To study this pathway we used the retrograde tracer cholera-toxin (CTB) to identify NOT neurons projecting to the SC and GABA-antibody immunostaining to identify GABA-containing neurons and processes. CTB injections into the superficial laminae of the SC showed that GABAergic and non-GABAergic neurons in the NOT project to the SC. Both types of neurons have structural characteristics similar to other projection neurons in the NOT. In contrast to the NOT neurons projecting to the inferior olive (IO) which are mainly located in the rostral NOT, the GABAergic and non-GABAergic NOT-SC neurons are situated throughout the nucleus. The somata and principal dendrites of both neuron types receive numerous synaptic contacts from GABAergic terminals and only a few from retinals. The NOT projection neurons to the SC thus establish prominent excitatory and inhibitory links between the two structures, suggesting the existence of separate circuits that could interact through a GABAergic and non-GABAergic NOT-SC projection. It is further suggested that these circuits may be involved in the regulation of saccades in the SC during optokinetic nystagmus.
Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of highly selective mu opioid receptor agonist ohmefentanyl (OMF) to rats produced dose-dependent antinociception as assessed with the tail flick test. This analgesia could be blocked by intrathecal (i.t.) injection of the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist spiperone or the 5-HT1C/2 receptor antagonist mianserin, but not by the 5-HT2 receptor antagonist 1-NP or the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist ICS 205-930. The results suggest that the descending 5-HT system is involved in mediating spinal mu opioid analgesia via spinal 5-HT1A and 5-HT1C/2 receptors.
Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). ApoE is synthesized within the brain and has been suggested to be involved in the re-utilization of membrane lipids during neuronal repair and remyelination after injury. Spherical ApoE-containing lipoprotein particles are found in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). To study further the pathogenetic role of ApoE in degenerative brain disorders, we analysed ApoE in CSF. A significant (p &lt; 0.001) reduction of CSF ApoE (1.5 +/- 1.2 ng ml-1) was found in AD compared with controls (5.0 +/- 2.7 ng ml-1). A less pronounced reduction was also found in frontal lobe dementia (3.1 +/- 1.5 ng ml-1; p &lt; 0.05). These findings support the hypothesis that ApoE is involved in the pathogenesis of degenerative brain disorders such as AD. An increased reutilization of ApoE-lipid complexes in the brain, as part of a generalized repair process, may explain the low CSF ApoE in AD. Alternatively, the reduction of CSF ApoE may be caused by absorption of ApoE to senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) has been shown to promote the survival of cultured cerebellar Purkinje cells, when tested in conjunction with metabotropic receptor activation. In the present study, we examined the effects of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Following in vitro exposure to NT-3 for 6 days, survival of the calbindin positive Purkinje cells was increased, relative to vehicle-treated controls. The total number of neurons was not affected. These observations suggest a specific action of NT-3 on the Purkinje cell population. Moreover, autoradiographic analysis revealed high affinity [125I]NT-3 binding sites, consistent with a direct action of this neurotrophin. Simultaneous treatment with a metabotropic receptor agonist did not alter the NT-3-elicited increase in cell number. This suggests that NT-3 regulates Purkinje cell survival by a mechanism distinct from the NGF response. When tested alone, or in the presence of metabotropic agonist, BDNF did not affect Purkinje cell number.
Following peripheral nerve crush or transection, B-50 mRNA expression increased dramatically in the distal nerve stump. This increase has been fully attributed to an up-regulation of B-50 synthesis in reactive Schwann cells. Here we describe that B-50 mRNA expression in primary Schwann cell cultures is strongly down-regulated by cyclic AMP. Treatment of neonatal Schwann cell cultures with as low as 20 nM forskolin decreased B-50 mRNA expression. We show that B-50 promoter P2, but not P1, is active in Schwann cells and that the activity of P2 is inhibited 2.5 fold by forskolin. P2 does not contain a consensus sequence of a known cyclic AMP responsive element suggesting that the effect of forskolin is indirect.
Two monkeys were trained to perform wrist movements to align a pointer with visual targets. In the spatially 'compatible' condition, monkeys had to point at the target position (left/right), whereas in the 'incompatible' condition, they had to point at the position opposite to the target. A large proportion of neurones recorded in the primary motor cortex showed changes in activity according to either the side of the target or the side of the movement. However, more than 40% of neurones changed their activity as a function of the stimulus-response mapping rule. Some of these neurones, being sensitive only to the stimulus-response compatibility effect, must therefore be viewed as specifically involved in the neural mechanisms that control the association process between sensory inputs and motor outputs.
Neuropsychological data have shown that the two cerebral hemispheres differ in the control of spatial attention. The present study investigated hemispheric asymmetries and visuomotor integration in a split-brain patient and three control subjects. Simple reaction times (RTs) and event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded to lateralized stimuli presented at different eccentricities in the left and right visual hemifields. Both electrophysiological and behavioural data showed that, unlike controls, the split-brain patient showed a strong rightward attentional bias resulting in shorter RTs and larger P300 potentials to stimuli falling in the rightmost space. Furthermore, ERPs also showed that while the RH has a bilateral control of visual space, the LH spatial orienting capability is most restricted to the contralateral hemifield.
Molecular targets for the actions of nitric oxide (NO) have only been partially clarified. The dynamic properties of the iron-sulfur (Fe-S) cluster of the iron responsive-element binding protein (IRE-BP) suggested that it might serve as a target for NO produced in response to glutamatergic stimulation in neurons. In the present study, we demonstrate that N-methyl-D-aspartate, acting through NO, stimulates the RNA-binding function of the IRE-BP in brain slices while diminishing its aconitase activity. In addition, we demonstrate a selective localization of the IRE-BP in discrete neuronal structures, suggesting a potential role for this protein in the response of neurons to NO.
Evidence has been obtained that catecholamines and their metabolites are present in single lymphocytes and extracts of T- and B-cell clones by use of capillary electrophoresis with electrochemical detection. Pharmacological inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase reduces observed catecholamine levels, suggesting catecholamine synthesis by lymphocytes. Intracellular dopamine levels are shown to be increased by extra-cellular dopamine, suggesting a cellular-uptake mechanism. Furthermore, incubation with either dopamine or L-dihydroxyphenylalanine, a precursor of dopamine, results in a dose-dependent inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation and differentiation. Together, these results suggest the presence of an autocrine loop whereby lymphocytes down-regulate their own activity.
Several proteins that are of importance for membrane trafficking in the nerve terminal have recently been characterized. We have used Western blot and immunohistochemistry to show that synaptotagmin, synaptobrevin/VAMP (vesicle-associated membrane protein), SNAP-25 (synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa), and syntaxin proteins are present in cells of the islets of Langerhans in the endocrine pancreas. Synaptotagmin-like immunoreactivity (-LI) was localized to granules within the cytoplasm of a few endocrine cells located in the periphery of the islets, identified as somatostatin-containing cells, and in many nerve fibers within the islets. VAMP-LI was seen in granules of virtually all pancreatic islet cells and also in nerve fibers. SNAP-25-LI and syntaxin-LI were predominantly present in the plasma membrane of the endocrine cells, including insulin-producing beta cells. In situ hybridization, using isoform-specific oligonucleotide probes, detected VAMP-2, cellubrevin, SNAP-25, syntaxin 1A, 4, and 5, and munc-18 mRNAs in isolated pancreatic islets and in insulin-producing cells. The results show the presence of several synaptic proteins at protein and mRNA levels in pancreatic islet cells, suggesting that they may have specific roles in the molecular regulation of exocytosis also in insulin-secreting cells.
Several immunocytochemical and physiological studies have demonstrated a concentration of neurotransmitter receptors at postsynaptic sites on neurons, but an overall picture of receptor distribution has not emerged. In particular, it has not been clear whether receptor clusters are selectively localized opposite terminals that release the corresponding neurotransmitter. By using antibodies against the excitatory glutamate receptor subunit GluR1 and the inhibitory type A gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor beta 2/3 subunits, we show that these different receptor types cluster at distinct postsynaptic sites on cultured rat hippocampal neurons. The GABAA receptor beta 2/3 subunits clustered on cell bodies and dendritic shafts opposite GABAergic terminals, whereas GluR1 clustered mainly on dendritic spines and was associated with glutamatergic synapses. Chronic blockade of evoked transmitter release did not block receptor clustering at postsynaptic sites. These results suggest that complex mechanisms involving nerve terminal-specific signals are required to allow different postsynaptic receptor types to cluster opposite only appropriate presynaptic terminals.
Antisense (AS) oligonucleotides (ONs) to galanin (GAL) were applied to the proximal end of a transected sciatic nerve, allowing their cellular uptake and transport into injured axons. GAL expression in dorsal root ganglia and self-mutilation behavior (autotomy) were then studied. AS-ONs with phosphorothioate or allyl modifications significantly suppressed the axotomy-induced increase in GAL levels, as demonstrated by immunohistochemistry and exaggerated autotomy behavior, whereas no significant effect on GAL mRNA levels could be demonstrated with in situ hybridization. Allyl-ONs were more effective than phosphorothioate-ONs. An AS-ON with three base mismatches did not induce any of the above effects. These results support the view that the inhibition of axotomy-induced GAL up-regulation is related to autotomy.
The purpose of this research was to estimate the usefulness of sodium nitroprusside (SNP) as a donor of nitric oxide (NO) in the study of synaptic plasticity. The influence of SNP, K3Fe(CN)6 and K4Fe(CN)6 on the evoked potential recorded from mouse hippocampal slices was evaluated. When slices were exposed to 1 mM SNP for no longer than 15 min, a facilitation of the population spike was observed following perfusion. Longer, 60 min exposure of the slices to 1 mM SNP prevented this perfusion-induced amplification of the potential and blocked the induction of LTP by subsequently applied high frequency stimulation (HFS). SNP at lower concentrations (0.2 mM) had no effect. SNP (1 mM) suppressed the NMDA component of the population spike. Light inactivated, 1.0 mM SNP, when applied for 15 min, reduced the potential and subsequently induced LTP. However, longer exposure of the slices to the light inactivated 1 mM SNP made the potential unstable and blocked induction of LTP. K3Fe(CN)6 and K4Fe(CN)6, molecules structurally related to SNP but unable to generate NO, transiently amplified the population spike and its NMDA component. We suggest that SNP, which is often used as nitric oxide donor, exerts a dual inhibitory and facilitatory action on hippocampal evoked potentials. The possible mechanisms of these actions are discussed.
We quantified by microdensitometry the immunoreactivity (IR) to monoclonal antibodies (SP6, SP12, SP15 and SP18) against various synaptic proteins in the molecular layers of the dentate gyrus, CA4, CA3, CA1, subiculum and entorhinal cortex in Alzheimer's disease (AD), Lewy body variant of AD (LBV) and diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD). A significant decrease in SP6 IR was observed in almost all regions in AD (28.4-70.1%, mean 41.3%), LBV (19.0-42.5%, mean 26.8%) and DLBD (19.9-31.7%, mean 27.1%) compared to controls. In addition, SP6 IR in the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus was strongly correlated with tangle count in the entorhinal cortex (r = -0.70, P &lt; 0.002), suggesting loss of perforant pathway projection. Although the decrease in SP12 and SP15 IR was less pronounced, the mean values were decreased in dementia. Furthermore, SP12 and SP15 labeled a large number of neuritic plaques, and SP15 occasionally stained cortical LBs. The present findings indicate (i) that in the hippocampal-entorhinal formation, the decrease of synapse protein IR in AD is more severe than that in LBV and DLBD, (ii) that synaptic markers detect a subset of dystrophic neurites in the plaques and (iii) that synapse proteins are involved in the formation of cortical LBs.

Pleasure is not an &quot;extra&quot;, or bonus bringing a little more soul to certain of our acts; it is a fundamental part of animal life. It is just as difficult to define as spirit, but nonetheless man is very conscious of it, and it is found to be associated with certain animal behaviours. The study of the biology of pleasure entails 1) showing how it intervenes in relation with &quot;need&quot; in the regulation of major homeostatic functions, 2) studying its participation in the opponent processes which determine given behaviours, 3) categorising the hormones and neurotransmitters it brings into play, 4) determining its presence in drug addiction and pathological consommatory behaviour.
Olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) are unusual mammalian neurons because they are produced continually throughout adult life and because their production is upregulated after injury. Because OSNs also have an unusual immunological profile and do not bind the commonly used antibody markers for neurons, we sought new antibody markers for studies of OSN regeneration. In this report, we characterize the staining patterns of antibodies to the Class III beta, neuron-specific, tubulin (NST) in rat olfactory tissue sections, to determine if these antibodies specifically label OSNs. In tissue sections from newborn rats, monoclonal antibodies to NST labeled cell bodies and processes of both immature (olfactory marker protein, OMP, -negative) and mature (OMP-positive) OSNs. In tissue sections from adult rats, immature OSNs showed both cell body and dendrite staining with anti-NST, while mature OSNs showed little or no cell body staining. Mature OSNs appeared to have both axonal and dendritic anti-NST staining. Axonal staining was suggested by the complete labeling of the olfactory nerve bundles and the nerve fiber layer of the olfactory bulb. The extent of labeling was judged by comparison with anti-OMP staining. Mature OSN dendritic staining was suggested because a much higher number of dendrites were anti-NST stained in the epithelium than cell bodies. These changes suggest both age and differentiation-related changes in subcellular distribution of NST in OSNs. NST antibodies are thus good markers for all OSNs in the newborn rat, but selective markers for immature OSNs and mature OSN processes in the adult rat. NST antibodies may also be useful probes for beta III tubulin function in neurons.
Destruction of dopamine neurons of the nigrostriatal pathway in the early postnatal rat enhances the levels of Met5-enkephalin in the adult dorsal striatum (caudate-putamen nuclei) and may contribute to the abnormal self-injurious behavior seen in humans with Lesch-Nyhan disease. We examined whether there were ultrastructural changes in Met5-enkephalin immunoreactive terminals in the rat model that might reflect cellular sites for enhanced activity of these opioid neurons. At 3 days postnatal, 10-20 nl injections of a 1% solution of the dopamine neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), or vehicle were placed unilaterally in the region of the substantia nigra of 25 litters of male rat pups. In adulthood (72-80 days postnatal), the brains of these animals were fixed by vascular perfusion with an aldehyde solution. Met5-enkephalin immunolabeling was examined in coronal sections at three rostrocaudal levels through the caudate-putamen nuclei of control (ipsilateral and contralateral to vehicle and contralateral to 6-OHDA) and experimental (ipsilateral to 6-OHDA) groups. In selectively lesioned animals, there was a significant increase in the relative optical density of immunoautoradiographic labeling for enkephalin throughout the rostrocaudal striatum ipsilateral to 6-OHDA as compared to control groups. Electron microscopy revealed immunoperoxidase labeling for enkephalin in axon terminals and more rarely in soma and dendrites irrespective of drug treatment. In both experimental and control striatal tissues, the enkephalin immunoreactive terminals formed primarily symmetric synapses with unlabeled dendrites or spines. However, ipsilateral to 6-OHDA injections there was a small (5.4%), but significant increase in the proportion of enkephalin immunoreactive terminals contacting dendritic spines, the known targets of dopamine terminals. Appositions were commonly detected between enkephalin immunoreactive terminals and other morphologically heterogeneous axons in the striatum ipsilateral to 6-OHDA and in control tissues. Met5-enkephalin immunoreactive terminals in adult striatum ipsilateral to 6-OHDA injections showed a 214% increase in volume as compared to vehicle-injected controls. Concurrently, there was a small (13%), but significant increase in the numerical density (number/volume) of enkephalin-labeled terminals both contralateral and ipsilateral to 6-OHDA injections. These results suggest that a change in bouton size is the major mechanism by which striatal enkephalin neurons alter their synaptic efficacy and target associations to compensate for damage to the nigrostriatal dopamine neurons.
In reference 12 (p. 996) of the Perspective &quot;Neuroscience on the net&quot; by P. T. Fox and J. L. Lancaster (11 Nov., p. 994), errors appeared in three of the Uniform Resource Locators (URL's) listed. For BrainMap, the URL should have read, &quot;http://biad 38.uthscsa.edu/brainmap/brainmap94.html&quot;; for ICBM/SPMap, &quot;http://www.loni.ucla.edu&quot;; and for Genesis, &quot;http://www.bbb.caltech.edu/GENESIS.&quot;
Calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is a necessary component of the cellular machinery underlying learning and memory. Here, a constitutively active form of this enzyme, CaMKII(1-290), was introduced into neurons of hippocampal slices with a recombinant vaccinia virus to test the hypothesis that increased postsynaptic activity of this enzyme is sufficient to produce long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP), a prominent cellular model of learning and memory. Postsynaptic expression of CaMKII(1-290) increased CaMKII activity, enhanced synaptic transmission, and prevented more potentiation by an LTP-inducing protocol. These results, together with previous studies, suggest that postsynaptic CaMKII activity is necessary and sufficient to generate LTP.
It is becoming clear that there is a genetic component to drug abuse. Family studies, adoption studies, and critical twin studies have all pointed to some genetic vulnerability or risk factors for an individual to abuse psychoactive drugs depending on certain psychopathologies in the biological parents and/or parents' own drug use. The question for the next generation of research at the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) is to apply the rapidly developing technology in molecular genetics in an effort to determine the candidate genes contributing to the risk.
Calpains (CANPs) are a family of calcium-dependent cysteine proteases under complex cellular regulation. By making selective limited proteolytic cleavages, they activate or alter the regulation of certain enzymes, including key protein kinases and phosphatases, and induce specific cytoskeletal rearrangements, accounting for their suspected involvement in intracellular signaling, vesicular trafficking, and structural stabilization. Calpain activity has been implicated in various aging phenomena, including cataract formation and erythrocyte senescence. Abnormal activation of the large stores of latent calpain in neurons induces cell injury and is believed to underlie neurodegeneration in excitotoxicity, Wallerian degeneration, and certain other neuropathologic states involving abnormal calcium influx. In Alzheimer's disease, we found the ratio of activated calpain I to its latent precursor isoform in neocortex to be threefold higher than that in normal individuals and those with Huntington's or Parkinson's disease. Immunoreactivity toward calpastatin, the endogenous inhibitor of calpain, was also markedly reduced in layers II-V of the neocortex in Alzheimer's disease. The excessive calpain system activation suggested by these findings represents a potential molecular basis for synaptic loss and neuronal cell death in the brain in Alzheimer's disease given the known destructive actions of calpain I and its preferential neuronal and synaptic localization. In surviving cells, persistent calpain activation may also contribute to neurofibrillary pathology and abnormal amyloid precursor protein trafficking/processing through its known actions on protein kinases and the membrane skeleton. The degree of abnormal calpain activation in the brain in Alzheimer's disease strongly correlated with the extent of decline in levels of secreted amyloid precursor protein in brain. Cytoskeletal proteins that are normally good calpain substrates become relatively calpain resistant when they are hyperphosphorylated, which may contribute to their accumulation in neurofibrillary tangles. As a major effector of calcium signals, calpain activity may mirror disturbances in calcium homeostasis and mediate important pathologic consequences of such disturbances.


The results of this study demonstrate that the equilibrium nonspecific binding of DHP Ca2+ channel blockers to the membrane bilayer is highly dependent on cholesterol content. The molecular explanation for this observation appears to be related to the fact that cholesterol and DHPs occupy a similar molecular location in the membrane hydrocarbon core (Fig. 4). The membrane location of amlodipine may also be critical for subsequent receptor recognition and binding to voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels in peripheral and CNS tissue. Finally, changes in the cholesterol content of neural plasma membranes isolated from diseased cortical regions of subjects with AD were reported and may be indicative of a general defect in lipid metabolism. Further studies are underway to characterize in greater detail possible changes in cholesterol content with aging and AD. The implication of these changes for structure/function relationships in the membrane is also being explored.

BALB/c mice were unilaterally implanted with a guide-cannula, the tip of which was positioned 1.5 mm above either the amygdala (AMY) or the ventral tegmental area (VTA). On each experimental day, a stainless-steel injection cannula was inserted into these structures in order to compare the self-administration of two doses of morphine (5 ng or 50 ng) in independent groups using a spatial discrimination task in a Y-maze. During the acquisition phase, both AMY and VTA injected mice showed a regular self-administration response at the two doses used. The latency to trigger the injection was short, particularly in the VTA group. Subcutaneous injection of naloxone (4 mg/kg) in trained mice reduced the number of self-administrations to a level near to chance in both groups, which suggests that the drug-seeking behavior observed is effectively dependent on an opiate receptor-mediated mechanism. However the rate of extinction was more rapid in AMY than in VTA injected mice. The 'perseveration' response exhibited by the VTA group during the withdrawal precipitated by naloxone may probably be due to the strong motivational and/or rewarding effect of morphine when injected in this brain structure during acquisition.
Rabbits received ibotenic acid lesions of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD) or sham lesions. These animals were compared on four sessions of instrumental avoidance conditioning, during which an eyeblink (EB) response during the presentation of a tone-conditioned stimulus prevented the occurrence of a paraorbital electric shock unconditioned stimulus. Lesions of MD retarded acquisition of the EB avoidance response, but did not affect asymptotic performance. Concomitant heart rate (HR) changes were little affected by MD lesions, although there was some evidence that such changes were slightly larger in MD-lesioned animals. These results suggest that MD participates in some general aspect of the learning process, perhaps by affecting other behavioral processes such as 'attention' or 'arousal'.
Synapse formation between cultured rat cortical neurons is inhibited by the continuous application of K-252b, an ecto-protein kinase inhibitor, which cannot permeate the cell membrane. In order to identify the phosphorylated membrane proteins which are necessary for synapse formation, endogenous substrates for ecto-protein kinase activity were investigated. To detect phosphorylation of proteins containing extracellular domains, [gamma-33P]ATP was applied to the medium for brief periods. Proteins were then separated by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and detected by autoradiography. Some bands showed immediate phosphorylation and this phosphorylation was suppressed by the addition of K-252b to the medium. We examined partial amino acid sequences of these substrates. The band with the highest molecular weight, whose phosphorylation was strongly inhibited by K-252b, was identified as microtubule-associated protein (MAP) 1B. These results suggest the possibility that the phosphorylation of extracellular domains of MAP1B is involved in synaptogenesis between cortical neurons.
The reticulospinal (RS) system in the lamprey is responsible for the control of locomotion, postural corrections and steering. To perform these functions, the RS system has to affect different muscular compartments along the body axis selectively. In this study, the possibility that RS neurones in different nuclei may project to different parts of the spinal cord, was investigated. The rostro-caudal extent of single RS axons was defined by stimulating them antidromically while recording from their cell body. All recorded mesencephalic RS neurones projected to the caudal tip of the spinal cord. Of the rhombencephalic RS neurones, 26% of the recorded neurones did not reach the caudalmost fourth of the spinal cord and this proportion varied between the anterior (18%), middle (17%) and posterior (36%) rhombencephalic reticular nuclei. For these RS axons, the level of termination covered the whole rostro-caudal extent of the spinal cord. No correlation was found between the length of an axon and its conduction velocity or between the length of an axon and the rostro-caudal position of its cell body in the nuclei.
Recent work has shown that the development of behavioral sensitization to cocaine, amphetamine, and morphine is prevented by coadministration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists such as MK-801. This suggests that NMDA receptors mediate long-term changes in neuronal responsiveness essential for the development of behavioral sensitization, similar to their role in other forms of neuronal plasticity. However, other studies, suggesting that NMDA receptor antagonists interfere with acute behavioral effects of psychomotor stimulants, call this interpretation into question and suggest that the ability of NMDA antagonists to prevent sensitization may reflect blockade of the acute effects of psychomotor stimulants. To examine this issue, behavioral and microdialysis studies assessed the effect of pretreatment with 0.1 mg/kg MK-801 on the ability of amphetamine and cocaine to stimulate locomotor activity and elevate extracellular dopamine (DA) levels in nucleus accumbens; this dose of MK-801 prevents sensitization when coadministered repeatedly with these stimulants. MK-801 pretreatment enhanced amphetamine-stimulated horizontal locomotion and stereotyped behavior. MK-801 pretreatment produced a modest attenuation of cocaine-stimulated horizontal locomotion, which may have reflected enhancement by MK-801 of certain components of cocaine-stimulated stereotypy. There was no effect of MK-801 pretreatment on the ability of amphetamine or cocaine to elevate extracellular DA levels in nucleus accumbens. These results suggest that the acute effects of cocaine and amphetamine on locomotor activity and extracellular DA levels are not prevented by MK-801, and that MK-801 must act through other mechanisms to prevent the development of behavioral sensitization.
HT-29 cells express and secrete insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-II and only one of the six IGF-binding proteins, IGFBP-4. In the present study, the physiological role of endogenous IGFBP-4 in regulating the growth response of HT-29 cells to exogenous and endogenous IGFs was examined. Both the basal and the IGF-stimulated growth of HT-29 cells was significantly increased over control values in the presence of IGFBP-4 antibody, suggesting that endogenous IGFBP-4 is a potent inhibitor of the mitogenic effects of endogenous and exogenous IGFs. In order to further confirm the inhibitory role of endogenous IGFBP-4, sense and antisense complementary DNA fragments of human IGFBP-4 were ligated into an episomal mammalian expression vector (pCEP4). Restriction mapping and Southern blot analysis were used to confirm directional cloning of the IGFBP-4 complementary DNA fragments in the sense and antisense directions in the pCEP4 vectors. HT-29 cells were transfected with either the control (no insert, C-P), sense (S-P), or antisense (AS-P) vectors and subjected to hygromycin selection. The functional nature of the transfectants was confirmed by measuring IGFBP-4 concentrations in the conditioned media (CM) of 10(7) cells by ligand and immunoblot analysis. IGFBP-4 concentrations were 7.4 +/- 1.7-fold higher in the CM of S-P cells compared to that in the CM of C-P cells, while IGFBP-4 concentrations in the CM of AS-P cells were significantly lower than those present in the CM of C-P cells. Both the basal and the IGF-I-stimulated growth of the AS-P cells was significantly higher than that of the C-P and S-P cells. The basal (non-stimulated) and the IGF-I-stimulated growth of the S-P cells was not significantly different from that of the C-P cells, suggesting that overexpression of IGFBP-4 was not inhibitory to the growth of the HT-29 cells. The basal growth of the S-P and C-P cells was significantly increased in the presence of IGFBP-4 antibody, once again suggesting that endogenous IGFBP-4 was a potent inhibitor of autocrine effects of endogenous factors (IGF-II). Addition of IGFBP-4 antibody had no significant effect on the basal growth of the AS-P cells, confirming that the difference between the growth response of the AS-P, C-P, and S-P cells was largely contributed by the difference in the endogenous secretion of IGFBP-4 by the cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The present study has investigated the receptors involved in the non-cholinergic nerve mediated constriction of the larger blood vessels (30-50 microns) within the rat iris. This response was blocked by the alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist, benextramine (10(5) M). Furthermore, the response was more sensitive to blockade by the alpha 1 antagonist, prazosin (IC50 9 x 10(-10) M), than to blockade by the alpha 2 antagonist, yohimbine (IC50 2 x 10(-7) M), or the adrenergic antagonist, WB4101 (IC50 2 x 10(-8) M), and was abolished by chloroethylclonidine (10(-5) M). These results suggest the involvement of alpha 1B-adrenoceptors. The nerve mediated constriction was not blocked by the voltage-dependent calcium channel blocking drugs, nifedipine (10(-6) M), verapamil (10(-6) M) or diltiazem (10(-6) M), but was completely abolished by the intracellular calcium mobilizer, caffeine (10(-3) M), supporting the hypothesis that alpha 1B-adrenoceptors are activated following nerve stimulation. Dantrolene (10(-4) M), which interferes with calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum, reduced the nerve mediated constriction by 40% as did thapsigargin (2 x 10(-6) M), which inhibits the calcium ATPase responsible for uptake of calcium into intracellular stores. When influx of calcium was blocked by verapamil (10(-6) M), thapsigargin, but not dantrolene, completely abolished the response. Noradrenaline (10(-5) M) produced a vasoconstriction in the presence or absence of external calcium although the latter response was significantly smaller than the former. Vasoconstriction produced by a submaximal concentration of noradrenaline (10(-6) M), was completely prevented by pretreatment with chloroethylclonidine. The data indicate that noradrenaline released from sympathetic nerves causes a constriction of arterioles in the iris by activating alpha 1B-adrenoceptors and releasing calcium from dantrolene sensitive and insensitive intracellular stores, followed by inflow of calcium through verapamil sensitive calcium channels. Applied noradrenaline also activates chloroethylclonidine sensitive receptors on the arteriolar surface.
1. The discharge behaviour of fourteen single sympathetic vasoconstrictor efferents was studied using a tungsten microelectrode inserted percutaneously into a motor fascicle of the radial or peroneal nerve in eight awake supine subjects. Units were classified as vasoconstrictor because their firing properties correlated appropriately to changes in cardiac interval and arterial pressure. 2. On average, individual vasoconstrictor units discharged in only 21% of heart beats, with an overall mean frequency of 0.47 Hz. Usually only one spike was generated per cardiac cycle. Calculated from cardiac cycles in which a unit fired from two to seven spikes, the mean within-burst firing rate was 18.8 +/- 2.5 Hz (mean +/- S.E.M.); but instantaneous frequencies above 50 Hz were occasionally observed. 3. Measured from a defined R-wave of the ECG, the spike onset latency varied over 358 +/- 33 ms, suggesting considerable variation of synaptic delays in the baroreflex arc. This latency had a relatively uniform temporal relationship with the burst onset or peak latency, compatible with a fixed recruitment order of individual sympathetic neurones. 4. In view of the low average firing rate of individual units we suggest that the variable instantaneous firing rates may optimize the contractile responses of vascular smooth muscle.
1. Direct experimental evidence was obtained on the spatial distribution of active synaptic contacts from single Ia muscle afferents on the dendrites of lumbosacral motoneurones in anaesthetized cats. 2. An extracellular micropipette was used to pressure eject the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) or 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulphamoyl-benzo(F)quinoxaline (NBQX) in close proximity to the intracellular recording site, in order to create an extracellular concentration gradient of the antagonist. The effect of antagonist ejection on the time course and amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked in motoneurones by impulses in single group Ia fibres was examined. 3. Pressure ejection of NBQX resulted in a complete block of the monosynaptic group Ia EPSP in two cells, and a significant reduction to 23-57% of control EPSP peak amplitudes in a further six cells (mean, 27%; n = 8). These effects were not associated with changes in membrane potential or membrane time constant. 4. The reduction in amplitude of these single group Ia fibre EPSPs following ejection of NBQX was usually accompanied by a pronounced slowing in the time course of the EPSPs. On average, the EPSP rise times and half-widths were increased by 269 and 37%, respectively. This is most probably due to a considerable spatial spread of the synaptic contacts along the dendrites of motoneurones, with the most proximal synaptic contacts (producing the briefest synaptic potentials) subjected to a greater reduction in amplitude due to a higher local antagonist concentration. 5. An equivalent dendritic cable model of the motoneurone was used to interpret the observed changes in the time course of single fibre EPSPs. The time course of control single fibre EPSPs examined in the present study could be well matched using the cable model and assuming a single location for synaptic input. The observation of a slowed EPSP time course following antagonist ejection indicated that this assumption was not correct and that there was in fact considerable spatial spread in the synaptic contacts arising from these single afferent fibres. These results provide direct evidence that spatial spread of synaptic input may not be detected using the time course of a synaptic potential in conjunction with a neuronal cable model of the postsynaptic cell.
1. Arg8-vasopressin (AVP)-containing neurones of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST), which terminate in the ventral septal area (VSA) of the rat brain, provide a pathway which controls body temperature during fever. The present study was conducted to test the hypothesis that interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) may trigger the antipyretic response by evoking AVP release from BST neurones projecting into the VSA. 2. The push-pull perfusion technique and radioimmunoassay were utilized to determine the AVP concentrations of retrieved VSA perfusion fluid in urethane-anaesthetized rats following BST infusion of vehicle or IL-1 beta (125 or 500 pg (2 microliters)-1). 3. Ventral septal AVP levels significantly increased from basal levels, in a dose-related manner, in response to IL-1 beta (0-500 pg). Electrical stimulation of the same areas of the BST also evoked AVP release into the VSA. 4. IL-1 beta infusions and electrical stimulation of the BST resulted in significant increases in rectal temperature. In IL-1 beta-treated animals (500 pg), the change in body temperature and VSA AVP release were negatively correlated (P &lt; 0.001). However, external heating of the animals to approximately the same levels as electrically stimulated or IL-1 beta treated rats did not affect basal AVP release. 5. These data show that IL-1 beta is a potent stimulus for AVP release from BST neurones and supports BST involvement in neuro-immune interactions. We propose, that in addition to febrogenesis, IL-1 beta is also a key component in the process of endogenous antipyresis by activating vasopressinergic BST neurones to release AVP during fever.
We examined the musculotopic organization in the motor trigeminal nucleus and the somatotopical arrangement in the trigeminal ganglion of the normal and reeler mice. To determine whether or not masticatory motoneurons are malpositioned in the reeler mouse, we injected horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into the masticatory muscles of normal and reeler mice. Injections of HRP into the jaw-closing muscles, i.e., the masseter and temporalis muscles, labeled large multipolar neurons in the dorsolateral division of the motor trigeminal nucleus of both normal and reeler mice. Similar injections into the jaw-opening muscles, i.e., the anterior belly of the digastric muscle and mylohyoid muscle, labeled large multipolar neurons in the ventromedial division of the motor trigeminal nucleus of both mouse strains. Thus, the normal myotopical arrangement of the masticatory muscles on the motor trigeminal nucleus is preserved in the reeler mouse. However, detailed analysis revealed that jaw-opening motoneurons were more widely scattered in the reeler mouse than in the normal control. To examine the somatotopical arrangement of the first-order sensory neurons in the trigeminal ganglion of the normal and reeler mice, we subcutaneously injected Fast blue (FB) into the mental region and Diamidino yellow (DY) into the vibrissal region of the same animals. No differences in distribution patterns of FB-labeled and DY-labeled neurons in the whole-mounted trigeminal ganglion could been seen between these two strains, suggesting that migration of trigeminal ganglion cells, which are derived from the neural crest and placode, is not deranged by the reeler genetic locus.
The modulation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors by neuropeptide Y Y1 and neuropeptide Y Y2 receptor subtypes has been studied in the nucleus tractus solitarii of the male rat. The autoradiographical experiments showed that neuropeptide Y-(1-36), neuropeptide Y-(13-36), a selective neuropeptide Y Y2 receptor agonist, and [Leu31,Pro34]neuropeptide Y, a selective neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor agonist, in the nanomolar range increased the Kd value of the [3H]p-aminoclonidine binding sites in the above rank order of potency without changing the Bmax values. In contrast, in the competition experiments, the neuropeptide Y Y1 and the neuropeptide Y Y2 receptor agonists decreased and increased, respectively, with the same potency the IC50 value of l-adrenaline and especially of clonidine for the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist binding sites associated with an increase and a decrease of the B0 value, respectively. Cardiovascular experiments showed that microinjections of clonidine into the nucleus tractus solitarii induced dose-dependent vasodepressor and bradycardiac responses. Threshold doses for vasodepressor effects of neuropeptide Y-(1-36) and of the neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor agonist and for vasopressor effects of the neuropeptide Y Y2 receptor agonist significantly counteracted the vasodepressor action elicited by an ED50 dose of clonidine in the nucleus tractus solitarii, the bradycardiac action of clonidine also being counteracted by the neuropeptide Y Y2 but not the neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor agonist. The present results give indications for the existence of an antagonistic modulation of high affinity alpha 2-adrenoceptors by the neuropeptide Y Y1 and neuropeptide Y Y2 receptor subtype in the nucleus tractus solitarii which may contribute to a reduction of alpha 2-adrenoceptor-mediated cardiovascular depression.

Synaptotagmin, an integral membrane protein localized to secretory vesicles, has been implicated in the docking and fusion steps in calcium-regulated exocytosis. The large cytoplasmic domain contains two C2 motifs, each similar to the Ca2+ and phospholipid binding domain of protein kinase C. To study the membrane binding and aggregating properties of these C2 domains, three recombinant fragments of rat synaptotagmin I were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified. A recombinant protein containing both C2 domains (p65 1-5) was found to bind to and aggregate bovine chromaffin granules in a calcium-dependent manner, with half-maximal binding and aggregation occurring at approximately p Ca2+ = 4.2. However, recombinant proteins containing either the first (p65 1-3) or second (p65 3-5) C2 domain alone were not able to bind to the granules, indicating that both C2 domains are required for binding to chromaffin granules. p65 1-5 also bound to and aggregated liposomes made from chromaffin granule lipid extracts, as well as granules treated extensively with trypsin, suggesting that p65 1-5 binding to granules is mediated by the lipids in the granule membrane and not the granule membrane proteins. Although p65 1-3 and p65 3-5 did not bind to granules or lipids extracted from granules, both did bind to phosphatidylserine (PS)/phosphatidylcholine (PC) vesicles (10%-40%PS). Half-maximal binding of p65 1-3 to vesicles occurred at approximately p Ca2+ = 5.2, while p65 3-5 appeared to bind independently of calcium over the range of pCa2+ = 5.5-2.8. p65 1-5 exhibited binding to PS/PC vesicles with characteristics of both the smaller proteins, displaying some binding in EGTA and increased binding in calcium. Larger amounts of p65 1-5 bound to PS/PC vesicles than of either of the smaller fragments. These results suggest that the two C2 domains of synaptotagmin act synergistically to promote binding to biological membranes and to affect calcium sensitivity and membrane binding capacity.
The 4-kDa beta-amyloid peptide (A beta), a major constituent of parenchymal amyloid deposits in Alzheimer's disease, is derived from larger amyloid precursor proteins (APP). We have examined the metabolism of APP in Madin-Darby canine kidney cells stably transfected with cDNA encoding either wild-type human APP-695 or human APP-695 that harbors the Swedish double mutation associated with familial early-onset Alzheimer's disease. Although approximately 90% of total soluble APP secreted from wild-type cells is secreted basolaterally following cleavage at the alpha-secretase site, soluble derivatives cleaved near or at the amino terminus of A beta (presumably the &quot;beta-secretase&quot; site) are preferentially secreted into the apical compartment of SWE cells. Concomitantly, levels of a specific A beta-containing carboxyl-terminal fragment are elevated in SWE cell lysates. Using domain-specific biotinylation and release assays, we failed to detect a beta-secretase-generated soluble derivative (APPs beta) released from the surface of SWE cells. However, APPs beta can be detected in SWE cell lysates, consistent with &quot;beta-secretase&quot; cleavage occurring in an intracellular compartment. Finally, we demonstrate that A beta is secreted into the basolateral compartment of SWE cells and that the majority of these A beta-related species contains an amino-terminal aspartate residue (+1).
An intriguing property of the polypeptide constituents of amyloid is that they apparently can escape the proteolytic mechanisms that normally catalyze turnover and prevent abnormal tissue accumulation of polypeptides. Here, we demonstrate that the A beta peptide, the principal component of cerebrovascular amyloid deposits in Alzheimer's disease, becomes resistant to an array of proteases as a result of structural changes associated with its polymerization into amyloid fibrils. It is further demonstrated that fibril formation per se does not lead to protease resistance but probably structural changes associated with polymerization. The results suggest that higher order structural changes, regulated by the primary structure, enable amyloidogenic polypeptides to escape proteolytic degradation and accumulate in tissues.
In the present study, we describe for the first time the distribution of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH)-containing cells and fibers in the human hypothalamus using brain material obtained with a short postmortem delay. Following fixation in paraformaldehyde, glutaraldehyde and picric acid, excellent staining was obtained with two different TRH antisera. Many TRH-containing neurons were present in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), especially in the dorsocaudal part of this nucleus. They were mostly parvicellular, but a few magnocellular TRH-positive neurons were observed as well. The PVN also contained a dense network of TRH fibers. The supraoptic nucleus (SON) did not show any TRH immunoreactivity, excluding the possibility of cross-reactivity of the antiserum with neurohypophysial hormones or their precursors. In addition, TRH cells were found in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), which is the circadian clock of the brain, in the sexually dimorphic nucleus (SDN) and dorsomedially of the SON. We observed small number of TRH cells throughout the hypothalamic gray in all subjects studied. A high density of TRH-containing fibers was seen not only in the median eminence but also in other hypothalamic areas, e.g., in the ventromedial nucleus (VM) and in the perifornical area. The results generally agree with earlier data in the rat, with the exception of the absence of TRH cells in the SON. The large number of sites of TRH-containing fiber terminations on neurons suggests important physiological functions of this neuropeptide as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator in the human brain, in addition to its role as a neurohormone in pituitary secretion of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH).
Cerebral blood flow and glucose utilization were measured in rat neocortex, hippocampus and striatum following methylenedioxymethamphetamine injection (5 mg/kg, i.v.), using the tracers [14C]iodoantipyrine and [14C]2-deoxyglucose, respectively. In control rats, blood flow was coupled to glucose metabolism, but in methylenedioxymethamphetamine-treated rats, marked hyperperfusion was measured in frontal and parietal cortex with no change in glucose use. This suggests that methylenedioxymethamphetamine has the potential to disrupt cerebrovascular control.
Administration of neuropeptide Y (NPY) intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) results in the release of a number of hypothalamic and pituitary hormones and stimulation of feeding and suppression of sexual behavior. In this study, we sought to identify cellular sites of NPY action by evaluating perikaryal Fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI), a marker of cellular activation, in those hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic sites previously implicated in the control of neuroendocrine function and feeding behavior. Additionally, we compared the topography of FLI in these brain sites when food was either available ad libitum or withheld after NPY injection (1 nmol/3 microliters, i.c.v.). The results showed that one hour after NPY injection a larger number of cells in the parvocellular region of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) were FLI-positive in the absence of food consumption. However, in association with food intake, a significant number of cells were intensely stained in the magnocellular region of the PVN. An analogous increase in FLI in association with feeding was apparent in the supraoptic nucleus (SON), the dorsomedial nucleus and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis in the hypothalamus. Among the extrahypothalamic sites, feeding facilitated FLI in a large number of cells located in the lateral subdivision of the central amygdaloid nucleus and the lateral subdivision of the solitary tract. FLI was observed in a moderate number of cells in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC) and ventromedial nucleus, and this response was not changed by feeding.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
MPTP delta is a murine transmembrane protein tyrosine phosphatase which has three isoforms, types A-C, differing in the structure of the extracellular regions. In this study, we examined MPTP delta isoform expression in the brain and the immune system at discrete developmental or differentiation stages. RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that another isoform, type D, is transcribed from the MPTP delta gene. In the brain, only type D was expressed until postnatal day 7 (P7), but after P14, all four isoforms were detected. In contrast, the spleen, thymus and all the hematopoietic cell lines examined express only types B and C isoforms. An in situ hybridization study showed that MPTP delta mRNA is diffusely expressed throughout the spleen, but its expression in the thymus is restricted to the medullary region.
We examined expression and production of interleukin-3 (IL-3) mRNA and IL-3 protein in mouse primary cultured neurons and glia by the reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction and a bioassay using an IL-3-dependent cell line. IL-3 mRNA was demonstrated mainly in hippocampal neurons but not in glia, while a small but definite production of bioactive IL-3 was detected in septal and hippocampal neuronal cultures. Thus, endogenous IL-3 might be produced by certain neurons in situ.
Exposure of adult male CD-1 mice to restraint stress for 60 min increased their hindpaw-licking latency in a hot-plate test (50 degrees C); this analgesia was significantly reduced after exposure to a stable magnetic field (MF) (30-40 G) under white light. In contrast, MF exposure under either red light or total darkness did not alter stress-induced analgesia. Results suggest that in rodents perception of magnetism might involve a light-dependent mechanism as recently found for migratory birds and amphibians.

A novel strategy combining peptide fingerprinting of single neurons by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry, molecular cloning, peptide chemistry, and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry was used to study the intricate processing pattern of a preprohormone expressed in identified neurons, the neuroendocrine light yellow cells (LYCs) of the gastropod mollusc, Lymnaea stagnalis. The cDNA encoding the precursor, named prepro-LYCP (LYCPs, light yellow cell peptides), predicts a straightforward processing into three peptides, LYCP I, II, and III, at conventional dibasic processing sites flanking the peptide domains on the precursor. However, matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry of single LYCs revealed trimmed variant peptides derived from LYCP I and II. The variants were much more abundant than the intact peptides, indicating that LYCP I and II serve as intermediates in a peptide-processing sequence. Using the molecular masses of the peptides as markers to guide their isolation by well established purification methods, the structural identities of the peptides could be confirmed by amino acid sequencing. Furthermore, matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry could detect colocalization of a novel peptide with the LYCPs.
Preparative capillary zone electrophoresis of three synthetic peptides was performed either manually or automatically by simple manipulations of a commercial electropherograph that is equipped only with an autosampler without any built-in fraction collection capability. Manual fraction collection was achieved by replacing the outlet (cathode) beaker with a microcentrifuge tube, and automatic fraction collection was accomplished by converting the electropherograph's autosampler into a fraction collector. The latter was easily achieved mainly by the use of an extension wire, which completed the electrical circuit and facilitated fraction collection either at a specified time or within fixed time intervals.
The upper loading limit in the capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) of a mixture of fourteen synthetic opioid peptides and one tachykinin peptide was determined for capillaries of 50-, 75-, 100-, 130-, 150-, and 200-microns internal diameter (I.D.) to optimize the separation of these neuropeptides. The loading limit is an important parameter for preparative post-CZE studies. Electrophoretic resolution is illustrated for each capillary I.D. as the injection volume and amount of injected peptide increase. Loading limit is evaluated, based on the considerations of resolution, saturation, and current-stability. Among the capillaries studied, the capillary with 100 microns I.D. gives the optimal loading limit (39-78 pmol of each peptide).
Serotonin (5-HT) is thought to play an important role in the seizures of El mice because the seizure threshold of El mice correlates with the 5-HT concentration in the central nervous system. In this study, the anticonvulsant effect of a 5-HT reuptake blocker, citalopram, was evaluated behaviorally and biochemically. El mouse convulsions were inhibited by chronic administration of citalopram (80 mg/kg/day, p.o. for 2 weeks), but were not inhibited by acute administration of citalopram (80 mg/kg, i.p., 2 h after single injection). Both chronic and acute administration of citalopram decreased the concentration of 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid in the brain, whereas the concentration of 5-HT was not changed by treatment with citalopram. Tryptophan hydroxylase activity was not different between the citalopram and control groups, although the monoamine oxydase-A activity was lowered by chronic administration of citalopram. These findings suggest that both acute and chronic administration of citalopram depresses the 5-HT turnover rate, however chronic administration is necessary to inhibit El mouse convulsions.


Simultaneous microdialysis in brain and blood was used to monitor the effects of systemic and central cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) on the release of oxytocin and vasopressin within the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus (SON) as well as into blood of urethan-anesthetized female rats. Administration of CCK-8 (20 micrograms/kg iv) increased oxytocin contents in 30-min microdialysates sampled simultaneously within the SON (1.8-fold) and blood (2.4-fold, both P &lt; 0.05) compared with prestimulation levels. In another experiment, after bilateral administration of CCK-8 directly into the SON (10 ng/0.5 microliter) via a microdialysis/infusion probe, oxytocin contents in dialysates sampled from the left and right SON were increased 2.3- and 1.7-fold (P &lt; 0.05), respectively. In simultaneously sampled dialysates from the jugular vein, oxytocin content increased 2.3-fold (P &lt; 0.05). In contrast, oxytocin in dialysates sampled outside the hypothalamic nuclei was not altered by systemic or central CCK-8. The direct infusion of CCK-8 into both SON increased the release of vasopressin within the SON 1.7-fold (P &lt; 0.05) but failed to significantly change vasopressin release into blood. The present findings show a coordinated regulation of intranuclear and systemic release of oxytocin in response to systemic and central CCK-8 and provide further evidence for a possible involvement of endogenous oxytocin in the complex regulation of ingestive and reproductive behaviors induced by CCK-8 at the brain level.
To investigate the hypothesis that peripherally administered cholecystokinin (CCK) reduces food intake by the production of aversive internal cues, we examined the effects of the sulfated, octapeptide form of CCK on taste reactivity responses to oral sucrose infusions in male rats implanted with intraoral cannulas. After injection of CCK (4, 8, or 16 micrograms/kg ip) or 0.15 M saline (1 ml/kg ip), a series of brief (30 s) intraoral infusions of a 0.30 M sucrose solution was administered at 2-min intervals for 10 min. All doses of CCK were found to significantly decrease ingestive responding during the first and subsequent sucrose infusions without promoting a significant increase in aversive responses relative to controls. The lack of a gradual, conditioned shift in taste reactivity responses, from an ingestive to an aversive pattern (which is typically observed after LiCl administration), suggests that the production of nausea-like aversive internal cues was likely not responsible for the observed CCK-induced alterations in taste reactivity responses. It appears that the unconditioned, satiogenic effects of CCK contributed to the selective reduction in ingestive responses observed in the present study.
The brain uptake index (BUI) of polar 14C-labeled test compounds with molecular weights (MWs) of 79-70,000 was examined using the single-pass carotid injection technique in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats. Compounds were injected in 40 mM malonate, pH 2.5, and 10 mM N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid, pH 7.4. BUI is defined as (14C-labeled test compound/[3H]H2O in brain)/(14C-labeled test compound/[3H]H2O in injectate) x 100 at a 5-s decapitation time. Increased BUIs of compounds in pH 2.5 buffer were MW dependent with a threshold &lt; 5,000. BUI, extraction, and permeability-surface area product (PS) were significantly greater at pH 2.5 compared with pH 7.4 (P &lt; 0.05). Washouts of [14C]butanol and [3H]H2O at pH 2.5 and pH 7.4 were calculated. Cerebral blood flow and PS increased at low pH. Other buffers, oxalate, glycine, and lactate were used at low pH and also increased BUIs. The duration of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) opening at pH 2.5 was 60 s as estimated by penetrance of the normally excluded dye fluorescein. A plot of BUI or PS at pH 2.5 vs. (MW)1/2 suggests that transient BBB tight junction opening contributed to the passage of polar compounds at low pH.
In anesthetized, paralyzed, and ventilated rats, hypoxia or intracarotid cyanide excited the carotid chemoafferents, whereas intracarotid dopamine and tyramine inhibited the chemoafferent discharges. The inhibition was abolished by chlorpromazine without attenuating the hypoxic excitation. Comparably, the hypoxic excitation was not attenuated by the following: 1) inhibition of nitric oxide synthase with NG-nitro-L-arginine; 2) inhibition of heme oxygenase with zinc protoporphyrin IX; 3) antagonism of ATP receptors with reactive blue 2; 4) antagonism of cholinergic receptors with atropine or trimethaphan; 5) inactivation of adenosine with adenosine deaminase; and 6) blockade of glutamate receptors with kynurenate. Systemic administration of ethylene glycol-bis(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N'N'-tetraacetic acid, in doses reversibly blocking sympathetic ganglionic transmission, was also without effect. Cyanide microinjection (0.05-0.5 nmol) into the petrosal but not nodose ganglion elicited a rapid dose-dependent elevation of arterial pressure. We conclude that excitation of the chemoreceptor afferents by hypoxia/cyanide cannot be attributed to release of these agents nor to others by Ca(2+)-dependent mechanisms. The results suggest that the afferent nerves themselves might function as oxygen detectors.

Elevated iron levels, enhanced oxidative damage, and complex I deficiency have been identified in the substantia nigra of Parkinson's disease patients. To understand the interrelationship of these abnormalities, we analyzed iron levels, ferritin levels, and complex I activity in the substantia nigra of patients with Parkinson's disease. Total iron levels were increased significantly, ferritin levels were unchanged, and complex I activities were decreased significantly in the substantia nigra samples. The failure of ferritin levels to increase with elevated iron concentrations suggests that the amount of reactive iron may increase in the substantia nigra of Parkinson's disease patients. There was no correlation between the iron levels and complex I activity or the iron-ferritin ratio and complex I activity in the substantia nigra samples.



The present study examined the extent to which heart rate changes evoked by acoustic startle stimuli are affected by the development of fear during startle testing. The phasic heart rate responses of rats elicited by a 120-dB startle stimulus were characterized by decelerations that habituated across trials and accelerations that developed across trials in a manner that paralleled the development of freezing behavior. A 92-dB stimulus evoked little freezing or tachycardia, yet evoked decelerations of similar magnitude to the 120-dB stimulus. Pharmacological blockade of autonomic activity was used to uncouple freezing from the heart rate accelerations and to show that the accelerations were not an artifact of the habituating decelerations. These results indicate that heart rate responses to nonsignal stimuli depend critically on a rat's previous experience with those stimuli.
1. Epibatidine is an analgesic substance, isolated from the skin of the poisonous frog Epipedobates tricolor, for which the mechanism of action was previously unknown. 2. The IC50 of synthetic (+)-epibatidine oxalate (the naturally occurring isomer) for [3H]-nicotine binding to rat whole-brain membranes was 0.1 nM. The (-)-isomer also exhibited high affinity (IC50 = 0.2 nM). 3. (+)- and (-)-Epibatidine exhibited much lower affinity for displacement of the muscarinic ligand [3H]-N-methylscopolamine binding to rat cortical membranes (Kapp = 6.9 microM and 16.0 microM respectively). The (+)-enantiomer of epibatidine had an antagonist/agonist (NMS/oxo-M) binding ratio of 4.2 This is consistent with a muscarinic antagonist profile. 4. (+)-Epibatidine oxalate (10 microM) did not cause significant (&gt; 30%) displacement of radioligand binding to opioid, excitatory amino acid, benzodiazepine, 5-HT, dopamine, adrenaline or peptide receptors. 5. (+)- and (-)-Epibatidine (5-20 micrograms kg-1 s.c.) doubled response latency in the mouse hot-plate test. Antinociception and behavioural depression induced by (+)-epibatidine (5 micrograms kg-1) was fully blocked by the nicotinic antagonists mecamylamine (2 mg kg-1 s.c.) or dihydro-beta-erythroidine (2 mg kg-1 s.c.). The muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (0.4 and 10 mg kg-1 s.c.) caused partial reversal of antinociception induced by (+)-epibatidine in mice, but not in rats. 6. These findings demonstrate that (+)-epibatidine oxalate salt is a highly selective and potent nicotinic analgesic agent.
1. The effects of single-dose regimens of amphetamine, cocaine, nomifensine and GBR 12909 on the dynamics of dopamine (DA) release and metabolism were evaluated in the frontal cortex, hypothalamus, nucleus accumbens and striatum. The regimens selected are known to produce substantial behavioural effects. 2. 3-Methoxytyramine (3MT) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) rates of formation were used to assess DA metabolism by catechol-O-methyltransferase and monoamine oxidase respectively. The rate of formation of 3MT was used as an index of synaptic DA. The ratio and sum, respectively, of 3MT and DOPAC rates of formation were used to assess DA reuptake inhibition and turnover. 3. The effects of amphetamine on 3MT production and DOPAC steady-state levels were similar in all regions, suggesting similar pharmacodynamic actions. Amphetamine increased 3MT formation and steady-state levels, and reduced DOPAC steady-state levels. DOPAC formation was significantly reduced only in the nucleus accumbens and striatum. Total DA turnover remained unchanged except in the nucleus accumbens. Apparently, the amphetamine-induced increase in DA release occurred at the expense of intraneuronal DA metabolism and did not require stimulation of synthesis. 4. Nomifensine elevated 3MT formation in all regions. A similar effect was produced by cocaine except in the nucleus accumbens. GBR 12909 elevated 3MT production only in the hypothalamus, the striatum and the nucleus accumbens. 5. Cocaine selectively reduced DOPAC formation in the frontal cortex. Nomifensine increased and reduced, respectively, DOPAC formation in striatum and hypothalamus. GBR 12909 elevated DOPAC formation in all regions except the cortex, where pargyline did not reduce DOPAC levels in GBR 12909-treated rats. 6. Ratios and sum of 3MT and DOPAC rates of formation also exhibited wide regional variations for each drug. In contrast to the other drugs, the ratio was not increased after GBR 12909. Apparently, the DA uptake properties of this drug are poorly related to its in vivo effects on the ratio of 3MTproduction to that of DOPAC, which should increase when DA reuptake is inhibited.7. Total DA turnover was increased by GBR 12909 in the hypothalamus, nucleus accumbens and striatum, while cocaine and nomifensine increased it only in the nucleus accumbens and striatum respectively.8. It is concluded that:(a) 3MT and DOPAC rates of formation provide better indices of DA release and metabolism than do their steady-state concentrations.(b) Some effects of DA uptake blockers on DA transmission, especially those of nomifensine and cocaine, may be attributed to increased DA release.(c) Patterns of regional effects of psychostimulants on the dynamics of DA release and metabolism may be better biochemical correlates of stimulant-induced behaviours than would changes in any single region.
1. The study has examined the receptors mediating constriction produced by brief local application of noradrenaline (NA) to cutaneous arteries and arterioles in the ear vasculature of anaesthetized guinea-pigs. The innervation of the corresponding vascular segments has been examined immunohistochemically at the conclusion of the pharmacological experiments. 2. Small arteries of branch order 4 (4 degrees, 40-110 microns internal diameter) were more sensitive to the vasoconstrictor action of NA than were more proximal arteries of branch order 3 (3 degrees, 60-150 microns internal diameter), or more distal arteries and arterioles of branch orders 5 to 7 (5 degrees-7 degrees, 18-85 microns internal diameter). This higher sensitivity of 4 degrees arteries was maintained after blockade of neuronal uptake with desipramine (1 microM), and after blockade of beta-adrenoceptors with propranolol (1 microM). 3. NA-induced vasoconstrictions of distal arterioles (5 degrees-7 degrees) were abolished or greatly reduced by yohimbine (1 microM). The blockade by yohimbine decreased progressively with increasing vessel diameter of proximal arteries, while the blockade by prazosin (1 microM) increased progressively in arteries &gt; 40 microns diameter. 4. In 3 degrees and 4 degrees arteries, a substantial component (approximately 50%) of NA-induced vasoconstrictions remained after combined treatment with yohimbine and prazosin, in the presence or absence of desipramine. These constrictions were not further reduced by benextramine (1-10 microM), but were abolished by dihydroergotamine (1-10 microM). Constrictions induced by ATP (0.1-1 mM) were not affected by dihydroergotamine. 5. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (3-100 microM) had a variable effect on 3 degree and 4 degree arteries including: concentration dependent constrictions (n = 3); small constrictions at some concentrations, and dilatations or no change in diameter at other concentrations (n = 6); concentration-dependent dilatations only (n = 3). The 5-HT2 receptor antagonist, ketanserin (0.1-0.3 micro M), did not affect NA-induced constrictions.6. In 16 arterial segments ranging from 3 degree arteries to 60 arterioles, there was a significant correlation between the presence of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive (NPY-IR) sympathetic axons and the degree of blockade of NA-induced constrictions by yohimbine, prazosin and dihydroergotamine.7. These results demonstrate marked differences in the postsynaptic adrenoceptors mediating vasoconstriction to a bolus of NA applied briefly to the adventitial surface of different segments of the cutaneous vasculature of the guinea-pig ear. Furthermore, the presence or absence of adrenoceptors sensitive to blockade by yohimbine or prazosin is related to the proportion of sympathetic axons innervating each vascular segment which contain NPY-IR.
We report on four patients with involuntary eyelid closure and eye movement disorders. Three were healthy until the onset of their illness and one had a mild generalized choreoathetosis and dystonia due to kernicterus. Electromyographic recording revealed solely blepharospasm in two patients and blepharospasm in combination with involuntary levator palpebrae inhibition in the other two. The eye movement abnormalities were clinically characterized by inability to fix gaze and short or prolonged episodes of uncontrollable eye deviations accompanied, in two patients, by diplopia in horizontal or vertical directions. These episodes occurred independently of a disorder of eyelid movement. Eye movement recordings with a double magnetic induction technique showed saccadic intrusions in horizontal directions. They consisted of highly frequent square wave jerks in three and sporadic macro-square wave jerks in two patients. There were also episodes of extraocular muscle dystonia, commonly known as oculogyric crises, resulting in involuntary upward eye deviation in all patients and lateral deviation in three patients. In one patient, nasal-ward deviations were sometimes restricted to one eye. We conclude that these abnormal eye movements do not necessarily point to a symptomatic form of dystonia and that they may limit the beneficial effect of botulinum toxin or surgical intervention in the therapeutic management of involuntary eyelid closure. We suggest that either basal ganglia, especially substantia nigra pars reticularis and the brainstem structures, especially the paramedian pontine reticular formation, or both, may be involved in the pathogenesis of these abnormal movements.
The natural course of polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) is not well known. We therefore studied 32 untreated patients for a period of 5 years. Fifteen patients had an IgM M-protein, 15 an IgG and two an IgA. There was a male predominance, a mean age of onset at the end of the sixth decade and sensory signs were more pronounced than motor deficits. On entry into the study and during the 5 years of follow-up, we quantified the neuropathy in a standard way: totals of motor and sensory scores; vibration perception threshold; tapping tests; quantified Romberg test; electrophysiological parameters. A significant difference in the natural history between the polyneuropathy associated with IgM-MGUS and IgG/IgA-MGUS was found for the motor and sensory sum scores, the vibration perception threshold and the tapping tests. The polyneuropathy in IgM-MGUS is more progressive, with significantly more weakness and sensory signs, indicating that the neuropathies associated with IgM-MGUS and IgG/A-MGUS may be two different entities. A rapid progression of the neuropathy was found in five patients. We found no predictive factors for this severe progression of the neuropathy of these five patients. Of these five, three (two IgM, one IgG) developed a non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Previous studies have shown that song presentation results in a rapid rise in mRNA levels for the ZENK gene (the avian homologue of zif-268, Egr-1, NGFI-A, and Krox-24) in specific parts of the songbird forbrain. Metrazole-induced seizures also cause an increase in ZENK mRNA, even more widely throughout the telencephalon. Surprisingly, however, little or no ZENK induction by either stimulus was observed in several forebrain areas involved in auditory processing and song production. To learn whether this pattern of regulation is specific to ZENK, we examined the response of another 'immediate-early' gene, c-jun. Here we first describe the identification, cloning and sequence analysis of a canary cDNA encoding c-jun. Then, by in situ hybridization we show that c-jun is also induced by song or seizure, and in a pattern mostly similar to ZENK. As with ZENK, no induction of c-jun is observed in the androgen receptor-containing song nuclei or within the primary thalamo-recipient auditory area of the forebrain. Thus common immediate early gene responses appear to be selectively uncoupled from physiological activation in these specific forebrain regions, which are also characterized by tight developmental, hormonal and seasonal regulation.
1. It is well established that the hypothalamus and midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) play important roles in the expression of defensive rage behavior. While defensive rage is not elicited from the amygdala, this region of the limbic system nevertheless serves an important role in the modulation of defensive rage behavior. The present paper attempts to address the question of how the amygdala modulates defensive rage behavior in the cat. The studies were conducted using brain stimulation, pharmacological, neuroanatomical and immunocytochemical methods to identify the likely neural pathways and their associated neurotransmitters by which different regions of the amygdala modulate defensive rage behavior in the cat. 2. The experimental evidence provided thus far establishes that three regions of the amygdala have been identified as powerful modulators of defensive rage behavior. These include the medial nucleus, basal complex and central nucleus of the amygdala. Experiments involving dual stimulation of an amygdaloid nucleus and sites within the medial hypothalamus or PAG from which defensive rage behavior was elicited demonstrated that two of the regions facilitated defensive rage --the medial nucleus and basal complex--and a third region--the central nucleus--suppressed defensive rage. The mechanisms and substrates underlying modulation for each of these regions are different. Medial amygdaloid facilitation of defensive rage involves a pathway (i.e., the stria terminalis) that projects directly to the medial hypothalamus and utilizes substance P as a neurotransmitter. Basal amygdaloid facilitation of defensive rage behavior makes use of a pathway to the PAG in which excitatory amino acids acting on NMDA receptors are utilized as a neurotransmitter. The central nucleus also projects to the PAG. However, it is strongly inhibitory and utilizes enkephalins that act upon mu receptors within the PAG.
Microneurography was performed in a 39-year-old woman with demyelination of the pontine white matter associated with muscle spasms in the lower extremities. Single bursts on the microneurogram were observed immediately after cessation of the spasm with no systemic changes in the blood pressure or heart rate. Voluntary tonic flexion of the lower extremities induced similar bursts with small amplitudes. These reflex bursts possessed a characteristic of muscle sympathetic nerve activity, because the latency between the peak of each burst and the prior R-wave on the electrocardiograph was constant. The occurrence of these bursts suggests that a segmental compensatory mechanism in the spinal cord may stabilize the muscle blood flow influenced by muscle contraction.
1. Recent studies have shown that gene expression can be selectively attenuated by administration of short sequences of nucleotides (oligonucleotides) that are complementary to a portion of messenger RNA coding for a particular gene product. 2. This technique is known as ANTISENSE, because the oligonucleotides are complementary to the mRNA which has the same sequence as the SENSE strand of DNA. 3. In the present review we focus, after a brief discussion of gene expression and mechanisms of action of ANTISENSE, on the methodological aspects of ANTISENSE experiments in neuroscience. In particular, we address the advantages, disadvantages and controls for the ANTISENSE technique, as well as the choice, design, mode of delivery, dose and storage of ANTISENSE oligonucleotides.


Recent studies have revealed presynaptic influences on neurones that participate in rhythmic motor patterns. Although there is still little direct information about the effects of these inputs at presynaptic terminals, their functional consequences are being unraveled. These presynaptic influences gate sensory input to pattern-generating networks and locally alter the synaptic strength and/or the activity pattern of network neurones.
Computer simulation of neuronal networks is rapidly becoming accepted as a powerful tool in neuroscience. We illustrate the trends in this field by looking at motor generation and control, with examples from recent modeling studies of different systems, including the spinal swimming rhythm generator of the lamprey.
Reinforcement learning refers to improving performance through trial-and-error. Despite recent progress in developing artificial learning systems, including new learning methods for artificial neural networks, most of these systems learn under the tutelage of a knowledgeable 'teacher' able to tell them how to respond to a set of training stimuli. Learning under these conditions is not adequate, however, when it is costly, or even impossible, to obtain this kind of training information. Reinforcement learning is attracting increasing attention in computer science and engineering because it can be used by autonomous systems to learn from their experiences instead of from knowledgeable teachers, and it is attracting attention in computational neuroscience because it is consonant with biological principles. Recent research has improved the efficiency of reinforcement learning and has provided some striking examples of its capabilities.

Leptomeningeal metastases (LM), a common problem in neurooncology, occur in approximately 5% of all patients with cancer. Aside from frequent focal signs and symptoms, LM affects the entire neuraxis; therefore, staging and treatment must encompass all cerebrospinal fluid compartments. Central nervous system staging of LM includes contrast-enhanced cranial computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging, contrast-enhanced spine magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomographic myelography, and radionuclide cerebrospinal fluid flow study. Treatment of LM includes involved-field radiotherapy of bulky or symptomatic disease and intracerebrospinal fluid drug therapy. At present, intracerebrospinal fluid drug therapy is confined to three chemotherapeutic agents (methotrexate, cytosine arabinoside, and thiotepa) and is administered in a variety of schedules by either intralumbar or intraventricular drug delivery. Although treatment of LM is palliative, with an expected median patient survival of 6 months, it often provides stabilization and protection from further neurologic deterioration in patients with LM.
Patients with Alzheimer's disease may present to the ophthalmologist with visual symptoms that precede or overshadow the features of dementia. This visual variant of Alzheimer's disease has been recognized only recently and typically appears in late middle age as progressive visuospatial and reading dysfunction, with normal visual acuity and fields. Common features include simultanagnosia and the other features of Balint's syndrome, and variable hemispatial neglect and hemianopia. The neuroimaging and neuropathological findings in this Alzheimer's variant are distinct and suggest disruption of occipitoparietal visual projections. The identification of the visually symptomatic patient who is destined to develop other signs of Alzheimer's disease depends on the use of appropriate screening tests, including text reading, figure-ground discrimination, and other bedside tests of visuospatial attention and perception.
Chemoreceptor neurons innervating the rat carotid body were used as a model system to define target regulation of visceral sensory development in fetal and newborn animals. In vitro, chemoafferents were selectively supported by coculture with the carotid body or by treatment with trkB ligands [brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-4], whereas nerve growth factor and neurotrophin 3 had no effect. In vivo, chemoafferent neurons died following carotid body removal at birth, indicating a predominant role of peripheral, rather than central, targets in mediating survival at this stage. However, in the absence of target tissues, a large proportion of carotid body afferents could be rescued by implants containing BDNF. Moreover, BDNF mRNA was detected in the newborn carotid body by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. These data provide the first demonstration that BDNF can substitute for peripheral target support of sensory neuron survival in vivo and indicate that trkB ligands may be particularly important for development of visceral afferents involved in cardiorespiratory control.
Different soleus H-reflex tests are used in the study of neurophysiological mechanisms of motor control. We studied the interdependence pattern of a number of soleus H-reflex tests, i.e., vibratory inhibition, the ratio of the reflex response to direct muscle potential (H/M ratio) and the homonymous recovery curve with a principal components analysis in 48 healthy controls and 38 patients with signs of the upper motoneuron syndrome. In controls, the analysis showed 3 independent principal components (PCs). Vibratory inhibition and H/M ratio loaded on separate components. Late facilitation and late inhibition variables of the recovery curve loaded on the third component due to the positive correlation (P &lt; 0.001) between these variables. In spastic patients the analysis identified 4 independent PCs corresponding with vibratory inhibition, H/M ratio, late facilitation and late inhibition variables, respectively. The findings suggest that the mutual independence of the different soleus H-reflex tests in patients with the upper motoneuron syndrome has retained the control situation to a large extent.
Traditionally and arbitrarily an EMG interference signal (EMGIP) &quot;turn&quot; is defined as any 100 microV signal amplitude change. There have not been planned studies challenging this definition. Here, EMGIPs, recorded by coaxial needle electrodes, in MVC, from biceps brachii muscles of 143 subjects, in three diagnostic groups (Normals, Neuropathics, Myopathics), were analyzed in search of the effects of different turn definition amplitude values (TDEF) on the EMGIP number of turns, average turn amplitude, their ratio, and on the cumulative turn amplitude. This study shows significant differences between the diagnostic-groups. It shows that TDEF has significant effect on the number of turns, the average turn amplitude, their ratio, the cumulative amplitude, and that certain TDEFs are significantly better than others in the diagnosis of neuromuscular diseases. Also, it shows that the number of turns and the turns to average amplitude ratio are better measurements than the average turn amplitude and than the cumulative turn amplitude in showing differences between the EMGIPs of the various diagnostic-groups. As such, some of the smaller TDEFs are significantly better diagnostically than the traditional 100 microV value. Also, it shows that better discrimination between the diagnostic-groups may be achieved by applying more than one TDEF value onto the same data. This study leaves the question of the best TDEF or best TDEF sets open for further research in similar and in different paradigms and technical settings.
Regulated endocrine-specific protein-18 (RESP18) is an 18-kilodalton endocrine-specific transcript whose expression is regulated by a number of different physiological and pharmacological stimuli in different tissues. RESP18 messenger RNA was identified in all cell types in the anterior pituitary, at levels that varied 2-fold from the lowest (corticotropes and thyrotropes) to the highest (gonadotropes, somatotropes, and mammotropes); the melanotropes of the intermediate pituitary have levels of RESP18 messenger RNA comparable to the highest levels in cells in the anterior pituitary. Mouse RESP18 was cloned and used as the basis for biosynthetic studies on RESP18 in AtT-20 cells, which express RESP18 endogenously; mouse RESP18 was highly homologous to rat RESP18. Pulse-chase biosynthetic labeling studies showed that AtT-20 cells expressed much less RESP18 than the endogenous prohormone, POMC, but that glucocorticoid treatment lowered POMC and raised RESP18 biosynthetic rates so that they were nearly equimolar. Surprisingly, RESP18 was not processed to smaller peptides to any significant extent, nor was RESP18 or any smaller peptide secreted. Newly synthesized RESP18 normally disappeared from AtT-20 cell extracts with a half-life of less than 15 min; the intracellular half-life of RESP18 was increased strikingly after glucocorticoid treatment of the cells. Upon subcellular fractionation, RESP18 was found to be entirely particulate and to cofractionate with markers for the endoplasmic reticulum, rather than with markers for secretory granules, such as POMC and prohormone-processing enzymes. Therefore, RESP18 is a major glucocorticoid-responsive protein in the secretory pathway of corticotropes, but its function may be entirely within the neuroendocrine cell.


With the purpose of mapping those anatomical structures participating in the processing and analysis of form, colour and disparity information, we have measured, with positron emission tomography and [15O]butanol, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as an indicator of regional cerebral metabolic activity in 13 right-handed male volunteers during visual discrimination of colour, form and disparity information. The brain images were anatomically standardized using a computerized brain atlas and statistically significant changes were localized by cluster analysis. The changes in rCBF between specific activation and reference states were measured and the volumes of changes were determined, as were the loci and volumes of areas commonly activated by two or three different tasks. Each of the tasks activated over a dozen distinct and separate fields in the cortex--in the occipital, parietal, temporal and frontal lobes as well as the cerebellum. A number of overlapping fields were commonly activated in two tasks (four in the form and colour tasks, five in the form and disparity tasks, and eleven in the colour and disparity tasks), and two field overlaps were present in all three tasks (in the right superior frontal and left lingual gyri). These findings indicate that, in a visual discrimination task, the processing and analysis of single visual submodalities take place in a number of cortical fields in the human brain. As the same visual submodality is processed and analysed by numerous fields and the same field may participate in the processing of different submodalities, a divergence-convergence pattern of information processing is present in the human brain. This observation supports a hypothesis based on earlier studies in primates, namely that information processing in the visual system requires the concerted activation of a relatively large number of fields of functional networks in the brain.
The recent discovery of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) identified a novel trophin that selectively increases survival of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons, which degenerate in Parkinson's disease. Our previous studies indicated that GDNF RNA can be amplified from cultured rat nigral type 1 astrocytes and from rat striatum in vivo, implying local as well as target trophic support. The current study establishes the regional pattern of GDNF RNA expression in adult human brain. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed the highest expression of GDNF mRNA in the human caudate, with low levels in the putamen and no detectable message in the nigra, suggesting that GDNF is a target-derived factor in humans. We also report the isolation of two additional GDNF-related cDNAs, termed astrocyte-derived trophic factors (ATF), which apparently result from differential RNA processing. Sequence analysis of rat ATF-1 revealed a 78-bp deletion corresponding to a loss of 26 amino acids within the prepro region of the predicted GDNF protein. The RNA processing events responsible for ATF-1 formation in rat brain are conserved in humans; we report the isolation of a full-length human ATF-1 homologue. We identified a second alternative transcript, human ATF-2; the transcript encodes a protein which differs in its first 18 amino acids from the predicted mature GDNF and ATF-1 proteins and shares the terminal 115 residues with the other two forms. To begin assessing the biologic significance of multiple transcript expression we characterized the actions of COS-expressed GDNF and ATF-1 cDNAs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Combined lesions in the medial septum/diagonal band and nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) in rats were produced using three excitotoxins, ibotenate (Ibo), quisqualate (Quis), and AMPA. Reductions in choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity differed in the cortical regions for the three toxins (AMPA &gt; Quis &gt; Ibo), but were fairly similar in the hippocampus. ChAT activities were not reduced in the globus pallidus, but AMPA reduced ChAT in the amygdala. Lesions with all three toxins produced similar decrements in hippocampal and posterior cortical serotonin levels. A small reduction in posterior cortical norepinephrine was detected for Quis and Ibo lesions. Spatial memory impairments were found for all three toxin groups compared with controls in acquisition, platform reversal, and a spatial probe in the water maze. The learning deficit was greatest with the Quis lesion and equivalent for the Ibo and AMPA lesions. There was no deficit in single trial passive avoidance retention for the Ibo and AMPA groups. The AMPA group was slower than controls on both training and retention trials to enter the dark compartment. This group also showed a tendency to hypoactivity as measured in an open-field test. Excitotoxic infusions into medial septum/diagonal band and NBM produced spatial mnemonic deficits which do not parallel reductions in overall ChAT activity and do not resemble the profile of behavioral changes previously reported for NBM lesions alone using these toxins.

We investigated the effect of TJS-010, a new prescription of Kampo or oriental medicine, on the locomotor activity and body temperature in rats in order to determine its antidepressive and anxiolytic effects. Tetrabenazine(TBZ), which sometimes induces depression in humans, decreased the spontaneous locomotion in rats, and attenuated the content of amines in several regions in the rat brain when intraperitoneally injected. TJS-010 was orally administered at a concentration of 750 mg/kg, and inhibited the locomotor suppression. The content of amines was not, however, altered. These results indicate that TJS-010 postsynaptically modulates the transmission or transduction. Imipramine, 5mg/kg, also enhanced locomotion in TBZ-treated rats, which was similar to the effect of TJS-010. These results suggest that TJS-010 has an antidepressive effect. TJS-010 also facilitated the hypothermia induced by subcutaneous injection of 0.1 mg/kg (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), which is known to be mediated by serotonin-1A receptors. The hypothermia in the rats via an activation of serotonin-1A receptors is often observed with anxiolytic drugs. These results may raise the possibility that TJS-010 has an anxiolytic property. TJS-010 may serve as a useful drug for the treatment of those who suffer from depressive and anxiety disorders.
The expression of the intermediate filament protein, vimentin, was studied in skeletal muscle during a cycle of degeneration and regeneration. Venom from the Australian tiger snake, Notechis scutatus scutatus, was used to initiate the breakdown of the soleus muscle of young, mature rats in vivo. Cryosections and Western blots of muscle samples were labelled using antibodies to vimentin, and examined at fixed time points after venom injection. Vimentin was absent in control adult muscle fibres, but was identified in activated satellite cells 12 h after venom assault. The amount of this protein rose during the early stages of regeneration, reaching its peak at 2-3 days. At this time, the expression of muscle-specific intermediate filament protein, desmin, began. As the abundance of desmin increased with the maturation of the regenerating myofibres, the abundance of vimentin declined until it was no longer detectable in mature regenerated fibres. It is suggested that vimentin plays an important role during satellite cell activation in the early stages of regeneration, and that the expression of vimentin may act as a stimulus for the expression of desmin at later stages of regeneration.
The B4-isolectin from Griffonia simplicifolia is known to stain microglial cells in a variety of species. The present report describes a lectin staining method that has been modified to facilitate staining of resting microglia, as well as perivascular cells, in vibratome sections of normal sheep brain. This modified method employs tissue fixed in formaldehyde or paraformaldehyde and requires incubating sections with Triton X-100 prior to staining.
With the aid of three different antibodies, which recognize specific parts of the native estrogen receptor (ER) molecule, expression of the ER was confirmed not only in the hypothalamus but also in the ventromedial subdivision of the facial nucleus (n7) in neonatal (7-day-old) rats. In contrast, in 3-week-old prepubertal rats, the ER was detected in the hypothalamus and the amygdala, but not in the n7. Thus, the expression of ER in the n7 was shown to be a transient phenomenon. Transient appearance of ER has also been reported in the cerebral cortex of newborn rats and mice. Physiological significance of transient appearance of ER molecules in this subdivision is speculated as being related to the auditory function.
Steroid hormones provide a means of coordinating the activity of widespread neural systems that mediate endocrine, autonomic, and somatomotor aspects of reproductive processes that are essential for the propagation of mammalian species. Because these processes are quite different in each sex, the neural pathways that control them are also sexually differentiated. The anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) of the preoptic region occupies a nodal point in sexually dimorphic forebrain circuits and appears to play a critical role in regulating gonadotropin secretion. The AVPV contains sexually dimorphic populations of opioid peptide containing neurons that display different patterns of development and are differentially regulated in adult animals by gonadal steroids. Moreover, estrogen (ER) and progesterone (PR) receptors are expressed in AVPV neurons in a transmitter-specific way, and the expression of these nuclear transacting factors is differentially regulated by sex steroids. Thus, neurons in the AVPV show distinct patterns of hormonal regulation of gene expression, and distinct hormone receptor profiles.
The preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus (POA/AH) is a site where hormones dramatically influence development. The POA/AH is comprised of multiple subgroups, but little is known about the derivation of these subgroups during development. Results from several laboratories suggest that some cells in the POA/AH originate from progenitor cells in other regions of the developing nervous system. We are exploring pathways for migration in the developing POA/AH in two ways. First, we are examining the distribution of radial glial processes as potential migratory guides using immunocytochemistry. We have identified a transient pattern of radial glial processes from the lateral ventricles to the pial surface at the base of the POA/AH. Additionally, the expression of a molecule in radial glial processes originating in the third ventricle was decreased by prenatal treatment with testosterone. Second, we are utilizing time-lapse video microscopy in vitro to assess the extent and direction of movements of fluorescent dye-labeled cells at different ages in brain slice preparations from the POA/AH of developing rats. Data from these studies indicate that cell migration in the POA/AH includes movements along dorsal-ventral routes and from lateral to medial positions, in addition to the predicted medial to lateral pathway away from the third ventricle. Several researchers have examined effects of gonadal steroids on neurite outgrowth, cell differentiation, cell death, and synaptogenesis. The determination of cell position, however, may be a key event influenced by gonadal steroids earlier in development. The characterization of migratory pathways that contribute to permanent changes in brain structure and ultimately function is essential for unraveling the process of sexual differentiation.
Gestational malnutrition induces an acceleration of the serotonin biosynthetic pathway in the developing brain with an increase in brain L-tryptophan (L-Trp), tryptophan-5-hydroxylase (TrpOH) activity and serotonin content. In the present work we report results on the possible mechanism of TrpOH activation. Kinetic experiments were done with different L-Trp concentrations in the rat brain at different ages. Also various phosphorylating conditions of the enzyme were tested in order to compare its activation in developmentally malnourished and normal brains. The results showed lower Km values and no changes in the Vmax in the malnourished as compared to controls. Interestingly, in the malnourished group, TrpOH showed an increased activity under the phosphorylating conditions employed. We propose that in the activation of brain TrpOH by developmental malnutrition, not only is an elevation of L-Trp involved, but also a change in the enzyme itself reflected in a higher affinity for L-Trp and in a greater response to phosphorylation. This allows us to propose the possibility that early chronic malnutrition induces structural changes in the enzymatic molecule.
Event-related potentials and reaction times were recorded to stimuli flashed to the left and right visual hemifields under different conditions of covert spatial attention. In different blocks, subjects were instructed to allocate attention primarily to either the left or to the right stimulus locations, or to divide attention equivalently between left and right locations (i.e., neutral condition). Regardless of attention condition, however, speeded motor responses were required to stimuli in both visual fields. In comparison to the neutral attention condition, reaction times were slower for targets at unattended locations (costs) and faster for the targets at attended locations (benefits), however, only costs were statistically significant. Significant attention-related enhancements were observed for both early and late ERP components. Cost/benefit analysis of the ERPs revealed ERP benefits in the amplitudes of the early sensory-evoked cortical component P1 (100-160 ms). In contrast, ERP costs appeared only at a relatively late stage of perceptual processing (200-280 ms latency post-stimulus). The relationship between RT and ERP costs and benefits is discussed with respect to models of spatial attention.
A total of 40 normal men and women were exposed under double blind conditions for 20 min to either sham-conditions or to 1 microT (10 mG) electromagnetic fields (known to produce long-term potentiation within hippocampal slices) that were applied primarily over the right temporal lobe, over the left temporal lobe or over both temporal lobes homogeneously. The men and women who received the stimulation over the right hemisphere rated their experiences as significantly more pleasant than those who received the same stimulation over the left hemisphere [eta = 0.51]. Covariance for the variation in ambient geomagnetic activity, which was negatively correlated with pleasantness, increased the significance of the experimental treatment. The potential clinical utility of applying computer-generated local and penetrative but weak intensity complex magnetic fields over portions of the human brain is discussed.
A significant alteration in the hypnotizability of normal subjects after brief (15 min) exposures to weak (1 microT) pulsed magnetic fields over the temporal lobes was determined by the serial order of hemispheric stimulation. Only subjects who received the right hemispheric stimulation first displayed significantly elevated hypnosis induction profile scores (effect size equivalent to a correlation of 0.41). Implications for a technology that can: a) modify hypnotizability, b) encourage the consolidation of quasiexperiences that are reconstructed as autobiographical memory, and c) change the sense of self, are discussed.
Depression has been consistently reported in 40-50% of suicides. Previous toxicologic studies of suicides have not included diagnostic information, however. This report includes 247 (87%) of 283 suicides in whom it was possible to perform toxicological analyses for tricyclic antidepressants. We wanted to see if any relationships existed among the presence of antidepressants at autopsy, diagnosis of Depression, recent contact with physicians and prescription of antidepressant medication. Toxicology was positive in 19 (8%) subjects. Only 12% of the subjects with a DSM-III diagnosis of Major or Atypical Depression were positive. Lethal blood levels of antidepressants were found in only 4% of all subjects and most of those involved multiple drugs. Also, most of those subjects had co-morbid Depression and Substance Abuse. More than half of the Depressed subjects had seen a physician within 90 days from suicide but less than half of these were prescribed antidepressants and only one-third of the latter were positive for antidepressants in toxicology. These data suggest that more suicides might be averted by decisively treating Depressed patients with ADs, including strict monitoring of dosage and compliance, than by not treating them to avoid AD overdoses. Diagnostic caution should be observed to identify co-morbid Substance Abuse when treating patients with Depression and suicidal ideation.

The proliferative activity in the hypoglossal nucleus following hypoglossal nerve injury has been studied with the 3H-thymidine analogue, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdUrd). BrdUrd was injected into cisterna magna of the rat brain 2 h prior to killing and subsequently visualised with immunofluorescence. The peak of BrdUrd labelling in the hypoglossal nucleus occurred at 2 d following nerve transection and a lower level at 4 and 7 d postoperatively. BrdUrd labelled cells were also found outside the anatomical boundaries of the hypoglossal nucleus, conceivably mainly corresponding to the dendritic extension of the axotomised neurons. It is therefore concluded that microglial cells are activated in relation to the entire intramedullary portion of the axotomised neurons and not only in the immediate vicinity of the perikarya. Double labelling experiments with specific markers for astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and microglial cells showed that only microglial cells were BrdUrd positive at all postoperative survival times examined. It is therefore concluded that microglial cells are the only glial cell type which proliferate in the hypoglossal nucleus following peripheral nerve injury.
3-Methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) is formed by the sequential actions of monoamine oxidase (MAO) and catechol-O-methyltransferase on norepinephrine within extraneuronal tissues or by extraneuronal O-methylation of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) produced intraneuronally from norepinephrine. This study examined the contributions of neuronal and extraneuronal norepinephrine metabolism to formation of MHPG in rats. Spillover of MHPG into plasma (605 +/- 28 pmol/kg per min) was higher than spillover of DHPG (463 +/- 15 pmol/kg per min), norepinephrine (165 +/- 9 pmol/kg per min) and normetanephrine (56 +/- 4 pmol/kg per min). Comparison of MHPG spillover with the increment in normetanephrine spillover after MAO inhibition (81 pmol/kg per min) combined with the spillover of MHPG derived from circulating normetanephrine (21 pmol/kg per min) indicated that only 17% of plasma MHPG is derived from the extraneuronal deamination and O-methylation of norepinephrine; the remaining 83% is from DHPG produced by deamination of norepinephrine within neurons. The production of MHPG from infused DHPG indicated that 30% of the MHPG in plasma is produced by O-methylation of DHPG after entry of DHPG into the bloodstream and 53% (83-30) from metabolism of DHPG before its entry into the bloodstream. Metabolism of circulating norepinephrine made a minor (1-3%) contribution to plasma concentrations of DHPG and MHPG, but a much larger (46%) contribution to plasma normetanephrine. The results provide a comprehensive examination of norepinephrine metabolism by O-methylation and deamination pathways. Since MHPG is the principal norepinephrine metabolite excreted in the rat, the findings also show that total body turnover of norepinephrine is dependent mainly on neuronal metabolism of the transmitter; at rest extraneuronal pathways contribute as little as 15% to norepinephrine turnover.
Caveolae are a membrane specialization used to internalize molecules by potocytosis. Caveolin, an integral membrane protein, is associated with the striated coat present on the cytoplasmic surface of the caveolae membrane. We now report that oxidation of caveolar cholesterol with cholesterol oxidase rapidly displaces the caveolin from the plasma membrane to intracellular vesicles that colocalize with Golgi apparatus markers. After the enzyme is removed from the medium, caveolin returns to caveolae. When untreated cells are gently homogenized, caveolin on the plasma membrane is accessible to both anti-caveolin IgG and trypsin. After cholesterol oxidase treatment, however, Golgi-associated caveolin is inaccessible to both of these molecules. Brefeldin A, which inhibits ER to Golgi trafficking, blocks the appearance of caveolin in the Golgi apparatus but does not prevent caveolin from leaving the plasma membrane. Indirect immunogold localization experiments show that in the presence of cholesterol oxidase caveolin leaves the plasma membrane and becomes associated with endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi compartments. Surprisingly, the loss of caveolin from the plasma membrane does not affect the number or morphology of the caveolae.
We report a model that reproduces many of the behavioral properties of smooth pursuit eye movements. The model is a negative-feedback system that uses three parallel visual motion pathways to drive pursuit. The three visual pathways process image motion, defined as target motion with respect to the moving eye, and provide signals related to image velocity, image acceleration, and a transient that occurs at the onset of target motion. The three visual motion signals are summed and integrated to produce the eye velocity output of the model. The model reproduces the average eye velocity evoked by steps of target velocity in monkeys and humans and accounts for the variation among individual responses and subjects. When its motor pathways are expanded to include positive feedback of eye velocity and a &quot;switch&quot;, the model reproduces the exponential decay in eye velocity observed when a moving target stops. Manipulation of this expanded model can mimic the effects of stimulation and lesions in the arcuate pursuit area, the middle temporal visual area (MT), and the medial superior temporal visual area (MST).
The central nervous system of the moth Manduca sexta contains a group of myoregulatory neuropeptides, the CAPs (Cardioacceleratory Peptides), which cause a physiologically important, dose-dependent increase in heart rate during wing inflation and flight in adult moths. We report here that the response of the adult heart to a subset of the CAPs, the CAP2S, is potentiated nearly twofold in the chronic presence of subthreshold levels of the biogenic amine octopamine or near-threshold levels of the biogenic amine serotonin. Subthreshold levels of the CAP2S fail to alter the response of the heart to octopamine. We have begun to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying this potentiation. Previous work on the adult heart has shown that the CAP2s act through an inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate second-messenger system. Here, we demonstrate that the cardioexcitatory effects of the two amines, in contrast to those of the CAP2S, are both mediated by cyclic AMP. Application to the heart of either 10(-5) moll-1 octopamine or 10(-6)moll-1 serotonin elicits a threefold increase in intracellular cyclic AMP levels. The CAP2S have no effect on cyclic AMP levels in the heart. These results illustrate a mechanism by which the effectiveness of a neurohormone can be increased with minimal cost to the animal. In Manduca sexta, subthreshold levels of octopamine are found in the haemolymph during wing inflation and flight. Thus, it is possible that octopamine up-regulates the effects of CAP2 via a cyclic-AMP-dependent mechanism during these activities.
Nonword pronunciation is a form of generalization behavior that has been at the center of debates about models of word recognition, the role of rules in explaining behavior, and the adequacy of the parallel distributed processing approach. An experiment yielded data concerning the pronunciation of a large corpus of nonwords. The data were then used to assess 2 models of naming: a model developed by D. C. Plaut and J. L. McClelland (1993), which is similar to the one described by M. S. Seidenberg and J. L. McClelland (1989) but uses improved orthographic and phonological representations, and the grapheme-phoneme correspondence rules of M. Coltheart, B. Curtis, P. Atkins, and M. Haller's (1993) dual-route model. Both models generate plausible nonword pronunciations and match subjects' responses accurately. The dual-route model does so by using rules that generate correct output for most words but mispronounce a significant number of exceptions. The parallel distributed processing model does so by finding a set of weights that allow it to generate correct output for both &quot;rule-governed&quot; items and exceptions. Some ways in which the two approaches differ and other issues facing them are also discussed.
In rat pituitary GH3 cells, epidermal growth factor (EGF) and insulin stimulate prolactin production, whereas glucocorticoids exert the opposite effect. In the present study, GH3 cells were subjected to whole-cell patch clamp to assess the chronic actions of such regulatory factors on voltage-dependent calcium currents. Before the electrical recording, cells were grown 5-6 d either under standard conditions or in the presence of 5 nM EGF, 100 nM insulin, 1 microM dexamethasone or 5 microM cortisol. EGF induced a twofold selective increase in high-threshold calcium current density. Insulin and glucocorticoids, on the other hand, specifically regulated low-threshold Ca channels. Current density through these channels increased by 70% in insulin-treated cells, and decreased by 50% in cells exposed to dexamethasone or cortisol. Other Ca channel properties investigated (conductance-voltage curves, deactivation rates, time course and voltage dependence of low-threshold current inactivation) were unaffected by the chemical messengers. The alterations in current density persisted for many hours after removing the regulatory factors from the culture medium. In fact, the stimulatory action of EGF on high-threshold current lasted &gt; 3 d. The results suggest that the control of prolactin production by the factors tested involves regulation of the surface density of functional Ca channels in the plasma membrane.
The effects of the pH of solutions used in microwave-stimulated antigen retrieval were investigated for two antibodies commonly used in neurosciences, MAP-2 and SMI-32. A prolonged fixation time (longer than 1 week) prevents good immunohistochemical staining of these and many other antigens in paraffin and vibratome sections. On human brain tissue stored for 17 months in formaldehyde, the effects of different solutions during microwave treatment were compared, i.e., 4% aluminum chloride (pH 2.75), 0.1 N hydrochloric acid (pH 0.98), and citrate buffers (pH 2.5, 4.5, 6.0), together with the influence of temperature and microwave irradiation. We conclude that the pH and temperature of the solutions and the irradiation time are of great importance for the retrieval of antigens, but in a different way for the two antibodies studied. The SMI-32 staining results are optimal with citrate buffer at pH 2.5 and 2-hr irradiation at 90 degrees C, whereas MAP-2 staining results are optimal with citrate buffer at pH 4.5 and 10-min full-power irradiation. In the other conditions the staining is less intensive or less homogeneously distributed over the section.
MEDULLARY ROSTRAL VENTROLATERAL RETICULAR NUCLEUS (RVL): Reticulospinal neurons are critical to control of the circulation by the brain. Its actions are implemented by a few reticulospinal neurons, 200 in the rat. These directly innervate and excite preganglionic sympathetic neurons of the spinal cord by releasing L-glutamate. The RVL-spinal sympathetic premotor neurons are innervated by neurochemically diverse afferents from local and remote sources. They maintain arterial pressure tonically, mediate vasomotor reflexes elicited by stimulation of baro- or chemoreceptors or in response to pain or muscular exercise, and couple vasomotor responses to defense and conditioned fear behaviors. RVL-spinal neurons are central oxygen sensors, directly excited by hypoxia, and initiate sympathetic responses to cerebral ischemia or distortion (Cushing reflex). Stimulation of the RVL directly elevates cerebral flow independently of metabolism and initiates much of the cerebrovascular vasodilation in response to hypoxemia. RVL-SPINAL NEURONS IN RELATION TO HYPERTENSION AND SHOCK: RVL-spinal neurons are sites of action for many centrally acting antihypertensive drugs and some vasoactive hormones. Their integrity is required for expression of the elevated arterial pressure in neurogenic hypertension and for the compensatory sympathetic responses to hemorrhage. We propose that RVL-spinal neurons (1) maintain the activity of sympathetic neurons in mid-range amplifying, thereby, their signaling capacities; (2) initiate and integrate circulatory responses to a lack of oxygen so as to protect the brain from real or threatened hypoxia; (3) maintain, by tonic activity, normal expression of genes and gene products of central and peripheral sympathetic neurons and their peripheral targets that relate to their structure and neurotransmission-associated functions.
Advances in molecular biology and neuroscience are leading to new opportunities for elucidation of the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders and the long-term actions of psychotropic drugs. The actions of first messengers, including neurotransmitters, neuropeptides, and neurotrophins, on neuronal function can now be viewed in terms of their regulation of complex intracellular signal transduction pathways. These pathways mediate most actions of first messengers, including fast mediatory (e.g., cell firing), short-term modulatory (e.g., neuronal metabolism, receptor sensitivity, neurotransmitter sensitivity), and long-term modulatory (e.g., gene expression). Moreover, it is becoming increasingly evident that adaptations of receptor-coupled intracellular pathways, referred to here as neural plasticity, mediate the long-term actions of psychotropic drug treatments. In addition, an inability to mount the appropriate adaptive responses to environmental stressors could contribute to the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders. The following provides a brief overview of receptor-coupled intracellular signal transduction pathways in brain and general mechanisms of neural plasticity. Specific examples of neural plasticity in response to stress, antidepressant treatments, and drugs of abuse are discussed in greater detail. Continued elucidation of the intracellular signal transduction pathways which govern neuronal function and the mechanisms that mediate neural plasticity will provide the basis for the development of more effective and fast-acting therapeutic agents, as well as identification of the abnormalities underlying psychiatric disorders.
Extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the median raphe and dorsal hippocampus was measured using in vivo microdialysis. Administration of 60 mM K+ through the probe into the median raphe region significantly increased 5-HT output from the median raphe and the right dorsal hippocampus. Local infusion of 10 microM tetrodotoxin into the median raphe region substantially decreased 5-HT in the median raphe and left and right dorsal hippocampus. Systemic administration (0.3 mg/kg s.c.) of 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) decreased the 5-HT levels in the dialysates from both the median raphe region and dorsal hippocampus. Administration of 30 nM 8-OH-DPAT through the dialysis probe into the median raphe region decreased 5-HT output from the median raphe and dorsal hippocampus significantly, whereas at concentrations from 60 nM to 10 microM, no significant effects were found in either region. With 100 microM 8-OH-DPAT, a significant increase was seen in the median raphe region, but not in dorsal hippocampus. Similar findings were obtained following microinjections of different doses of the compound into the median raphe region. The results of this study indicate that the somatodendritic release of 5-HT is impulse flow-dependent. Moreover, the decrease of 5-HT in the median raphe region by low nanomolar concentrations of 8-OH-DPAT supports the notion that somatodendritic 5-HT release is subject to a local negative feedback mechanism through 5-HT1A autoreceptors.
Fura-2 digital imaging microfluorimetry was used to evaluate the Ca2+ signals generated in single clonal human neuroepithelioma cells (SK-N-MCIXC) in response to agonists that stimulate phosphoinositide hydrolysis. Addition of optimal concentrations of either endothelin-1 (ET-1), ATP, oxotremorine-M (Oxo-M), or norepinephrine (NE) all resulted in an increase in the concentration of cytosolic calcium (Ca2+i) but of different magnitudes (ET-1 = ATP &gt; Oxo-M &gt; NE). The Ca2+ signals elicited by the individual agonists also differed from each other in terms of their latency of onset, rate of rise and decay, and prevalence of a sustained phase of Ca2+ influx. The Ca2+ signals that occurred in response to ATP had a shorter latency and more rapid rates of rise and decay than those observed for the other three agonists. Furthermore, a sustained plateau phase of the Ca2+ signal, which was characteristic of the response to Oxo-M, was observed in &lt; 40% of cells stimulated with ET-1 and absent from Ca2+ signals elicited after NE addition. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ enhanced the rate of decay of Ca2+ signals generated by ATP, ET-1, or Oxo-M and, when evident, abolished the sustained phase of Ca2+ influx. In the absence of extracellular Ca2+, NE elicited asynchronous multiple Ca2+ transients. In either the absence or presence of extracellular Ca2+-, &gt; 94% of cells responded to ET-1 or ATP, whereas corresponding values for Oxo-M and NE were approximately 74 and approximately 48%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The survival and development of cerebellar neurons are under the control of interacting epigenetic signals. In the present study, we have examined interactive effects of nerve growth factor (NGF) and acetylcholine on in vitro cerebellar Purkinje cell survival. In initial experiments, dissociated rat cerebellar cultures were grown for 6-7 days in the presence of NGF and the stable cholinergic agonist carbachol. Simultaneous exposure to carbachol and NGF selectively increased Purkinje cell number, whereas neither agent was effective when tested alone. The increase in survival was blocked by the muscarinic antagonists atropine (0.1 microM) and pirenzepine (10 nM), but not by methoctramine (25 nM). Nicotine had no effect on survival when tested alone or in combination with NGF. The cerebellar cultures exhibited cholinergic neuronal traits: high-affinity choline uptake, and choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase activities. To determine whether transmitter produced in vitro triggers Purkinje responsiveness to NGF, cells were exposed to physostigmine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. Physostigmine alone induced an atropine-sensitive increase in cell survival that was enhanced in the presence of NGF. These data suggest that the early expression of cholinergic traits plays a role in Purkinje development. Activation of muscarinic receptors triggers enhanced Purkinje survival in the presence of NGF.
Plasminogen (PGn) that we identified in microglial-conditioned medium has a neurotrophic factor-like effect on cultured neurons. We have also shown that PGn binds specifically to a protein with a molecular mass of 45 kDa in the neuronal plasma membrane. As a candidate PGn receptor-like molecule on the neuronal surface, this 45-kDa protein was purified from the plasma membrane of embryonic rat brain. Amino acid sequence analysis of polypeptides derived from the cleavage of the protein with cyanogen bromide and V8 protease revealed that the 45-kDa protein is identical to rat alpha-enolase. In fact, PGn was found to bind to purified rat alpha-enolase and also to a synthetic peptide (30 residues) that corresponds to the carboxyl terminal region of rat alpha-enolase. Physical properties of the 45-kDa protein, such as molecular mass, isoelectric point, and the ability to form dimers, are quite similar to those of alpha-enolase. The 45-kDa PGn-binding protein in the plasma membrane was also recognized by anti-rat alpha-enolase antibody, and pretreatment with alpha-enolase antibody markedly diminished the PGn-binding to the plasma membrane. In addition, immunocytochemical staining of the cultured cells under the nonpermeable condition showed that alpha-enolase is present on the cell surface of a certain population of neurons. These results suggest that alpha-enolase may function as a PGn-binding molecule on the neuronal cell surface.
To study the distribution of L-homocysteate in the rat retina, specific polyclonal and monoclonal anti-homocysteate antibodies have been used in combination with a highly sensitive postembedding method for light microscopic immunocytochemistry. In central and peripheral retina, the most strongly immunoreactive cell bodies lay in the inner nuclear layer. They represented about 17% of the total neuronal cell population of the layer and were identified as bipolar cells (19-20% of cells in the outer half of the inner nuclear layer) and amacrine cells (15% of cells in the inner half of the inner nuclear layer). A third cell type showing heavy homocysteate-like immunoreactivity was identified as Mller glial cells. Characteristically, their descending processes formed three immunoreactive bands in the inner plexiform layer. Furthermore, the outer and inner limiting membranes as well as glia around and between ganglion cell axons and in the vicinity of blood vessels were labelled intensely. Photoreceptors and their terminals, and ganglion cells, were not immunostained. These findings indicate the presence of homocysteate in some bipolar and amacrine cells of the inner nuclear layer and support a role for this sulphur-containing excitatory amino acid as a neurotransmitter candidate in the retina.
The hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is activated during aging and even more so in dementia. Increased levels of corticosteroids may be neurotoxic. Therefore we have investigated cortisol levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of Alzheimer patients and controls. Ventricular postmortem CSF was collected from clinically and neuropathologically well-defined Alzheimer patients (n = 26) and control subjects (n = 21). In the group of Alzheimer patients the mean CSF total cortisol level was 83% higher than that in the controls. In presenile Alzheimer patients (&lt; 65 years of age; n = 13) the CSF-cortisol level was 5 times higher than that of presenile controls (n = 7). In contrast, senile Alzheimer patients (n = 13) and controls of over 65 years of age (n = 14) did not show a significant difference in CSF-cortisol levels. The presence or absence of a difference in the cortisol-CSF levels in, respectively, presenile or senile Alzheimer patients as compared to controls was due to the 3.5-fold rise of CSF-cortisol in control subjects over 65 years of age as compared with controls under 65 years of age. The CSF-cortisol levels in presenile and senile Alzheimer patients were similar. No significant correlation was observed in the Alzheimer patients between age of onset of the dementia and CSF cortisol levels or duration of Alzheimer's disease and CSF cortisol levels. The finding that in senile Alzheimer patients cortisol levels were similar to those of unaffected age-matched controls does not seem to support the cortisol neurotoxicity hypothesis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular nuclei (PVN) of the human hypothalamus are production sites of vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OXT). Although the hypothalamus is affected in Alzheimer's disease (AD), previous work has not only shown that in these two nuclei no neurons are lost, neither during aging nor in AD, but that the number of AVP-expressing neurons and their nucleolar size had even increased with age. These observations indicated that the peptide synthesis of the AVP neurons was activated in the oldest age-groups. Recently published, qualitative observations, using the area of the Golgi Apparatus (GA) as a sensitive parameter for neurosecretory activity, confirmed the activation of SON and PVN neurons with age in human; however, in this report the neurons were not identified according to their neuropeptide content. In the present quantitative study we determined whether the AVP neurons were indeed activated as a result of the aging process in controls and AD patients. We applied a polyclonal antiserum directed against the medial cisternae of the GA on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections taken from the dorsolateral SON (dl-SON) of 10 controls and 10 AD patients, and performed our measurements in this area that is known to be predominantly occupied (90-95%) by AVP neurons. In addition, the sparse OXT cells present in the area of study, were excluded from the measurements on the basis of alternative sections stained for OXT. In the dl-SON, the area occupied by the GA and the cellular profile area per patient were quaNtified by means of image analysis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Nitric oxide and estrogen have been shown to play a critical role in the control of female reproductive function. In order to determine an anatomical relationship between nitric oxide generating neurons and estrogen target neurons, NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry was combined with estrogen receptor immunohistochemistry in the female medial preoptic area. While only a few weakly stained neurons for NADPH-diaphorase were found in ovariectomized control rats, a drastic increase in NADPH-diaphorase activity was observed in the medial preoptic nucleus of estradiol-treated ovariectomized animals. The total number of NADPH-diaphorase neurons in the estradiol-treated group increased three-fold relative to controls, and more than 80% of those neurons contained estrogen receptor-immunoreactivity in their nuclei. Since neuronal NADPH-diaphorase is nitric oxide synthase, the present result suggests that nitric oxide synthase activity can be positively regulated by estradiol in neurons containing estrogen receptor in the female medial preoptic nucleus.
Effects of gonadal steroids on numbers of neurons containing estrogen receptor (ER) and/or substance P (SP) were examined in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) of female and male rats by double-labeling immunohistochemistry employing antibodies specific for ER and SP. Animals were gonadectomized and received subcutaneously either oil alone (Control group), sequential injections of estradiol benzoate and oil (EB + Oil group), or those of EB and progesterone (EB + P group). In the female control rat, a large population of ER-immunoreactive (IR) cells were found clustered throughout the AVPV. They were counted more than 2,000 in total of 4 sections in this nucleus. On the contrary, SP-IR neurons were scarcely observed in the same area of this group. Administration of estrogen to female animals decreased the total number of ER-IR cells to 67% of the control group. In contrast to the supressive effect of estrogen to its own receptor, it induced SP-IR neurons in the AVPV of the female. Approximately 50-80 SP-IR neurons were counted in the 4 sections, and 59% of these neurons expressed ER-IR material in their nuclei. In the female EB + P group, the number of ER-IR neurons also decreased to 79% of the control group. Although the number of SP-IR neurons in this group decreased to 32% of that in the EB + Oil group, a ratio of coexistence of ER-IR material in these neurons increased to 75%. The male control group contained a smaller population of ER-IR cells relative to the female control (1497 vs 2143).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recently a Network of European CNS Transplantation And Restoration (NECTAR) has been founded, aimed at a concerted effort to develop efficient, reliable, safe and ethically acceptable transplantation therapies for neurodegenerative diseases, in particular Parkinson's and Huntington's disease. Owing to the use of human fetal brain tissue in such studies, usually obtained from elective abortions, ethical concerns have been focused on the relationship between abortion and transplantation activities. There is no uniform code on the retrieval and use of human embryonal or fetal material for experimental and clinical research or application in Europe. NECTAR has therefore formulated self-restraining ethical guidelines for its European member groups. These guidelines consist of a series of restrictions intended to prevent the use of grafts from encouraging induced abortions and to maintain high standards of respect for life and human dignity. In order to support applications for human embryonal or fetal neurotransplantation studies of NECTAR member groups to local or national medico-ethical committees, and to stimulate the goal of obtaining European legislation on this issue, the guidelines are here presented. They are followed by extensive explanatory notes. Only in this public manner can the lines of thought behind these NECTAR guidelines be addressed critically by those working in the fields of biomedical ethics and legislation as well by politicians and the general public.
The failure of the adult human central nervous system (CNS) to repair following injury has significant clinical consequences. Lesions caused by trauma, vascular defects or chronic inflammation can result in long-standing damage and considerable functional impairment for which there are no effective remedies at present. A major goal of neuroscience research is, therefore, to devise strategies for effective repair following CNS damage. One of the most important of these strategies is transplantation. The goal of this work is to transplant cells into the damaged brain either to replace tissue directly or to stimulate the ability of the CNS to repair itself. Promising initial results have emerged with transplantation for the very focal defect of Parkinson's disease, using fetal dopaminergic neurons placed directly into the denervated striatum. However, to repair widespread lesions it seems likely that the transplanted cells will have to be altered so as to enhance their potential to initiate or facilitate repair. In this review, we emphasize the importance of understanding the developmental biology of the system in question before attempting manipulation of cells prior to transplantation. This point of view stems from observations that mechanisms used during development are often reexpressed in those systems that repair effectively. It follows that manipulating cells to be transplanted so as to re-express molecules present in development may enhance repair in those areas where repair is normally minimal.
Neurotrophin-mediated mechanisms are integral to development and maintenance of the adult central nervous system. Neurotrophin expression has been shown to change rapidly in response to many different types of neuronal stress such as excitotoxic injury, mechanical lesions, epileptogenesis and ischemia. It therefore appears as if they are not only to be regarded as target-derived trophic factors in the classical sense, but also as providers of local trophic support and neuronal protection. These discoveries suggest that neurotrophins or compounds with neurotrophin-like actions might become useful in developing new treatment strategies, not only for neurodegenerative diseases, but also for other diseases and injuries to the nervous system including stroke.
The need to limit disease processes in the central nervous system and repair the damage is a major challenge for contemporary medicine but one which can now be addressed by applying the techniques of molecular, cellular, systems and behavioral neuroscience; we can be confident that, in due course, the brain repair strategy will work and have dividends for individuals with a range of neurological diseases.
In addition to chemotrophic and contact guidance theories that explain how long projection neurons weave intricate patterns of connectivity within developing or regenerating neuronal networks, there has been recent interest in mechanisms that guide axons by actively constraining, inhibiting or repelling axon growth cones. Developmental boundaries are especially important in regions where large numbers of growing axons must change direction in order to remain on course towards their potential targets. Regenerative boundaries can also have severe pathological consequences since they limit the potential for axon regrowth following injury or diseases. Some of the molecular mechanisms that generate repulsive environments in the embryo are re-expressed in the adult following injury. In the developing retina, a chondroitin sulfate-proteoglycan appears to play an essential role in controlling the sequence of ganglion cell differentiation and initial direction of axons. In several lesion models, re-expression of a chondroitin sulfate-proteoglycan by reactive astrocytes limits regeneration through glial scars; conversely, in experiments where boundary molecules have been manipulated by chondroitinase digestion, axons are stimulated to regrow or re-route to inappropriate pathways.
Abnormalities in the microenvironment of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) might play a role in the pathogenesis of sensory abnormalities in human diabetic neuropathy. We examined aspects of DRG microenvironment by measuring local blood flow and oxygen tension in the L4 dorsal root ganglia of female BB Wistar (BBW) diabetic rats with mild neuropathy. The findings were compared with concurrent measurements of local sciatic endoneurial blood flow and oxygen tension. Diabetic rats were treated with insulin and underwent electrophysiological, blood flow and oxygen tension measurements at either 7-11 or 17-23 weeks after the development of glycosuria. Nondiabetic female BB Wistar rats from the same colony served as controls. At both ages, BBW diabetic rats had significant abnormalities in sensory, but not motor conduction compared to nondiabetic controls. Sciatic endoneurial blood flow in the diabetic rats of both ages was similar to control values, but the older (17-23 week diabetic) BBW diabetic rats had a selective reduction in DRG blood flow. Sciatic endoneurial oxygen tensions were not significantly altered in the diabetic rats. DRG oxygen tension appeared lowered in younger (7-11 week diabetic) but not older (17-23 week diabetic) BBW rats. Our findings indicate that there are important changes in the DRG microenvironment of diabetic rats with selective sensory neuropathy.
1. As part of an effort to evaluate the biological plausibility of theoretically derived principles of synaptic modification, we studied activity-dependent long-term depression (LTD) of glutamatergic transmission in the hippocampus of anesthetized adult rats. Field potentials of CA1 pyramidal cells evoked by single-pulse stimulation (0.1 Hz) of the commissural afferents were recorded before and after paired-pulse stimulation (0.5 Hz) of the same pathway. A train of 150 or 200 paired pulses produced robust LTD of the commissural input to the CA1 pyramidal neurons when the interstimulus interval (ISI) of the pairs was short (25 ms) but not when the ISI was long (1,000 ms). 2. Paired-pulse stimulation with the short but not with the long ISI also was associated with pronounced inhibition of pyramidal cell firing upon the second pulse of a pair, despite the fact that the excitatory input was facilitated with the short-ISI paradigm. The inhibition of pyramidal cell activity was mediated by input to the pyramidal cells from local gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-releasing interneurons activated by commissural fibers and/or CA1 recurrent collaterals, because the inhibition was eliminated by local administration of the selective GABAA receptor antagonist, bicuculline (50 microM), near the recording site. 3. Postsynaptic input from GABAergic interneurons was necessary for the induction of LTD, because short-ISI paired-pulse stimulation failed to produce LTD in the presence of bicuculline. 4. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated excitation also was necessary for the induction of LTD, because administration of the selective NMDA receptor antagonist, D-2-amino-5-phosphonvaleric acid (100 microM), near the recording site prevented the development of LTD.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. We used functional positron emission tomography (PET), measuring regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as an index of neuronal activity, to investigate the central processing of itch in 10 healthy volunteers subjected to intracutaneous injections of histamine. 2. The study has unraveled a central representation that depicts a motor intention of the urge to scratch contingent on the perception of unpleasant itch. The coactivation of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), supplementary motor area (SMA), premotor area (PM), and inferior parietal lobule (IPL) substantiates that the posterior sector of the ACC (Brodmann 24) is related to the sensorial/affectional aspect of the event. The premotor cortical areas (SMA, PM) and the IPL may participate in the preparation of an intended action.
1. The brain of the locust contains an extraocular photoreceptor (EOP), which provides the major synaptic excitation to the vasopressin-like immunoreactive (VPLI) interneuron of the suboesophageal ganglion. Although the precise location of the EOP remains unknown, its activity can be determined indirectly by intracellular recording from the VPLI neuron. The excitatory drive to the VPLI neuron occurs only in darkness and is absent in the light. 2. The EOP is preferentially sensitive to light of wavelength 494 +/- 7 (SD) nm (blue-green) and has an absorption spectrum characteristic of a rhodopsin-like photopigment. 3. In the presence of high divalent saline (20 mM Ca2+ and Mg2+), the VPLI neuron receives excitatory input in the light. This indicates that the excitatory input to the VPLI neuron is from a tonically active descending input, which normally is inhibited by the light-induced activation of the presynaptic EOP. 4. Stimulation of the connectives while recording the resultant excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) evoked in VPLI shows that the descending input projects beyond the suboesophageal ganglion, extending as far as the metathoracic ganglion. 5. Pharmacological analysis shows that the descending input to the VPLI neuron is cholinergic: acetylcholine (ACh) strongly depolarizes the neuron and eserine, an ACh esterase inhibitor, markedly potentiates the synaptic excitation of the VPLI neuron. 6. Nicotinic and muscarinic receptor antagonists show that the excitation of VPLI consists of two pharmacologically discrete components. Nicotinic ACh receptors mediate a fast depolarization, whereas muscarinic ACh receptors evoke a more sustained depolarization. Accordingly, both a fast and slow depolarization can be evoked selectively in VPLI by direct application of either nicotine or muscarine. 7. Voltage-clamp analysis shows that the fast EPSP evoked current is similar to that produced by nicotine in that it decreases linearly with membrane depolarization. The current associated with the sustained depolarization is similar to that evoked by muscarine, increasing nonlinearly with membrane depolarization. 8. Activity of the descending input, or application of muscarine, lowers the spike-initiation threshold of the VPLI neuron, thereby increasing its excitability. 9. It is concluded that the presence of two ACh receptor subtypes act synergistically to allow continuous activity of the VPLI neuron for sustained periods (i.e., throughout the hours of darkness).
1. Glutamate-evoked increases in intracellular free H+ concentration ([H+]i) were recorded from single rat hippocampal neurons grown in primary culture with carboxy SNARF-based dual emission microfluorimetry. The possibility that this acidification resulted from altered energy metabolism was investigated. 2. The response to 10 microM glutamate (delta pH = 0.41 +/- 0.14, mean +/- SD) was blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist CGS19755 (10 microM) and required extracellular Ca2+. 3. Substituting the metabolic inhibitor 2-deoxyglucose for glucose in the extracellular buffer prevented glutamate-induced acidification. 4. Ba2+, which carries charge through Ca2+ channels, including the Ca2+ uniporter on the inner mitochondrial membrane, substituted for Ca2+ in mediating glutamate-induced cytoplasmic acidification. 5. Microinjection of ruthenium red, a compound that blocks mitochondrial Ca2+ sequestration, significantly inhibited glutamate-induced acidification. 6. The mitochondrial uncoupler, carbonyl cyanide-p-trifluoromethoxyphenyl-hydrazone (FCCP, 0.1 microM), mimicked and partially occluded the glutamate-induced [H+]i increase. 7. These findings indicate that glutamate-induced Ca2+ loads are sequestered by mitochondria, uncouple respiration, and produce metabolic acidosis. The glutamate-induced acidification is symptomatic of metabolic stress and may indicate that mitochondria play an important role in glutamate-induced neuronal death.
The Trembler PNS myelin-deficient mutant mouse offers a unique model for the study of axon-glial interactions. Previous work in our laboratory on Trembler mouse sciatic nerve established that myelinating Schwann cells exert a profound effect on the underlying neuronal cytoskeleton. Demyelinated axon segments exhibited decreases in the rate of slow axonal transport, axonal caliber, and neurofilament phosphorylation, as well as increases in neurofilament density. The present study considers effects on the microtubule cytoskeleton. At least two aspects of the microtubule cytoskeleton in Trembler PNS axons were altered by demyelination. First, the stability of the Trembler axonal microtubule cytoskeleton is decreased, as measured by decreased levels of insoluble tubulin (Sahenk and Brady, 1987). Second, the composition and phosphorylation of axonal microtubule-associated proteins, including tau, MAP 1A, and MAP 1B, are changed in Trembler demyelinated nerves. Further, the fraction of axonal tubulin moving at slow component b rates was increased (de Waegh and Brady 1990, 1991). These results provide further evidence that cell-cell interactions between myelinating glia and their underlying axons extend beyond a structural role, actively influencing biochemical and physiological properties of the axon.
Stressful stimuli strongly induce proenkephalin gene expression within the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus. A human proenkephalin-beta-galactosidase fusion gene has previously been shown to give correct phenotypic expression and appropriate stress regulation within the hypothalamus of transgenic mice; this model provides high sensitivity, cellular resolution, and ready quantification of levels of proenkephalin gene expression. Here we describe use of this transgenic model to study modulation of stress-regulated gene expression in the PVN by opiates. Acute or subacute morphine administration prior to a hypertonic saline stress produced marked superinduction of transgene expression compared with hypertonic saline stress alone. In contrast, chronic morphine administration decreased basal expression of the transgene, and inhibited stress-induced expression of the transgene. The endogenous proenkephalin mRNA was induced in parallel with the transgene as demonstrated by in situ hybridization; the immediate-early gene c-fos was also regulated in parallel with the transgene. These data suggest that acute or subacute morphine administration sensitizes proenkephalin neurons within the PVN and other regions of the hypothalamus to stress and that chronic morphine administration desensitizes this response. Because the molecular mechanisms regulating the expression of the transgene are well understood, this model provides a useful tool for investigating cellular and molecular effects of opioids on the hypothalamus.
Using a two-spot tracking system that allowed measurements of the direction of a rat's head in the environment as well as the position of the rat's head, we investigated whether hippocampal place cells show true direction-specific as well as location-specific firing. Significant modulations of firing rate by head direction were seen for most cells while rats chased food pellets in a cylindrical apparatus. It was possible, however, to account quantitatively for directional modulation with a simple scheme that we refer to as the &quot;distributive hypothesis.&quot; This hypothesis assumes that firing is ideally location specific, and that all directional firing modulations are due to differences in the time that the rat spends in different portions of the firing field of the place cell in different head direction sectors. When the distributive hypothesis is put into numeric form, the directional firing profiles that it predicts are extremely similar to the observed directional firing profiles, strongly suggesting that there is no intrinsic directional specificity of place cell firing in the cylinder. Additional recordings made while rats ran on an eight-arm maze reveal that many firing fields on the arms are polarized; the cell discharges more rapidly when the rat runs in one direction than the other on the maze. This result provides an independent confirmation of the findings of McNaughton et al. (1983). For fields that appear to be polarized by inspecting firing rate maps of the raw data, the magnitude of directional firing variations is greater than predicted by the distributive hypothesis. By comparison with postsubicular head direction cells, it is shown that the distributive prediction of weaker-than-observed directional firing is expected if there is a true directional firing component. A major conclusion reached from recording in both environments is that the directional firing properties of hippocampal place cells are variable and not fixed; this is true of individual units as well as of the population.
Several studies have suggested that the function of glutamate receptor channels can be regulated by protein phosphorylation. Furthermore, a basal level of phosphorylation may be necessary to maintain receptor function. Little is known, however, about the phosphorylation state of glutamate receptor channels in neurons and how it is regulated by synaptic activity. In this study, we have investigated the phosphorylation of the AMPA-preferring glutamate receptor subunit GluR1 in cortical neurons in primary culture. These neurons elaborate extensive processes, form functional synapses, and exhibit spontaneous 4-8 sec bursts of synaptic activity every 15-20 sec. In cultures in which this synaptic activity was suppressed by tetrodotoxin and MK-801, the GluR1 protein was phosphorylated on serine residues within a single tryptic phosphopeptide, as determined by phosphoamino acid analysis and phosphopeptide mapping. This same peptide was basally phosphorylated in recombinant GluR1 receptors transiently expressed in human embryonal kidney 293 cells. Treatment of these synaptically inactive cortical neurons with the adenylyl cyclase activator forskolin resulted in a robust increase in phosphorylation on serine residues on a phosphopeptide distinct from the basally phosphorylated peptide. Again, this same phosphopeptide was observed in recombinant GluR1 receptors isolated from 293 cells coexpressing the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Spontaneous synaptic activity in cultures of cortical neurons resulted in a consistent, rapid (within 10-30 sec) increase in phosphorylation on serine and threonine residues. Interestingly, these phosphopeptides were also phosphorylated when neurons from inactive cultures were stimulated with phorbol esters, which activate protein kinase C. These results indicate that AMPA receptors containing the GluR1 subunit may be regulated by extracellular signals working through the cAMP second messenger system as well as by synaptic activity, possibly acting through protein kinase C. Such regulation by protein phosphorylation may be involved in short-term changes in synaptic efficacy thought to involve the functional modulation of AMPA receptors.
The introduction of microwave energy into the scientist's repertoire of fixation modalities offers for the first time in relatively large specimens the potential for 'instantaneous' preservation of cellular structure for light and electron microscopy with minimal alteration of cellular biochemistry and antigenicity. Because of the rapid evolution of this new technology, we provide a classification system of newly generated microwave methods as applied to specimen preservation for microscopic analysis. With emphasis on neuronal tissue, we review qualitative and quantitative microscopy data of specimens fixed by two microwave methods in common use: (1) microwave stabilization and (2) fast and ultrafast, primary microwave-chemical fixation. In addition, we provide a table of neuropeptides or proteins in neuronal tissues that are preserved by various microwave fixation methods for histochemistry, immunohistochemistry, and immuno-electron microscopy studies. Commercial microwave ovens have limitations which can result in irreproducible fixation results. Therefore, we present a calibration protocol that is used to identify the best locations for fixation within large cavity (i.e., household) microwave ovens. We also provide a standardization protocol to improve the reproducibility of microwave fixation in calibrated, large-cavity microwave ovens.
The effects of the microwave antigen-retrieval method were investigated for five antibodies commonly used in neurosciences, i.e., Parvalbumin, Calbindin D28-K, MAP-2, MAP-5 and SMI-32. Immunocytochemical stainings were performed on free-floating vibratome sections of tissue which had been stored in fixative for as long as 10 months to compare the effects of microwave treatment in one of the different metal solutions or in distilled water. Microwave treatment of free-floating vibratome sections led to a severe wrinkling of the sections. Therefore the possibility of pretreatment of a thick tissue slice before vibratome sectioning was investigated. We conclude that microwave pretreatment of tissue slices in an aluminium chloride solution is the preferable antigen-retrieval procedure for the examined antibody staining when the immunocytochemical staining is lost or markedly reduced after storage in formaldehyde fixative for a long period. In particular SMI-32 and MAP-2, but also Parvalbumin staining, improved enormously after such a pretreatment.
This paper gives an overview of Microwave Applications in the Neurosciences and introduces this issue of the Journal of Neuroscience Methods. Emphasis is laid on: temperature, hotspots, hazards and cycle times in the use of the microwave oven. Consequences of the tissue dimensions and masking of antigens are discussed. Special problems encountered are: bulk preparation of specimens, brain electron microscopy, cooling of specimens during microwaving and the combination of microwave techniques. The recent developments discussed are vacuum-microwave application for large brain specimens and antigen retrieval.
Surgical intervention is an acceptable treatment modality for children with intractable epilepsy. However, many children require a complicated evaluation process that involves placement of intracranial electrodes for purpose of extraoperative recording. The management of the child undergoing extraoperative electroencephalography (EEG) monitoring requires active participation by the nursing staff. An understanding of the electrode placement and functional mapping, proper preparation of the child and family and early detection of complications by nursing staff members is necessary to ensure a successful and safe evaluation.

Cytochrome P450IIB1,2 (nomenclature according to Nelson et al., DNA Cell Biol 12:1-51, 1993 and Volk et al., Neuroscience 42:215-235, 1991) immunoreactivity (P450-IR) is associated with astrocytes both in vivo and in vitro. Although they are unevenly distributed throughout the brain with a preference for phylogenetically elder parts, no significant differences between astrocytes prepared from different brain regions were observed in astrocyte cultures. The percentage of strongly immunoreactive astrocytes decreased from 40% after 7 days in culture to 15% after 21 days. Essentially all astrocytes have a low but significant P450-IR within this interval. Preembedding immunoelectron microscopy revealed peroxidase reaction products on the endoplasmic reticulum and on the outer membranes of mitochondrial and nuclear envelopes. Phenytoin (1 microM) added to the medium for 7 days significantly (1.22-fold) increased the amount of total P450 in astrocyte homogenates as measured by spectrophotometry. Considerably more immunoreactive cells (1.5-fold) were found in treated cultures than in controls.
Investigations of myelin disorders, in particular multiple sclerosis (MS), have concentrated on immunemediated damage to formed myelin, while there has been less emphasis on the molecular genetics of myelin formation. We have generated a transgenic mouse mutant (designated 2-50) which carries an insertional mutation in a locus regulating myelination. These mice carry a transgene comprising 1.3 Kb of the mouse myelin basic protein (MBP) promoter conjugated to a fragment containing exons 2 and 3 of the human c-myc gene. Positive mice show a significant reduction in myelin compared to controls and a shivering phenotype. Unlike other myelin mutants, all 2-50 mice lose the shivering phenotype and breed normally. Expression of c-myc is detectable in only 65% of transgene-carrying mice, and when present occurs at extremely low levels. This shows that the phenotype is caused by insertional inactivation of a gene necessary for myelination rather than ectopic expression of the transgene. The transgene was found by in situ hybridization to be inserted into a single site which is very distally located on chromosome 9. The 2-50 mice represent a unique model which will be ideal for investigating the molecular basis of myelin assembly and for developing gene therapy to promote remyelination in conditions such as MS.
Seventeen adult patients (16 years of age and over) with medulloblastoma were managed at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre between 1981 and 1992. Nine patients were males and eight were females. The average age at diagnosis was 26.7 years; the females were younger than the males. The average duration of history before diagnosis was 14.5 weeks, the females presenting earlier than the males. The tumors were located in the midline (9) and the hemispheres (8). Nine patients had the desmoplastic variant and eight had standard primitive neuroectodermal tumor. Hydrocephalus developed in 14 of the patients only seven of whom required a shunting procedure. All patients had either subtotal or gross total removal of the tumor. Sixteen patients had postoperative radiation therapy; one patient refused radiation therapy. Two patients had chemotherapy following recurrence of the tumor. The clinical presentation, radiological studies, histological variants, treatment and outcome are discussed in this report.
Systemic administration of dopamine antagonists increases the activity of some dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra, and this effect is thought to occur through two potential mechanisms: 1) local blockade of dopamine acting at somatodendritic autoreceptors or 2) blockade of receptors on postsynaptic targets in the striatum, resulting in long-loop feedback modulation. Several studies have provided evidence that the major influence is via striatonigral feedback. In this study, we tested the latter model by comparing the actions of systemically administered dopamine antagonists on dopamine neuron activation after removing striatonigral feedback. Systemic administration of either haloperidol or of the dopamine D2-specific antagonist sulpiride caused significant increases in the firing rate of many dopamine neurons recorded both in intact rats and in rats with hemisection of the striatonigral projection. Dopamine cells recorded in hemisected rats did not show consistent differences in either the proportion of cells excited or in the magnitude of the excitation produced by antagonist administration. The magnitude of dopamine cell excitation occurring with antagonist administration was dependent on the spontaneous firing rate of the recorded cell, with slow-firing neurons generally exhibiting the largest excitatory responses. These results provide evidence that blockade of dopamine neurons in the striatum is not the primary mechanism by which systemically administered dopamine antagonists excite dopamine neurons. Thus, dopamine antagonists most likely increase dopamine cell firing rate by blockade of somatodendritic autoreceptors, suggesting that the basal activity of the cells is dependent in part on dendritically released dopamine within the substantia nigra.
1. When seated human subjects abducted one arm rapidly in response to a tone there was successively a burst of electromyographic (EMG) activity in the deltoid and latissimus dorsi muscles followed by another burst in the deltoid muscle. This triphasic pattern is typical of a ballistic 'focal movement'. There were also bursts of EMG activity in the contralateral latissimus dorsi, pectoralis major and abdominal muscles, which were assumed to be 'associated postural adjustments'. The same bilateral pattern of muscle activity occurred in a deafferented subject. 2. When subjects abducted the left arm rapidly, magnetic stimulation over the left motor cortex delayed the onset of the EMG burst in the right latissimus dorsi relative to the initial burst in the left deltoid. When subjects abducted the right arm rapidly, magnetic stimulation over the left motor cortex delayed the onset of the initial EMG burst in the right deltoid relative to the burst in the left latissimus. In each case, the delay of an EMG burst was greatest (about 80 ms) when the stimulus was given just before the burst was expected to occur. The inhibition of voluntary movements by transcranial stimulation was not associated with a reduction in the excitability of spinal motoneurons. 3. We conclude that focal ballistic movements and their associated postural adjustments are generated in exactly the same way. We postulate that these movements are preprogrammed, held in a memory until the 'go' signal and then released through both motor cortices to spinal motoneurons.
1. Tight seal, whole-cell recordings from auditory cortex in vivo and in vitro were obtained to investigate modification of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated synaptic activity by paired-pulse afferent stimulation. 2. In recordings from urethane-anaesthetized rats (at 37 degrees C), or from cortical slices maintained in vitro (32 degrees C), afferent stimulation elicited a monosynaptic early EPSP and polysynaptic early and late IPSPs. In addition, a late EPSP could be elicited when the stimulus was preceded by an identical priming stimulus (interval approximately 200 ms). The late EPSP was attenuated by the NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV, 50 microM). 3. Bath application of the gamma-aminobutyric acid-B (GABAB) receptor antagonist 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-hydroxy-propylsulphonic acid (2-OH-saclofen; 50 microM) attenuated the late IPSP and clearly revealed a late EPSP. However, 2-OH-saclofen had lesser effects on the second late EPSP elicited during paired-pulse stimulation. Membrane depolarization in 2-OH-saclofen increased the magnitude of the early IPSP, which suppressed the late EPSP once again. Since pharmacological blockade of EPSPs revealed paired-pulse depression of monosynaptically elicited early and late IPSPs, these data indicate that (1) both early and late IPSPs were capable of suppressing the late EPSP, and (2) these effects were reduced during paired-pulse stimulation. 4. Pharmacological isolation of the late EPSP allowed testing of the direct effect of paired-pulse stimulation. Application of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX, 20 microM), picrotoxin (10 microM) and 2-OH-saclofen (50 microM) isolated the late EPSP (onset, 3 ms; peak latency, 28 ms; peak amplitude, 7 mV; duration, 240 ms), which grew in magnitude with membrane depolarization and was largely (&gt; 90%) blocked by APV. Paired-pulse stimulation depressed the isolated late EPSP by 30%. 5. Thus, apparent paired-pulse facilitation of the late EPSP is attributable to release from GABAergic inhibition, and not to direct facilitation. Facilitation of the late EPSP is a functional consequence of IPSP depression. The results indicate the importance of inhibition in regulating synaptic activity mediated by NMDA receptors.
Increasing interest in endothelialization of synthetic and tissue cardiovascular prostheses in vitro emphasizes the need for simple and rapid methods to evaluate presence of endothelium on surfaces. Scanning electron microscopy is a commonly used method for this purpose. In this study we investigated alternative and more rapid staining methods. Human saphenous vein endothelial cells in culture and on cardiovascular prosthetic materials (pyrolytic carbon, cusps of bioprosthetic heart valves, pig aorta, and expanded polytetrafluoroethylene) were labeled by exposing them to medium containing 5-chloromethylfluorescein diacetate or 1,1-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindo carbocyanine perchlorate. For comparison, specimens were also fixed and processed for scanning electron microscopy. A bright fluorescence of endothelial cells labeled with 5-chlormethylfluorescein diacetate or 1,1-deoctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindo carbocyanine perchlorate wre clearly visualized in culture, on pyrolytic carbon, and on expanded polytetrafluoroethylene. Unfixed, prelabeled cells could be visualized immediately and unlabeled cells could be investigated for viability within 1 hour. Cells seeded on biologic tissue specimens could be visualized within 15 minutes with a modified hematoxylin-eosin staining. We suggest the use of these methods for rapid visualization of endothelium present on surfaces of cardiovascular prosthetic materials where they can partly replace the use of scanning electron microscopy.
A simple polymerase chain reaction (PCR) approach was developed for detection of Type D simian retrovirus (SRV) serogroup 2 proviral DNA using peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) obtained from infected macaques. PCR primer pairs were developed against serogroup 2 envelope (env) gene sequence, and fidelity of PCR fragment amplification was determined using molecularly cloned SRV serogroup 2 (D2/RHE/OR) DNA, and genomic DNA from Raji cells independently infected with different SRV serogroups. One primer pair exhibiting high fidelity was then utilized for PCR detection of serogroup 2 proviral DNA from PBLs, and from cells sorted into immune cell subpopulations by fluorescent-activated cell sorting (FACS). Env PCR fragments were readily detected from as few as 10(4) PBLs or immune cell subpopulations. In addition, highly specific PCR primers against serogroups 1 and 3 were utilized to detect proviral DNA from Raji cells infected with SRV serogroups. In all cases, primers designed to amplify serogroups 1, 2, and 3 proviral DNA were specific for their intended serogroup. This primer information and development of a PCR approach for detection of specific SRV proviral DNA will be of potential utility as a rapid surveillance tool in monitoring type D simian retrovirus infection within Asian macaque colonies.

To analyze the molecular mechanism of pattern formation in the anteriormost regions of the zebrafish embryo, we isolated two zebrafish sequences, zOtx1 and zOtx2, related to the Drosophila orthodenticle (otd) and two murine Otx genes. zOtx1 and zOtx2 encode predicted gene products which are 82% and 94% identical to the corresponding mouse proteins. Transcripts of both zebrafish genes appear abruptly at high levels in a triangular patch at the animal pole of the mid-gastrula, a region which contains cells fated to become midbrain and forebrain. Between 9 and 14 h of development, zOtx transcripts disappear from forebrain regions in a manner characteristic for each gene, and from 14 to 24 h, particular regions of the forebrain and midbrain express one or both genes. The posterior limit of expression of both genes in 10-30-h embryos forms a sharp boundary at the posterior border of the midbrain. As in the mouse, the early expression patterns of the zOtx genes are consistent with a role in defining midbrain and forebrain territories. However, there are a number of interesting differences between the forebrain and midbrain regions which express the genes in the two species.
Activities of choline acetyltransferase, acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase were studied in the frontal cortex, temporal cortex, cerebellum and caudate nucleus obtained at autopsy from eight alcoholic cirrhotic patients who died in hepatic coma and from an equal number of age-matched subjects free from hepatic, neurological or psychiatric disorders. Activities of these enzymes were unaltered in the brains of cirrhotics compared to controls. Choline acetyltransferase and cholinesterase activities were also studied in the cerebral cortex, cerebellum, brain stem and striatum of rats four weeks following portacaval anastomosis and their sham-operated controls. Portacaval-shunting did not cause any statistically significant differences in the activities of choline acetyltransferase, acetyl or butyrylcholinesterases. These results argue against a presynaptic cholinergic lesion in human and experimental portal-systemic encephalopathy.
Hexokinase I (ATP:D-hexose 6-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.1) is the first enzyme required in the metabolism of glucose in the central nervous system and plays a major role in regulation of the cerebral glycolytic rate. The distribution of hexokinase I mRNA was examined throughout the central nervous system of the rat by use of oligonucleotide probes and in situ hybridization histochemistry. In the rhinencephalon, strong hexokinase I mRNA labeling was demonstrated in the glomerular, mitral, internal granular, and internal plexiform layers, whereas the olfactory nerve, external plexiform, and subependymal layers and ependyma were devoid of labeling. Within the telencephalon, strong labeling was present in all layers (with the exception of the molecular layer) of the cerebral cortex, in the septum, in CA1-4 and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, and in several amygdaloid nuclei. There was only weak labeling in the nucleus accumbens and caudate putamen. In the diencephalon, there was in general a strong labeling in the epithalamus, in several thalamic nuclei, including the anteriodorsal, anterioventral, anteriomedial, reticular, paravetricular, intermediodorsal, anteriomedial, interanteriomedial, rhomboid, reuniens, and parafascicular thalamic nuclei. Several hypothalamic regions, including the subfornical organ, the medial preoptic area, the suprachiasmatic, supraoptic, paraventricular, dorsomedial, ventromedial nuclei, and the zona incerta, were strongly labeled. In the mesencephalon, there was particularly strong labeling in the pars compacta and reticulata of the substantia nigra, central gray, and red nucleus, in the Darkschewitsch nucleus, and in the medial accessory oculomotor nucleus. In the rhombencephalon, there was strong hybridization in all raphe nuclei, pontine, tegmental, lateral parabrachial, olivary nuclei, and several cranial motor nuclei. All neurons of the locus ceruleus were heavily labeled. Very strong labeling was present in Purkinje and granular cells of the cerebellar cortex. Neurons of the medulla oblongata area postrema, nucleus tractus solitarius, reticular nucleus, nucleus cuneatus and several motor nuclei were strongly labeled. In the spinal cord, labeled cells were present in all laminae, and also neurons of the dorsal root ganglion were heavily labeled. Hexokinase I mRNA was also demonstrated in the epithelium lining the the choroid plexus. In the E15 fetus, very strong labeling was seen in the liver, heart, and trigeminal ganglion, with less intense labeling in in the brain and other tissues having more moderate labeling. Administration of 2% saline as drinking water resulted in a marked increase in hexokinase I mRNA in the magnocellular neurons of the supraoptics and paraventricular nuclei. In summary, the results show extensive neuronal distribution of hexokinase I mRNA with regional differences in the expression pattern.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor is unique among the ligand-gated ion channels, in that the gating process requires the binding of two independent coagonists, glutamate and glycine. Receptor binding experiments have suggested that the coagonist recognition sites interact with one another in an allosteric manner, and previous work in this laboratory has provided additional functional support in favor of an allosteric coupling; the affinity of glutamate for its recognition site was reduced when a partial agonist, (+)-HA-966, occupied the glycine site, compared with the affinity when glycine itself was bound to the receptor. The present experiments have taken these observations a step further and compare the effects of several glycine site ligands with different affinities and intrinsic activities (determined from equilibrium concentration-response curves) on glutamate off-rate. Thus, the dissociation rate for the decay of glutamate-activated membrane currents in voltage-clamped rat cortical neurons was fastest (160 +/- 28 msec) in the presence of saturating concentrations of (+)-HA-966 and progressively slower in the presence of D-cycloserine (258 +/- 27 msec), aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (330 +/- 21 msec), L-alanine (375 +/- 28 msec), and glycine (502 +/- 42 msec). We have also measured the affinities and intrinsic activities of several NMDA receptor ligands and report that a reciprocal interaction exists, such that the off-rate of glycine is influenced by the properties of the agonist occupying the glutamate coagonist site. Thus, the time constant for current decay after a brief exposure to glycine was fastest in the presence of a saturating concentration of cis-2,3-piperidinedicarboxylic acid (449 +/- 26 msec) and progressively slower in the presence of quinolinate (689 +/- 73 msec), NMDA (721 +/- 36 msec), and L-glutamate (1260 +/- 36 msec). The data suggested that the extent of the modulation of one site by the other is related to the intrinsic activity of the agonist, rather than its affinity. Specifically, we suggest that a partial agonist occupying one of the agonist recognition sites produces a conformational change that results in an accelerated off-rate for coagonist dissociation from the receptor; the lower the intrinsic activity, the greater is the effect on coagonist off-rate.
Melanocortins (MCs) have various physiological actions on the brain. The recent cloning of neural MC receptors opened new avenues to study the effects of these neuropeptides on the nervous system. Here we investigated the structure-activity relationships (SARs) of peptides derived from adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) with cloned MC3 and MC4 receptors in vitro and correlated these with central effects of MCs in vivo. Analysis of the effects of various MC peptides on cAMP accumulation in and binding to cells that expressed either the rat MC3 receptor or the human MC4 receptor demonstrated that ACTH-4-9-NH2 was the core sequence of ACTH able to activate these receptors. Furthermore, gamma-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) displayed selectivity for the MC3 receptor, whereas [D-Phe7]ACTH-4-10 more efficiently activated the MC4 receptor than the MC3 receptor. The activities of MC fragments that lacked the three carboxyl-terminal amino acids (residues 11-13) of ACTH-1-13 were much lower than that of alpha-MSH, for both receptors. Furthermore, the three amino-terminal amino acids (residues 1-3) of alpha-MSH were more important for full activation of the MC4 receptor, compared with the MC3 receptor. The SAR for the MC4 receptor resembled that for the induction of excessive grooming behavior by MC peptides. Therefore, we suggest that this behavioral response is mediated by MC4 receptors. The SAR for the MC3 receptor did not overlap with that for in vivo effects of MCs. ORG2766, an ACTH-4-9 analog that is very potent in an active avoidance task, did not activate, antagonize, or bind to the MC3 and MC4 receptors. This suggests the presence of still other MC receptors, in addition to the MC3 and MC4 receptors, in the brain. These data identify peptides with selectivity for either the MC3 receptor or the MC4 receptor, which may be used for development of novel MC receptor-specific ligands. Furthermore, this is the first report that discusses behavioral effects of MCs in light of data on cloned MC receptors.
The present study investigates the comparative repopulation kinetics of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)1A, 5-HT1B, and 5-HT2A receptors in rat cortex homogenates after irreversible receptor inactivation by N-ethoxycarbonyl-1,2-ethoxydihydroquinoline. Adult male rats were administered a single subcutaneous dose of vehicle (1:1 ethanol/water) or N-ethoxycarbonyl-1,2-ethoxydihydroquinoline (10 mg/kg), and the recovery of 5-HT receptor subtypes was measured at various times after injection (4-336 hr). Despite comparable control Bmax values for 5-HT1A (84 +/- 2 fmol/mg of protein) and 5-HT1B (94 +/- 4 fmol/mg) subtypes, marked differences were noted in their 1) receptor production rates (r = 0.349 versus 0.235 fmol/mg of protein/hr), 2) receptor degradation rate constants (k = 0.0056 versus 0.0033 hr-1), and 3) half-lives of receptor recovery (124.1 versus 212.5 hr). For 5-HT2A receptors, both r and k for agonist [(+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-[125I]iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane]- or antagonist ([3H]ketanserin)-labeled sites were markedly greater than the respective values for the 5-HT1 subtypes. In addition, the significantly different Bmax values for agonist- versus antagonist-labeled 5-HT2A receptors (79 +/- 4 versus 206 +/- 10 fmol/mg) were reflected exclusively as a 2.6-fold difference in receptor production rates, because degradation rate constants (k) were identical. Moreover, the stoichiometry of agonist-labeled to antagonist-labeled 5-HT2A receptors was not altered at any time point during recovery. These data indicate that 1) comparable receptor steady state Bmax values for 5-HT receptor subtypes may be due to markedly different receptor kinetic parameters (r and k), 2) differences in r and k are greater between 5-HT receptor families (i.e., 5-HT1 versus 5-HT2) than among subtypes within a family (i.e., 5-HT1A versus 5-HT1B), and, 3) despite marked changes in 5-HT2A receptor density, the percentage of receptors in the agonist-labeled, high affinity state is maintained.
Chronic exposure to benzodiazepines can result in an &quot;uncoupling&quot; of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors and benzodiazepine receptors (BzR) both in primary neuronal cell cultures and in vivo. The effect of chronic exposure to BzR ligands was examined in an engineered cell line (WSS-1) stably expressing &quot;type I&quot; GABAA receptors. Chronic exposure to flurazepam produced a concentration- (EC50, approximately 1.1 microM after a 48-hr exposure) and time-dependent (t1/2, approximately 3 hr at 100 microM) reduction in the efficacy (Emax) of GABA to enhance [3H]flunitrazepam binding to BzR, a characteristic of uncoupling in native GABAA receptor isoforms. Uncoupling of GABAA receptors and BzR without concomitant changes in BzR density was also produced by chronic exposure to other, structurally diverse, BzR ligands, including Ro 15-1788 and methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate, but was not manifested after exposure to the 5-hydroxytryptamine reuptake blocker fluoxetine. Chronic (12-48-hr) exposure to flurazepam did not remarkably alter levels of alpha 1 and gamma 2 mRNAs, which constitute GABAA receptors in this cell line. Based on these findings, it is hypothesized that uncoupling of GABAA receptors and BzR in this engineered cell line can proceed without the elaboration of additional novel subunits and could involve either post-translational modification of GABAA receptor proteins or changes in subunit stoichiometry.
TG-1 is a monoclonal antibody (mAb) raised against paired helical filaments purified from Alzheimer's Disease (AD) brain by immunoaffinity chromatography. By immunocytochemistry, TG-1 reveals abundant staining of neuronal nuclei in AD brain, but little or no staining in normal brain. TG-1 stained nuclei are observed in areas of AD brain with neurofibrillary pathology and in certain neurones that are not normally affected. Biochemical studies with TG-1 show antigens of 32-38 kDa in pellets and 50 kDa in supernatants from brain, with no obvious differences between normal and AD. TG-1 also recognizes an unusual structure, i.e., a 'starburst' in brain tissue from AD and elderly normals. Starbursts are not immunoreactive for the astrocytic marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and are not associated with amyloid. Widespread nuclear staining is observed with TG-1 in rat brain, and the immunoreactive antigens in purified nuclei are similar to those in human brain. Thus, TG-1 identifies neuronal nuclear antigens that are altered in AD, and provides a new avenue for studying pathogenic mechanisms in the disease.
We previously demonstrated that antidepressant drugs (ADs) cause Ca2+ release from inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-sensitive Ca2+ stores in cultured neurons of rat frontal cortex. The present study examines the mechanism by which tricyclic ADs activate phospholipase C (PLC) in rat frontal cortex. Using an exogenous substrate to measure PLC activity, we demonstrated that a tricyclic AD, imipramine, stimulated PLC activity of the frontal cortex membrane in a concentration-dependent manner. Two tricyclic ADs, desipramine and amitriptyline, also stimulated PLC activity, while Li+ or pargyline had no effect on PLC activity. Although imipramine did not activate PLC in the membrane in the absence of Ca2+, imipramine synergistically activated PLC in the presence of Ca2+. This result indicates that the mechanism of PLC activation by imipramine is different from its activation by Ca2+. Imipramine stimulated PLC activity in the cytosol of rat frontal cortex as well as in the membrane. Preincubation of the cytosol with anti-PLC-beta 1 antibody prevented the imipramine-mediated activation of PLC. However, preincubation with anti-PLC-gamma 1 or anti-PLC-delta 1 did not prevent activation of PLC. These results suggest that imipramine activates PLC-beta 1 directly without receptor or guanine nucleotide binding protein mediation.
The chronic administration of disulfiram (DS) to rats resulted in significant decrease of synaptosomal Ca2+, Mg(2+)-ATPase activity. In vitro studies indicated that DS (ID50 = 20 microM) produced a dose-dependent inhibition of Ca2+, Mg(2+)-ATPase. However, diethyldithio-carbamate, a metabolite of DS, failed to modify Ca2+, Mg(2+)-ATPase activity, implying that the decrease in ATPase activity in DS administered rats was due to the effect of parent compound. The DS-mediated inhibition (48%) of ATPase activity was comparable with a similar degree of inhibition (49%) achieved by treating the synaptosomal membranes with N-ethylmaleimide (ID50 = 20 microM) in vitro. Furthermore, the inhibition by DS was neither altered by washing the membranes with EGTA nor reversed by treatment with sulfhydryl reagents such as GSH or dithiothreitol. About 74% and 68% decrease of synaptosomal Ca2+, Mg(2+)-ATPase specific activity was observed when treated with DS (30 microM) and EGTA (100 microM) respectively. The remaining 25-30% of total activity is suggested to be of Mg(2+)-dependent ATPase activity. This indicates that both these drugs may act on a common target, calmodulin component that represents 70-75% of total Ca2+, Mg(2+)-ATPase activity. Therefore, DS-mediated modulation of synaptosomal Ca2+, Mg(2+)-ATPase activity could affect its function of maintaining intracellular Ca2+ concentration. This could contribute to the deleterious effects on CNS.
Susceptibility to inflammatory disease in infantile Lewis (LEW/N) female rats seems to be related to their impaired hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response to different inflammatory stimuli, while the relative resistance to this type of disease in Fischer (F344/N) female rats is apparently due to their potent HPA axis response to the same stimuli. In the present study, we attempted to elucidate whether there is an impairment in the HPA axis response in the juvenile female LEW/N rat to inflammatory and noninflammatory stimuli, and also to determine whether the endogenous sex-steroid environment influences the HPA axis function in both strains of rats. For these purposes, juvenile F344/N and LEW/N rats of both sexes were submitted to different treatments: (a) inhalation of normal atmosphere or ether vapors for 1 min (Ether); (b) i.p. injection of vehicle alone or containing CRH (0.5 microgram/rat), arginine vasopressin (AVP; 5 micrograms/rat, angiotensin II (AII; 5 micrograms/rat), insulin (INS; 0.3 IU/rat), bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 100 micrograms/rat) or snake venom (SV; 100 micrograms/rat). Rats were then killed at different time intervals (in min) after treatments: 20 for Ether, AVP and CRH, 30 for AII, 45 for INS, 60 for SV and 120 for LPS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We report an unusual example of Becker muscular dystrophy in which the patient was asymptomatic until his mid-60s, and diagnosis was not made until he was 67 years old. The patient had the unusual deletion of exons 3 to 9 within an actin-binding region of the dystrophin gene, removal or disruption of which is almost invariably associated with a more severe clinical phenotype. Our case illustrates the danger of drawing conclusions about possibly symptomatic deletions without lifelong follow-up.
The sensory neural pathways serving the lip, tongue, and finger are specialized for spatial information processing; thus, damage to these pathways is likely to be manifested most prominently as a loss of spatial acuity. For that reason, accurate measurement of spatial resolution at these regions is particularly important. The conventional test, the two-point discrimination task, does not measure the limit of spatial resolution and it yields variable results because it does not control nonspatial cues. The aim of this study was to quantify the limits of spatial resolution at the lip, tongue, and finger and to study the repeatability of those measurements using a stimulus that does not introduce nonspatial cues. We employed a grating orientation discrimination test, which has been studied extensively in relation to the underlying neural mechanisms. We obtained psychophysical thresholds for tactile spatial resolution from 15 normal, young adult subjects over seven test sessions. The finest gratings whose orientations were discriminated reliably had groove widths (gratings had equal groove and bar widths) that averaged 0.51 mm at the lip, 0.58 mm at the tongue, and 0.94 mm at the finger. These threshold measurements were highly reproducible between sessions with an overall improvement of 2% per session. These data suggest that the grating orientation discrimination task provides a stable, reliable measure of the human capacity for spatial resolution.
L-745,337 [5-methanesulphonamido-6-(2,4-difluorothiophenyl)-1-indan one] a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor reversed hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan in rats without causing gastric ulceration at doses 100 times those causing antinociception. In contrast, piroxicam and indomethacin produced ulcerations at antinociceptive doses. These findings demonstrate that L-745,337 possesses antinociceptive activity but has a reduced liability for gastric ulceration.
An investigation has been made into the effect of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or 'Ecstasy') administration on the concentration of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), uptake of [3H]5-HT and [3H]paroxetine binding in rat cerebral cortex tissue. Four days after 2 injections of MDMA (20 mg/kg i.p., 6 hr apart) the concentrations of 5-HT and its metabolite 5-HIAA were reduced by 60%. The binding of [3H]paroxetine to the presynaptic 5-HT transporter was decreased and high affinity uptake of [3H]5-HT was reduced by a similar amount, indicating neurodegeneration of 5-HT terminals. Pretreatment with chlormethiazole (100 mg/kg i.p.), 10 min before each MDMA injection prevented the decrease in both [3H]parotextine binding and uptake of [3H]5-HT. The loss in 5-HT and 5-HIAA content was also attenuated. Pretreatment with dizocilpine (1 mg/kg i.p.) or haloperidol (2 mg/kg i.p.) also prevented the MDMA-induced loss of [3H]paroxetine binding and attenuated the loss of 5-HT and 5-HIAA content. All three compounds also decreased the degree of hyperthermia that follows MDMA administration, although previous studies suggest that the long term neurodegeneration is not associated with the acute hyperthermic response. These data support the findings of others that MDMA injection produces degeneration of 5-HT nerve terminals in the cortex, confirm that chlormethiazole, dizocilpine and haloperidol attenuate MDMA-induced neurotoxic loss of 5-HT and demonstrate for the first time that these compounds prevent the neurodegeneration of 5-HT nerve terminals that follows MDMA administration.

Densities and distribution of D1-dopamine and D2-dopamine receptors were investigated in vitro using [3H]SCH 23390 and [3H]raclopride in receptor binding assays and autoradiography on human post mortem whole hemisphere slices to serve as anatomical correlates to PET studies using [11C]SCH 23390 and [11C]raclopride. In addition, the levels of dopamine and its metabolites were determined by HPLC in various brain regions. Both dopamine receptor subtypes, as well as dopamine, HVA and DOPAC, were primarily found in the basal ganglia. Very high densities of D1-dopamine receptors were found particularly in the medial caudate nucleus, whereas D2-dopamine receptors were evenly distributed throughout the caudate. The densities of D1- and D2-dopamine receptors were similar in the caudate nucleus and the putamen, whereas there were 4 to 7 times higher densities of the D1- than of the D2-dopamine receptors in several limbic and neocortical regions. The receptor distribution in the autoradiographic study was consistent with that demonstrated in the living human brain using [11C]SCH 23390 and [11C]raclopride.
Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) with expression restricted to specific developmental and structural units of the brain and/or selective neuronal types would play critical roles in the formation of functional neuronal networks. In this article, we summarize recent progress in knowledge on a brain segment-specific CAM, telencephalin (TLN). TLN has the following characteristic properties. (1) TLN is a neuronal glycoprotein whose expression is restricted within telencephalon, the most rostal segment of the brain. (2) TLN is localized to the soma-dendritic membrane of subsets of telencephalic neurons, but not to the axonal membrane. (3) Abrupt appearance of TLN around birth parallels the timing of dendritic development and synapse formation in the telencephalon. (4) TLN belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily and its structure is most closely related to intercellular adhesion molecules (ICAMs)-1 and -3. These findings suggest that TLN is the first example of dendrite-associated cell adhesion molecules (DenCAMs) and that TLN may be involved in the brain segmental organization, cell-cell interactions during dendritic development, and maintenance of functional neuronal networks. We discuss the possibility that TLN is an area code-like address signal that is displayed selectively by telencephalic neurons and is decoded by specific subsets of growing axons to make proper synaptic connections.
With recent cDNA cloning of members of the inward rectifying K+ channel family, it was revealed that they have only 2 putative transmembrane regions with no voltage-sensor element. Based on the deduced primary structure, possible schematic models to explain their characteristic features are proposed in this article. The features are (1) blocking by intracellular Mg2+, (2) intrinsic gating, (3) the triple barrel structure of the inward rectifier K+ channel and (4) the activation by the direct interaction with G-protein subunits of the muscarinic K+ channel. The recent findings of the mutagenesis study of voltage-gated K+ channels, which provide a clue for the structural-functional study of the inward rectifying K+ channels, are also looked at.
During brain development, the microtubule-associated protein tau presents a transient state of high phosphorylation. We have investigated the developmental distribution of the phosphorylated fetal-type tau in the developing rat cortex and in cultures of embryonic cortical neurons, using antibodies which react with tau in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. The phosphorylated fetal-type tau was present in the developing cortex at 20 days but not at 18 days of embryonic life and was not detected before four to five days in neuronal culture. The cyclin-dependent kinase p34cdc2 was expressed only in germinal layers in the embryonic brain and was not co-localized with phosphorylated tau. After 10 days of postnatal life, the phosphorylated tau progressively disappeared from cortical neurons, disappearing first from the deepest cortical layers where neurons are ontogenetically the oldest. Phosphorylated tau was found in axons and dendrites of cortical neurons at all developmental stages whereas unphosphorylated tau tended to disappear from dendrites during development. The timing of appearance of phosphorylated tau in the cortex, by comparison with the expression of other developmental markers, indicates that phosphorylated tau is present at a high level only during the period of intense neuritic outgrowth and that it disappears during the period of neurite stabilization and synaptogenesis, concomitantly to the expression of adult tau isoforms. In control cultures and in cultures treated with colchicine, the phosphorylated tau was not associated to cold-stable and to colchicine-resistant microtubules. These in vivo results suggest that the high expression of phosphorylated tau species is correlated with the presence of a dynamic microtubule network during a period of high plasticity in the developing brain.
We have examined the developing rat, mouse and marmoset globus pallidus for evidence of cells dying by a process of &quot;naturally occurring&quot; or programmed cell death. We have demonstrated that cells in the developing mammalian globus pallidus die by a process of apoptosis and that by day 7 after birth many of the apoptotic cells possess a neuronal phenotype. Light microscopic and ultrastructural evidence of apoptotic cell death included cell shrinkage, blebbing of the extracellular membrane and condensation of the nuclear chromatin. Additionally we used an in situ nick translation method to assess the integrity of the DNA within the dying cells. This revealed that cells with the morphological characteristics of apoptosis also possessed fragmented DNA typical of cells undergoing Type 1 programmed or apoptotic cell death. The lack of lysosomal enzyme activity within the dying cells and the frequent observations of phagocytosis by neighbouring cells also suggest that the form of programmed cell death is apoptosis and not Type 2 autophagic degeneration. We found no evidence for cells dying by Type 3 non-lysosomal degeneration since all dying cells examined under the electron microscope possessed intact intracellular organelles and cell membranes. We developed a sensitive silver stain which detected balls of condensed chromatin within the apoptotic cells. This enabled identification of apoptotic cells in the developing globus pallidus at low magnification and so allowed us to map the numbers and distribution of dying cells with time. The incidence of apoptotic cells in the neonatal globus pallidus was greatest at birth and then declined such that few cells were detected at one week and none was seen in the adult rat. Although the loss of large numbers of cells in the developing nervous system is a well documented phenomenon, there are only a limited number of reports of the mechanism by which neuronal cells die, and few of these are in the developing mammalian brain. There are at least four different morphological categories of neuronal cell death which are discriminated on morphological and biochemical criteria. Our analysis suggests that apoptotic or Type 1 cell death is the major form of programmed cell death occurring in the mammalian globus pallidus in the first week of life. This report also describes the use of two methods for the ready identification of apoptotic cells at the light microscope level. Because these methods are suitable for use on tissue sections they provide a means to assess the incidence of apoptotic cell death, in parallel with other analyses of the expression of gene products which control cell fate.
Pituitary hormones are released in pulses as a result of episodic patterns of electrical activity in neuroendocrine neurons. The mechanisms underlying such pulsatility have, however, been difficult to elucidate. For example, the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons regulating reproductive functioning have a sparse and scattered distribution within the hypothalamus which has made definitive electrophysiological investigation impracticable. Little is known not only of their electrical characteristics, but also of the critical neural components with which they interact to form the so-called &quot;luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone pulse generator&quot;. We have used here a neural modelling approach, based on the FitzHugh-Nagumo model of a single neuron, to provide a simple dynamical network model of this neuroendocrine pulse generator. We have found that the minimal components required to generate pulsatile luteinizing hormone secretion arise from combining luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons with reciprocally connected inhibitory interneurons and an external stimulatory input. Local GABA neurons and ascending noradrenergic and/or adrenergic inputs have been used as the biological basis for these respective components. The network displays a wide repertoire of behaviours comparable with experimental observations, including some thought previously to be paradoxical. The capacity of this model network to display complex behavioural features interpretable against experimental evidence suggests that this type of modelling may become a necessary adjunct to empirical studies of pulsatile neuroendocrine systems.
The behavioural response to intraplantar injection of inflammatory mediators was examined using the rating scale developed to assess formalin-induced pain. Serotonin, bradykinin, prostaglandin E2, substance P and histamine induced dose-dependent favouring of the injected paw. Serotonin, bradykinin and prostaglandin E2 also induced transient dose-dependent paw elevation (lifting) and licking. Noradrenaline produced only a weak favouring response. Serotonin produced a synergistic increase in lifting and licking when combined with any of the other mediators, while all other combinations of agents taken two at a time showed additivity. There was apparent antagonism between some combinations in the favouring response; this may reflect overestimation of the baseline. The data indicate that (i) the overt spontaneous behaviour of rats can be used to evaluate spontaneous pain, (ii) the favouring response and the lifting and licking responses are qualitatively different, the former being similar to hyperalgesia and the latter possibility representing overt pain, (iii) hyperalgesia and overt pain are related, but the generation of overt pain involves specific mechanisms in addition to those required to induce hyperalgesia, and (iv) serotonin may function to enhance the pain-producing effects of inflammatory mediators, even when they lack intrinsic activity. The data show that some inflammatory mediators produce transient overt pain when high doses are injected into normal tissue in rats. Combination of inflammatory mediators with low doses of serotonin produced a synergistic increase in the pain response. The data suggest that serotonin released from platelets in injured tissue plays a central role in the pain associated with injury, and that serotonin antagonists may have promise as peripherally acting analgesics or analgesic adjuncts by blocking a synergistic process involved in algogenesis.
In order to determine which types of spinal neuron produce c-fos in response to noxious stimulation, we have combined pre-embedding detection of c-fos-like immunoreactivity with post-embedding immunocytochemistry using antibodies against GABA and glycine, 2 h after subcutaneous injection of formalin into a hindpaw of anaesthetized rats. Throughout the spinal cord, the majority of c-fos-immunoreactive neurons (72-81%) did not possess GABA- or glycine-like immunoreactivity, while the remaining cells contained one or both types of immunoreactivity. In the superficial dorsal horn (laminae I and II) and dorsal white matter, between 14 and 20% of c-fos-immunoreactive neurons were GABA-immunoreactive, and some of these were also glycine-immunoreactive. A single neuron in lamina I in one animal was glycine- but not GABA-immunoreactive. In the remainder of the spinal cord, between 21 and 35% of the c-fos-immunoreactive cells were GABA- or glycine-immunoreactive, and the majority of these neurons contained both types of immunoreactivity. These results suggest that some inhibitory neurons in both the superficial and deep parts of the dorsal horn are activated by noxious stimuli. It is known that some of the cells which produce c-fos in response to noxious stimulation are projection neurons, with axons ascending to the brainstem or thalamus, however, because of the large number of c-fos-immunoreactive cells in the dorsal horn, it is likely that many are interneurons, and some of these are probably excitatory cells which use glutamate as a transmitter. It therefore appears that after noxious stimulation c-fos is produced in several types of spinal neuron, including projection cells and both excitatory and inhibitory interneurons.
The neuroanatomical basis of opiate addiction has been studied using a variety of behavioural techniques. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of mesolimbic opioid systems, in particular kappa-opioid systems, in the expression of the discriminative stimulus effects of abused drugs. Rats were trained to discriminate morphine (3.0 mg/kg s.c.) from saline under a fixed ratio schedule of food reinforcement. Once rats had acquired the discrimination, a randomized sequence of different doses of the highly selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist U69593 (0.02-0.16 mg/kg s.c.) was given 20 min prior to a systemic morphine injection. U69593 dose-dependently blocked the morphine discrimination. It is important to note that U69593 at these doses failed to generalize to the systemic morphine cue. The site of action by U69593 (0.02-0.16 microgram) was examined by microinjecting discrete amounts into target brain regions. Intra-nucleus accumbens injections of U69593 dose-dependently blocked the systemic morphine cue, whereas, U69593 failed to generalize to the discriminative stimulus. The same doses did not affect morphine discrimination after intra-ventral tegmental area or striatum injections. Besides the rewarding effects of drugs of abuse, the discriminative stimulus properties of these agents are seen as a major factor in drug seeking behaviours. The present study shows that the discriminative effects of morphine, a measure of the subjective effects of this drug can be blocked by the activation of kappa-opioid receptors located in the nucleus accumbens. In view of these findings which show that the activity of endogenous potassium-opioid systems (dynorphin) may serve as physiological antagonists to counteract the effects of morphine, potassium-agonists therefore may be useful in the treatment of opioid addictions.
[3H]L-Glutamate uptake in cultured rat astrocytes was completely reduced by 30 min preincubation with 1 mM of iodoacetic acid, a glycolytic inhibitor. This treatment significantly reduced the energy charge potential, but did not cause membrane destruction in the cultured astrocytes. To examine the effect of iodoacetic acid on the glutamate release, [3H]L-glutamate was preloaded into astrocytes in the presence of methionine sulfoximine, a glutamine synthetase inhibitor, and the total intracellular radioactivity was measured after 30-min treatment with 1 mM iodoacetic acid for comparison with non-treated astrocytes. During the treatment, about 40% of the total intracellular glutamate content was effluxed. This efflux could be decreased by reducing the extracellular potassium ion concentration. The intracellular sodium concentration, measured with a sodium ion-sensitive fluorescent probe (sodium-binding benzofuran isophtalate), gradually increased to 30 mM on addition of 1 mM iodoacetic acid. These results indicate that the glutamate efflux via reversal of the Na(+)-dependent transporter occurred during glycolytic inhibition, and which may be caused by intracellular Na+ overload. Such an iodoacetic acid-induced Na+ overload could be completely diminished by pretreatment with 1 microM 5-[N- ethyl-N-isopropyl]amiloride, a selective Na(+)-H+ antiporter inhibitor, but even this did not stop the iodoacetic acid-induced glutamate efflux. The intracellular pH, measured by a pH-sensitive fluorescent probe [2',7'-bis(carboxyethy)-5,6-carboxy-fluorescein], was gradually decreased to 7.1 by the iodoacetic acid treatment. On the other hand, iodoacetic acid-induced intracellular acidosis was more rapid and severe in the presence of 5-[N-ethyl-N-isopropyl]amiloride. These results suggest that the reversal of the Na+-dependent glutamate transporter may be caused by not only intracellular Na+ overload but also intracellular acidosis.
Serotonin modulates a variety of neural processes, and is present in a subpopulation of neurons in the raphe nuclei. To study their electrophysiological properties, cells from the mesopontine raphe nuclei of the neonatal rat were dissociated and grown for up to 10 weeks in microcultures. Approximately one third of the neurons were identified as serotonergic based on the presence of serotonin immunoreactivity, tryptophan hydroxylase immunoreactivity, or a high affinity monoamine transporter. About 5% of cultured raphe neurons contained tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity, while 25% contained GABA immunoreactivity. However, no neurons contained both serotonin and tyrosine hydroxylase staining, and less than 1% displayed both serotonin and GABA immunoreactivities. Cultured serotonergic neurons did not exhibit pacemaker firing in the presence of alpha 1 adrenergic receptor agonists such as phenylephrine or norepinephrine. Approximately one third were hyperpolarized by serotonin or the selective serotonin1A receptor agonist, (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)tetralin. Virtually all serotonergic neurons responded to application of glutamate, kainate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, GABA, and glycine. Depolarizing and hyperpolarizing synaptic potentials blocked by glutamate or GABAA receptor antagonists were frequently observed in both serotonergic and non-serotonergic raphe neurons. Slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were evoked by activating single presynaptic serotonergic neurons with a brief intracellular current pulse. The slow inhibitory synaptic potential had a mean latency to onset of 35 +/- 5 ms, a duration of 0.8-2.6 s, and was inhibited by the serotonin1A autoreceptor antagonists, (-)propranolol and spiperone. The rising and falling phases of the inhibitory potential could be fit by single exponential functions with mean time constants of 53 +/- 8 ms and 504 +/- 78 ms, respectively. Serotonin1A receptor-mediated autoinhibition was observed in microcultures containing a solitary serotonergic neuron, and thus constituted synaptic serotonin release, responsiveness, and re-uptake by a single vertebrate neuron. In summary, histochemical and electrophysiological evidence was obtained for catecholaminergic, GABAergic, and glutamatergic non-serotonergic raphe neurons in culture, many of which formed functional synaptic connections with neighboring cells. Additionally, cultured mesopontine serotonergic neurons expressed many of the cytochemical markers, neurotransmitter receptors, and synaptic functions observed in such cells in vivo, but the proportion of neurons sensitive to serotonergic and adrenergic agonists was significantly less than that reported in vivo. For the first time, the kinetics and pharmacology of serotonergic synaptic transmission by a single vertebrate serotonergic raphe neuron were determined, and found to resemble those observed after extracellular stimulation of populations of raphe neurons in slices and in vivo.
Recent studies have shown the existence of a specific antagonistic interaction between adenosine A2a receptors and dopamine D2 receptors in the brain. This A2a-D2 interaction seems to be essential for the behavioural effects of adenosine agonists and antagonists, like caffeine. In the present study quantitative receptor autoradiography and brain microdialysis were combined to demonstrate a powerful antagonistic A2a-D2 interaction in the ventral striopallidal system. In the presence of the A2a agonist (2-p-carboxyethyl)phenylamino-5'-N carboxamidoadenosine, dopamine exhibited a lower efficacy in displacing the radiolabelled D2 receptor antagonist [125I]iodosulpiride from the rat ventral striatum, specially in the nucleus accumbens. A tonic dopaminergic modulation of the striopallidal neurons from the ventral striopallidal system was demonstrated by a dual-probe approach, by infusing selective dopamine agonists and antagonists in the nucleus and by measuring dopamine extracellular levels in the nucleus accumbens and GABA extracellular levels in the nucleus accumbens and in the ipsilateral ventral pallidum. The infusion of (2-p-carboxyethyl)phenylamino-5'-N-carboxamidoadenosine in the nucleus accumbens induced the same postsynaptic changes as the D2 antagonist raclopride, i.e. an increase in pallidal GABA extracellular levels, without changing those levels in the nucleus accumbens. Furthermore, the coinfusion in the nucleus accumbens of low concentrations of (2-p-carboxyethyl) phenylamino-5'-N-carboxamido-adenosine and raclopride, which were ineffective when administered alone, induced a significant increase in pallidal gamma-aminobutyric acids extracellular levels. These results suggest that A2a agonists, alone or in combination with D2 antagonists, could be advantageous antischizophrenic drugs, as blockage of D2 receptors in the ventral striopallidal system appears to be associated with the antipsychotic activity of neuroleptics but not with their extrapyramidal motor-side effects.
We employed intracellular electrophysiological techniques to examine the effects of a prolonged anoxia (more than 7 min superfusion with artificial cerebrospinal fluid saturated with 95% N2-5% O2) on dopaminergic neurons of the rat ventral mesencephalon maintained in vitro. A prolonged anoxia caused an inhibition of the spontaneous firing and a sustained (mean 16 min) and slowing declining hyperpolarization of the membrane in 30 dopaminergic cells. This was associated with a decrease of the apparent input resistance at 5, 10, 15 and 20 min of O2 deprivation by 38% (n = 18), 42% (n = 8), 48% (n = 18) and 54% (n = 8) of control, respectively. The continuation of anoxia, 1-4 min after the hyperpolarizing period, induced an irreversible depolarization (n = 8). More than 50% of the cells (17 of 30) fully recovered their electrophysiological properties after 15 min of O2 deprivation. Since the intracellular diffusion of cesium (a potassium channel blocker) was able to block the hyperpolarization and to reveal a depolarization caused by anoxia, we tested whether the blockade of the hyperpolarization modified the resistance of the cells to O2 deprivation. We observed that the cells loaded with cesium were depolarized and damaged in a period of O2 deprivation less than 10 min. The apparent input resistance of these neurons was irreversibly reduced by 36% of the control at 5 min of anoxia (n = 6). Furthermore, in order to ascertain whether an impairment of the sodium/potassium pump due to energy failure is involved in the anoxia-induced depolarization, we blocked the Na+/K+ ATPase pump with the inhibitor ouabain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A considerable number of theoretical and experimental studies have been undertaken to establish quantitative relationships between the time course of postsynaptic potentials in a neuron and the change in firing probability thereby induced. Depending on background synaptic noise level, the time course of the postsynaptic potential per se as well as its time derivative are both of importance in varying proportion. We have recently begun to study recurrent inhibitory potentials in cat hindlimb motoneurons during rhythmically varying rates of stimulation of motor axons. The amplitude-rate relationship exhibits hysteresis in that amplitudes are usually larger during augmenting than decrementing rates in the cycle. We here report results on the other important variable, that is the slope of recurrent inhibitory potential development, which need not a priori be correlated with amplitude. We found that the slope has a relation to stimulus rate similar to amplitude, so that both parameters are correlated. In pentobarbitone anaesthetized or decerebrate cats, intracellular recordings were obtained from hindlimb skeleto-motoneurons. Various hindlimb muscle nerves were prepared for electrical stimulation to elicit recurrent inhibitory potentials, with dorsal roots cut. Test stimulus patterns consisted of repetitive pulse trains whose rates varied, at modulation frequencies between 0.1 and 1.0 Hz, in one of two waveforms: triangular or sinusoidal. Modulation depths were either &quot;full&quot;, with rates varying between a minimum of less than 10 and a maximum of around 50 pulses per s. Or they were about &quot;half&quot; this depth, with mean rates shifted into a &quot;low&quot;, &quot;medium&quot; or &quot;high&quot; rate region. Recurrent inhibitory potentials were averaged with respect to stimuli occurring during different phases of the stimulation cycle. Most often when, throughout the cycle, the amplitude changed in a consistent way, so did the slopes of the inhibitory potentials. That is, when the amplitudes rhythmically declined with increasing and recovered with decreasing stimulus rate, the rate of hyperpolarization followed the same pattern. With prominent hysteresis in amplitude, a corresponding hysteresis appeared in slopes. Hence, amplitude and slopes were correlated, occasionally showing a hysteresis among themselves. To a certain extent, these results can be explained by Renshaw cell behaviour, the contribution of the Renshaw cell-motoneuron synapse being unknown and difficult to assess experimentally. For the inhibitory effect of Renshaw cells on motoneurons (and reciprocal Ia inhibitory interneurons), both its magnitude and its time course probably play an important role in determining the efficacy of counteracting local excitatory inputs. The change in slope of inhibitory potentials, and likely its underlying conductance, during cyclic motoneuron activation can be presumed to significantly contribute to the temporal pattern of discharge of motoneurons, in particular in relation to the prevention of synchronization leading to enhanced tremor.
The morphology and synaptic organization of neurons in the ventroanterior-ventrolateral nucleus of rats was examined using in vivo intracellular staining techniques. Neurons were characterized electrophysiologically based on intrinsic membrane properties and synaptic responses to stimulation of motor cortex and cerebellar nuclei, as described in the companion paper. Cerebellar-responsive neurons were stained intracellularly with either horseradish peroxidase or biocytin. All stained ventroanterior-ventrolateral nucleus neurons were identified as thalamocortical neurons on anatomical (and often electrophysiological) grounds, consistent with previous findings that rat ventroanterior-ventrolateral nucleus is interneuron-sparse. Ventroanterior-ventrolateral nucleus neurons had three to eight thick primary dendrites. Proximal dendrites often exhibited a tufted branching pattern, from which many thinner, higher order dendrites arose. Dendrites branched to form a funnel-like infiltration of the neuropil that resulted in a spherical, roughly homogeneous dendritic field. The axon originated from the cell body or a proximal dendrite and coursed laterally and dorsally to innervate motor cortex. One to five axon collaterals were emitted in the rostral dorsolateral sector of the thalamic reticular nucleus; collaterals were not observed in the ventroanterior-ventrolateral nucleus or other nuclei in dorsal thalamus. The synaptic organization of the ventroanterior-ventrolateral nucleus was examined with electron microscopy, including two intracellularly labeled ventroanterior-ventrolateral nucleus neurons that were shown electrophysiologically to receive monosynaptic inputs from the cerebellum. The neuropil of rat ventroanterior-ventrolateral nucleus lacked the complexity and diversity found in corresponding thalamic nuclei of felines and primates, due to the paucity of interneurons. Vesicle-containing dendrites, dendrodendritic synapses and glomeruli were not observed. Three broad classes of presynaptic terminals were identified. (1) Small round boutons: small boutons containing densely-packed, small round vesicles that formed asymmetric synapses predominantly with the distal dendrites of thalamocortical neurons. These were the most prevalent type of bouton in the ventroanterior-ventrolateral nucleus (78% of presynaptic elements) and likely arose from the cerebral cortex. (2) Large round boutons: large terminals with loosely packed small round vesicles that made multiple asymmetric synapses with proximal and intermediate dendrites. Large round boutons comprised 8% of the neuropil, and likely arose from the cerebellar nuclei. (3) Medium size boutons with pleomorphic vesicles: medium-sized profiles containing pleomorphic vesicles that formed symmetric synapses with proximal, intermediate and distal dendrites and, less frequently, with cell bodies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In vivo intracellular recordings were obtained from identified thalamocortical neurons in the ventroanterior-ventrolateral complex in urethane-anesthetized rats. This thalamic nucleus has few interneurons. Neurons that responded to cerebellar stimulation were injected intracellularly with horseradish peroxidase or biocytin and examined with light and electron microscopy (see companion paper). Intrinsic membrane properties and voltage-dependent rhythmic activity of cerebellar-responsive ventroanterior-ventrolateral neurons were similar to those described previously for thalamic neurons. Thus, in addition to conventional &quot;fast&quot; Na(+)-dependent spikes, rat ventroanterior-ventrolateral neurons had &quot;slow&quot; Ca(2+)-mediated low-threshold spikes and membrane conductances that supported rhythmic oscillations. Two modes of spontaneous activity were observed: (i) a tonic firing pattern that consisted of irregularly occurring fast spikes that predominated when the membrane potential was more positive than about -60 mV, and (ii) a rhythmic firing pattern, observed when the membrane potential was more negative than about -65 mV, composed of periodic (4-8 Hz) membrane hyperpolarizations and ramp depolarizations that often produced a low-threshold spike and a burst of fast spikes. In some neurons, spontaneous fast prepotentials were also observed, often with a relatively constant rate (up to 70 Hz). Cerebellar stimulation elicited excitatory postsynaptic potentials that in some cases appeared to be all-or-none and were similar in form to fast prepotentials. Stimulation of ipsilateral motor cortex elicited a short-latency antidromic response followed by a monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potential, which had a slower rise time than excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked from cerebellum, suggesting that cortical inputs were electrotonically distal to cerebellar inputs. In the presence of moderate membrane hyperpolarization, the cortically evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential was followed by a long-lasting hyperpolarization (100-400 ms duration), a rebound depolarization and one or two cycles resembling spontaneous rhythmic activity. Membrane conductance was increased during the initial component of the long hyperpolarization, much of which was probably due to an inhibitory postsynaptic potential. In contrast, membrane conductance was unchanged or slightly decreased during the latter three-quarters of the long hyperpolarization. The amplitude of this component of the long hyperpolarization usually decreased when the membrane was hyperpolarized with intracellular current injection. Thus, both disfacilitation and an inhibitory postsynaptic potential may have contributed to the latter portion of the cortically-evoked long hyperpolarization. The cortically-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials likely originated predominantly from feedforward activation of GABAergic neurons in the thalamic reticular nuclei.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We examined whether 7-Cl-thio-kynurenate, a potent antagonist at the glycine site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor which also inhibits lipid peroxidation, protected CA1 pyramidal cells following transient forebrain ischemia. Global ischemia was produced in anesthetized gerbils by 5 min bilateral carotid artery occlusion; hippocampal injury was assessed seven days later. 7-Cl-thio-kynurenate (100 mg/kg, i.p. x 5) dramatically attenuated ischemia-induced CA1 cell loss (from 95 +/- 1 to 7 +/- 3%): the protection was associated with a delayed and marked reduction in the animals' temperature. However, when the gerbils were maintained normothermic for at least 360 min, 7-Cl-thio-kynurenate still provided partial (54 +/- 11%) but significant protection. No protection was observed when a reduction in temperature with a time course similar to that caused by 7-Cl-thio-kynurenate was experimentally induced in saline-treated ischemic animals. In situ hybridization revealed that expression of NMDA-R1, a subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, was selectively reduced in CA1 seven days following global ischemia. In ischemic gerbils treated with 7-Cl-thio-kynurenate, protected CA1 cells were still able to express normal amounts of NMDA-R1 messenger RNA. Our results demonstrate that 7-Cl-thio-kynurenate, a glutamate receptor blocker possessing radical scavenger properties, is effective in reducing CA1 hippocampal damage following global ischemia in the gerbil. Since there is growing evidence that a positive feedback interaction between activation of glutamate receptors and free radical formation may be responsible for the generation of ischemic brain damage, drugs capable of interfering with both pathogenic mechanisms may be useful in preventing post-ischemic neuronal death.
Arachidonic acid (20:4) is a component of membrane lipids that has been implicated as a messenger both in physiological and pathophysiological processes, including ischemic injury and synaptic plasticity. In order to clarify direct trophic or toxic effects of arachidonic acid on central neurons, primary cultures of rat hippocampal neurons were exposed to arachidonic acid under chemically-defined conditions. Arachidonic acid present in the culture medium at concentrations over 5 x 10(-6) M showed profound toxicity, whereas at lower concentrations (10(-6) M) it significantly supported the survival of hippocampal neurons. These effects were not mimicked by oleic acid (18:1) or palmitic acid (16:0). The toxic action of 10(-5) M arachidonic acid was markedly and significantly prevented by a lipoxygenase inhibitor nordihydroguaiaretic acid (10(-6) M). AA861 and baicalein (each at 10(-6) M), a selective inhibitor for 5- and 12-lipoxygenase, respectively, also showed a significant protective effect, whereas cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin (10(-5) M) had no effect. The toxic action was also prevented by an antioxidant alpha-tocopherol (10(-6) M), but not by superoxide dismutase (100 U/ml) or catalase (200 U/ml). The trophic effect of 10(-6) M arachidonic acid was not suppressed by the treatments listed above. At lower concentrations (10(-7)-10(-6) M), arachidonic acid promoted neurite elongation, which was not inhibited by nordihydroguaiaretic acid or indomethacin. Overall, arachidonic acid has both trophic and toxic actions on cultured hippocampal neurons, part of which involves its metabolism by lipoxygenases. The mechanisms and the physiological significance of these effects are discussed.
We recently found that adrenal medulla grafts implanted into the hippocampus of rats survived for several months and significantly decreased the deficits produced by hippocampal lesions in the radial maze test [Jousselin-Hossaja et al. (1994) Neuroscience 59, 275-284]. These grafts contained choline acetyltransferase immunopositive chromaffin cells and received cholinergic innervation. In the experiments reported here, adrenal medulla grafts implanted in lesioned hippocampus were treated with cholinergic differentiation factor/leukemia inhibitory factor. In the presence of this factor, the number of chromaffin cells with cholinergic phenotypes increased as well as the beneficial effects of the grafts on the performances of rats in the radial maze. These results suggest that the functional effects of adrenal medulla grafted into the hippocampus set into play cholinergic mechanisms. The cholinergic differentiation factor/leukemia inhibitory factor may also have facilitated the survival and recovery of cholinergic neurons in the host tissue. However, due to the large range of action of this cytokine and the richness of the adrenal medulla contents, non cholinergic factors are also probably involved. Our results may help to elucidate the functions of the cholinergic differentiation factor/leukemia inhibitory factor since they provide the first indication that its intracerebral injection may have behavioral effects. Moreover, our data confirm the possibility of improving the efficiency of adrenal medulla implants in the central nervous system by appropriate treatments, not only by facilitating survival but also by selectively amplifying some potential factors of the graft. This might greatly enlarge the field of this grafting technique for analysing the normal functioning of the brain and for repairing it.
Three groups of marmosets were trained to perform a series of visual discrimination tasks in a Wisconsin General Test Apparatus. Two groups then received bilateral lesions of the basal nucleus of Meynert using the excitotoxin N-methyl-D-aspartate and were found to be severely impaired on relearning a visual discrimination first learnt prior to surgery. One lesioned group then received grafts of acetylcholine-rich tissue dissected from the basal forebrain of fetal marmosets. Three months later the marmosets with lesion alone remained impaired on a number of retention and reversal tasks whereas the transplanted animals were no longer significantly impaired. Histological examination of the brains indicated that all lesioned animals had sustained substantial loss of the cholinergic neurons of the basal nucleus of Meynert (assessed by nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity) and that the lesion-alone animals showed marked loss of the cholinergic marker acetylcholinesterase in the dorsolateral frontal and parietal cortex. All transplanted animals had surviving graft tissue (visualized by Cresyl Violet staining, dense acetylcholinesterase staining and the presence of a limited number of nerve growth factor receptor-immunoreactive neurons) in the neocortex and 5/6 transplanted animals showed near complete restitution of acetylcholinesterase staining in frontal and parietal cortex. Examination of individual animal data showed that the animal without this restitution performed very poorly. The performance of the remaining transplanted animals was significantly better than that of the animals with lesion alone. There was a significant positive correlation between the degree of acetylcholinesterase staining and good performance on tasks sensitive to frontal lobe damage. These results demonstrate that acetylcholine-rich tissue transplanted into the neocortex of primates with damage to the cholinergic projections to the neocortex can produce substantial restitution of function provided that an appropriate level of interaction between graft and host tissue is achieved.
The distribution and density of cannabinoid receptor binding and messenger RNA expression in aged human brain were examined in several forebrain and basal ganglia structures. In vitro binding of [3H]CP-55,940, a synthetic cannabinoid, was examined by autoradiography in fresh frozen brain sections from normal aged humans (n = 3), patients who died with Alzheimer's disease (n = 5) and patients who died with other forms of cortical pathology (n = 5). In the structures examined--hippocampal formation, neocortex, basal ganglia and parts of the brainstem--receptor binding showed a characteristic pattern of high densities in the dentate gyrus molecular layer, globus pallidus and substantia nigra pars reticulata, moderate densities in the hippocampus, neocortex, amygdala and striatum, and low densities in the white matter and brainstem. In situ hybridization histochemistry of human cannabinoid receptor, a ribonucleotide probe for the human cannabinoid receptor messenger RNA, showed a pattern of extremely dense transcript levels in subpopulations of cells in the hippocampus and cortex, moderate levels in hippocampal pyramidal neurons and neurons of the striatum, amygdala and hypothalamus, and no signal over dentate gyrus granule cells and most of the cells of the thalamus and upper brainstem, including the substantia nigra. In Alzheimer's brains, compared to normal brains, [3H]CP-55,940 binding was reduced by 37-45% in all of the subfields of the hippocampal formation and by 49% in the caudate. Lesser reductions (20-24%) occurred in the substantia nigra and globus pallidus, internal segment. Other neocortical and basal ganglia structures were not different from control levels. Levels of messenger RNA expression did not differ between Alzheimer's and control brains, but there were regionally discrete statistically significant losses of the intensely expressing cells in the hippocampus. The reductions in binding did not correlate with or localize to areas showing histopathology, estimated either on the basis of overall tissue quality or silver staining of neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Reduced [3H]55,940 binding was associated with increasing age and with other forms of cortical pathology, suggesting that receptor losses are related to the generalized aging and/or disease process and are not selectively associated with the pathology characteristic of Alzheimer's disease, nor with overall decrements in levels of cannabinoid receptor gene expression.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate-activated ionotropic glutamate receptors play a crucial role in synaptic transmission in the spinal cord. Molecular cloning has identified two polymorphic subunits--N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits 1 and 2--the products of alternative splicing (subunit 1a-4b) or of different genes (subunit 2 A-D). While the distribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 splice variants is unknown in the spinal cord, that of subunit 2 appears controversial. We examined, by means of in situ hybridization, the distribution of messenger RNAs encoded by these genes in rat cervical spinal cord. Most neurons throughout all the laminae express predominantly type b variants of subunit 1 (dorsal horn: 3b; ventral horn: 4b) and the 2A subunit, although some neurons in laminae 2 and 9 also express subunit 2B. Our findings demonstrate that subunit 1 splice variants are differentially distributed in the rat cervical cord and, since they fall into two physiologically and pharmacologically distinct groups, may reveal the distribution of antagonist- and agonist-preferring N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subclasses. They also indicate the co-distribution of receptor subunits 1 and 2, suggesting the existence of heteromeric N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complexes. Thus, in the spinal cord, different combinations of subunit 1 isoforms as well as subunit 2 may form N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors with different physiological and pharmacological properties. If this structural diversity of presumptive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors exists in human spinal cord, it might identify potential targets for drug therapy.
The effect of muscarinic agonists on the spontaneous release of [3H]GABA was investigated in vitro on rat substantia nigra slices. Acetylcholine (5 x 10(-5) M) in the presence of eserine (5 x 10(-5) M) induced a 12.3% increase of the spontaneous release of [3H]GABA. Similarly, carbachol (5 x 10(-4) M) enhanced by 9% the release of [3H]GABA. This effect was Ca(2+)-dependent, it was abolished in the presence of 0.4 mM Ca2+ and enhanced from 9 to 17% when Ca(2+)-concentration of the superfusion medium was increased from 1.3 to 2.4 mM. The carbachol effect was mediated by muscarinic receptors since it was abolished by atropine (2 x 10(-6) M). The pharmacologically M2 muscarinic receptor subtypes seems to be involved as the carbachol-induced effect was abolished by AF-DX384MS (10(-6) M), an M2 antagonist and was only partially reversed by pirenzepine (10(-5) and 10(-4) M), an M1 antagonist which at these doses also block the M2 receptors. The absence of effect of SCH23390 (10(-6) M) a D1 antagonist as well as the lack of effect of CNQX (10(-5) M) and dizocilpine maleate (10(-6) M), two glutamate antagonists, on the carbachol-induced effect indicated that neither dopamine (through D1 receptors) nor glutamate (through ionotropic receptors) were involved in the response. In addition, the persistence of the carbachol-induced effect in the presence of tetrodotoxin (2 x 10(-7) M) suggests a direct muscarinic-mediated modulation of [3H]GABA. The localization of muscarinic receptors on striatonigral fibres was confirmed by autoradiographic studies showing a decrease of [3H]pirenzepine binding in the substantia nigra after a unilateral striatal lesion induced by kainic acid injection. This latter result provides evidence of the presence of M1 receptors on striatonigral terminals as the concentration of [3H]pirenzepine used (10 nM) is M1-selective. These results indicate a cholinergic modulation of GABA release in the rat substantia nigra mediated by muscarinic receptors localized on striatonigral terminals. The involvement of the m4 muscarinic receptor subtype that have a M1/M2 pharmacology is discussed.
Fine structures of defined neurons and their dendritic processes were studied in the cerebral cortex of gerbil brains by using Golgi electron microscopy during progressive cerebral ischemia for 10 and 20 min and after reperfusion for up to 72 h following transient ischemia for 20 min. The periphery of ascending dendrites of the vulnerable neurons in layers III and Vb became distended immediately after ischemia with swollen mitochondria and disintegrated microtubules, but the proximal portion of the same dendrites remained unchanged. After reperfusion for 6 h, distension of the dendroplasm of the impregnated dendrites in layer I receded, but the proximal portion of the same dendrites showed indentation caused by swollen astrocytic processes and derangement of microtubules inside. Polyribosomes in most neuronal perikarya were disaggregated, but severe neuronal damage was rarely found among those neuronal cell bodies impregnated by the Golgi method. Recovery with reaggregation of polyribosomes and realignment of microtubules was more clearly observed after reperfusion for 24 h and thereafter in impregnated neurons. These results indicated that impregnation during progressive ischemia occurred in many neurons with progressive structural damage but that impregnation during reperfusion occurred in a limited number of neurons with limited damage, allowing us to observe the recovery process, and that neuronal derangement in the dendrosomatic direction initially occurred both in the irreversibly damaged neurons and in the reversibly damaged ones. It is possible that disintegration of microtubules and the resulting disruption of dendritic transport may contribute to subsequent development of delayed neuronal death, if the recovery process does not take place promptly. Golgi electron microscopy is useful for ultrastructural investigation of defined neurons and their dendrites together and may be applicable for investigation of selected neuropathologic conditions.
Intracellular recordings were made in pyramidal neurons of layers II-III of rat fronto-parietal neocortical slices. The membrane and synaptic properties and effects of brief (4-6 min) anoxia-anoxic depolarization and synaptic depression--were recorded at temperatures between 26 and 37.5 degrees C. In normoxic conditions, both warming (&gt; or = 35 degrees C) and cooling (&lt; or = 32 degrees C) induced a reduction in the amplitude of early and late excitatory postsynaptic potentials and abolished inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Excitatory postsynaptic potential latency decreased with warming and increased with cooling. Warming also induced spontaneous brief depolarizations, had a general slow depolarizing effect on resting membrane potential, and decreased input resistance. During oxygen deprivation, the steepness of the rising phase of the anoxic depolarization and the duration of the repolarization phase were augmented by warming above 36.5 degrees C (3.7 +/- 0.1 vs 1.9 +/- 0.1 mV/min and 8.75 +/- 0.98 vs 4.16 +/- 0.28 min, respectively). The peak amplitude of the anoxic depolarization increased in only one-third of trials (6.6 +/- 0.6 vs 4.3 +/- 0.4 mV). Warming potentiated the depressant effect of anoxia: at 36.5 degrees C early excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude decreased to 32.3 +/- 5.2% of control compared with 58.3 +/- 1.2% at 33.5 degrees C, the late excitatory postsynaptic potential was abolished in &lt; 2 min, and the recovery of the compound excitatory postsynaptic potential was prolonged (12.8 +/- 0.8 vs 7.8 +/- 0.3 min). Cooling reduced the amplitude of the anoxic depolarization and increased the input resistance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
While many studies have examined the numerous physiological and pharmacological factors which can induce the expression of c-fos and other immediate-early genes, few have examined the physiological/biochemical consequences of altering their expression pattern. Using antisense oligonucleotides to c-fos, we demonstrate that D-amphetamine-induced c-fos expression can be attenuated in specific brain regions in vivo. This unilateral attenuation of c-fos expression in D-amphetamine-stimulated animals results in a directed rotational behavior. We show that animals rotate only when they express a difference in Fos-like immunoreactivity between hemispheres. The attenuation of Fos-like immunoreactivity by the antisense oligonucleotides appears to be dependent on the c-fos messenger RNA site that these antisense oligonucleotides target and the degree of chemical protection of the oligonucleotide against degradation. The attenuation of Fos-like immunoreactivity and the increase in unilaterally directed rotation are both time- and dose-dependent. These results demonstrate that manipulating immediate-early gene expression by the direct infusion of antisense oligonucleotides in specific brain regions can have behavioral consequences.
Transforming growth factors beta are multifunctional proteins and regulators of cell proliferation and differentiation. Transforming growth factor-beta s have the capacity to rescue adult neurons from ischemia- and glutamate-induced cell death and are prominent in the embryonic and adult brain including striatum and substantia nigra. In the present study we show that transforming growth factors-beta 1, -2, and -3 promote, in a dose-dependent fashion, in vitro survival of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive dopaminergic neurons isolated from the embryonic rat mesencephalon floor. The magnitude of the effect, which was half-maximal at a concentration of 20 pM, was identical for all three transforming growth factor-isoforms and matched that of fibroblast growth factor-2. Unlike fibroblast growth factor-2, however, transforming growth factor-beta s did not increase numbers of astroglial cells visualized by using antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein, and had no effect on cell proliferation monitored by incorporation of BrdUrd. Transforming growth factor-beta s were significantly more potent than fibroblast growth factor-2 in protecting dopaminergic neurons against N-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion toxicity. RT-PCR analysis indicated that the effect of transforming growth factor-beta s is not mediated by glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor, which was not detectable in cultures at various time points. On the other hand transforming growth factor-beta 2 mRNA could be detected in freshly isolated and cultured mesencephalic cells, and its immunoreactivity has also been demonstrated in the embryonic day 14 mesencephalon floor. We conclude that transforming growth factor-beta has trophic and protective effects on developing dopaminergic neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Epiplexus cells in postnatal rats exhibited a remarkable up-regulation of major histocompatibility complex class I and II antigen expression after intraperitoneal administration of bacterial lipopolysaccharide; other surface antigens, i.e. complement type 3 receptors and leukocyte common antigens, were also vigorously elevated when compared with those of the corresponding control rats. The immunostaining of epiplexus cells with OX-42, OX-18 and OX-1 for the detection of complement type 3 receptors, major histocompatibility class I and leukocyte common antigens, respectively, was noticeably enhanced with a drastic increase in their numbers. The most significant finding was the upsurge of OX-6-positive epiplexus cells exhibiting major histocompatibility class II antigens, especially in rats receiving two intraperitoneal injections of lipopolysaccharide and killed at the age of 14 days. Immunoelectron microscopy confirmed the above findings and added the fact that the immunoreactive site was confined to the plasma membrane. An interesting feature was the occurrence of OX-6-positive macrophage-like cells in transit across the choroid epithelium. It is concluded from this study that the upsurge of immunopositive epiplexus cells after lipopolysaccharide injections was partly attributed to the infiltration of stromal macrophages which migrated across the epithelium. The up-regulation of major histocompatibility complex class I and II antigen expression on epiplexus cells by lipopolysaccharide would enable them to carry out self-recognizing and antigen-presenting function in the ventricular system.
The expression of neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA was studied by in situ hybridization in rat muscle spindles from the first embryonic stages of their formation until their mature appearance in adult animals. The first expression of neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA in developing muscles was observed at E19 in the firstly formed intrafusal fiber, the nuclear bag2 fiber. High levels of neurotrophin messenger RNA were found in the equatorial region of these intrafusal fibers in thin lines of cytoplasma around and between the packed-up nuclei. From E21 on, neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA was also present in the nuclear bag1 type intrafusal fiber. The expression of neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA in nuclear chain fibers, which were found in muscle spindles from day 6 after birth, was low and insignificant in comparison to the expression in the nuclear bag fibers. After completion of muscle spindle formation around the third week after birth, high levels of neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA remained present in the intrafusal fibers throughout life. During the entire period of muscle formation, examined from E15 on, as well as in mature muscles, no neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA could be detected in extrafusal fibers by in situ hybridization. The exclusive intramuscular expression of neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA in intrafusal fibers during development as well as in mature stages suggests the involvement of neurotrophin-3 in the formation and the maintenance of muscle spindles.
Phenotypic diversity underlies the complex functioning of the nervous system. One characteristic in which neurons differ from one another is the kind of molecules that they use for intercellular signalling. The classical neurotransmitter acetylcholine, synthesized by the enzyme choline acetyltransferase, is used by five groups of neurons in the rat spinal cord. Another messenger is nitric oxide, which is synthesized by nitric oxide synthase. Neurons that express nitric oxide synthase can be stained specifically by NADPH diaphorase histochemistry. In the spinal cord, approximately five groups of neurons are labeled by the diaphorase reaction, and some of these populations overlap with cholinergic groups. To determine the proportions of neurons that co-express choline acetyltransferase and nitric oxide synthase, we performed choline acetyltransferase immunocytochemistry and diaphorase histochemistry on single sections of rat spinal cord. Some cell types were single-labeled: somatic motor neurons were choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive only, and neurons in lamina II were diaphorase-positive only. Four cell groups included double-labeled cells. Autonomic motor neurons were either double-labeled (62%) or choline acetyltransferase-only (37%), partition cells in lamina VII were double-labeled (54%) or choline acetyltransferase-only (45%), neurons in laminae III-V of the dorsal horn were double-labeled (70%) or diaphorase-only (27%), and neurons surrounding the central canal were double-labeled (56%), choline acetyltransferase-only (23%) or diaphorase-only (21%). These data indicate that certain spinal cord populations may be heterogeneous with regard to the intercellular messenger phenotypes involving acetylcholine and nitric oxide.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of single (20 or 50 mg/kg) and repeated morphine (14 days, rising doses: four days, 2 x 10 mg/kg; two days, 2 x 20 mg/kg; two days, 2 x 30 mg/kg; two days, 2 x 40 mg/kg and four days, 2 x 50 mg/kg i.p.) or cocaine (20 mg/kg i.p., once every hour for 3 h for one or five days) on the Gs alpha and Go alpha protein messenger RNA levels were investigated in the rat hippocampus. As shown by in situ hybridization immunocytochemistry and optical densitometry of autoradiograms, acute morphine (20 mg/kg) decreased the Gs alpha messenger RNA level and increased the Go alpha messenger RNA level in the dentate gyrus and CA1 hippocampal region. Repeated morphine administration significantly decreased the hippocampal Gs alpha messenger RNA level at 12, 24 and 48 h, and enhanced the Go alpha messenger RNA level in those areas at 12 and 24 h after the last injection. Repeated and acute cocaine administration decreased the Go alpha messenger RNA level in the CA3 region and increased it in the CA1 at various time points. Furthermore, in all hippocampal regions, acute, but not chronic, cocaine administration increased the Gs alpha mRNA level at 24 h, whereas chronic treatment significantly decreased that level at 48 h after the last dose. The data indicate that chronic morphine elevates the Go and attenuates the Gs protein biosynthesis at later time points in all regions of the hippocampal formation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In this study we investigated the changes in gene expressions of catalytic (C alpha, beta) and regulatory (RI alpha, beta and RII alpha, beta) subunits of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) in axotomized facial motoneurons of the rat. Nerve transection induced changes in the expression of C subunit messenger RNAs and RII subunit messenger RNAs. Control facial motoneurons had a high expression of both C alpha and C beta subunit messenger RNAs, but their expression declined after axotomy. The decrease was most pronounced at postoperative week 2 and returned to basal level within postoperative week 4. In contrast, the expression of both RII alpha and beta subunit messenger RNAs, which were low in control facial motoneurons, was increased after axotomy. Enhancement of RII subunits messenger RNAs was apparent during postoperative weeks 1 and 3, and then returned to the basal level. RI alpha, beta subunits messenger RNAs were strongly expressed in normal facial motoneurons, but were not clearly influenced by axotomy. These results indicate an attenuation of total PKA activity in axotomized facial motoneurons. Furthermore, such gene regulation may imply a change of the targets for PKA in facial motoneurons during the process of neurite regeneration.
Continuous cerebral cortical cell lines have been developed from two patients, an 11-month-old with unilateral megalencephaly and a seven-year-old with Rasmussen's encephalitis, designated HCN-1 and HCN-2, respectively. The two cell lines stain for neuronal markers such as neurofilament and neuron-specific enolase but not for non-neuronal markers such as glial fibrillary acidic protein and S-100 protein. In the presence of appropriate growth factors, the cells extend long, branched processes resembling neurons. Differentiation of HCN-1 cells can be induced with nerve growth factor, dibutyryl cyclic AMP and isobutylmethylxanthine, while for HCN-2 cells nerve growth factor, isobutylmethylxanthine and the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecaoylphorbol-13-acetate are most effective. Immunohistochemical staining of both differentiated cell lines reveals intense staining for GABA, glutamate, somatostatin, cholecystokinin-8 and methionine enkephalin. Two human cortical neuronal cell lines have been developed which represent neuronal precursors. These cell lines propagate in culture and are capable of differentiating upon the addition of a variety of growth factors and chemical agents. These cell lines should prove to be useful models for the study of in vitro neuronal processes.
Myocyte-specific enhancer binding factor 2C (MEF2C) activates transcription by binding to the myocyte-specific enhancer binding factor 2 (MEF2) regulatory element and has been shown previously to be expressed in muscle and in the brain. We have now studied MEF2C expression in human brain using an antiserum raised against amino acids 140-238 of MEF2C. Western blotting demonstrated that, in fetal brain, MEF2C-immunoreactive bands have the same apparent molecular weight as those in extracts of COS cells transfected with MEF2C complementary DNA. In adult brain, however, MEF2C-immunoreactive bands have a higher molecular weight. In the cerebral cortex, MEF2C immunoreactivity is present in the cortical plate, and is not found in the intermediate zone or ventricular zone. At 14 weeks of gestation, the earliest age examined, MEF2C immunoreactivity is present in cell nuclei throughout the cortical plate. Subsequently, MEF2C immunoreactivity develops a bilaminate and then a trilaminate distribution, and ultimately is expressed preferentially in layers II, IV and VI of mature neocortex. MEF2C immunoreactivity is also found in entorhinal cortex, hippocampus, claustrum, cerebellum and amygdala, and in scattered cells in the thalamus. These findings suggest a role for MEF2C in postmitotic neuronal differentiation, in particular, in the development of certain cortical layers, but also in differentiation of other neurons as well.
We have recently reported the cloning of a mouse kappa opioid receptor cDNA. Following transfection of the kappa receptor cDNA into COS-1 cells, a receptor is expressed with the pharmacological specificity of a kappa opioid receptor. To further analyse its functional properties, we have stably expressed the kappa opioid receptor in undifferentiated PC-12 cells, a pheochromocytoma clonal cell line, which do not endogenously express this receptor. We have previously shown that kappa opioid agonists selectively bind to these PC-12 membranes with high affinity. Here we show that kappa selective agonists are able to inhibit accumulation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate in a stereoselective manner. Further, the kappa agonist U-50,488 is able to inhibit an N-type calcium current in a pertussis toxin sensitive manner; this inhibition is blocked by the kappa-selective antagonist norbinaltorphimine. Inhibition of the calcium current via the kappa receptor is stereoselective as the agonist levorphanol is able to mediate inhibition whereas in the same cells dextrorphan is ineffective. This is the first demonstration that the cloned kappa opioid receptor functionally couples to a calcium current, as has been reported for kappa receptors expressed endogenously in the nervous system. Kappa opioid receptors are thought to be important in pain pathways, learning and memory deficits, and seizure activity. A major physiological action of the dynorphins, the endogenous ligands of the kappa receptor, is thought to be inhibition of neurotransmitter release at presynaptic terminals. N-type calcium channels may be important in neurotransmitter release.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Although cholinergic neurons in the laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei have been shown to have a pivotal role in neural mechanisms of paradoxical sleep, their function during wakefulness is less understood. To examine the latter, we have recorded from &quot;broad-spike neurons&quot;, which were distinguished by their long spike duration, in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus of undrugged, head-restrained rats, and examined their response properties to sensory stimuli such as light touch to the tail, air puff to the face, 2 kHz pure tone and flashes of light. Broad-spike neurons from the locus coeruleus and dorsal raphe nucleus were studied for comparison; these neurons have been demonstrated to be noradrenergic and serotonergic, respectively. The broad-spike neurons in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus have also been suggested to be cholinergic. There were two kinds of responses: (1) a simple increase or decrease in firing, reflecting an elevated level of vigilance; and (2) a phasic response composed of a single spike or brief, high frequency burst, usually diminishing or disappearing upon repetition of the stimulus. When two or more types of stimuli were effective in a neuron, they evoked responses of the same quality. Most of the dorsal raphe neurons displayed only the simple increase of firing, whereas the locus coeruleus neurons gave a phasic response with rather weak attenuation upon repetition. Compared with these, the laterodorsal tegmental neurons were heterogeneous: about one-quarter showing only a simple change of firing (half increasing, half decreasing); and two-thirds displaying phasic responses. The latter response of many neurons attenuated strongly upon repetition. The laterodorsal tegmental neurons were classified into several groups according to their spontaneous firing behavior during sleep and wakefulness, but every neuron in a group did not show the same type of response. For example, some of the neurons which were most active during paradoxical sleep and essentially silent during wakefulness decreased or stopped firing upon sensory stimulation, while others in this group had strong phasic responses. These results suggest that putative cholinergic neurons in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus have heterogenous properties not only with respect to their spontaneous activity during sleep and wakefulness but also with respect to their response to sensory stimulation. Some of these neurons may function to induce a global attentive state in response to a novel stimulus.
Death of neuronal cells during development and following deprivation of trophic factors is known to occur via an active mechanism requiring RNA and protein synthesis, known as apoptosis. Apoptosis is a form of cell &quot;suicide&quot; whereby the cell decides its own fate by activating a genetic programme of cell death. In contrast, necrosis is a passive uncontrolled form of cell death often observed in response to a toxic insult. Although it is known that neuronal cell death during development occurs by apoptosis, the mechanisms underlying neurotoxin-induced neuronal cell death remain poorly understood. In this study we have examined the mechanism by which 6-hydroxydopamine, a specific neurotoxin for catecholaminergic cells, induces neuronal cell death in vitro. We report that 6-hydroxydopamine induces cell death in the neuronal PC12 cell line via a mechanism which has the characteristic morphological and biochemical hallmarks of apoptosis. PC12 cells induced to die by 6-hydroxydopamine treatment exhibited cell shrinkage, classical chromatin condensation and membrane blebbing. Analysis of DNA integrity from 6-hydroxydopamine-treated cells revealed cleavage of DNA into regular sized fragments, a biochemical hallmark of apoptosis. 6-Hydroxydopamine-induced apoptosis of PC12 cells was suppressed by desipramine, a monoamine uptake inhibitor, suggesting that 6-hydroxydopamine is initiating apoptosis via a specific intracellular mechanism. Aurintricarboxylic acid, a general inhibitor of nucleases, also suppressed 6-hydroxydopamine-induced apoptosis, suggesting the involvement of an endonuclease in the death pathway. The aetiology of idiopathic Parkinson's disease remains uncertain, although evidence suggests that endogenous and/or exogenous toxins may initiate neuronal cell death in this disease. The dopaminergic neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine is used to generate animal models of Parkinson's disease in vivo. We have demonstrated that this neurotoxin kills neuronal cells in vitro by an active process of apoptosis. Thus, the possibility exists that cell death in neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinsonism also occurs in an active manner initiated by as yet unidentified environmental or metabolic toxins. Cell death that involves activation of an apoptotic programme can be modulated by addition of extracellular trophic factors, and is also controlled by the levels of intracellular factors. If neurotoxin-induced apoptosis plays a role in Parkinson's disease the implication is that the neuronal degeneration may be prevented by pharmacological manipulations.
It has recently been reported that the degeneration of retinal ganglion cells induced by transection of the optic nerve in the neonatal rat is due to an active process of apoptosis, as opposed to passive necrosis. Here we tested whether the administration of the trophic factor nerve growth factor could prevent the apoptotic death of the axotomized cells. We administered nerve growth factor by two intraocular injections, one immediately after the lesion and the second 12 h later. The retinas were taken at 24 h post-lesion and stained as whole mounts with Cresyl Violet. Pyknotic as well as surviving cells were counted in the retinal ganglion cell layer. In this layer at least 95% of the total cell population is composed by ganglion cells, as revealed by retrogradely labelling these cells with horseradish peroxidase injected in the superior colliculi. We found that intraocular administration of nerve growth factor diminishes the degeneration induced by optic nerve transection in the neonatal rat. After nerve growth factor injection, in fact, the number of pyknotic cells is reduced by 39% compared with controls (lesioned, injected with saline); in addition, nerve growth factor also increases the survival of retinal ganglion cells by 30% at 24 h post-lesion.
Strong evidence implicates glutamate as an excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. In the present study we have investigated the effects of different concentrations of the excitatory amino acid agonist alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid on release of 5-hydroxytryptamine in rat hippocampus using in vivo microdialysis. Infusion of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid at 1 microM led to an increase in dialysate 5-hydroxytryptamine. In contrast 100 microM alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid decreased extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine, collected in 30 min samples, and this decrease was sustained for several hours. alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor desensitization is well documented in vitro, and is reversed by the drug diazoxide. We therefore studied the possibility that this was occurring in hippocampus in vivo. Collection of dialysates at 5 min time intervals revealed a brief increase in dialysate 5-hydroxytryptamine in response to 100 microM alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid, although basal level of 5-hydroxytryptamine was below the level of detection. When 100 microM agonist was co-infused with 500 microM diazoxide, a substantial and prolonged increase in dialysate 5-hydroxytryptamine was seen. Diazoxide alone was observed to cause an increase in extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine. Diazoxide is known to active ATP-dependent K+ channels, however, cromakalim (100 microM), an activator of ATP-dependent K+ channels, reduced hippocampal 5-hydroxytryptamine release, suggesting that the effect of diazoxide is not the result of such an action.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Whole-cell recording techniques were used to record isolated slow inhibitory postsynaptic currents in CA1 pyramidal neurons from rat hippocampal slices. Application of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and 3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid eliminated excitatory synaptic transmission, resulting in a 38% reduction in slow inhibitory postsynaptic current magnitude. Subsequent addition of the GABAA antagonist picrotoxin caused a further decrease in slow inhibitory postsynaptic current amplitude. The remaining, isolated slow inhibitory postsynaptic current was blocked by the GABAB antagonist 2-hydroxysaclofen and when cesium was substituted for intracellular potassium. The kinetics of isolated slow inhibitory postsynaptic currents were characterized by single exponential, fourth power activation, and double exponential inactivation. These slow inhibitory postsynaptic currents had a reversal potential of -85.7 +/- 1.6 mV, and a slope conductance of 935 +/- 277 pS. Single slow inhibitory postsynaptic currents carried a total charge flux of 13.4 +/- 7.6 pC. Repetitive stimulation up to 1 Hz progressively reduced steady-state slow inhibitory postsynaptic current amplitude. This attenuation was characterized by a decrease in slope conductance, but slow inhibitory postsynaptic current reversal potential remained unchanged, as did slow inhibitory postsynaptic current kinetics. These results indicate that, under physiological conditions, both ionotropic glutamate- and GABAA-mediated transmission contribute to slow inhibitory postsynaptic current recruitment. Given this finding, activity-dependent decreases in GABAA transmission could contribute to slow inhibitory postsynaptic current depression, though not exclusively, since isolated slow inhibitory postsynaptic currents also demonstrated this property. The use-dependent depression of isolated slow inhibitory postsynaptic currents may be a consequence of a reduction in transmitter release.
The effects of allosteric modulators of the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor ion-channel complex on the nociceptive tail-flick reflex were studied in awake rats. Intrathecal administration of D-serine (100 fmol-1 mumol) but not L-serine or glycine to the lumbar spinal cord produced a facilitation of the tail-flick reflex at doses &gt; or = 1 pmol (maximum at 0.5-1 min). Intrathecal pretreatment with the glycine modulatory site antagonist 7-chlorokynurenic acid (3 pmol) blocked both D-serine-produced and N-methyl-D-aspartate-produced facilitation of the tail-flick reflex. D-serine-produced facilitation was also blocked by intrathecal pretreatment with a N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor ion-channel blocker, MK 801 (100 fmol), or with an alternate substrate for nitric oxide synthase, NG-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester (100 nmol). Intrathecal administration of spermine (0.01 nmol-3 mumol) produced biphasic effects on tail-flick latency accompanied by mechanical hyperesthesia and vocalization at greater doses. Spermine-produced facilitation (maximum with 0.01 nmol to 1 nmol at 1 min) was blocked by intrathecal pretreatment with MK 801 (100 fmol), NG-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester (100 nmol) or the polyamine modulatory site antagonist, arcaine (10 nmol). Spermine-produced inhibition (maximum with 300 nmol at 2 min) was blocked by intrathecal administration of MK 801 (1 nmol). Intrathecal administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (1 nmol), blocked inhibition and uncovered a facilitation produced by 1 mumol spermine. In addition, spermine produced multi-stage motor effects (immediate- and late-onset). Intrathecal pretreatment with MK 801 (1 nmol) blocked only the immediate-onset motor effects while the late-onset motor effects were selectively blocked by pretreatment with the kappa opioid receptor antagonist, nor-binaltorphamine (200 nmol). Taken together, these data suggest that D-serine and spermine facilitate nociceptive transmission by positive allosteric modulation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor ion-channel. Furthermore, activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor is also necessary to elicit the immediate-onset motor effects and inhibition of the tail-flick reflex produced by greater doses of spermine. Because kappa opioid receptors appear to be involved, the spermine-produced late-onset motor effects may involve endogenous dynorphin release.
Glutamate, the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, acts through two broad classes of receptors: ion channel-linked (ionotropic) receptors, which include N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors, and metabotropic receptors which couple via G-proteins to intracellular messenger cascades. Seven subtypes of mGluR are known to exist but their roles in synaptic physiology are poorly understood. In cerebellar Purkinje cells, application of the mGluR agonist, trans-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, or the active enantiomer, 1S,3R-ACPD, results in a depolarization associated with an inward current and an elevation of intracellular Ca2+ (for review see Ref. 29). Moreover, using an extracellular (grease-gap) technique that monitors population responses, we have previously discovered that, in Purkinje cells of adult rat cerebellum, brief tetanic stimulation of the glutamatergic parallel fibre input gives rise to a slow depolarising synaptic potential that is resistant to ionotropic glutamate receptor blockers and to antagonists acting at GABA receptors. It was suggested that this novel potential is mediated by metabotropic receptors. The advent of antagonists for metabotropic receptors has allowed us to test this hypothesis. We find that the S-enantiomer of alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine stereoselectively antagonizes the slow synaptic potential recorded using the grease-gap method. The results were confirmed by intracellular recording from Purkinje cells. To our knowledge this is the first direct evidence of an mGluR-mediated EPSP in intact brain tissue.
Chromogranin A and secretogranin II are members of the so-called chromogranins, the acidic proteins stored in neuroendocrine large dense-core vesicles. We characterized chromogranin A and secretogranin II immunoreactivities in cerebrospinal fluid by radioimmunoassays using synthetic peptides derived from these components (GE-25 for chromogranin A and secretoneurin for secretogranin II). In lumbar cerebrospinal fluid, high levels (more than 1000 fmol/ml) of these two components were found, whereas in ventricular cerebrospinal fluid the secretoneurin levels were relatively low. The cerebrospinal fluid/serum ratio for secretoneurin was close to 170. High-performance liquid chromatography revealed that in both cerebrospinal fluid and extracts from human brain secretoneurin was the predominant immunoreactive component. In cerebrospinal fluid chromogranin A immunoreactivity was present as intermediate-sized peptides with little intact chromogranin A and free GE-25 peptide. In human brain samples smaller peptides including GE-25 were more predominant. Analogous findings for secretoneurin and chromogranin A were obtained for bovine brain samples. We can conclude that chromogranins are present in cerebrospinal fluid in concentrations much higher than those of classical neuropeptides also stored in large dense-core vesicles. Therefore, their degree of proteolytic processing can be analysed with small samples of cerebrospinal fluid. A possible disturbance of proteolytic processing in large dense-core vesicles in various pathological conditions can now be discovered.
Endogenous alkaline phosphatase activity has been localized histochemically on the surface of enteric neurons of the guinea-pig small intestine by both light and electron microscopy. The enzyme activity was associated with some myenteric neurons that had Dogiel type I morphology, and the histochemical reaction products typically formed a honeycomb-like structure on labelled cell bodies. No Dogiel type II neurons in the myenteric plexus or submucous neurons showed alkaline phosphatase reactivity. Nerve fibres reactive for alkaline phosphatase were present in the myenteric plexus and ran in bundles in the circular muscle and deep muscular plexus. In addition, reactive varicose axons supplied the submucous plexus and non-ganglionated plexus of the mucosa. The results of interruption of the enteric neuronal pathways demonstrated that alkaline phosphatase-reactive myenteric neurons project anally to other myenteric ganglia, to the circular muscle and to the submucous plexus. Sequential enzyme histochemistry showed that virtually all alkaline phosphatase-reactive neurons also contained nitric oxide synthase, revealed by NADPH-diaphorase reactivity. It was estimated that 14-18% of all myenteric neurons showed alkaline phosphatase reactivity. About one-third of nitric oxide synthase-containing myenteric neurons, however, did not contain alkaline phosphatase activity. At the ultrastructural level, alkaline phosphatase activity was associated specifically with the plasma membranes of nerve cell bodies, axons and dendrites of some myenteric neurons. Reactive nerve fibres made close appositions with non-reactive submucous neurons and, within myenteric ganglia, predominantly with other alkaline phosphatase-reactive neurons. In addition to its presence in neurons, alkaline phosphatase reactivity was also present in some endothelial cells in blood vessels in the submucosa and in capillary pericytes. It is concluded, on the basis of the projections and neurochemistry, that in the guinea-pig small intestine alkaline phosphatase activity is associated with nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons which include inhibitory motor neurons to the circular muscle, and anally-directed interneurons to other myenteric and submucous neurons.
We studied the relative contribution of tachykinin NK1 and NK2 receptors in producing nonadrenergic noncholinergic excitation of the circular muscle of the guinea-pig proximal colon in response to electrical field stimulation. All experiments were performed in the presence of atropine, guanethidine, indomethacin, apamin and L-nitroarginine. In organ bath experiments, electrical stimulation produced a tetrodotoxin-sensitive frequency-dependent contraction. The NK1 receptor antagonists, FK 888 (1-10 microM) and GR 82,334 (0.3-3 microM) markedly reduced but did not abolish the nonadrenergic noncholinergic response. The NK2 receptor antagonist, GR 94,800 (0.3-3 microM) was partly effective at 3 microM. The combined administration of FK 888 (10 microM) and GR 94,800 (3 microM) or GR 82,334 and GR 94,800 abolished the nonadrenergic noncholinergic contraction. The response to a prolonged period of stimulation (3 Hz for 5 min) was evenly depressed by FK 888 or GR 82,334, while GR 94,800 was more effective in inhibiting the late (87% inhibition) than the peak response (25% inhibition). In the presence of nifedipine (1 microM) a marked inhibition of the nonadrenergic noncholinergic contraction was observed and a time lag was evident between stimulus application and onset of contraction, which showed slow onset and offset kinetics. The nifedipine-resistant nonadrenergic noncholinergic contraction was unaffected by FK 888 or GR 82,334 but was suppressed by GR 94,800. Submaximally effective (1-3 nM) concentrations of substance P and neurokinin A produced distinct patterns of contraction: the response to substance P was fast and declined rapidly toward baseline; the response to neurokinin A was slow and sustained. In the presence of nifedipine, the response to substance P was greatly depressed and became slower in onset; nifedipine did not affect the contraction to neurokinin A but slowed its time-course. In sucrose gap experiments, either a short (10 Hz for 1 s) or a prolonged period of electrical stimulation (3 Hz for 3 min) evoked membrane depolarization, action potentials and contraction: in response to the &quot;prolonged&quot; stimulation, distinct phasic and tonic component of contraction were observed. Nifedipine abolished action potentials and the phasic contraction produced by a short period of stimulation, reduced by about 50% the maximal contraction developed during the prolonged stimulation without affecting the amplitude of the tonic response. In the presence of nifedipine, GR 82,334 (3 microM) blocked the membrane depolarization but did not affect contraction; GR 94,800 (0.1 microM) did not affect depolarization but abolished contraction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Glutamate induced an increase in cell volume within one minute and evoked cytosolic Ca2+ transients in type 1 astroglial cells in primary culture obtained from the cerebral cortex of newborn rat. Even the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane- 1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S-3R-ACPD) and L(+)-2-amino-4 phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4) induced a cell swelling with ACPD inducing a parallel Ca2+ transient while L-AP4 did not. A new method was used where rapid changes in relative cell volume could be followed at the single cell level. Relative volume changes in cultured single astroglial cells were examined by microspectrofluorimetry after loading the cells with the highly fluorescent intracellular probe fura-2/AM. At its isosbestic point, 358 nm, fura-2 is ion-insensitive and the fluorescent signals emitted are related only to the intracellular dye concentration. By varying the excitation wavelengths, changes in intracellular Ca2+ transients could be recorded simultaneously with the relative volume variations of the individual cells. Thus, as rapid changes in cell volume were followed, the results from this method could be of physiological significance. Glutamate-induced cell swelling was blocked by BaCl2 and by tetraethylammonium, suggesting that K+ channels are operative in glutamate-induced cell swelling. Furthermore, the glutamate-induced swelling was blocked by the Na+; K+, and 2Cl- co-transport inhibitor furosemide. The glutamate-induced swelling was partially blocked by pertussis toxin and partially blocked also by the glutamate carrier-blocker dihydroaspartate. When the ionotropic glutamate receptor alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionic acid was blocked with the antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7- sulfamoyl-benzo(F)quinoxaline, glutamate still induced a swelling, suggesting that this receptor was not directly involved in the glutamate-induced volume increase. Even in situations of blocked or partially blocked swelling, intracellular Ca2+ transients could be obtained. Furthermore, the glutamate-induced swelling was evoked even in low extracellular Ca2+ concentrations. Our data suggest that glutamate-induced rapid swelling is a complex process at the molecular level. One hypothetical mechanism might be that glutamate interacts with metabotropic glutamate receptors and induces a release of Ca2+ from internal stores. Furthermore glutamate interacts with K+ channels, and probably at least one co-transporter and the sodium-dependent high-affinity uptake glutamate carrier, resulting in cell swelling.
The whole cell configuration of the patch clamp technique has been applied to identify the membrane currents expressed by populations of dissociated mouse primary sensory neurons. Three discrete populations of cells were distinguished on the basis of cell size and the array of currents expressed. Group 1 cells (capacitance 10-30 pF) expressed a Na+ current resistant to tetrodotoxin (1 microM) and a prominent, low threshold, inactivating, K+ current sensitive to 4-aminopyridine (IA). A population (53%) of these small cells responded to capsaicin (10 microM) with an inward current, suggesting a functional correlate with nociceptive &quot;C&quot;-cells. The cells of Group 2 (capacitance 55-85 pF) were characterized by the expression of a Na+ current sensitive to tetrodotoxin and a prominent inward current activated by hyperpolarization (IH). They also showed a variant of the A-type K+ current, which was a low threshold, but sustained K+ current, sensitive to dendrotoxin (30 nM). Group 3 cells, of intermediate size (capacitance 30-55 pF) were similar to Group 2 cells, in that they expressed a tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ current and (through reduced in amplitude), IH. The most notable feature of Group 3 cells was the expression of a transient, low threshold Ca2+ current. The differential expression of these conductances was reflected in the behaviour of cells under current clamp control. Each group of cells could thus be distinguished by the selective expression of specific ionic conductances which correlated clearly with cell size, suggesting a correlation with well recognised functional differentiation of sensory neurons. The selective expression of specific subsets of membrane channels may provide valuable markers in studying the developmental regulation of phenotype in this population of cells.
The purpose of the following experiments was to describe some of the neurochemical changes that occur in the basal ganglia of rats exposed chronically to a classical neuroleptic, fluphenazine, and to relate these changes to extrapyramidal motor dysfunction. For these studies a combination of behavioural, receptor autoradiographic and in situ hybridization methods were employed. Preliminary pharmacological studies on GABA receptors showed that incubation in Tris-acetate rather than Tris-citrate buffer increased the number of binding sites labelled by [3H]muscimol by over 120% without affecting binding affinity or selectivity. The results of experiments with fluphenazine showed that treatment for six months increased the frequency of vacuous chewing movements compared to controls. In the striatum, changes in GABA transmission were observed in fluphenazine-treated rats with increases in glutamate decarboxylase mRNA levels in the caudate nucleus, dorsal shell and core of the accumbens and decreases in [3H]muscimol binding in the caudate and dorsal shell regions. These data suggest that fluphenazine treatment increased GABA transmission in specific subregions of the caudate and accumbens nuclei. In addition, glutamate decarboxylase mRNA levels were elevated in the entopeduncular nucleus of fluphenazine-treated animals. Autoradiographic analysis of excitatory amino acid binding showed that fluphenazine exposure decreased [3H]alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid binding in entopeduncular nucleus and in the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus and decreased [3H]dizocilpine maleate binding in the medial geniculate nucleus. These experiments show that in addition to altering GABA transmission, chronic neuroleptic exposure alters excitatory amino acid transmission in specific regions of the basal ganglia-thalamocortical motor system. The neuroleptic dependent increases in glutamate decarboxylase mRNA levels in the entopeduncular nucleus may reflect changes in neurotransmission in the indirect pathway connecting the major input and output nuclei of the basal ganglia. Changes in some of these brain regions may be related to the occurrence of extrapyramidal motor disturbances.
Galanin-like immunoreactivity and galanin messenger RNA levels increase across puberty in neurons of gonadal steroid-dependent brain nuclei. We hypothesized that this activation and the associated increase in endogenous galanin release would result in changes across puberty in both galanin binding density and the level of receptor occupancy. Here we have assessed the density of galanin binding sites in several brain regions of prepubertal and adult male rats with or without GTP to induce dissociation of endogenous galanin from its binding sites. The developmental changes in the level of receptor occupancy were used as an indirect measure of changes in neuropeptide release from galanin expressing neurons. In standard binding conditions (buffer preincubation), 125I-labeled galanin binding showed a generalized decline in adult brains (34-68%) compared with prepubertal levels in most regions of the telencephalon and diencephalon. Following preincubation with 10(-5) M GTP, galanin binding showed a dramatic increase in most regions of the adult (152-504%) and several regions of the prepubertal brain (132-245%) over their standard binding levels. However, this increase was greatest in adult animals. Finally, although preincubation of brain slices with GTP eliminated most of the apparent age-related differences observed in standard binding conditions, several brain regions of the adult brain continued to show a significant reduction (38-76%) in 125I-labeled galanin binding compared with prepubertal animals. Only one region, the lateral preoptic area, exhibited enhanced 125I-labeled galanin binding in adult (160%) compared with prepubertal brain after GTP preincubation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Galanin and vasopressin are coexpressed in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and medial amygdala of the male rat. In adult males, the level of gene expression for both peptides in these regions is dependent on circulating levels of testosterone. We hypothesized that galanin messenger RNA levels would be enhanced in adult males compared with prepubertal males due to the rise in plasma testosterone levels. We used in situ hybridization and quantitative autoradiography to measure galanin messenger RNA in cells of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and medial amygdala of prepubertal and adult male rats. Our results show that significantly (P &lt; or = 0.05) more galanin messenger RNA expressing neurons are detectable in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis of adult compared with prepubertal male rats. In contrast, no differences were observed between the groups in the number of labeled neurons detected within the medial amygdala. However, the average labeling intensity was significantly enhanced in both the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (P &lt; or = 0.001) and medial amygdala (P &lt; or = 0.001) of adult compared with prepubertal animals. The present findings are consistent with the hypothesis that gonadal hormones regulate galanin gene expression in some brain regions and suggest that the activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis which occurs naturally with puberty is associated with activation of galanin pathways in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and medial amygdala.
The distribution of synaptotagmin I in the peripheral nervous system of the rat was investigated by immunofluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy. After crushing of the sciatic nerve, synaptotagmin I-like immunoreactivity accumulated proximally as well as distally to the crushes in thin and medium-sized axons. Double labelling studies revealed that synaptotagmin I co-localized with tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker of sympathetic adrenergic neurons, and with substance P, a marker for sensory neurons. No synaptotagmin I-like immunoreactivity was found in large axons, while accumulations of the synaptic vesicle proteins synaptophysin and synapsin I were found in all types of axons. Furthermore, no synaptotagmin I-like immunoreactivity was detected in motor endplates. In contrast, the protein was found in muscle spindles of young rats and in perivascular terminals, where it co-localized with synaptophysin and synapsin I. Lumbar sympathectomy resulted in a marked reduction of the amount and intensity of synaptotagmin I-like immunoreactivity in sciatic nerve. High magnification revealed that synaptotagmin I-like immunoreactivity was mainly distributed in a fine granular pattern, but large, brightly fluorescent granules which were not labelled by anti-synaptophysin or anti-synapsin I were occasionally observed. We conclude that synaptotagmin I is mainly expressed in adrenergic and sensory neurons and is absent from, or below detection levels, in motoneurons.
We examined the effects of intrathecally administered neuropeptide Y on the spinal nociceptive flexor reflex in decerebrate, spinalized, unanesthetized rats with intact sciatic nerves, or 11-39 days after unilateral transection of the sciatic nerve. In rats with intact sciatic nerve, intrathecal neuropeptide Y at low doses (10 and 100 ng) caused a brief facilitation of the flexor reflex. At a dose of 300 ng, the effect of neuropeptide Y on the flexor reflex was biphasic, i.e. a brief facilitation followed by slight depression. At higher doses (1 and 10 micrograms), the effect of neuropeptide Y was mainly inhibitory, causing substantial and usually prolonged depression of the flexor reflex magnitude. The reflex depression caused by intrathecal neuropeptide Y was not reversed by the opioid antagonist naloxone or the alpha 2 adrenoceptor antagonist atipamezole. Intrathecal neuropeptide Y at doses up to 1 and 10 micrograms had no effect on reflex facilitation caused by conditioning stimulation of C-fibers, intrathecal substance P or neurokinin A. Topical application of neuropeptide Y (1 microgram/microliter) failed to influence the monosynaptic reflex in normal rats. Eleven to 16 days after peripheral axotomy, the initial excitation of the flexor reflex to intrathecal neuropeptide Y was significantly enhanced in axotomized compared with normal rats. However, the depressive effect of neuropeptide Y on the flexor reflex was unchanged. Neuropeptide Y did not influence the monosynaptic reflex in axotomized rats at this period. In experiments performed on rats in which the sciatic nerve had been transected 31-39 days previously, the facilitatory effect of neuropeptide Y on the flexor reflex remained enhanced compared with normal rats. Furthermore, the inhibitory effect of neuropeptide Y also increased as 100 ng intrathecal neuropeptide Y was able to produce reflex depression in a similar fashion as 300 ng neuropeptide Y normally and the reflex depression caused by 1 microgram neuropeptide Y was stronger and longer lasting than in normal rats. Intrathecal neuropeptide Y (100 ng-10 micrograms) in rats with intact sciatic nerves caused a moderate decrease in spinal cord dorsal surface blood flow as measured with a laser Doppler flowmeter. This effect of neuropeptide Y was unchanged in axotomized rats. The present results support previous observations that spinal application of neuropeptide Y in normal rats caused antinociception. As the depressive effect of neuropeptide Y is independent of spinal opioid and alpha 2-adrenergic systems, it may be mediated by its own receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Nitric oxide can act as a neurotransmitter and a retrograde modulator of synaptic transmission, but uncontrolled nitric oxide synthase activity has been associated with neural degeneration. Although earlier studies using immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization, and NADPH-diaphorase staining had suggested that nitric oxide synthase is not expressed in the CA1 neurons of the hippocampus, we have recently demonstrated that NADPH-diaphorase activity can be detected in CA1 neurons of the hippocampus. To confirm that this diaphorase activity reflects nitric oxide synthase, we have developed a more sensitive in situ hybridization procedure, and an RNase protection assay to detect message for constitutive nitric oxide synthase, the form constitutively expressed in many neurons. Message for constitutive nitric oxide synthase is expressed in the hippocampus, and it is localized to neural cell layers CA1, CA3, the dentate gyrus and some displaced neurons, but not to CA2. Expression of constitutive nitric oxide synthase message in the CA1 region was lost when pyramidal neurons died due to transient forebrain ischemia, supporting the conclusion that CA1 pyramidal cells express constitutive nitric oxide synthase. Although constitutive nitric oxide synthase message is strongly expressed in CA3 and the dentate gyrus, there is little diaphorase activity in these cells, suggesting that there may be post-transcriptional controls that limit constitutive nitric oxide synthase expression in some cells. Message for constitutive nitric oxide synthase is also present in a number of other regions, including the amygdala, several hypothalamic nuclei, the cerebellum, the olfactory bulb, two distinct regions of the perirhinal cortex, the subthalamic nuclei, a neuronal layer in the retrosplenial granular cortex, the lateral geniculate nucleus, the presubiculum, the inferior colliculus, the superior colliculus, the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, and scattered individual neurons in the cortex, hippocampus and brainstem. These studies support a role for nitric oxide in multiple regions of the central nervous system. In particular, nitric oxide synthase, the enzyme responsible for the synthesis of nitric oxide, is expressed in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, where there is evidence that nitric oxide may play a major role in long-term potentiation. CA1 hippocampal neurons are an example of a population of neurons that express constitutive nitric oxide synthase but are very sensitive to excitotoxicity and ischemic insults.

This work presents a new method allowing localized T2 measurements, based upon the OSIRIS scheme. A train of 180 degrees pulses is applied after the OSIRIS preparation cycle, recording directly the transverse magnetization decay. The method was verified for two nuclei, 1H and 19F, with phantoms and in vivo on rats. The accuracy of the T2 values is discussed, as well as possible applications of the OSIRIS-CPMG method to proton transverse spin relaxation measurements, free of diffusion effects, and to non-invasive in vivo blood oxygenation measurements, through the use of an emulsion of perfluorooctylbromide, a blood substitute containing fluorine.
During a single 20-min. exposure to partial sensory deprivation, the average duration of alpha rhythms over the left temporal lobe (T3) increased significantly compared to that for the right homologous region (T4). The percentage changes (increase) over time in the duration of alpha rhythms over the left temporal lobe but not the right temporal lobe were significantly correlated (.64) with histories of automatic behaviors (cessation of awareness) while only the relative increases over time in the durations of alpha rhythms over the right temporal lobe were correlated with histories of vestibular-auditory experiences (.42). The results suggest construct validity for differential hemispheric sources of some specific clusters of complex partial epileptic-like experiences that have been inferred to reflect the continuum of temporal lobe lability.
The effects of periodic maternal deprivation (PMD) treatment on the adrenocortical stress response and on open-field behavior in adult offspring were investigated. Sprague-Dawley rat pups were deprived of mothers daily for 4.5 h during the first 3 weeks of life. PMD treatment resulted in lower corticosterone levels during restraint stress later in life. The result of dexamethasone suppression test indicated that PMD treatment caused a potentiation of the negative feedback function of adrenocortical response. These effects of PMD were not accompanied by an increased density of the hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor which has been reported to be induced in neonatal handling treatment (brief 15-min maternal deprivation). Serotonin (5-HT)-2 and beta-adrenergic binding sites were also examined in cerebral cortex and no change of binding capacities were induced by PMD treatment. In the open-field test, PMD treatment decreased the number of ambulations and rearings but did not affect a frequency of defecation. From these results, it is suggested that PMD treatment leads rats to be insensitive to environmental stimuli in adulthood.
Stereoisomers of the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) were studied to determine whether behavioral effects on complex operants depend on reinforcement loss accompanying behavioral disruption. Rats earned food pellets if the run of consecutive left-lever presses preceding a trial-terminating right-lever press approximated a target of 12. A percentile schedule reinforced any run closer to the target than two-thirds of the runs on the most recent 24 trials. Once the sequence was learned, half the subjects were shifted to a procedure that yoked reinforcement for each length run to the probability that length generated pellets during asymptototic percentile performance. Although these two procedures generate similar control run and reinforcement distributions, disrupting behavior reduced reinforcement probability far more under the yoked than the percentile procedure. Despite this difference in drug-induced reinforcement loss, both enantiomers produced similar dose-related decreases in run length and response rate under both procedures, with the (-) isomer approximately one log unit less potent than the (+) isomer. The absence of differential effects under these procedures diminishes the likelihood that reinforcement loss contributes to dizocilpine's effects, indirectly bolstering claims that dizocilpine directly affects learning.
In normal subjects, if an acoustic startle stimulus is immediately preceded by a small brief change in background noise intensity, the magnitude of the subsequent startle response is decreased. This prepulse inhibition (PPI) of an acoustic startle response has been shown to be associated with sensorimotor gating. PPI is disrupted in schizophrenic patients and has been linked to attentional disorders characteristic of this disease. We tested the effects of (-)-nicotine, (0.19, 0.62, and 1.9 mumol/kg IP) (equivalent to 0.03, 0.1, and 0.3 mg/kg base) and the nicotinic cholinergic receptor (nAChR) channel blocker, mecamylamine (5.0 and 50 mumol/kg IP) (equivalent to 1.0 and 10.0 mg/kg) on PPI of the acoustic startle response in the rat. Nicotine increased the PPI at the lowest prepulse signal levels but not at the stronger levels. Mecamylamine was without effect at 5.0 mumol/kg, but the 50 mumol/kg dose decreased the inhibition at both weak and strong prepulse (PP) levels. Mecamylamine (5.0 mumol/kg) pretreatment did not block the (-)-nicotine-induced increase in PPI. Lobeline (0.19, 0.62, 1.9, and 6.2 mumol/kg IP) (equivalent to 0.071, 0.23, 0.71, and 2.3 mg/kg) was without effect. These results are consistent with a mecamylamine-insensitive effect of nicotine to improve gating in normal rats. The nAChR subtype involved in producing nicotine's increase of PPI needs further investigation.
The actions of linopirdine (DuP 996; 3,3-bis[4-pyrindinylmethyl]-1-phenylindolin-2-one) were evaluated in rats and mice in several cognitive behavioral tests, and for its effects on hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) overflow in rats. Using mice treated with the muscarinic receptor antagonist, scopolamine, we studied the effects of linopirdine on retention of a passive avoidance task. Linopirdine (0.1 and 1 mg/kg) ameliorated the scopolamine-induced deficit, but at doses ranging from 0.01-1 mg/kg, it did not affect passive avoidance retention in normal (untreated) mice. In a scopolamine-induced hyperactivity test, linopirdine (1 mg/kg) decreased the motoric stimulation associated with the cholinergic hypofunction, without affecting locomotor activity on its own. Using rats, we studied the effects of linopirdine on performance in the Morris water maze spatial memory task. Young rats treated with atropine (30 mg/kg), a muscarinic receptor antagonist, took significantly longer to locate the submerged platform across 12 trials. Linopirdine (0.01 and 0.1, but not 1 mg/kg) ameliorated the atropine deficit. In addition, linopirdine (0.1 mg/kg) ameliorated the deficit in cognition-impaired aged rats (23-24 mo), but did not affect unimpaired aged rats. In terms of neurochemical action, linopirdine (1, 10, and 100 microM) produced a concentration-dependent increase in K(+)-evoked ACh overflow from superfused rat hippocampal slices. Also, linopirdine (10 microM) similarly increased ACh release in young control rats and cognition-impaired and nonimpaired aged rats. Our results confirm and extend findings from other studies that demonstrate the cognition-enhancing action of linopirdine in rodent models.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We tested cholinergic agents in delayed matching and nonmatching to position. Each task had a delay between the presentation of information and the chance to act on it later. We used a titrating procedure, new to experiments with rats, to determine the delay. Linopirdine (0.1 mg/kg), which releases acetylcholine, and physostigmine (0.1 mg/kg), a cholinesterase inhibitor, ameliorated the impairment of accuracy produced by scopolamine hydrobromide (0.1 mg/kg). In some cases, scopolamine hydrobromide decreased the number of trials, but physostigmine and linopirdine did not ameliorate that impairment. Both the muscarinic receptor antagonist, scopolamine hydrobromide (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg), and its peripherally acting analog, scopolamine methylbromide (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg), decreased accuracy. The impairment produced by scopolamine methylbromide suggests that the deficit produced by muscarinic receptor antagonism may have both a central and peripheral component. At the highest dose, scopolamine hydrobromide decreased the number of trials completed. Thus, some of the effects of scopolamine hydrobromide involve nonmnemonic performance factors. The performance deficits produced by scopolamine hydrobromide suggest that it may be necessary to qualify drug effects in terms of their action on both memorial and nonmemorial aspects of performance.
The present experiments investigated the effects of route of drug injection on two of the phenomena associated with repeated, cued, morphine administration. Experiment 1 examined the degree of situational specificity of analgesic tolerance following 5 days of morphine (5 mg/kg) delivered either subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (i.v.). Situationally specific tolerance was only observed following i.v. morphine, although nonspecific tolerance was evident in both instances. Experiment 2 indicated that this difference was not due to dose, as neither 2.5 or 7.5 mg/kg SC morphine produced demonstrable situationally specific tolerance. Experiment 3 examined the putative existence of compensatory responses underlying the observed tolerance. Hyperalgesia in response to the environment in which morphine was experienced was evident in animals trained with i.v. morphine, but not in those receiving repeated SC injections. Potential explanations for these effects of route of administration are discussed.


Eighteen males performed two vigilance tasks with static and dynamic stimuli under the influence of oxazepam (20 and 40 mg) in a placebo-controlled, double blind, crossover design. Oxazepam (40 mg) caused impaired performance in the early part of a task with stimuli inducing frequent saccadic eye movements (dynamic task), relative to a task in which the stimuli remained at the same location (static task). This could not be explained by effects of the drug on oculomotor behavior. A larger diameter of the pupil in the dynamic task indicated that performance on this task may have required more effort. Stimulus processing requirements were higher in the dynamic task, as suggested by event-related brain potentials (ERPs), in particular the P3 wave; i.e., more resources had to be allocated in this task. This (additional) investment of resources appeared impossible after administration of oxazepam (40 mg). The conclusion was that tasks eliciting frequent eye movements require more effort and processing resources.
6-Hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA; 100 micrograms in 5 microliters) was injected into the right ventricle (intracerebroventricular, ICV) of 3-day old Sprague-Dawley rats in an attempt to produce a unilateral neonatal dopamine (DA) lesion. At adult stage, the rats were studied for spontaneous, handling- and drug-induced rotational behaviour. The 6-OHDA-treated rats showed hyperreactivity at handling, in the animal facility and in the experimental sets. This behaviour was not observed in vehicle-treated rats, and it did not decrease through the successive experiments. Apomorphine (0.05-1 mg/kg, SC) and caffeine (20 mg/kg SC) produced contralateral rotation in neonatal 6-OHDA, but not in vehicle-injected rats. d-Amphetamine (0.2-2 mg/kg, SC) produced strong, dose-dependent, ipsilateral rotation, while the serotonin (5-HT) releasing agent, p-chloroamphetamine (2 mg/kg, SC) produced a short-lasting and weak ipsilateral rotation in the 6-OHDA-treated rats. On the 6-OHDA-injected side, DA and metabolites levels were reduced by &gt; 70-90% in the striatum, the nucleus accumbens and the tuberculum olfactorium, while in the mesencephalon a 50% decrease was found. On the contralateral side, restricted decreases in DA and metabolites were observed. Noradrenaline (NA) levels were decreased bilaterally in the forebrain. In contrast, 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) levels were increased in the ipsilateral striatum (&gt; 180%), and tuberculum olfactorium (&gt; 120%). Thus, neonatal unilateral ICV 6-OHDA administration produced a significant unilateral decrease in tissue levels of DA and metabolites, which was most marked in the striatum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Angiotensin II and endothelin-1 are putative mediators in asthma. In this study we have examined the effect of angiotensin II on endothelin-1-induced contractions in bovine bronchi and the receptor types involved in the response to these agonists. Angiotensin II alone is very low in potency, producing only small contractions. In the presence of angiotensin II 10(-7) or 3 x 10(-7) M, contractions evoked by endothelin-1 were markedly enhanced. The AII1-receptor antagonist, losartan, abolished this enhancement suggesting that angiotensin II exerts this effect via an AII1-receptor. The contraction evoked by endothelin-1 is mediated via an EtA-receptor subtype since the EtA-receptor antagonist FR139317 attenuated the response. This is offset by an inhibitory EtB-type receptor, resulting in a larger contraction when these receptors are desensitized. Indeed, the EtB-receptor agonist sarafotoxin S6c reversed methacholine-evoked tone in a concentration-dependent manner. In conclusion, angiotensin II potentiates contractions evoked by endothelin-1 in bovine bronchi. This may be a mechanism by which angiotensin II--which has little activity in bronchi--may evoke substantial changes in airway tone. Angiotensin II evokes this potentiation via AII1-receptors, whilst endothelin-1 evokes contraction via EtA-receptors, an action which is offset by an inhibitory effect of EtB-receptors.

Free radicals are species containing unpaired electron, such as superoxide, hydroxyl radical and nitric oxide. The non-radical hydrogen peroxide is easily converted to the free radical during metabolism. These free radicals and hydrogen peroxide are constantly generated in the human and animal bodies and removed by antioxidant defences. Excessive production of free radicals can result in tissue damage, which mainly involves generation of hydroxyl radical and other oxidants in the presence of iron. The brain tissue contains large amount of unsaturated fatty acids and catecholamines, which are thought to be target molecules for free radical-induced peroxidation and neural cell damage, and such free radical-induced cell damage appears to play a major role in the pathogenesis of many neurological diseases.
The technique of transcranial magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex is a new neurophysiological examination of the central motor pathways. In clinical application a reduced MEP/M wave amplitude ratio had a higher correlation with hyperreflexia than did a delayed MEP onset latency. The inhibitory period (IP) which is a transient suppression of muscle action potentials following motor evoked potentials (MEP) by magnetic cortical stimulation is caused primarily by inhibitory process in the motor cortex, because the duration of IP did not depend on the amplitude of MEPs, MEP distribution over the motor cortex or severity of voluntary contraction. Furthermore, the IP was shorter and the amplitude of MEP was increased when ipsilateral motor cortex stimulation to the thenar muscle preceded the contralateral cortex stimulation. C response in a patient with familial essential myoclonus was significantly suppressed by the magnetic stimulation of the sensory cortex locally and during the IP. The uncrossed pyramidal tract was proved by motor cortex stimulation in a patient with hemorrhage in the right thalamus and internal capsule who showed a right hemiparesis. The enhancement of cortical SEP amplitudes (P23 and N30) were noted when the median nerve was stimulated at 50 msec following magnetic stimulation over the sensory cortex locally. SEPs by twin coil stimulation at thoracic and lumbar root levels are useful in detecting the lesions of spinal cord or roots. Sympathetic skin responses and sudomotor potentials are recorded easily by the neck magnetic stimulation, and are useful method for evaluating sympathetic nerve function.
This article advances the argument that the inherent virtue/character of the caregiver is an important element in clinical ethical decision making. Virtue should be promoted as an essential component of professional behavior, and specifically emphasized in both medical student education and professional practice.

As the opportunity to contact with related areas has increased, the study of of the experimental analysis of behavior has experienced revolutionary changes. Some of the most active and important areas-studies of choice, comparative cognition, and human language--are reviewed to acquaint readers. Studies of CHOICE have linked to the molar theories of behavioral economics and behavioral ecology, which promoted research of choice by animals under uncertainty conditions. Further approach has been made to integrate the molar and molecular analyses on the basis of the ideas of behavior dynamics. COMPARATIVE COGNITION is a part of a larger field including cognitive science, behavioral neuroscience, and biological science. Recent developments, aided with a comparative perspective, made significant contributions to our understanding of the phylogeny and ontogeny of cognition. Advances in analysis of human behavior provided tools to study behavioral aspects of semantics, syntax, and pragmatics of HUMAN LANGUAGE. Using the paradigm of stimulus equivalence, the emergence of stimulus relations, stimulus-stimulus networks, hierarchical structure of verbal behavior, and other language-related behaviors have been investigated.




Alzheimer's disease is aetiologically heterogeneous, but the pathogenesis is often considered to be initiated by the deposition of amyloid fibrils, followed by neuritic tau pathology and neuronal death. A variety of inflammatory proteins has been identified in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease post mortem. In this article, Piet Eikelenboom and colleagues review evidence to suggest that the inflammatory processes are intimately involved in several crucial events in the pathological cascade. This suggests possibilities for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease with anti-inflammatory drugs.
Muscle swelling in divers may represent a previously unreported form of decompression sickness. It shows marked, brawny swelling of skeletal muscle which clinically most suggests muscular lymphedema in its woody texture to palpation and unresponsiveness to recompression. Four episodes of unexplained muscle swelling in commercial divers are presented, none apparently resulting in muscular injury.
Human astrocytes can be infected with HIV-1 both in vivo and in vitro. The amount of HIV-1 p24 structural protein production is low in comparison to that of the macrophage. Several weeks following infection or transfection, however, cocultivation with uninfected lymphocytes or stimulation with the cytokines TNF-alpha and IL 1-beta will increase viral production from this cell type. In the present study we demonstrate that phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) also increases HIV-1 p24 production from the primary human astrocyte. Using electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) in combination with supershift studies using specific antibodies, we demonstrate that PMA, like TNF-alpha, increases the p50/p65 form of NF-kB. Furthermore we demonstrate that the protein kinase inhibitor H7 inhibits PMA- and TNF-alpha-associated increases in HIV-1 expression at a time when it has little to no inhibitory effect on the associated increases in p50/p65 NF-kB. Thus, unless p50/p65 NF-kB or its binding is affected by H7 in a manner that cannot be resolved by EMSA, an increase in this form of NF-kB is not always sufficient to increase HIV-1 expression from the astrocyte.
Illusory contours are invoked by the visual system to account for otherwise inexplicable gaps in the image. We report three sets of novel observations on illusory contours. First, when an illusory square is superimposed on a checkerboard pattern there is a considerable enhancement of the contours so long as they are exactly coincident with the borders of the checks. If the checks are misaligned, on the other hand, the illusory contours associated with the pacman edges disappear and a novel percept emerges: the contours of the checks nearest to the illusory square appear enhanced. This result implies that subjective contours are generated by intermediate-level contour interactions rather than the top-down processes of three-dimensional interpretation. Second, we find that steady fixation for as little as 4 sec leads to a complete disappearance of the enhanced illusory contours caused, presumably, by adaptation or &quot;fatigue&quot; of cells that signal these contours. Such adaptation occurred even when the illusory contours were rendered invisible by displaying them on a misaligned checkerboard, suggesting that the adaptation occurs prior to the vetoing of the signal by the checks. Third, we found that illusory contours persist for a surprisingly long time (0.3 sec) after the inducing elements have been switched off. These results suggest that the stimuli we have designed (&quot;enhanced illusory contours&quot;) might provide a novel probe for dissecting different stages involved in the processing of illusory contours and for understanding how the visual system combines different types of contours to construct object boundaries.

A detailed mapping of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) immunoreactivity (IR) in rat CNS was performed employing a mouse monoclonal antibody against rat liver GR. Subjective comparisons were made between the present results and the available data in the literature. A semiquantitation of GR immunostaining was found necessary and was obtained by microdensitometric and morphometric techniques, which enabled the distinction of neuronal and glial cell populations containing GR IR in various CNS regions. GR IR in the CNS was mainly found in the nuclear compartment. The GR was present in neuronal populations with classical neurotransmitters, especially monoamines and glutamate and with various neuropeptides. The degree of colocalization varied according to the function of the brain area. Functional implications were made in relation to stress sensitivity, mood and nociception/antinociception. The global control of networks by glucocorticoids may allow an optimal integration of different types of circuits. The GR is found already in the fetal rat and the development of GR mRNA and receptor protein was followed during the pre- and postnatal periods. The GR appears to be a major factor in brain maturation and in modulation of stress responses. In aged Brown Norway rat brain GR IR but not mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) IR is reduced in the hippocampal nerve cells. The intensity of GR IR but not the number of nerve cells is altered, indicating a reduced activation of the GR in aging in this rat strain. Overall GR participates in neuronal plasticity from fetal and postnatal life to adult life and aging.
In 163 patients with dementia disorders, subdivided into Alzheimer's disease with early onset (AD; n = 40), senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT; n = 56), vascular dementia (VAD; n = 45) and dementia of unspecified type (NUD; n = 22) the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) was performed. The patients were rated according to the DSM-III-R criteria as having mild, moderate or severe dementia and were also assessed using the GBS scale which gives a profile of the dementia syndrome. In the total group of dementia there were significant correlations between severity of dementia and post-DST levels. The frequency of pathological DST also correlated significantly with the severity of dementia. In the subgroups of dementia a strong correlation between severity of dementia and high post-DST cortisol levels was found only in the VAD group. Between the subgroups of dementia disorders there were no significant differences in basal cortisol levels. The percentage of pathological DST was lowest in the AD group (40%). It was somewhat higher in the VAD group (49%), still higher in the SDAT group (54%) and highest in the NUD group (59%). When the relationship between post-DST cortisol levels and GBS scores was analyzed, significant correlations were found mainly in the VAD group. There intellectual impairment, anxiety, fear-panic and restlessness correlated significantly with post-DST cortisol levels. The results indicate hypothalamic overactivity in a substantial number of demented patients. In VAD and to a certain extent also in SDAT a disconnection between cortical areas, including the hippocampus, and the hypothalamus is assumed. Overactivity in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is due to stress, and an insufficient feedback system leads to chronic stress adaptation failure.

Treatment of the rat C6 glioma cell line with interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) resulted in an accumulation of cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) in mRNA level. The increase of cPLA2 in mRNA level was observed at 6 hours after treatment of IL-1 beta and reached to the maximal level at 12 hours. The accumulation also remained sustained for up to 72 hours. Dose response curve of IL-1 beta showed that as little as 40 units/ml concentration induced the accumulation of mRNA and 100 units/ml concentration showed the maximal effect. In contrast, cyclooxygenase 2 gene was not affected with treatment of IL-1 beta.
The rat D2 receptor and the dog A2a receptor subcloned into the pXM vector were transiently transfected into COS-7 cells using the DEAE-dextran method. The transfected cells expressed approx. 200 fmol D2 receptors/mg protein and approx. 5 pmol/mg protein of the A2a receptor as judged by binding experiments with [3H]raclopride [or[3H]-N-propyl-apomorphine (NPA)] and [3H]-CGS 21680, respectively. The high affinity KD values were 0.43 and 19 nM for D2 and A2a receptors, respectively, in agreement with results obtained from other cells and tissues. The non-selective adenosine receptor agonist NECA stimulated cAMP accumulation both in non-transfected and transfected COS-7 cells with only a slight difference in potency, suggesting that most of the stimulation is due to activation of A2b receptors known to be present on virtually every cell. The two A2a selective agonists CGS 21680 and CV-1808 were essentially inactive in transfected COS-7 cells, but were very active in PC-12 cells known to possess functional A2a receptors. Dopamine did not decrease cAMP accumulation in the transfected COS-7 cells. CGS 21680 (30 nM) did not affect the binding characteristics of D2 receptors in the co-transfected COS-7 cells in contrast to the increased KH, KL and RH values found previously in rat striatal membranes after CGS 21680 treatment. The present findings indicate that transiently transfected A2a and D2 receptors in COS-7 cells have normal binding properties, but couple poorly to adenylyl cyclase, despite the presence of Gs protein and adenylyl cyclase in these cells. Our results also demonstrate that the previously reported interactions between A2a receptors and D2 receptors do not occur when only the receptor proteins are expressed in COS-7 cells, suggesting that the two receptor molecules do not interact directly to influence binding characteristics.
The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) is phosphorylated on tyrosine both in vitro and in vivo. To identify the protein tyrosine kinase that phosphorylates the receptor, we have previously cloned and characterized two protein tyrosine kinases, Fyn and Fyk, that are highly expressed in Torpedo electric organ, a tissue enriched in the AChR. Both kinases were shown by coimmunoprecipitation to be specifically associated with the AChR. In this study, we examined the molecular basis for the interaction of Fyn and Fyk with the AChR using fusion proteins containing the SH2 domains of the two kinases as affinity reagents. The AChR bound specifically and in a protein concentration-dependent manner to the SH2 domain fusion proteins of Fyn and Fyk. Quantitation of the association revealed that the binding of the AChR to Fyn and Fyk SH2 domain fusion proteins was to a single class of saturable high affinity sites. In addition, the association of the AChR with the SH2 domain fusion proteins was dependent on tyrosine phosphorylation of the AChR and was mediated by the delta subunit of the receptor. Furthermore, upon dissociation of the AChR into subunits, the delta subunit coimmunoprecipitated with both Fyn and Fyk. These data suggest that the association of the AChR with Fyn and Fyk is mediated by an interaction of the tyrosine-phosphorylated delta subunit of the receptor with the SH2 domains of the protein tyrosine kinases.

The effect of the dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel antagonist, isradipine, on ethanol discrimination was assessed in rats trained to discriminate 1.5 g/kg ethanol from water in a T-maze, food-reinforced drug discrimination procedure. Pretreatment with isradipine (0, 1.0, 3.0 and 5.0 mg/kg i.p.) resulted in a dose-dependent blockade of ethanol discrimination. The results of the present study suggest that L-type Ca2+ channels are involved in the mediation of ethanol discriminative stimulus effects.
Previous reports have shown that (+/-)-YM796 (2,8-dimethyl-3-methylene-1-oxa-8-azaspiro[4.5]decane) exhibits M1 agonistic activity and ameliorates cognitive impairment, and that the (-)-S isomer is active in in vitro studies. We report here the characterization of the (-)-S isomer, YM796 ((-)-(S)-2,8-dimethyl-3-methylene-1-oxa-8-azaspiro[4.5]decane L-tartrate monohydrate), and its (+)-R isomer in in vivo pharmacological studies in comparison with the cholinesterase inhibitors tacrine, amiridine and E-2020. YM796 (0.031-0.5 mg/kg p.o.), like the racemate, reversed the cognitive impairment in passive avoidance tasks of rats with nucleus basalis magnocellularis lesions, whereas (+)-R-YM796 was ineffective in this experimental amnesia. YM796 exhibited only weak effects on mouse salivation and hypothermia, a peripheral cholinergic response and a central cholinergic response, respectively. The (+)-R isomer, however, failed to induce these cholinergic responses. YM796 also ameliorated the memory deficits induced by scopolamine in rats and electroconvulsive shock in mice. The potency of YM796 in these experimental amnesia models was over a 100 times greater than that of tacrine, over 10 times greater than that of E-2020, and 6 times greater than that of amiridine. In salivary secretion and hypothermia, YM796 was 2-4 times weaker than tacrine and E-2020, and 1-2 times stronger than amiridine. Thus, YM796's ratio of anti-amnesic effects to salivary secretion and hypothermia was much greater than that of the cholinesterase inhibitors tested.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The inhibition of GR73632-induced foot tapping in gerbils by central nervous system (CNS) penetrant of tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonists was investigated. Intracerebroventricular infusion of the highly selective tachykinin NK1 receptor agonist GR73632 (3 pmol) induced a vigorous repetitive hind foot tapping response which was inhibited by CP-99,994 (ID50 = 0.06 mg/kg i.v.) but not by its less active enantiomer, CP100,263 (10 mg/kg i.v.). Similarly, the poorly CNS penetrant quaternised compound, L-743,310, failed to inhibit foot tapping at doses up to 3 mg/kg i.v. In contrast, all three compounds inhibited chromodacryorrhoea induced by systemic administration of GR73632 (0.5 nmol i.v.) (ID50 = 0.06, 2.95 and 0.004 mg/kg i.v., respectively). These findings confirm that foot tapping and chromodacryorrhoea in gerbils provide simple assays for the central and peripheral activation of tachykinin NK1 receptors.

Length selectivity for each eye was compared as response increment-decrement to optimal sine-wave grating patches, in strongly binocular, striate cortical neurons in adult cats. Neurons were characterized as simple, or as standard, intermediate or special complex, on criteria that included length summation. Length summation was characterized for stimulus length, incremented symmetrically about the receptive field, up to optimal response levels. Many neurons additionally showed end stopping: response decrement to supra-optimal lengths. Optimal length and/or end stopping for each eye differed in most neurons, although the distributions of optimal length or percentage end stopping for each eye were comparable for the overall sample and for each neuronal subclass. However, paired comparisons of length and end-stopping data for each neuron revealed a marked tendency for receptive fields to be relatively smaller on average, but more strongly end stopped, for contralateral input. On the Wilcoxon signed rank test, these differences were statistically significant for standard complex neurons. There was also a tendency for differences in end stopping to be greater and more widely scattered for neurons with near-horizontal than near-vertical orientation preferences. Although the functional value of skew in the distributions of interocular differences in optimal length and end stopping remains conjectural, the scatter and balanced distribution of these differences in length specificity across the neuronal population may provide a basis for encoding visual perspective cues.
Immunohistochemical staining with an antiserum against the neuropeptide Y (NPY)-Y1 receptor (Y1-R) protein was shown in rat small dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, which also were Y1-R mRNA-positive and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-positive. The Y1-R-like immunoreactivity was almost exclusively located in the somatic plasmalemma and in the perinuclear region. Intracellular recording showed that the Y1 agonist [Leu31,Pro34]NPY evoked an outward current in small DRG neurons, suggesting a functional somatic Y1-R. No evidence for axonal transport of Y1-R protein was obtained after analysis of the dorsal horn for double staining with CGRP, after dorsal rhizotomy, or after compression of dorsal roots and the sciatic nerve. It is proposed that blood-borne NPY released from sympathetic nerves and adrenal medulla is the endogenous ligand for the Y1 receptors on the small DRG neurons. Y1-R-positive neurons were also seen in the dorsal horn of spinal cord, the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, pyramidal cells in the cerebral cortex, Purkinje and basket cells in the cerebellar cortex, and in many other brain regions.
The cGMP-gated cation channel mediating visual transduction in retinal rods was recently found to comprise at least two subunits, 1 and 2 (or alpha and beta). SDS gels of the purified channel show, in addition to a 63-kDa protein band (subunit 1), a 240-kDa protein band that binds Ca(2+)-calmodulin, a modulator of the channel. To examine any connection between subunit 2 and the 240-kDa protein, cGMP-gated channels formed from the expressed cloned subunits in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells were tested for Ca(2+)-calmodulin effect. Homooligomeric channels formed by subunit 1 alone showed no sensitivity to Ca(2+)-calmodulin, and neither did heterooligomeric channels formed by subunit 1 and the short alternatively spliced form of subunit 2 (2a). By contrast, the cGMP half-activation constant (K1/2) for heterooligomeric channels formed from subunit 1 and the long form of subunit 2 (2b) was increased 1.5- to 2-fold by Ca(2+)-calmodulin, similar to the increase observed for the native channel. In Western blots of rod outer segment membranes, a subunit 2-specific antibody also recognized the 240-kDa protein. Finally, amino acid sequences derived from peptide fragments of the bovine 240-kDa protein showed approximately 80% identity to regions of subunit 2b of the human channel. These results together suggest that subunit 2b of the rod channel is a component of the 240-kDa protein and that it mediates the Ca(2+)-calmodulin modulation of the channel.
At the snake neuromuscular junction, following a short period of high frequency motor nerve stimulation, a population of 'small-mode' miniature endplate currents (MEPCs) is seen. These small-mode MEPCs are believed to be due to the release of acetylcholine from incompletely refilled recycling synaptic vesicles [Searl et al., Neuroscience, 35 (1991) 145-156]. This study determines the role of the trans-vesicular membrane proton gradient in the generation of small-mode MEPCs. Preserving the trans-vesicular membrane proton gradient during synaptic vesicle exocytosis by exposure of snake nerve/muscle preparations to an extracellular pH approximately equal to the intravesicular pH, leads to an augmentation of the amplitude of the stimulation-induced small-mode MEPCs. Conversely, pretreatment of snake neuromuscular preparations with 10 mM ammonium ions, to buffer intravesicular protons and hence dissipate the trans-vesicular membrane proton gradient, leads to an inhibition of the stimulation-induced appearance of small-mode MEPCs. The data are consistent with the theory that the reduced acetylcholine content of recycled synaptic vesicles in the snake is a consequence of an incomplete restoration of the trans-vesicular membrane proton gradient following synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Thus, in recycling synaptic vesicles the limiting step in the refilling process appears to be generation of the trans-membrane proton gradient and not the transport of acetylcholine into the vesicle.
Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) obtained from the rat retina after the cell death period were maintained in vitro by target derived retinal ganglion cell neurotrophic factor (RGNF). However, only 15% of surviving RGCs expressed neurites. On the other hand, when the culture was supplemented with retinal glia conditioned medium, nearly 80% of surviving RGCs expressed neurites which were longer than two cell diameter. Expression of neurites is not due to the presence of laminin in the glial conditioned medium as laminin coated substratum had no significant effect on the neurite growth from mature RGCs in the absence of glial factors.
In vitro ischemia (IVI) was simulated with rat hippocampal slices in medium lacking D-glucose, equilibrated with 95% nitrogen, 5% carbon dioxide. Within 5-8 min, synaptic potentials disappeared and a DC negative shift (5-15 mV) occurred. Prolonged application of 95% oxygen and D-glucose 12 min later did not allow synaptic potentials to recover. Slices pretreated with sodium channel blocking drugs allowed synaptic potentials to recover after IVI. Tetrodotoxin (TTX, 100-600 nM), the anticonvulsant phenytoin (5.0 to 100 microM) and the local anesthetic lidocaine (2.0 to 200 microM) each delayed or prevented negative DC shifts from IVI. Histological examination showed that drug treatments also prevented CA1 pyramidal cell damage from IVI. Neuroprotection occurred without blocking synaptic potentials or presynaptic fiber volleys, suggesting relevance for treatment of brain ischemia.
Human foetal dorsal root ganglia were grafted in place of native lumbar dorsal root ganglia in adult rat hosts. Between 4 weeks and 4 months later, the dorsal root entry zone (DREZ) in the grafted roots showed extensive peripheral outgrowth of astrocytic processes, in contrast to the normal 'smooth' interface between the peripheral and central nervous system compartments of the DREZ. Fibres originating from the grafted neurones and approaching the DREZ changed their direction of growth and entered the spinal cord through the pia by following blood vessels, grew into the grey matter and ramified there. These findings suggest that the DREZ astrocytes in vivo are non-permissive not only to mature peripheral regenerating axons, but also to growing axons from immature neurones.
The effect of the neuroprotective kappa opioid agonist CI-977 on glutamate (GLU)-stimulated calcium signaling was studied in individual primary rat cortical neurons. Using laser scanning confocal microscopy and the fluorescent calcium probe fluo-3, both the sustained and biphasic intracellular calcium concentration [Ca2+]i changes induced by GLU (20-40 microM) were altered by CI-977 (25-100 nM), thereby shifting the neuronal population response from unbuffered to buffered patterns of [Ca2+]i flux. This effect was consistent with the previously demonstrated neuroprotective action of CI-977 against glutamate toxicity in vitro. The effect of CI-977 in altering GLU-induced [Ca2+]i signaling was attenuated by naloxone, consistent with a neuroprotective action of CI-977 at opioid receptors, presumably of the kappa subtype.
The neural representation of the languages of the polyglot speaker has been highly controversial. We used positron emission tomography (PET) to investigate whether production in a second language (L2) involves the same neural substrates as that of a first language (L1) in normal bilingual subjects who learned L2 after the age of 5 years. Comparison of cerebral blood flow (CBF) when repeating words in L2 and repeating words in L1 yielded only a single significant CBF change: an increase in the left putamen. We hypothesize that this region plays a specific role for articulation in L2. The role of the putamen in articulation is supported by foreign accent syndrome (FAS), which can occur after left putaminal damage. The increased articulatory demands imposed by speaking a second language may require complex motor control for speech production in L2.
Antibodies were raised against C-terminal peptides of the splice variants a, b and c of the rat mGluR1 metabotropic glutamate receptor. Affinity purified antibodies each specifically reacting with mGluR1a, mGluR1b and mGluR1c were used to study the cellular localization of these receptors in rat cerebellum. The mGluR1a antibody strongly labelled Purkinje cells at their cells bodies, portions of their dendritic trees and numerous small punctate elements reminiscent of dendritic spines. Also labelled were some stellate, basket, Golgi and Lugaro cells. Granule cells were devoid of staining. The mGluR1b antibody strongly labelled Purkinje cell bodies and their dendrites at levels which varied within the same lobule of the vermis or the hemispheres. No significant labelling was observed at stellate, basket, Golgi and granule cells, while occasionally a fraction of basket cells and cerebellar glomeruli was moderately immunoreactive. The mGluR1c antibody strongly labelled cell bodies and thick principal dendrites of Purkinje cells but not dendritic spines. Immunonegative Purkinje cells were intermingled with strongly labelled ones in lobules 4-10, while in lobules 1, 2 and 3, no stained Purkinje cells were detected. The mGluR1c antibody also labelled stellate, basket, some Golgi and some Lugaro cells as well as granule cells.
We have addressed the question of whether adaptively modifying the oculomotor response to a visual pursuit stimulus has an influence on a related manual tracking response. Subjects used their unseen right hand to track targets moving at constant velocities while visually fixating a stationary LED. Manual tracking performance was compared before and after a 20 min period during which smooth pursuit eye movements alone were adaptively enhanced by adding 50% of the instantaneous eye position signal to target position. Compared with the preadaptation trials, hand gain was markedly increased during the postadaptation period. These results imply that the adaptation occurred at a level common to both motor systems, probably in CNS structures concerned with visual motion processing.
Affinities and densities of binding sites for the 5HT1A receptor ligand [3H]8-hydroxy(di-n-propylamino)tetralin ([3H]8-OH-DPAT) and the 5HT2 receptor ligand [3H]ketanserin were measured using a rapid filtration assay in crude membrane preparations from frontal cortex and hippocampus of nine cirrhotic patients who died in hepatic encephalopathy and from an equal number of age-matched subjects free from hepatic, neurological or psychiatric disorders. Binding site densities (Bmax) obtained by Scatchard analysis of saturation binding isotherms for [3H]8-OH-DPAT were decreased in frontal cortex (by 56%, P &lt; 0.05) and hippocampus (by 30%, P &lt; 0.05). [3H]ketanserin binding sites were concomitantly increased (by 55%, P &lt; 0.05) in hippocampus of cirrhotic patients. Ligand binding affinities were within normal ranges in all cases. Previous reports have described the accumulation of the 5HT metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and increased activities of the 5HT-metabolizing enzyme MAOA in this same material from patients with hepatic encephalopathy. Taken together, these findings suggest that alterations of serotoninergic function in brain could be responsible for some of the neuropsychiatric symptoms of hepatic encephalopathy observed in humans with chronic liver disease.
Brains from demented patients with both Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology and brainstem and neocortical Lewy bodies have fewer neurofibrillary tangles than pure AD, but share with AD an increased apolipoprotein-E epsilon-4 (APOE4) allelic frequency. We applied the Braak and Braak AD neuropathology staging protocol, based on entorhinal and neocortical neurofibrillary pathology, to 40 such Lewy body variants of AD (LBV) and 97 cases of pure AD and compared the results in APOE4 positive and APOE4 negative subgroups. APOE4 was associated with more severe neurofibrillary pathology in LBV but not in pure AD, where a ceiling effect appears to be operative.
Mast cell accumulation and degranulation occur within the endoneurium of injured peripheral nerves. We investigated the time course of mast cell accumulation and degranulation in experimental neuromas of the sciatic nerve in rats. Mast cell accumulation and degranulation were significant only after the first week following neuroma creation and were prominent at 14 days within the neuroma stump. Mast cell degranulation could account for microvascular changes within neuromas after the first week following injury.
The nicotinic receptor is highly phosphorylated on tyrosine residues both in vivo and in vitro. Tyrosine phosphorylation has been shown to regulate the functional properties of the receptor. We have purified a protein tyrosine phosphatase from the electric organ of Torpedo californica that dephosphorylates the nicotinic receptor. The unique biochemical properties of the purified enzyme suggest that it may be a novel phosphotyrosine protein phosphatase. In this report, substrate specificity of the protein purified from T. californica was characterized using four different tyrosine-phosphorylated substrate proteins. In addition to the nicotinic receptor, the Torpedo phosphatase dephosphorylated insulin receptor and Reduced Carboxamidomethylated and Meleylated lysozyme (RCM lysozyme), however, at a rate much slower than for the nicotinic receptor. In contrast, it appeared to have no effect on the phosphotyrosine level of pp15, a fatty acid binding protein (O-phospho-tyr19-422/aP2) phosphorylated by insulin receptor kinase in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Interestingly, a protein tyrosine phosphatase (HA1) purified from adipocyte dephosphorylated both nicotinic receptor and pp15 at a similar rate. These results suggest that the Torpedo protein tyrosine phosphatase is relatively specific for the nicotinic receptor.
The edg-1 immediate-early gene encodes a G-protein-coupled receptor homolog implicated in endothelial cell differentiation. We report the cloning of the rat edg-1 gene. Our Northern analyses indicate that edg-1 is much more widely expressed than previously thought. edg-1 mRNA was found in many organs at several stages of development with relatively high levels present in adult brain. edg-1 transcripts were also detected in several cell lines. Expression of edg-1 mRNA in the PC12 cell model of neuronal differentiation was unaffected by agents that cause PC12 cells to differentiate or proliferate. Therefore, edg-1 may play a cell-type-specific role in differentiation and also participate in neurotransmission.
Thimerosal, a sulfhydryl oxidizing reagent, has been shown to induce Ca2+ mobilization in several cell types and to increase the sensitivity of intracellular Ca2+ stores to inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3). Using purified IP3 receptor (IP3R) protein reconstituted in vesicles, we demonstrate pronounced stimulation by thimerosal of its Ca2+ channel activity. Effects of thimerosal are dependent on the redox state of the receptor, implying an action of thimerosal on a critical sulfhydryl group(s) of IP3R. Thimerosal enhances the affinity of IP3R for IP3 binding. The manner in which thimerosal modulates IP3R responsiveness to IP3 provides evidence for receptor heterogeneity with implications for mechanisms of quantal Ca2+ release. These results clarify regulation of IP3R activity by redox modulation.


The effects of cutting the corticocortical connections between medial and sulcal prefrontal areas on the conditioning of taste and place cues were examined. In Experiment 1, rats were simultaneously exposed to taste and place cues before injection of 0.15 M LiCl. In controls, a significant conditioned taste aversion (CTA) but no conditioned place aversion (CPA) was observed. In contrast, rats with bilateral knife cuts showed a significant CPA but a weaker CTA. To test whether these results could have been due to the effects of simultaneously exposing the rats to taste and place cues during conditioning, rats were trained independently in either CTA or CPA paradigms in Experiment 2. In the CTA test, rats both in operated and control groups showed a CTA when first tested. Rats with bilateral knife cuts, however, showed a weaker CTA than those in the control group. In the CPA test, rats in the control group did not exhibit a CPA, whereas the knife cut group did. Rats with sham lesions tested in Experiment 2 did not differ from control subjects on either the CPA or the CTA test. Thus, bilateral cuts increased the CPA and decreased the CTA even when tested independently. These results indicate that the relative ease of association of place and taste stimuli may be accounted for in part by the organization of the intrinsic connections of the prefrontal cortex in the rat.
Age-related changes in spatial learning performance were studied in relation to acetylcholine (ACh) content of brain regions in male aged (28-month-old) and young (5-month-old) mice of BDF1 strain. As there were large individual differences in the spatial performance of aged mice, the aged mice were divided into two subgroups, old A and old B. The old A group included the six best performers out of the 12 aged mice and the old B group included the remaining 6 worst performers. In a radial-arm maze task with 8 baited arms, aged mice in the old B group showed a marked deficit in acquisition performance and habituation to the apparatus. In the more difficult maze task with only 4 baited arms, the aged mice in the old B group exhibited marked impairment both in working memory and reference memory throughout training, whereas the aged mice in the old A group showed deficits in reference memory during the first 20 days of training and working memory during the last 20 days relative to young mice. Neurochemical analysis revealed significant decreases in the ACh content of the hippocampus and striatum in both aged groups, and in the frontal cortex and posterior cortex of the old B group as compared to the young group. Correlational analysis showed significant correlations between learning performance in the spatial task and ACh levels in the hippocampus, frontal cortex, and posterior cortex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Chinese hamster ovary cell clones permanently transfected with the cDNA for human lysosomal beta-galactosidase secrete the enzyme precursor into the cell medium, from which it is purified to apparent homogeneity in a single step by affinity chromatography. The purified precursor is fully active, displays the same pH optimum and Km values as the mature placental enzyme, and has an intact C-terminus. The intact enzyme when chromatographed on a Sephacryl S-200 molecular-sieve column elutes as a 105,500 Da monomer, whereas on SDS/PAGE gels the polypeptide migrates as an 88 kDa polypeptide. A time course of digestion with glycopeptide-N-glycanase shows the gradual conversion of the precursor from an 88 to a 72 kDa protein, suggesting the presence of five N-linked oligosaccharides in the protein. The precursor is readily taken up in a mannose-6-phosphate-dependent manner into beta-galactosidase-deficient, GM1-gangliosidosis fibroblasts, and the enzyme activity is returned to normal levels. We show that the stereochemical course of enzymic hydrolysis involves the retention of the beta-configuration at the anomeric centre, suggesting a double-displacement mechanism. Furthermore, the enzyme is rapidly and irreversibly inactivated in the presence of the mechanism-based inactivator 2,4-dinitrophenyl-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-beta-D-galactopyranoside, which implicates a covalent intermediate. The enzyme is also inactivated by 1-ethyl-3(3-dimethylamino-propyl)carbodi-imide and by phenylglyoxal, which implicates carboxylate and arginine residues respectively in the active site. We conclude that the beta-galactosidase precursor is functionally identical to the mature lysosomal form of the enzyme and serves as an excellent enzyme source for investigation of structure-function relationships in the protein.
The DnaJ family of molecular chaperones is characterized by the presence of a highly conserved 70-amino-acid J domain. Escherichia coli DnaJ interacts with the 70-kDa heat-shock protein (DnaK), in vitro, to stimulate the 70-kDa heat-shock protein ATPase activity and modify substrate binding. The conservation of the interaction of DnaJ-like proteins with the 70-kDa heat-shock proteins has been demonstrated for the yeast protein YDJ1, a protein that shows full domain conservation with E. coli DnaJ. Human neurone-specific DnaJ-like proteins, HSJ1a and HSJ1b, possess a J domain and a glycine/phenylalanine-rich region in common with E. coli DnaJ, although the overall amino acid identity is less than 23%. We have investigated, in vitro, the interaction of HSJ1a and HSJ1b with the mammalian brain constitutive 70-kDa heat-shock protein (hsc70). The weak intrinsic ATPase activity of the constitutive 70-kDa heat-shock protein is enhanced more than fivefold by stoichiometric amounts of both HSJ1a and HSJ1b. This enhancement is mediated by an increase in the rate of bound ATP hydrolysis, whereas the rate of ADP release is unaffected. HSJ1 proteins appear to regulate the affinity of the 70-kDa constitutive heat-shock protein for the permanently unfolded substrate, carboxymethylated alpha-lactalbumin. A recent report [Palleros, D. R., Reid, K. L., Shi, L., Welch, W. J. &amp; Fink, A. L. (1993) Nature 365, 664-666] has suggested that substrate release by 70-kDa heat-shock proteins requires a conformational change in these proteins induced by K+ in concert with ATP binding. In the presence of ATP, HSJ1 proteins reduce 70-kDa constitutive heat-shock protein/carboxymethylated alpha-lactalbumin complex formation both in the presence and absence of K+. This suggests that HSJ1 proteins induce a conformational change in the 70-kDa constitutive heat-shock protein that can mimic the effect mediated by K+ and therefore modulate 70-kDa heat-shock protein substrate release by another mechanism rather than merely stimulating the 70-kDa heat-shock protein ATPase activity. As HSJ1 proteins have limited similarity to DnaJ, we suggest that this action is being mediated by the J domain alone, and that this modulation of 70-kDa heat-shock-protein substrate binding will be common to all proteins that contain a J domain.
Clozapine was studied in functional assays at human muscarinic M1-M5 receptors expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Clozapine was a full agonist at the muscarinic M4 receptor (EC50 = 11 nM), producing inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cAMP accumulation. In contrast, clozapine potently antagonized agonist-induced responses at the other four muscarinic receptor subtypes. Selective stimulation of M4 receptors may, in part, explain the hypersalivation observed clinically with clozapine. Moreover, the unique overall muscarinic profile of clozapine may contribute to its atypical antipsychotic efficacy.
The distribution of neuregulin transcripts in rat brains was studied by both RNA blotting and in situ hybridization. Our data demonstrate that multiple neuregulin transcripts are expressed in neurons of the basal forebrain, the hippocampus, the diencephalon, the cerebellum, the brainstem, and the spinal cord. Developmental changes in the distribution of neuregulin transcripts were observed only in the cerebellum and the hippocampus. The intense neuregulin hybridization signals in the brainstem motor and sensory nuclei and the spinal motor neurons are suggestive of a functional involvement of neuregulins in motor and sensory systems. The expression of neuregulins in other parts of the brain also indicates that these factors are involved in a variety of central nervous system functions.
We have demonstrated a far more widespread and selective ischemic cell damage than previously thought. In area CA3, a distinct subpopulation of interneurons, characterized by their spiny dendrites and their calretinin content, was selectively vulnerable in the absence of any other CA3 involvement. In the dentate hilus, four different types of spiny cells were consistently damaged. The common denominator in these two cell groups is the presence of spines on their dendrites and hence the greater density of mossy fiber innervation they receive. A common mechanism of cell death may be the presence of non-NMDA receptor subtypes that are highly permeable to calcium. We speculate that they may constitute an important control mechanism in the CA3 region and the hilus, and impairment of this mechanism may be causal to delayed neuronal death in CA1. We have also shown that neuronal degeneration does not end after delayed cell death of CA1 pyramidal cells. Our results suggest that there is progressive degeneration throughout the life of the animal and degeneration of additional cell populations (e.g. CA1 interneurons and CA3 pyramidal cells) may also occur secondary to the insult.
In two studies with positron emission tomography (PET), we found that somatosensory discrimination of length activated the ipsilateral MI, but somatosensory discrimination of shape did not. This occurred even though both tasks required the exclusive use of distal finger and hand movements which were also very similar in both tasks. The activation of the ipsilateral MI was correlated with activations of the premotor cortex in the other hemisphere, the prefrontal cortex and the posterior cingulate cortex, indicating that these areas together with the ipsilateral MI constitute a task-related active network.
A system for positron emission tomography study of conscious monkeys was newly developed. By use of this system in combination with a microdialysis technique, the effect of ketamine on the binding and release of dopamine was investigated. The administration of ketamine (5 mg/kg) caused sedation accompanied by psychotic symptoms such as nystagmus and stereotyped movements of extremities. During this psychotomimetic period produced by ketamine, a significant increase in the accumulation of the dopamine D2 receptor ligand N-[11C]methylspiperone was observed in the striatum compared with the level in the conscious state, while no significant change was observed in the frontal cortex and cerebellum. In contrast to the use of ketamine as the anesthetic, pentobarbital (25 mg/kg), which produced deeper anesthesia but no psychotic symptoms, caused a decrease in the accumulation of N-[11C]methylspiperone in the striatum. Kinetic analysis, conducted by a graphical method, revealed that the value of the association constant (K3) for N-[11C]methylspiperone binding in the striatum was increased to approximately 130% by ketamine and decreased to approximately 70% by pentobarbital compared with the control values. Furthermore, the release of dopamine from the striatum measured by microdialysis was not affected by ketamine anesthesia. These results indicate that ketamine facilitates striatal dopaminergic neurotransmission through increasing the binding activity of dopamine D2 receptors in the striatum, and suggest that these changes may be related to the psychotomimetic behavioral symptoms of this drug.
We investigated the possibility that human alpha-calcitonin-gene related peptide (CGRP)-(8-37) and human beta CGRP-(8-37) show some selectivity as antagonists of CGRP1 and CGRP2 receptor-mediated responses. Bindings assays showed that human alpha CGRP, human alpha CGRP-(8-37) and human beta CGRP-(8-37) showed high affinity (in the nanomolar concentration range) for CGRP receptors expressed in SK-N-MC cells and also in rat brain membrane preparations. Both human alpha CGRP-(8-37) and human beta CGRP-(8-37) were potent antagonists of human alpha CGRP-stimulated cAMP accumulation in SK-N-MC cells. However, both human alpha CGRP-(8-37) and human beta CGRP-(8-37) were weakly effective in antagonizing human alpha CGRP-stimulated responses in guinea-pig atria and rat vas deferens. In rat vas deferens, but not guinea-pig atria, the effects of human alpha CGRP and human alpha CGRP-(8-37) (but not human beta CGRP-(8-37)) were potentiated by thiorphan. Neither human alpha- nor human beta CGRP-(8-37) showed selectivity for supposedly CGRP1 and CGRP2 receptor-mediated responses. Furthermore, differences in the effects of the truncated CGRP analogues may reflect differences in enzyme distribution rather than the existence of CGRP receptor subtypes.

In area CA1 of the hippocampus, the induction of long term potentiation (LTP) requires activation of either N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDA receptor-dependent LTP) or voltage-gated Ca2+ channels (NMDA receptor-independent LTP). We have investigated biochemical sequelae of NMDA receptor-independent LTP induction. We find that a persistent increase in second messenger-independent protein kinase C activity is associated with the maintenance phase of NMDA receptor-independent LTP. This increase in protein kinase C activity is prevented by blocking LTP with nifedipine, a Ca2+ channel antagonist, or kynurenic acid, a nonselective glutamate receptor antagonist. Additionally, we find an increase in the catalytic fragment of protein kinase C (PKM) in the maintenance phase of NMDA receptor-independent LTP, indicating that proteolytic activation of protein kinase C may account for its autonomous activation. This increase in the catalytic fragment of protein kinase C is also prevented by blocking LTP induction. These results are the first to demonstrate that persistent protein kinase C activation is a possible mechanism for the maintenance of NMDA receptor-independent LTP.

At a time of considerable uncertainty for the biotechnology industry, Nature reviews the prospects for neuroscientists considering a move out of the academic sector.
This study has examined the developing glial architecture of the optic pathway and has related this to the changing organization of the constituent axons. Immunocytochemistry was used to reveal the distribution of glial profiles, and DiI was used to label either radial glial profiles or optic axons. Electron microscopy was used to determine the distribution of glial profiles, axons, growth cones, and wrists at different locations along the pathway. Three different glial boundaries were defined: Two of these are revealed as changes in the distribution of vimentin-immunoreactive profiles occurring in the prechiasmatic optic nerve and at the threshold of the optic tract, respectively, and one by the presence of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-immunoreactive profiles at the chiasmatic midline. The latter, midline boundary may be related to the segregation of nasal from temporal optic axons. The boundary at the threshold of the optic tract coincides with the segregation of dorsal from ventral optic axons that emerges at this location in the pathway. The segregation of old from young optic axons is shown to occur only gradually along the pathway. Glial profiles are most frequent in the deeper parts of the tract, coursing parallel to the optic axons and orthogonal to their usual radial axis. These are suggested to arise from later-growing radial glial fibers that are diverted to grow amongst the older optic axons. Those glial profiles may subsequently impede axonal invasion, thus creating the chronotopic reordering by forcing the later-arriving axons to accumulate superficially.
The amounts of mRNAs encoding alpha 1, alpha 6, beta 2, beta 3, gamma 2, and delta subunits of gamma-aminobutyrate type A (GABAA) receptors and the gold immunolabeling density of their translation products were monitored during the growth of neonatal rat granule cells in primary culture. We investigated possible correlations (i) between temporal changes in mRNA content and expression density of their respective translation products and (ii) between the quantitative changes of receptor subunit expression, the GABA EC50 for Cl- channel activation, and diazepam efficacy in modulating GABA action on the Cl- channels. At 3 days in vitro, the amount of GABAA receptor subunit mRNAs and the expression of their respective translation products were very low. During the next 2 weeks both parameters for every subunit studied increased asynchronously; moreover, at 14 days in vitro the sum of gamma 2 and delta subunit expression was smaller than the expression of the alpha 1 or alpha 6 or beta 2/beta 3 subunits. This suggests that during in vitro maturation each subunit may be regulated independently and invites speculation as to possible changes in specific GABAA receptor subtype abundance during development in vitro. The maximal current intensity elicited by GABA failed to increase from 5 to 14 days in vitro, though the amount of mRNA encoding various subunits and the expression density of their respective translation products increased. Thus, qualitative changes in the GABAA receptor subtypes expressed and/or abnormalities in the subunit assembly very likely account for the uniformity of the maximal current intensity elicited by GABA during in vitro development. Also, during maturation of neuronal cultures from 5 to 20 days in vitro the extent of the positive modulation of GABA action by diazepam decreased dramatically. This finding might be related to an increase in the abundance of GABAA receptors including the alpha 6 subunit and/or to the expression, during granule cell maturation in vitro, of GABAA receptors devoid of gamma 2 subunits.
Since the demonstration that Ca2+ influx into the presynaptic terminal is essential for neurotransmitter release, there has been much speculation about the Ca2+ receptor responsible for initiating exocytosis. Numerous experiments have shown that the protein, or protein complex, binds multiple Ca2+ ions, resides near the site of Ca2+ influx, and has a relatively low affinity for Ca2+. Synaptotagmin is an integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles that contains two copies of a domain known to be involved in Ca(2+)-dependent membrane interactions. Synaptotagmin has been shown to bind Ca2+ in vitro with a relatively low affinity. In addition, synaptotagmin has been shown to bind indirectly to Ca2+ channels, positioning the protein close to the site of Ca2+ influx. Recently, a negative regulatory role for synaptotagmin has been proposed, in which it functions as a clamp to prevent fusion of synaptic vesicles with the presynaptic membrane. Release of the clamp would allow exocytosis. Here we present genetic and electrophysiological evidence that synaptotagmin forms a multimeric complex that can function as a clamp in vivo. However, upon nerve stimulation and Ca2+ influx, all synaptotagmin mutations dramatically decrease the ability of Ca2+ to promote release, suggesting that synaptotagmin probably plays a key role in activation of synaptic vesicle fusion. This activity cannot simply be attributed to the removal of a barrier to secretion, as we can electrophysiologically separate the increase in rate of spontaneous vesicle fusion from the decrease in evoked response. We also find that some syt mutations, including those that lack the second Ca(2+)-binding domain, decrease the fourth-order dependence of release on Ca2+ by approximately half, consistent with the hypothesis that a synaptotagmin complex functions as a Ca2+ receptor for initiating exocytosis.
The present study shows that both the NR1 and NR2 subunits critically affect spermine potentiation of heteromeric recombinant N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. NR1(011), the most prominent NR1 splice variant in rat forebrain, and NR1(100), prominent in midbrain, were expressed in Xenopus oocytes singly and in combination with NR2A, NR2B, and NR2C subunits. As for NR1(011) homomers, NR1(011)/NR2B receptors exhibited spermine potentiation by two mechanisms: by increasing glycine affinity and by increasing current through receptors with bound N-methyl-D-aspartate and glycine. NR1(011)/NR2A receptors exhibited only the increase in glycine affinity, and NR1(011)/NR2C receptors exhibited neither. As for NR1(100) homomers, NR1(100)/NR2B and NR1(100)/NR2A receptors exhibited spermine potentiation only by increasing the glycine affinity. Spermine produced no potentiation of NR1(100)/NR2C receptors. Thus, the NR2B subunit &quot;permits&quot; both forms of spermine potentiation, the NR2A subunit permits spermine potentiation only by increasing the glycine affinity, and th NR2C subunit permits neither form of potentiation. Spermine actions on NR1/NR2 showed little voltage dependence. These observations are of interest because the NR1 and NR2 subunits are differentially distributed and developmentally regulated. At early postnatal ages, NR2B subunit mRNA was more highly expressed than NR2A and NR2C mRNAs in hippocampus, neocortex, and caudate-putamen. These findings account for many of the observed differences among neurons in polyamine actions and suggest that these actions will vary in a cell-specific and age-related manner.

While trophic support from targets depends on innervation, recent evidence suggests that local VIP promotes survival of sympathetic neuroblasts prior to target interactions, during the period of neurogenesis. Developmental studies now indicate that VIP expression peaks at embryonic day 15.5 (E15.5) in sympathetic ganglia in vivo, decreasing 3-fold by birth. The expression pattern in vivo paralleled the time course of ganglion neuroblast mitosis and peptide promotion of survival in culture. In contrast, nerve growth factor (NGF) exhibited a reciprocal trophic relationship, primarily supporting older neurons that were unresponsive to VIP. To define relationships of trophism to mitosis, serial time-lapse photography was employed to document the fate of neuroblasts produced by cytokinesis in vitro. In the absence of trophic factors, up to 80% of newly born cells died by 48 h, while virtually all neuroblasts survived in response to VIP plus NGF. In addition, trophic factors elicited multiple rounds of precursor division and an increase in absolute cell number, indicating that both trophic and mitogenic mechanisms contribute to proliferation. In aggregate, these observations suggest that VIP is expressed locally during a critical fetal period, providing trophic support to dividing ganglion neuroblasts prior to the action of target-derived NGF.
Area postrema (AP) lesions were produced by vacuum aspiration in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. Consistent with previous findings, when water-deprived rats were allowed to drink novel flavored fluids immediately before treatment with LiCl (3 mEq/kg, i.p.), sham-operated and non-operated control rats demonstrated a pronounced aversion to the fluids whereas rats with AP lesions did not decrease fluid consumption significantly. However, in a 30-min test period after overnight food deprivation, rats with AP lesions reduced food intake significantly and to an equivalent degree as control animals when pretreated with LiCl (3 mEq/kg, i.p. or i.v.). These and other results are consistent with the traditional view that AP mediates the sensation of nausea produced by LiCl treatment (hence the loss of conditioned taste aversions after AP lesions), but suggest that neither nausea nor AP is necessary for the marked disinclination to eat that is induced in rats by acute administration of LiCl.
Cytokines are potent factors mediating interactions between the immune and nervous systems. Cytokines released by macrophages/microglia, the predominant immune cell within the brain, have been proposed to modulate neuronal survival and death. In human immunodeficiency virus-encephalitis (HIVE), cytokines could modulate neurologic damage if nervous system cells possessed appropriate receptors. We hypothesized that the populations of neurons vulnerable to the toxic effects of cytokines in HIVE might contain specific receptors for these molecules. We examined the distribution of cytokine receptors in the human brain utilizing fluorescent-labeled cytokines combined with confocal laser microscopy imaging. Phycoerythrin-conjugated interleukin-1 beta and phycoerythrin-Avidin/biotin conjugated transforming growth factor beta 1 labeled dendritic processes of neurons in the neocortex. Labeling was abolished by pre-incubation with unlabeled cytokines. In cases with moderate HIVE, an average 35% increase in intensity of labeling was observed compared to cases without HIVE or with cases with severe HIVE. The patterns of interleukin 2 labeling were not altered in HIVE. These results suggest that neurons susceptible to cytokine-mediated damage during the progression of HIVE display abnormal patterns of cytokine receptor labeling.
A cardiovascular-active pressor area of medullary reticular formation was defined by mapping changes in arterial blood pressure produced by microinjections of the neuroexcitatory amino acid, L-Glutamate (L-Glu). Sites where L-Glu provoked pressor responses larger than 10 mmHg were localized to a rostral longitudinal cell column of the nucleus reticularis rostroventrolateralis (n.RVL) extending 450 microns posteriorly to the facial nucleus. Spinal projections from the ventrolateral medulla were studied with a dual retrograde transport-immunocytochemical method. A striking correspondence was observed between the ventrolateral pressor area (VLPA) of n.RVL and rostrocaudal distribution of a circumscribed population of thoracic reticulospinal neurons containing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)- or phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT)_immunoreactivity. Quantitative analysis revealed that 72% of the total number of retrogradely labeled neurons within the active area were immunocytochemically positive for TH; 28% of the reticulospinal projection cells were immunonegative. Deposits of L-Glu and dye through the same micropipettes verified a consistent correlation of vasopressor sites and the rostral subset of catecholaminergic neurons. Since comparable numbers of cell bodies in the VLPA contain TH and PNMT all are presumed to be adrenergic. At levels of n.RVL immediately adjacent to the VLPA commencing at a level 450 microns caudal to the facial nucleus, sites were unresponsive to Glu-stimulation or vasodepressor. At these levels, only non-adrenergic reticulospinal neurons project to cervical or thoracic spinal segments. We conclude that the VLPA is highly restricted to a narrow column of n.RVL &lt; 0.5 mm in length and corresponds precisely with a population of predominantly adrenergic thoracic reticulospinal neurons that project exclusively to sympathoadrenal preganglionic motoneurons [cf 46]. These findings corroborate the idea that an adrenergic-spinal pathway may play a role in controlling sympathetic outflow.
The recent developments in computer capacity and algorithms, together with a tremendous growth of data in neuroscience have dramatically improved the possibilities of modeling and simulating certain brain structures and activities with a considerable degree of realism. Although there is still a long way to go, some claim that we will one day be able to create artificial &quot;brains&quot; with similar capacity to the human brain, perhaps even surpassing it. Here we focus on these perspectives, discussing the potentials and limitations of today's computer models, and how far they might be able to take us.
This paper is a defence of a pragmatic version of mind-brain reductionism from a neuroscientist's point of view. It is claimed that there are good reasons to believe that future neuroscience will be able to explain (in a weak and pragmatic sense) the puzzling aspects of mind and consciousness. Opposition to reductionism comes from both philosophical and empirical quarters. It is argued here that philosophical arguments, such as semantic problems with the concept of identity, are unconvincing and should be regarded with the greatest suspicion. The most influential empirical result that has been claimed to constitute a problem for reductionism is the temporal delay and mental antedating of consciousness found by Benjamin Libet. It is argued that these results, far from being a problem for reductionism, constitute evidence for a particular view of the physiological origins of consciousness. Finally, it is argued that many subjective aspects of experience can already be given satisfactory scientific explanations and that scientific progress is likely to rob the mind and subjective experience of their mystery.
The D1/D2 mediation of motor behavior in rats is qualitatively altered following large forebrain dopamine (DA) depletions on postnatal day 3. These animals are markedly subsensitive, relative to controls or animals depleted of DA as adults, to the motoric deficits produced by individual D1- or D2-like antagonists but are impaired following combined D1 +D2 antagonists. In order to determine the extent of DA depletion necessary to produce this subsensitivity to individual antagonists, we compared the motoric effects of D1 and D2 antagonists in adult animals sustaining a wide range of DA depletions on day 3. Only animals with striatal depletions of &gt; or = 95% demonstrated this subsensitivity to individual antagonists. Moreover, since important changes in DA receptor ontogeny occur during the first postnatal week, we compared the ability of the D1-like antagonist, SCH 23390 (0.2 mg/kg), or the D2-like antagonists, clebopride (10.0 mg/kg) and haloperidol (1.0 mg/kg), to induce akinesia or catalepsy in adults depleted of DA on either day 1 or on day 3. Rats depleted of striatal DA (&gt; 95%) at either age exhibited similar subsensitivity to D1 or D2 antagonists. These findings suggest that large DA depletions are necessary to alter the roles of D1 and D2 receptors in the expression of motor behavior and that this plasticity is comparable in animals depleted on day 1 or day 3.
Limited proteolysis and site-directed mutagenesis of human nerve growth factor (hNGF) was utilized to determine the role of the NH2 terminus in p140TrkA (TrkA) receptor function. Purified (6-118)hNGF, representing deletion of the first 5 NH2-terminal residues, is 9-fold less potent than (1-118)hNGF in displacing 125I-hNGF from TrkA. The deletion of a further 4 residues to form (10-118)hNGF is nearly 300-fold less potent. (6-118)hNGF is only 2-4-fold less potent than (1-118)hNGF in eliciting TrkA autophosphorylation and PC12 cell neurite outgrowth, suggesting that the first 5 residues of the NH2 terminus are necessary for full TrkA binding activity but may be less critical for potent receptor activation and intracellular signaling. In contrast, purified mutant H4D results in a nearly 1000-fold loss in TrkA binding at 4 degrees C relative to (1-118)hNGF, at least 10-fold less potency of TrkA autophosphorylation, and 30-fold loss of potency in PC12 cell differentiation. NH2-terminal hBDNF/hNGF and hNT3/hNGF chimeric mutants further affected these activities suggesting that the NH2-terminal sequence specificity of hNGF contributes to structural interactions necessary for TrkA receptor binding and ligand-induced signaling. The potency of binding of all hNGF variants to the low affinity NGF receptor p75 was largely unaffected indicating distinct structural contributions of the NH2-terminal region of hNGF to the binding to TrkA versus p75.
To investigate the molecular basis of nuclear-mitochondrial communication, we have been studying the effect of mitochondrial stress (stimulated by inhibition of mitochondrial protein synthesis) on the homeostasis of transcripts encoding nuclear and mitochondrial gene products. We report that in cells treated with the inhibitor thiamphenicol, nuclear-encoded respiratory gene transcripts were dramatically stabilized. A concomitant up-regulation in the activity of the only known respiratory transcript binding protein, cytochrome c oxidase L-form transcript binding protein (COLBP), was also noted in thiamphenicol-treated cells, demonstrating a potential mechanism for the increased transcript protection. In contradistinction, stability of all mitochondrial RNAs was unaffected by the inhibitor, as were the nuclear-encoded beta-actin, alpha-tubulin mRNAs and total cytosolic RNA. Steady state levels of all nuclear-encoded transcripts tested remained constant after inhibition of mitochondrial protein synthesis, whereas a generalized increase in the levels of processed mitochondrial mRNA was noted. We conclude that thiamphenicol induces (i) an increase in steady state levels of mitochondrial mRNA, (ii) a selective protection of nuclear respiratory gene transcripts against degradation, and (iii) an up-regulation in activity of the respiratory transcript binding protein COLBP, consistent with this protein mediating increased transcript stability. Our results demonstrate a coordinated series of intracellular responses to thiamphenicol-induced mitochondrial stress, regulated at both the pre- and post-transcriptional levels.

Chronic treatment with neuroleptics has been reported to induce a status of depolarization inactivation of the majority of midbrain dopamine neurons. The present study was aimed at determining whether general anesthesia might be a contributory cause of depolarization inactivation of substantia nigra dopamine neurons. In agreement with previous studies, where neuronal sampling was carried out in animals under chloral hydrate anesthesia, chronic treatment with haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg daily for 21-28 days) produced a marked reduction (about 80%) in the number of spontaneously active dopamine neurons. However, when neuronal sampling was performed in unanesthetized rats, chronic administration of haloperidol (daily for 21-28 days) failed to reduce the incidence of active dopaminergic neurons. The results suggest that depolarization inactivation of dopamine neurons is not present in the intact animal but is probably produced during the neuronal sampling procedure as a consequence of neuroleptic-induced hyperexcitability of dopamine neurons combined with their stimulation by general anesthetics.
We have previously reported that the glycine/NMDA receptor antagonist, R-(+)-HA-966 (R-(+)-3-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolid-2-one), attenuates amphetamine-induced activation of mesocorticolimbic dopamine neurones. In the present study, the effects of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonists, CGS 19755 (cis-4-(phosphonomethyl)piperidine-2-carboxylic acid) and (+/-)-CPP ((+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid) were examined in mice. In the absence of any neurochemical effects per se, both compounds (2 or 5 mg/kg) significantly attenuated amphetamine-induced 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) accumulation in the nucleus accumbens and striatum. Furthermore, amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion was also antagonised following pretreatment with CGS 19755 (ED50 = 2.4 mg/kg) or (+/-)-CPP (ED50 = 5.8 mg/kg) at doses which did not impair spontaneous locomotor activity. Thus, in addition to blockade of the glycine modulatory site, competitive antagonism at the NMDA receptor also attenuates psychostimulant-induced activation of forebrain dopamine neurones.
Based on neonatal examination at birth, it has been estimated that epileptic women have a 2-3 times greater risk of giving birth to an infant with congenital anomalies. But anticonvulsant drugs may also have more subtle influences on the developing foetus which are not visible at birth but only emerge later in life. Evidence for these functional teratogenic influences has been provided by animal research and follow-up studies in young children. This article discusses these findings in human and animal studies. In addition, the outline of a study carried out at the Department of Obstetrics and Neonatology, Academic Medical Centre, Amsterdam, is described. In this study cognitive functioning, fertility and gender role behaviour of young adults, who had been prenatally exposed to barbiturates and/or hydantoins was examined.
Mathematical modelling indicates that the minimum energy cost for blood flow is achieved when the arteries are arranged in a branching hierarchy such that the radii of the vessels are adjusted to the cube root of the volumetric flow (principle of minimum work). This is known to apply over several magnitudes of vessel calibres, and in many different organs, including the brain, in humans and in animals. This paper addresses the issue of remodelling of one and the same arterial network to long-term changes in blood flow. This has not been studied previously in humans. We measured the radius of parent (r0) and branch segments (r1 and r2) of the retinal arteriolar network in fundus photographs of six patients with blinding, non-vascular retrobulbar optic nerve lesions, mostly traumatic in origin, before and after the development of descending optic atrophy. Attenuation of retinal arterioles is a well-known phenomenon in descending optic atrophy, and is attributable to decreased metabolic demand secondary to loss of the retinal ganglion cells and their axons. On average, arteriolar diameters decreased by 15.2 +/- 17.7% (SD), with 95% confidence intervals of 18.7% and 11.7%; the radii decreased significantly (P = 0.0001) (n = 99). The area ratio of the bifurcations, defined as (r2(1) + r2(2))r-2(0), was 1.23 +/- 0.2 before, and 1.18 +/- 0.2 after optic atrophy (n = 36); the change of area ratio was not significant. The branching geometry of the retinal arteriolar network obeyed strictly the optimum branching rule of the principle of minimum work, or r3(0) = r3(1) + r3(2).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Histamine (HA) acts as a neurotransmitter and/or neuromodulator in mammalian brain. Central HA has been found to be involved in the regulation of behavioral, cognitive, neurovegetative, neuroendocrine and neuroimmune functions. In this study we have evaluated psychomotor activity (PMA) and passive avoidance behavior (PAB) in rats with bilateral neurotoxic lesions in the posterior hypothalamic region (PHR) (L), where histaminergic neurons are located, and in sham-operated rats (S), two weeks after neurosurgery. In an open-field paradigm, lesioned rats showed higher PMA scores than sham-operated animals. However, L rats exhibited a significant decrease in PMA on consecutive days (motor habituation) similar to that found in S rats. In a maze paradigm, in which the animals had to learn to stay on a neutral platform in order to avoid a 1.5 mA electric footshock during 10 trails, no significant differences were observed between L and S rats on the task performance. According to the present results, it seems that bilateral neurotoxic lesions in the PHR induced hyperactivity with no apparent effects on PAB, suggesting that neuronal HA might be involved, directly and/or by influencing arousal/alertness-mediated mechanisms, in the regulation of PMA processes.

We present the case of a 23-year-old woman with cerebrospinal fluid eosinophilia and myelopathy caused by Toxocara canis and describe the clinical and thoracic MR findings. An enhancing thoracic spinal cord lesion which was shown on MR resolved after an interval of 140 days with partial resolution of the patient's symptoms.
Platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity, proposed to be a marker for central 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) capacity, was investigated in 14 severely alcohol-dependent subjects with reduced dopamine (DA) D2 receptor function, as assessed by the growth hormone responses to apomorphine. Twelve healthy men were used as controls. Platelet MAO activity in the alcohol-dependent subjects was not different from that in controls. The finding from this preliminary study suggests that severely alcohol-dependent subjects with reduced DA D2 receptor function have normal 5-HT capacity.
The notion that satiation signals are derived from the stomach with no additional contribution of postgastric sources (J. A. Deutsch. In: Handbook of Behavioral Neuroscience, Food and Water Intake. 1990, vol. 10, p. 151-182) was evaluated in two experiments. In experiment 1, the gastric contents were withdrawn after the rat met the satiety criterion for an initial intraoral intake test (12.5% glucose delivered at 1.0 ml/min). Ten minutes later, the intraoral infusion was continued until the rat again met the satiety criterion. We found that rats reingested an amount closely corresponding to the amount withdrawn, in agreement with previous studies using spout-licking tests. Despite a lower gastric emptying rate during reingestion than during the initial test, the amount recovered from the stomach (both volume and solute content) after reingestion was significantly less (gastric volume 16% less; gastric glucose 18% less) than that withdrawn initially. In experiment 2, a portion (8 ml) of the gastric contents was removed after the end of an initial intraoral intake test and, after 10 min, rats were again given an opportunity to ingest to satiety. The procedure was repeated for a total of three withdrawals (24 ml) and three reingestion opportunities. Rats accurately replaced the amounts withdrawn such that net intake at the end of the experiment did not differ from that ingested during the initial test. In addition, the amount recovered from the stomach after the terminal test was considerably less (gastric volume 25% less; gastric glucose 29% less) than that recovered at the end of single-test control sessions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The present investigations determined the effects of dietary sodium deprivation on the neurohypophysial secretion of arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT) by rats in response to nonhypotensive hypovolemia induced by subcutaneous injection of 30% polyethylene glycol solution. In rats fed either standard sodium-rich laboratory chow or sodium-deficient diet for 8 days, AVP secretion increased gradually in proportion to plasma volume deficits up to 22-28% while pituitary secretion of OT was not stimulated. However, when hypovolemia was more pronounced, secretion of both hormones was marked in rats fed standard chow, whereas rats fed sodium-deficient diet were significantly less responsive. These effects did not reflect a general insensitivity of the neurohypophysial system because sodium-deprived and chow-fed rats secreted AVP and OT equivalently in response to intravenous infusion of 1.5 M NaCl solution. Nor did they reflect a general insensitivity to hypovolemia because sodium-deprived rats drank substantial, above-normal volumes of water after colloid treatment. Instead, the results appear to reflect a specific inhibition of stimulatory baroreceptor inputs to AVP and OT neurons during dietary sodium deprivation in rats.


The Cosman-Roberts-Wells (CRW-3) scanner independent stereotactic system is a recent arc-radius design developed from the Brown-Roberts-Wells system. The results of 74 supratentorial non-basal tumor suspect cases treated with this second generation computed tomography (CT) guided stereotactic apparatus are presented. Using a simple stereotactic target classification coupled with biopsy, trephine or mini-craniotomy, it has been possible to biopsy, excise and develop new strategies using microneurosurgical techniques with extremely low morbidity.
In accordance with neurobiological data, thought impairment after brain hypoxia was mainly (though not exclusively) attributed to memory and attentional dysfunction. As opposed to this, problem-solving defects due to frontomedial lesions seem to be determined essentially by such behavioral alterations such as apathy, distractibility and reduced insight. Creative and adaptive problem solving abilities could not be restored in both groups, at least not within the first year post onset.
In an attempt to identify the age-dependent changes in the potential synthesis of cytoskeletal proteins, we investigated changes in messenger RNA (mRNA) of alpha-tubulin and beta-actin in the young-adult and the aged rat brain using Northern blot analysis. alpha-Tubulin mRNA levels in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, and beta-actin mRNA levels in the hippocampus were significantly decreased in the aged rat brain. Age-dependent decreases in these mRNAs may be related to the neuronal dysfunction associated with aging, in addition to the reduction of several kinds of receptors previously reported. Repeated administration of bifemelane hydrochloride (4-(2-benzylphenoxy)-N-methylbutylamine hydrochloride) for 14 days increased the levels of beta-actin mRNA in the frontal cortex and the striatum of both young-adult and aged rats, although the effect of bifemelane treatment was smaller and not significant in the aged group. These results suggest that bifemelane treatment may enhance the synthesis of cytoskeletal protein and promote neural plasticity by inducing neurite growth or synapse formation.
Human figure drawings have been widely used to assess cognitive development in children. In the present study, free-hand human figure drawings were examined for 62 demented patients, and 60 normal elderly subjects. The drawings were scored for 53 body details using a method derived from work with children. A short scale of 15 details was developed by selecting body details with high item-total correlations which are simple to score even for untrained staff. This short scale had excellent interscorer and test-retest reliability and excellent concurrent validity as well. It correlated highly with the Mini-Mental State Examination, a commonly used screening test for dementia. The short scale discriminated demented and non-demented subjects and different levels of dementia severity as graded by the Clinical Dementia Rating Scale. However, no differences were observed between Alzheimer patients and patients with vascular dementia concerning presence of details in human figure drawings.
An alternative hypothesis to that provided by conflict theory is formulated to account for motion sickness. The new approach is predicted on the oculocardiac reflex (i.e., bradycardia produced by extra-ocular muscle traction) (18) and empirical evidence that retrobulbar anesthesia significantly lowers the incidence of emesis after strabismus surgery (14). Eye muscle traction is presumed to elicit afferent signals that ultimately stimulate the vagus nerve (15). The same neuromotor sequence is presumed to occur during reflexive eye movements under vestibular control and during more complicated combinations of reflexive and voluntary eye movements. It is proposed that the blocking of afferent signals from extra-ocular muscle in an otherwise intact vestibulo-ocular system will eliminate the signs and symptoms of motion sickness normally produced in a provocative environment.
The effects of various levels of hypobaric hypoxia, exposure to reduced atmospheric pressure, on spatial memory in rats were examined. Hypobaric hypoxia simulates high altitude conditions where substantial deficits in human cognitive performance occur. However, few studies have measured cognitive changes in animals during exposure to this type of hypoxia. Male Fischer 344 rats were tested in the learning set version of the Morris water maze, a test known to assess spatial memory. Rats were tested at 2 and 6 hours while exposed to a range of simulated altitudes: sea level, 5500 m, 5950 m, and 6400 m. Altitude exposures at 5950 or 6400 m decreased both reference and working memory performance, as demonstrated by latency, distance, and speed measures, in an elevation-dependent fashion. During sea level testing on the day following hypobaric exposure, decrements in reference memory were still observed on all dependent measures, but only speed was impaired on the working memory task. These results agree with human studies that demonstrate elevation-dependent impairments in spatial memory performance during exposure to hypobaric hypoxia. The deficits may be attributable to changes in hippocampal cholinergic function.



Differential expression of fucosyltransferases (FTs) on Sertoli cell and germ cell surfaces and their function as ectoenzymes may be important in the process of spermatogenesis. To determine the glycosidic linkage specificity of FTs present in cultured Sertoli cells and in germ cells, we quantified FT activities by thin-layer chromatography using both high and low molecular weight acceptors in the presence of GDP-[14C]-L-fucose. Analysis of the acceptor substrate specificity of the FTs indicated that alpha(1-2), alpha(1-3), alpha(1-4)-FTs are expressed as demonstrated by fucose incorporation into phenyl-beta-D-galactoside, 2'-fucosyllactose, and lacto-N-fucopentaose-I, respectively. In Sertoli cells, the ratios of the three FTs examined were the same for whole-cell extracts and samples of purified plasma membranes. Higher relative FT activity was observed in plasma membranes from mixed germ cells than in Sertoli cell membranes. Furthermore, alpha(1-3)-FT and alpha(1-4)-FT activities were higher in mixed germ cell membranes. Spermatogenic stage specificity of FT expression was assessed in purified populations of germ cells. With calculation on a per-cell basis, all three alpha-FTs exhibited a quantitative decrease during the transition between pachytene spermatocytes and round spermatids. The decrease in alpha(1-3)-FT activity was particularly significant. In rat germ cells, all three alpha-FT activities associated with the cell surface in pachytene spermatocytes and round spermatids were 34-53% and 52-53%, respectively, of the total cell FT activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The aetiology of Alzheimer's disease and senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (AD/SDAT) are unknown, and primary prevention is thus infeasible. As overactivity in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (possibly indicating maladaptation to stress) and vitamin B12 deficiency are common, secondary prevention should focus on stress and dietary factors. Nerve growth factors and ganglioside GM1 have been used to inhibit progression of the disorder, but this treatment is still at an experimental stage, as are efforts to prevent the formation of amyloid. Breakthroughs in AD/SDAT treatment have been seen in trials with supplementation of neurotransmitter deficits. Tacrine, a drug that inhibits acetylcholinesterase, has proved to have a cognitive-enhancing effect, but this is limited in time and the drug has side-effects. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors have a proven effect on the emotional disturbances seen in AD/SDAT.
1. Activation of muscarinic receptors in rat olfactory bulb stimulates adenylyl cyclase activity. This response was competitively antagonized by the (R)- and (S)-enantiomers of trihexyphenidyl with pA2 values of 8.84 and 6.09, respectively. 2. Similarly, in rat striatal homogenates, muscarinic inhibition of adenylyl cyclase activity was antagonized by the (R)- and (S)-enantiomers with pA2 values of 8.75 and 6.12, respectively. 3. In contrast, in rat myocardium the muscarinic inhibition of the adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (cyclic AMP) formation was more weakly antagonized by trihexyphenidyl, with a particularly marked loss (15 fold) in activity of the (R)-enantiomer. The (R)- and (S)-enantiomers had pA2 values of 7.64 and 5.72, respectively. 4. Each muscarinic response was completely antagonized by increasing concentrations of (R)-trihexyphenidyl with a Hill coefficient not significantly different from unity. 5. The present study shows that the muscarinic receptors coupled to stimulation of adenylyl cyclase in the olfactory bulb display high stereoselectivity for the enantiomers of trihexyphenidyl. The affinities of these receptors for the antagonists are similar to those shown by the striatal receptors. This finding supports the hypothesis that both the muscarinic stimulation of adenylyl cyclase in the olfactory bulb and the muscarinic inhibition of the enzyme in striatum are mediated by activation of a receptor subtype pharmacologically equivalent to the m4 gene product. On the other hand, the weaker affinities and the lower stereoselectivity for the trihexyphenidyl enantiomers exhibited by the muscarinic inhibition of adenylyl cyclase in the heart are consistent with the involvement of M2 receptors in this response.
1. The anticonvulsant and behavioural effects of the glycine/NMDA receptor partial agonist, L-687,414 (R(+)-cis-beta-methyl-3-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolid-2-one) have been investigated in rodents. 2. L-687,414 dose-dependently antagonized seizures induced by N-methyl-D,L- aspartic acid (NMDLA, ED50 = 19.7 mg kg-1), pentylenetetrazol (PTZ, ED50 = 13.0 mg kg-1) and electroshock (ED50 = 26.1 mg kg-1) when given intravenously 15 min before test, in male Swiss Webster mice but was most potent against audiogenic seizures induced by a 120 dB bell in DBA/2 mice (ED50 = 5.1 mg kg-1, i.p., 30 min before test). 3. L-687,414 also induced impairments of performance in a rotarod test in both Swiss Webster and DBA/2 mice and the ratio [rotarod MED:anticonvulsant ED50] varied between 0.9 and 5, depending on the convulsant used. 4. Similar behaviours to those seen after administration of the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (head weaving, body rolling, hyperlocomotion) were seen in the mouse after giving L-687,414, although the peak effect occurred at a dose (100 mg kg-1) which was 5-20 times the anticonvulsant ED50S, depending on the convulsant used. Unlike MK-801, however, doses of L-687,414 that were behaviourally stimulant did not increase dopamine turnover in the nucleus accumbens. 5. Consistent with the interaction of L-687,414 with the glycine/NMDA receptor, the anticonvulsant, ataxic and motor stimulant effects of the compound were significantly attenuated by the glycine/NMDA receptor agonist, D-serine (10-100 micrograms per mouse, i.c.v.). 6. The results show that L-687,414 is a potent, orally active anticonvulsant with a more benign pharmacological profile than antagonists acting at the ion channel of the NMDA receptor complex. The compound is a useful tool with which to probe the functional role of the glycine co-agonist site in vivo.
A degree in surgical research has been set up in 1986 in France. It includes a one-year full time work in a research laboratory, and seminars (one to three days long, each). General surgical research objectives are gathered in a first seminar. Then, candidates select one among four optional subjects: biomaterials-artificial organs, transplantation, oncology, and neurosciences. Two prerequisites are necessary in order to register. The first is to write a research project according to standardized rules, and the second is to attend two seminars, one dealing with scientific communication and the other with methodology in clinical research. A nation-wide valid Academic degree is delivered to candidates who pass an oral presentation of their research report and who attended all seminars according to the optional subject that they selected. From 1986 to 1993, 434 students attended the formation. They came from different regions of France, proving the nation-wide characteristic of the degree, and some from foreign countries. Seminars were held in different French University towns. An increasing number of students become Ph.D.
A comparison of the effectiveness of the trivalent cation, lanthanum (La3+) relative to Ca2+ in causing catecholamine release from bovine chromaffin cells has been made, together with a determination of the pathway by which La3+ enters these cells. In chromaffin cells maintained in tissue culture and permeabilised with digitonin, both La3+ and Ca2+ caused 3H release from cells preloaded with [3H]-noradrenaline; La3+ and Ca2+ caused similar maximal release but the EC50 for La3+ was an order of magnitude less than that for Ca2+. At maximal release caused by either La3+ or Ca2+ (approximately 14% of cell 3H content in 15 min), the other cation caused a small, but significant, further release. At submaximal effective concentrations the effects of the two cations were exactly additive. Using 3H release as an indicator of cytosolic La3+, its route of entry into intact chromaffin cells was investigated. With La(3+)-containing medium there was no release evoked by nicotine or by K(+)-depolarisation indicating that La3+ does not enter either via the nicotinic receptor linked ion channel or via voltage-sensitive (Ca2+) channels. However, in sodium-loaded chromaffin cells (ouabain incubation in Ca(2+)-free medium for 15 min) exposure to bathing media containing either Ca2+ or La3+ caused 3H release. La3+ (0.1 mM) caused a release similar in magnitude to that caused by Ca2+ (about 1 mM). La3+ at low concentrations had an additive (0.1 mM La3+) or synergistic (0.25-0.45 mM La3+) action with Ca2+ (&lt; 3.6 mM) on 3H release. At higher concentrations (&gt; 0.9 mM) the effects of La3+ predominated and prevented the expected effects of Ca2+. In other experiments, La3+ (1 mM) blocked export of 45Ca2+ via both Nao-dependent and independent pathways, i.e. sodium-calcium exchange and the calcium pump. The results indicate that La3+ can enter bovine chromaffin cells via the Nai/Cao exchange pathway independently of, or together with, Ca2+ but, that concentrations above 0.9 mM block the influx or efflux of Ca2+. However, Ca2+, even at 3.6 mM, did not block the influx of La3+. The results further indicate that, within chromaffin cells, La3+ is at least as effective as Ca2+ in triggering catecholamine release and maintaining prolonged release. La3+ also appears to act cooperatively with Ca2+ at the release pathway.
Grafting of human fetal tissue fragments has been used successfully in experimental and clinical trials. The development of techniques to store human fetal tissue fragments for longer time periods would allow to establish temporary tissue banks. We dissected several human cortical tissue fragments from one fetus and tested different storage conditions (cooling, freezing, culturing). After storage, the tissue fragments were transplanted into cavities in the cortex of host rats and the volume of the surviving grafts calculated. We report that human cortical tissue fragments grafted immediately after dissection (control group) or grafted after storage for 3 h in cryopreservation medium at room temperature survived grafting and resulted in graft sizes of 102 +/- 26 mm3 and 242 +/- 210 mm3, respectively, however, statistically not different. When the human cortical tissue fragments were slowly frozen and stored for 1 wk and/or when the fragments were cultured for 1 week in culture medium using a roller tube technique, grafts did not survive under our conditions. However, when the human cortical tissue fragments were stored for 1 week at +4 degrees C in cryopreservation medium, the graft size (48 +/- 24 mm3) was reduced but statistically not different from the control group. We conclude that human cortical tissue fragments can be stored at +4 degrees C for at least 1 wk without major loss of ability to survive grafting.
A graphical display of the frequency content of background electroencephalogram (EEG) activity is obtained by calculating the spectral estimates using autocorrelation autoregressive method and the classical Fourier transform method. Display of spectral content of consecutive data segments is made using hidden-line suppression technique so as to get a spectral array. The autoregressive spectral array (ASA) is found to be sensitive to baseline drift. Following baseline correction the autoregressive technique is found to be superior to the Fourier method of compressed spectral array (CSA) in detecting the transitions in the frequencies of the signal. The smoothed ASA gives a better picture of transitions and changes in the background activity. The ASA can be made to adapt to specific changes of dominant frequencies while eliminating unnecessary peaks in the spectrum. The utility of the ASA for background EEG analysis is discussed.
Spleens from representatives of the three amphibian orders were examined using sucrose-potassium phosphate-glyoxylic acid (SPG) histofluorescence to detect catecholamines and immunocytochemistry to detect several neural antigens. Nerve fibers are scattered throughout the spleens of adult salamanders (Taricha torosa, Notophthalmus viridescens, and Ambystoma mexicanum). A less abundant but similarly diffuse pattern of innervation characterizes the spleen of the caecilian, Typhlonectes sp. The spleen of the adult frog, Xenopus laevis, is separated into clearly defined compartments of red pulp and white pulp, much as is seen in the mammalian spleen. As in mammals, sympathetic innervation of the Xenopus spleen is noradrenergic (NA) and confined to the white pulp. The white pulp of Xenopus spleen also contains fibers which stain for neuropeptide Y and substance P. The spleen of the anuran, Rana pipiens, is also highly compartmentalized, with tyrosine hydroxylase positive fibers in proximity to blood vessels. These findings provide an anatomical substrate for neural-immune interactions in the Amphibia.
Clinical neurology in veterinary medicine did receive its initial secure basis by Hermann DEXLER in Vienna during late fall of 19th century. He could demonstrate that knowledges in neuroanatomy and -pathology are basis requirements for a reliable interpretation of morbid entities of central and peripheral nervous system. During the following decades a varied development of neurosciences was to be observed in veterinary medicine, comparing different countries. In general, the most important influences--based upon comparative neuromorphology--came from pathologists. Thus, infectious morbid entities, hereditary diseases, malformations, neurodegenerative diseases, neurooncology, and traumatology had become central challenges for neuroscientists. In this context it is no surprise that BSE has brought a tremendous impact on research work in the whole field of human and animal spongiform encephalopathies. Regrettably, the integration of clinical neurology and neuropathology within the teaching programmes of the European veterinary colleges, especially in Germany, has still not reached a satisfactory level. Specific training procedures realized by several schools in USA and UK might serve as sound examples in view of the permanent growing importance of neurological diseases in large and small animal practice.
Traditional electroencephalography (EEG) produces a large volume display of brain electrical activity, which creates problems particularly in assessment of long periods of intracranial, stereoelectroencephalographic (SEEG) recording. A method for fractal analysis that describes 100 SEEG data points in terms of a single estimate of fractal dimension (1 &lt; FD &lt; 2) is reported; the central processing unit time costs amount to approximately 2 min/Mbyte of input signal (using a Sun SPARCstation LX). The diagnostic sensitivity of this method, applied to quantification and synoptic visualisation of SEEG signals recorded during 35 epileptic seizures in 7 patients, is evaluated. It is found that the method consistently defines ictal onset in terms of rapid relative increase in FD across several channels. Clinically severe seizures are characterised by more intense and generalised ictal changes in FD than clinically less severe events. For all 7 patients, and for 75% of individual seizures, &quot;fractal diagnoses&quot; of anatomically defined ictal onset zone coincided closely with ictal onset zone independently determined by inspection of traditional EEG displays of the same data. We conclude that the method is a computationally feasible way to achieve substantial reduction in the volume of SEEG data without undue loss of diagnostically important information in the primary signal.
Thyroid parafollicular (PF) cells are neural crest-derived endocrine cells that secrete serotonin and calcitonin. The secretory vesicles of PF cells acidify when secretion is induced by increased extracellular Ca2+ or TSH. We tested the hypothesis that acidification is regulated by secretogogue-gated Cl- channels in vesicular membranes. Cl- channel (p64) immunoreactivity was enriched in purified PF vesicles. X-Ray microanalysis showed a change in chlorine level in PF vesicles in response to secretogogue-stimulation of isolated cells. Secretogogue stimulation also altered the degree of p64 channel phosphorylation. Protein kinase and phosphatase inhibitors antagonized secretogogue-induced vesicle acidification and secretion; however, secretion could occur even when acidification was blocked. We conclude that acidification of PF vesicles is regulated by a gatable Cl- channel in vesicle membranes and that protein phosphorylation and dephosphorylation are involved in channel activation. Acidification of vesicles is not required for exocytosis.
Breast-feeding may expose infants to high levels of toxic chlorinated dioxins. To diminish intake of these lipophilic compounds by the baby, two diets were tested for their ability to reduce concentrations of dioxins in human milk. The diets were a low-fat/high- carbohydrate/low-dioxin diet. (about 20% of energy intake derived from fat) and a high fat /low-carbohydrate/low-dioxin diet. These diets were tested in 16 and 18 breast-feeding women, respectively. The test diets were followed for 5 consecutive days in the fourth week after delivery. Milk was sampled before and at the end of the dietary regimen, and dioxin concentrations and fatty acid concentrations were determined. Despite significant influences of these diets on the fatty acid profiles, no significant influence on the dioxin concentrations in breast milk could be found. We conclude that short-term dietary measures will not reduce dioxin concentration in human milk.
Inclusion body myositis (IBM), polymyositis (PM) and dermatomyositis (DM) are diseases characterized clinically by progressive muscle weakness and histologically by T lymphocyte infiltrates in striated muscle. The pathogenetic role of these cells is proposed to be cell-mediated cytotoxicity in PM and IBM, but the exact mechanisms of their action are poorly understood. Characterization of the variable regions of T cell receptors (TcR) on the infiltrating lymphocytes may be expected to provide insights into the mechanisms of local activation of the immune system in inflammatory myopathies. Immunohistochemical analysis using a panel of monoclonal antibodies specific for 11 V alpha/beta TcR was performed on cryosectioned muscle biopsy specimens from eight patients with IBM, eight with PM and three with DM. In addition, TcR expression was studied in inflammatory infiltrates in skin biopsies obtained from some of the IBM patients challenged locally with tuberculin. Flow cytometry was used to assess expression of TcR on peripheral blood lymphocytes. All the patients displayed a clear restriction of TcR usage, preferentially limited to V alpha 2 and V beta 3 TcR families in the endomysial, but not in perivascular infiltrates, even within the same muscle specimen. Such a restriction was not found in skin punch biopsies or PBL from the same subjects. Our results suggest that T cells extravasate non-selectively to the skeletal muscle, but once there, only certain TcR families proliferate, presumably after encounter with a locally exposed superantigen.
At a time of increasing use of simvastatin and other &quot;statin&quot; drugs for cholesterol lowering, we report a case of simvastatin-induced acute massive rhabdomyolysis with renal failure in a woman with primary biliary cirrhosis, occurring 2 years after starting the drug. The differential diagnosis is highlighted and the literature reviewed.
Among patients who underwent cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination during a 5-year period, we found 18 patients at the multiple sclerosis center of the University of Rome and clinically definite multiple sclerosis, MRI white matter abnormalities, normal CSF examination, a disease duration of at least 1 year and an upper age of &lt; 45 years at onset These patients were examined again with a variety of tests screening for different diseases mimicking multiple sclerosis. Alternative diagnoses reached after laboratory tests were: Lyme disease, two cases of vasculitis, mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, multiple ischemic lesions caused by atrial septum aneurysm and olivopontocerebellar atrophy. Hence, six of these 18 patients had a final diagnosis other than multiple sclerosis, while 12 remained with a final diagnosis of &quot;MS with normal CSF&quot;. Our study suggests that in patients with a clinical picture of multiple sclerosis and disseminated white matter MRI lesions but no CSF abnormalities, the classical clinical criteria may not be sufficiently specific, unless confirmed by a very prolonged clinical history with repeated MRI.
Although disulfiram used as a pharmacological agent in the treatment of alcoholism is reported to act on both peripheral and central nervous systems with several adverse effects, the neurotoxic property of the drug has not been properly elucidated. We observed that the chronic administration of the drug to rats significantly inhibited synaptosomal (Na+,K+)-ATPase and basal Mg(2+)-ATPase activities. Further, the uptake of gamma-aminobutyric acid and L-glutamate which rely on the energy provided by this system was depleted following chronic drug administration. Similar findings were observed when the isolated synaptosomes were treated with the drug in an in vitro system. Further, treatment of synaptosomes with ouabain, a known inhibitor of (Na+, K+)-ATPase resulted in significant depletion of 3H-GABA and L-[3H]glutamate uptake into synaptosomes indicating the importance of the enzyme in the uptake mechanism. However, diethyldithiocarbamate, a major metabolite of disulfiram did not elicit any change in either the enzyme activity or the uptake of these neurotransmitters. On the basis of these evidences, we suggest that the chronic disulfiram administration attenuated the neurotransmitter uptake mechanism and resulted in higher extracellular concentration of glutamate that could lead to glutamate-induced neurotoxicity.
After exposure to hypo-osmotic medium most vertebrate cells are able to reregulate their volume by losing electrolytes (K, Cl) and water, a process called regulatory volume decrease (RVD). The whole process of RVD requires a sensor(s) to detect swelling, a transducer(s) to translate the signal, and effectors that cause electrolyte loss. In many cell types an increase in cytoplasmic calcium (Cai) is the transducer and T lymphocytes were formerly thought to fit this pattern. However, this model was thrown into doubt by experiments on Cai-depleted T cells and by the previous failure to detect Cai changes. In the present study we used Ca fluorescence measurements of fluo-3-loaded normal human T lymphocytes exposed to 60% hypo-osmotic saline in a perfused cuvette. We show that hypo-osmotic shock causes a rapid rise in Cai (averaged over approximately 10(4) cells) due to both release of Ca from internal stores and influx. Ca2+ influx occurred at room temperature as well as at 37 degrees C and at a variety of external Ca2+ concentrations (1, 1.5, 2.5 mM). Following hypo-osmotic shock, reexposure to normal osmolarity restored Cai to resting levels. Cell viability and biological responsiveness were not impaired by these osmotic treatments and the subsequent biphasic Cai rise in response to a mitogenic lectin was normal. Using the whole-cell, patch-clamp technique we have isolated an inward cation current that can be carried by Ca2+. Both this current and the Cai rise were blocked by micromolar gadolinium; hence, this current may provide the Ca2+ influx pathway during a hypo-osmotic shock. Finally, these results and recent information on K, Cl, and cation channels in human T cells are incorporated into a model for RVD in these cells.
Regions of gliosis surround deposits of beta-amyloid peptide (beta AP) in senile plaques of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The association between reactive astrocytes and beta AP in senile plaques is most pronounced in cortex and hippocampus but not at other anatomical sites of beta AP deposition. We hypothesized that this region-specific pathology in AD could be attributed to differences in glial reactivity in different parts of the central nervous system (CNS). To test this hypothesis, we assayed astrocytes from cerebral cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum, and spinal cord for cellular responsiveness to substrate-bound beta AP in vitro. Astrocyte reactivity was monitored by morphological changes, increased deposition of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan-containing matrix, and alterations in proteoglycan metabolism. Based on these criteria, only cortical and hippocampal astrocytes showed marked reactivity to immobilized beta AP. In cortical and hippocampal cultures only, immobilized beta AP resulted in increased total radiosulfate incorporation into proteoglycans which was mainly found in the cell/matrix rather than in the media-associated compartment. There were also differences in the proteoglycan synthesis patterns of astrocyte cultures isolated from these CNS regions. These findings suggest that (1) astrocytes are regionally heterogenous in their reactive response to beta AP and (2) that specific molecules, in addition to beta AP, may exist following trauma or disease which trigger reactive states in astroglia in the cerebellum or spinal cord. These local differences in the interaction between beta AP and surrounding astrocytes may play a role in the region-specific pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
Status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine in rats induces massive tissue damage comprising neurons and astrocytes (incomplete infarction) in substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR) and in basal cortical areas (BCTX). Immunohistochemistry with a polyclonal antiserum and a monoclonal antibody to GFAP were used here to study the astroglial damage in these regions. Control sections showed a strong labeling for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) for both antibodies in SNR and BCTX. At 1 day after induction of seizures, labeling with the polyclonal antibodies showed diffuse increase within the lesioned areas and enhanced staining of astrocytes at the border zones. However, staining with the monoclonal antibody was abolished. At 3 days, labeling with both the polyclonal antiserum and the monoclonal antibody was severely reduced within the damaged regions. Reactive astrocytes in the surround of the infarct showed enhanced labeling with both antibodies. This combination of enhanced labeling with polyclonal antibodies and decreased labeling with the specific monoclonal antibody for GFAP can be taken as indicator for acute glial cell damage in seizures and related experimental conditions.

Empty sella is an anatomical condition caused by herniation of the subarachnoid space into the pituitary fossa through an incompetent sellar diaphragm. Headache seems to be one of the most frequently reported symptoms. We studied 13 headache patients (12 females, 1 male) presenting with primary empty sella (PES) on CT scan. The characteristics of the headache were analyzed and plasma levels of pituitary hormones or cortisol assessed. We confirmed the nonspecific nature of the headache in PES even though the majority of our patients complained of daily headache, mostly localized anteriorly. Hormone plasma levels were within normal range in all the patients assessed. However, four patients reported earlier endocrine disorders and more than half of the patients presented with obesity. In our opinion, PES should be suspected in middle-aged overweight women with daily headache even in the absence of endocrine symptomatology.
Collagen types II and X mRNAs have been demonstrated simultaneously in newly formed hypertrophic chondrocytes of embryonic chick vertebral cartilage using a double-fluorescence in situ hybridization technique. Digoxigenin- and biotin-labelled type-specific collagen II and X cDNA probes were used. In the embryonic chick vertebra at stage 45, two different fluorescence signals (Fluorescein isothiocyanate and Rhodamine)--one for collagen type II mRNA, the other for type X mRNA--showed differential distribution of the two collagen mRNAs in the proliferating and hypertrophic chondrocyte zones. Several layers of newly formed hypertrophic chondrocytes expressing both collagen types II and X genes were identified in the same section as two different fluorescent colour signals. Low levels of fluorescent signals for collagen type II mRNA were also detected in the hypertrophic chondrocyte zone. Cytological identification of maturing chondrocyte phenotypes, expressing collagen mRNAs, is easier in sections processed by non-radioactive in situ hybridization than in those subjected to radioactive in situ hybridization using 3H-labelled cDNA probes. This study demonstrates that double-fluorescence in situ hybridization is a useful tool for simultaneously detecting the expression of two collagen genes in the same chondrocyte population.


Intergenomic variation in the human mitochondrial genome was examined in 27 mtDNA sequences using a pairwise analysis technique. Analysis of 16 of these mtDNA sequences from patients with mitochondrial cytopathies indicated a wide range between different mitochondrial genes in the degree of nucleotide variation from the standard Cambridge sequence. Mean complex I polymorphic frequencies in cytopathic (CPEO, MERRF, MELAS and LHON collectively) patients and in LHON patients differed significantly from controls (P &lt; or = 0.05, t). Total mean sequence divergence (mean number of diverging nucleotides between two sequences per 100 bp) over the entire mtDNA coding region was 0.21% for cytopathies (n = 16) as opposed to 0.18% for a control group (n = 4). Within the cytopathy group, the greatest pairwise divergence was observed in ND3 and ND6 subunits of complex I (0.46 and 0.70% respectively) and the magnitude of specific gene divergences differed considerably from those observed for the corresponding genes in the control population. The extent to which the increased variation in ND3 and ND6 is a general phenomenon applicable to all subjects rather than a finding specific to cytopathies cannot be stated with certainty given the small control group. Regardless as to which of these suggestions is correct, the possibility exists that increased nucleotide variation in certain mitochondrial ND subunits may contribute to respiratory inefficiency through a cumulative effect of a series of polymorphisms of minor individual mutagenic potential.
beta-Endorphin affects mononuclear cell proliferation, cytokine production and calcium uptake in a naloxone-resistant manner. The presence of naloxone-insensitive binding sites for beta-endorphin have been demonstrated on murine EL4-thymoma cells, transformed human mononuclear cells and normal murine splenocytes. Since murine splenic B cells have been shown to express naloxone-resistant receptors for beta-endorphin in response to the mitogen, concanavalin A (Con A), the A20 B-cell lymphoma line was used to further study regulation of this site by Con A and dexamethasone. Analyses showed two sites: a high-affinity site, Kd1 = (8.7 +/- 2.3) x 10(-11) M and binding capacity (Bmax1) of (2.6 +/- 2.0) x 10(3) receptors/cell; and a low-affinity site, Kd2 = (2.2 +/- 0.8) x 10(-8) M with Bmax2 of (1.5 +/- 0.8) x 10(5) receptors/cell. Competition studies showed that N-acetyl-beta-endorphin was approx. 5-fold and beta-endorphin6-31 10-fold less potent than beta-endorphin1-31. Neither beta-endorphin1-27 nor naloxone, morphine or other opioid receptor agonists displaced [125I]beta-endorphin. Con A (20 micrograms/ml) significantly increased the Bmax (3.5-fold; expressed per cell) and resulted in a loss of the higher-affinity site. However, the increased Bmax occurred in proportion to the Con-A-induced increase in protein/cell. Dexamethasone (Dex) also increased Bmax, primarily by increasing (2-3-fold) the number of lower affinity sites. In contrast to Con A, two binding sites persisted after treatment with Dex, which exerted a minimal effect on protein/cell. Therefore, binding/cell and binding/protein/cell were both significantly enhanced by Dex. The combined effects of Dex and Con A on binding failed to show additivity or synergy. When binding was analyzed per protein/cell, the effect of Con A appeared to dominate; the Dex-enhanced binding/protein/cell was no longer evident in the presence of Dex plus Con A. Thus, Dex and Con A may enhance binding by independent mechanisms.
Chronic suppression of spontaneous bioelectric activity in cultures of dissociated fetal rat cerebral cortex increases neuronal cell death and results in electrophysiological changes which indicate an altered balance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission in culture. To delineate whether alterations in neurotransmitter release could underlie this imbalance, we investigated the effects of chronic tetrodotoxin (TTX) treatment on the content and release of glutamate, aspartate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in culture. Chronic TTX treatment decreased the content of all amino acids investigated. However, only GABA was decreased relative to the neuronal marker NSE (neuron-specific enolase), indicating a disproportionate loss of GABA production following chronic silencing. Depolarization-induced release of GABA, glutamate and aspartate increased about 10-fold between 7 and 21 days in control cultures. Chronic TTX treatment significantly increased the depolarization-induced release of glutamate and aspartate at 7 days in vitro relative to control levels. At all ages it caused a two-fold increase in the ratio of evoked excitatory amino acid release to that of GABA. These observations suggest that chronic silencing of developing neocortex cell cultures increases the ratio of excitatory to inhibitory synaptic activity either by differential cell death or by reduced synaptic efficiency, on which a decrease in GABA neurotransmission appears to play a major role. Since similar mechanisms may be involved in activity-dependent plasticity in vivo, these cultures provide a useful model to analyse this phenomenon at the cell biological and molecular level.
5-HT-immunoreactivity in Entobdella soleae was found to be extensive throughout both the central and peripheral nervous systems, with the strongest staining occurring in the innervation of the forebody, most notably in the paired cerebral ganglia, pharynx and adhesive pads. In the reproductive system, staining was evident throughout the numerous cell bodies and fibres innervating the musculature of the egg-assembly apparatus. The haptor contained an extensive array of serotoninergic fibres derived from the main longitudinal cords; this array was associated with the haptoral muscles and sclerites, and possibly with the ventral sensory papillae.
Cell-permeant Ca2+ chelators such as 1,2-bis-(2-aminophenoxy)ethane- N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid acetoxymethyl ester (BAPTA-AM) have been reported to protect neurons in experimental focal cerebral ischemia. However, their in vivo actions are uncertain, and their protective efficacy is proven only in brief cerebral ischemia paradigms. Here we examine their mechanism of action in vitro and duration of efficacy in vivo. Electrophysiological studies were made in CA1 neurons in rat hippocampal slices. When superfused with BAPTA-AM (30-50 microM), CA1 somatic field potential recordings showed attenuation of the population spike amplitude, and intracellular recordings showed reduced excitatory postsynaptic potentials, indicating inhibition of excitatory synaptic transmission. Also, Ca(2+)-dependent accommodation and post-spike-train hyperpolarizations were reduced, indicating Ca2+ chelation hear the internal cell membrane surface. To determine whether Ca2+ chelators reduce the size of cerebral infarction rather than simply delaying its evolution, we studied the effects of BAPTA-AM treatment on infarction size 24 h after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion. Fischer rats (n = 8 per group) were pretreated with saline, BAPTA-AM (20 mg/kg), or MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg). Infarction volumes in animals treated with BAPTA-AM were reduced by 50.5% compared with controls (p = 0.018), whereas animals treated with MK-801 experienced a statistically insignificant infarct volume reduction (26%; p = 0.27). These data show a persistence of neuroprotection by the Ca2+ chelator at 24 h and indicate that it may act by attenuating synaptic transmission and subplasma membrane Ca2+ excess.
The odors of toluene and 2-propylthietane have been shown to elicit fast wave bursts of 15-30 Hz in the olfactory bulb and dentate gyrus of rats. The odors of cadaverine, butyric acid, and caproic acid were found to be ineffective by comparison. The present study investigated feeding in rats offered a choice between food pellets treated with one of the above mentioned odors or untreated pellets. Unscented pellets were also presented in a control condition. The results indicate that 2-propylthietane or toluene scented food is avoided; cadaverine scented food is preferred; but caproic acid and butyric acid scents have no effect. Toluene and 2-propylthietane may activate central pathways involved in predator detection/avoidance, while cadaverine may activate pathways involved in approach and feeding behavior.
The effect of rotavirus infection on cytoskeletal organization was examined in cultured African green monkey kidney (CV-1) cells. Rhesus rotavirus caused significant and selective changes in the organization of the vimentin filament network without having any effect on microtubules or actin. Double-immunofluorescence studies showed that at 6 h post-infection, and in the absence of cytopathic effect, the normal arrays of vimentin fibres radiating from multiple sites around the nucleus were lost. Vimentin fibres became irregularly distributed in the cytoplasm and were totally disrupted in the later stages of infection. Vimentin reorganization occurred independent of extracellular Ca2+ levels.
In this paper, we present a longitudinal study on metalloproteinases in wound-fluid samples collected from three patients with partial- to full-thickness burn wounds. Gelatin zymography showed that 92-kDa gelatinase (MMP-9) and its 225-kDa complex could be detected in burn fluid beginning as early as 4-8 h after injury. Marked increases in MMP-9 levels as well as activation of the proenzyme occurred between day 0 and day 2. The 72-kDa gelatinase (MMP-2) proenzyme was not detected until day 2 and activated enzyme did not appear until day 4. Stromelysin (MMP-3), both proenzyme and activated-enzyme forms, was first observed on day 4. Fluid-phase proteinase activity detected by azocoll degradation roughly corresponded with the level of stromelysin rather than the gelatinases. Our results provide evidence for a regulated metalloproteinase activation cascade following acute traumatic injury and demonstrate in vivo expression of metalloproteinase activity.
The ability of neurotrophic factors to regulate developmental neuronal survival and adult nervous system plasticity suggests the use of these molecules to treat neurodegeneration associated with human diseases. Solid rationales exist for the use of NGF and neurotrophin-3 in the treatment of neuropathies of the peripheral sensory system, insulin-like growth factor and ciliary neurotrophic factor in motor neuron atrophy, and NGF in Alzheimer's disease. Growth factors have been identified for neurons affected in Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and acute brain and spinal cord injury. Various strategies are actively pursued to deliver neurotrophic factors to the brain, and develop therapeutically useful molecules that mimic neurotrophic factor actions or stimulate their production or receptor mechanisms.
The mode of cell death in Parkinson's disease (PD) substantia nigra is uncertain. However, evidence is accumulating that certain of the biochemical abnormalities present in PD nigra at the time of death may precipitate apoptosis. We have investigated the mode of death induced by complex I inhibition of dopaminergic cell cultures, and our results suggest that both 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium and rotenone cause apoptosis at low concentrations and necrosis at high concentrations. This dose-dependent shift in the mode of cell death induced by these mitochondrial toxins may have important implications for the mechanisms of neuronal cell death in PD.
Some reports have suggested that dantrolene interacts directly with the membrane bilayer. We investigated effects of dantrolene on changes in membrane properties induced by compound 48/80 (C48/80), a membrane stimulator. The addition of C48/80 for 1 min elicited a rapid, dose-dependent Ca2+ influx, which was reduced to 14% by the absence of external Ca2+. Dantrolene inhibited the C48/80-induced increase in Ca2+ permeability of plasma membranes in a concentration-dependent manner (0.33-10 microM, IC50 value was 5 microM). We next examined C48/80-induced changes in structural and dynamic membrane properties by electron spin resonance (ESR). The ratio h0/h-1 was determined to evaluate membrane fluidity. C48/80 increased the membrane fluidity in a concentration-dependent manner (0.1-0.56 mg/ml). Dantrolene (10 microM) itself did not change the membrane fluidity, but it significantly reduced the C48/80-induced increase in membrane fluidity (0.56 mg/ml). Moreover, the C48/80-induced increase in fluidity was dependent on extracellular Ca2+. We conclude that dantrolene protects neuroblastoma cell plasma membrane from C48/80-induced membrane perturbation, which causes Ca2+ influx and an increase in membrane fluidity. These findings strongly suggest that dantrolene directly stabilizes the neuronal plasma membrane.
The membrane lipid composition of human frontal and temporal cortices and white matter has been studied in 118 subjects, age 20-100 years. The brain specimens were selected from subjects who lived a normal social life and died suddenly and unexpectedly with no history of neurologic or psychiatric disease. Macroscopic and microscopic examinations ruled out any signs of organic brain disorder. The sudden death eliminated all risk of changes over a long agonal stage. The data for total solids and major lipids are summarized in graphic form. Total solids, phospholipids, and cholesterol diminished linearly from 20 years of age in frontal and temporal cortices, whereas total solids phospholipids, cholesterol, cerebroside, and sulfatide showed a curvilinear diminution in frontal and temporal white matter. Gangliosides differed from the other lipids, showing an almost constant concentration between 20 and 70 years of age with a slight peak around 50 years of age. The ganglioside pattern showed continuous change with aging, with decreasing proportions of GM1 and GD1a and increasing proportions of GD1b, GM3, and GD3. Equations are given that can be used to calculate the lipid composition of normal human frontal and temporal cortices and white matter at any age between 20 and 100 years of age. These data can be used where data by direct analysis are not available for comparison with values for various pathological states.
In the medium-sized spiny neurons of the striatonigral pathway, a cascade of events involving the activation of dopamine D1 receptors, an increase in cyclic AMP, and activation of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase causes the phosphorylation of DARPP-32 on Thr34, converting DARPP-32 into a powerful inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1. In the present study, the incubation of striatal or substantia nigra slices with GABA also increased the phosphorylation of DARPP-32 on Thr34. GABA did not significantly increase cyclic AMP levels in slices. The phosphorylation of DARPP-32 by GABA was blocked in both brain regions by pretreatment of slices with the GABAA receptor antagonist, bicuculline, but not with the GABAB receptor antagonist, phaclofen. Moreover, the threonine phosphorylation of DARPP-32 produced by maximally effective doses of either forskolin (in striatum) or L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (in substantia nigra) was increased further by GABA. The data are consistent with a model in which GABA increases the phosphorylation state of DARPP-32 by inhibiting dephosphorylation of the protein by the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, calcineurin.
The involvement of a purinergic system in the mechanisms of ATP- and electrically induced long-term potentiation (LTP) has been investigated in mouse hippocampal slices. Extracellular ATP (500 nM) and its slowly hydrolyzable analogue adenosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (ATP-gamma-S; 2.5 microM) amplified permanently the magnitude of the population spike. This effect was antagonized by adenylimidodiphosphate (AMPPNP), a non-hydrolyzable analogue of ATP. AMPPNP, other ATP analogues [2-methylthioadenosine triphosphate (2-MeSATP) and alpha, beta-methyleneadenosine 5'-triphosphate (alpha, beta-methyleneATP)], or a purinergic receptor antagonist (Cibacron Blue 3G) tested in the concentration range of 3-40 microM did not exert agonistic activity similar to that of ATP or ATP-gamma-S, suggesting that ATP hydrolysis is required to exert this effect. All the tested nonhydrolyzable analogues reduced or prevented the establishment of stable, nondecremental LTP without blocking the short-lasting increase in the magnitude of the population spike immediately after electrical stimulation (short-term potentiation). These results indicate that ATP released by high-frequency stimulation contributes to the maintenance of stable LTP. The underlying mechanism operating in this process may involve a new type of ATP receptors or hydrolysis by ecto-ATPase. However, the findings that ATP-gamma-S is less potent than ATP and that other ATP analogues known to act as agonists of purinergic receptors did not induce LTP but rather inhibited its maintenance are more consistent with the possibility that ecto-protein kinase, using extracellular ATP as a cosubstrate, plays a role in mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity.
LAN-1 is a human neuroblastoma cell line that, in the undifferentiated state, does not respond to membrane depolarization with an elevation of [Ca2+]i, monitored by fura-2 single-cell microfluorimetry. The exposure of LAN-1 cells to the differentiating agent retinoic acid induced the appearance of [Ca2+]i elevation elicited by 55 mM K+. Maitotoxin, a putative activator of voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels, did not evoke an elevation of [Ca2+]i in undifferentiated LAN-1 cells, but produced a marked and sustained increase in [Ca2+]i when superfused in retinoic acid-treated cells. Both high K(+)- and maitotoxin-induced [Ca2+]i elevation in retinoic acid-differentiated LAN-1 cells was reversed by the lanthanide Gd3+, an inorganic Ca(2+)-entry blocker, and by the snail toxin omega-conotoxin GVIA, which interacts with the N subtype of voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels. In contrast, both Bay K 8644 and nimodipine, dihydropyridines that selectively activate or block, respectively, the L-channel subtype, were completely ineffective. The tumor promoter phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (100 nM), a protein kinase C activator, inhibited the elevation of [Ca2+]i due to Ca2+ influx elicited by membrane depolarization. K(+)-induced [Ca2+]i elevation appeared 24 h after the addition of retinoic acid and reached the highest magnitude after 72 h. Furthermore, 8 days after the removal of the differentiating agent from the culture medium, the high K(+)-induced increase of [Ca2+]i was still present.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Editing of mRNA in the coding region of the second transmembrane domain of glutamate receptor subunits GluR2, GluR5, and GluR6 involves a change of the base A in genomic DNA to the base G in mRNA as described in rat brain. To determine whether this reaction occurs in humans as well as rats, we studied RNA editing of GluR2 and GluR6 in human brain. We compared the extent of editing in controls and cases with Huntington's disease. To assay the extent of editing in brain RNA, first strand cDNA was amplified using the polymerase chain reaction yielding a product across the region of the second transmembrane spanning segment in which editing takes place in rats. The PCR product was incubated with the restriction enzyme BbvI, which recognizes the sequence GCAGC present in the nonedited sequence of the mRNA in subunits GluR2 and GluR6. Thus, BbvI cuts the nonedited version but leaves the edited version intact. As in the rat, the GluR2 subunit mRNA was completely edited in human brain. The GluR6 subunit was nearly completely edited in all gray matter structures investigated including cortex, striatum, thalamus, hippocampus, amygdala, and cerebellum with extent of editing ranging from 89% in the cerebellum to 95% in the cortex and striatum. No significant differences in the extent of RNA editing were apparent in control versus Huntington's disease brains. To compare the extent of editing in neurons and glia in the brain, editing in cerebral cortex (predominantly gray matter and thus neurons) was compared with editing in corpus callosum (white matter and thus nearly completely glial cells).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Computed tomography of 30 patients presenting acutely with benign intracranial hypertension was compared with that of 30 normal controls matched for age and sex. Qualitative and quantitative assessments showed smaller cranial CSF spaces in the cases of benign intracranial hypertension, suggesting that cerebral swelling is involved in the pathogenesis of benign intracranial hypertension.
The records of 82 patients who had undergone inpatient neurological investigation for unilateral motor symptoms, sensory symptoms, or both, without definite neurological signs, were reviewed. Diagnosis of a physical disorder was more frequent if symptoms were on the right side rather than on the left (odds ratio (OR) = 7.7, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 2.6-23), and in males than in females (OR = 3.0, 95% CI 1.1-8.3).
A large family with autosomal dominant inheritance of peroneal muscular atrophy, associated with extensor plantar responses in some cases, has been studied. Onset was usually in the first two decades and spasticity was not a feature. Nerve conduction studies in 21 cases and light and electron microscope findings on six sural nerve biopsies were similar to those in hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type II.
Phosphatidylserine administered as an aqueous dispersion to myelin-induced experimental allergic neuritis rats had a significant effect on disease course. Intraperitoneal injections of 30 mg/kg were given daily beginning at the onset of disease and continued for 14 days. Clinical severity and mortality were markedly reduced by this treatment as compared to saline controls. Improved clinical outcome was associated with a reduction in peripheral nerve pathology. A possible mechanism involving tumor necrosis factor is discussed.
1. Responses of neurons in primary auditory cortex (AI) of the barbiturate anesthetized adult cat were studied using cochlear stimulation with electrical and acoustic stimuli. Acoustic stimulation of the ear ipsilateral to the studied cortical hemisphere with brief biphasic clicks was compared with electrical stimulation of the contralateral cochlea with brief biphasic electrical pulses delivered via a feline cochlear prosthesis. The contralateral ear was deafened immediately before implantation of the cochlear prosthesis. The feline cochlear prosthesis consisted of four bipolar electrode pairs and was placed in the scala tympani. Two bipolar electrode conditions were used for stimulation: one near radial pair with electrode spacing of approximately 0.5 mm, and one longitudinal pair with electrode spacing of approximately 6 mm. 2. The firing rates obtained from single- and multiple-neuron recordings were measured as a function of stimulus intensity for single electrical and acoustic pulses. Resulting rate/level functions were characterized by a fast growing low-level segment and a more slowly growing, saturating, or decreasing high-level segment. The slopes of these two segments as well as the stimulus level and firing rate at the juncture of these two segments (the transition point) provide a complete characterization of the response magnitude behavior as a function of stimulus intensity. 3. The main characteristics of rate/level functions obtained with electrical and acoustic cochlear stimulation were quite similar. However, for any given neuron, differences in the primary growth behavior, such as monotonic or nonmonotonic growth, could be observed between the different stimulation modes. 4. Response latencies from single- and multiple-neuron recordings were obtained as a function of stimulus intensity for electrical and acoustic pulses. Resulting latency/level functions were characterized by a rapidly decreasing low-level segment and a more slowly decreasing high-level segment. The slopes of these two segments as well as the stimulus level and response latency at the juncture of these two segments (the transition point) provide a complete characterization of the response latency behavior as a function of stimulus intensity. Transition point levels for the rate/level function and the latency/level were nearly identical. 5. The characteristic latency behavior for each neuronal response was found to be very similar for acoustic and electrical stimulation. Correlation analysis revealed a close relationship between latency parameters of the two electrical stimulation conditions, a weaker relationship between the longitudinal electrical and the acoustic conditions, and the weakest relationship between the radial electrical and acoustic conditions. 6. Correlation analysis for rate and latency parameters revealed several relationships between these response aspects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. We recorded local field potentials in the parafoveal representation in the primary visual cortex of anesthetized and paralyzed macaque monkeys with a multicontact electrode that provided for sampling of neural activity at 16 sites along a vertical penetration. Differential recordings at adjacent contacts were transformed into an estimate of current source density (CSD), to provide a measure of local neural activity. 2. We used m-sequence stimuli to map the region of visual space that provided input to the recording site. The local field potential recorded in macaque V1 has a population receptive field (PRF) size of approximately 2 deg2. 3. We assessed spatial tuning by the responses to two-dimensional Gaussian noise, spatially filtered to retain power only within one octave. Responses to achromatic band-limited noise stimuli revealed a prominent band-pass spatial tuning in the upper layers, but a more low-pass spatial tuning in lower layers. 4. We assessed orientation tuning by the responses to band-limited noise whose spectrum was further restricted to lie within 45 degrees wedges. The local field potential showed evidence of orientation tuning at most sites. Orientation tuning in upper and lower layers was manifest by systematic variations not only in response size but also in response dynamics. 5. We assessed chromatic tuning by the responses to isotropic band-limited noise modulated in a variety of directions in tristimulus space. Some lower-layer locations showed a nulling of response under near-isoluminant conditions. However, response dynamics in upper and lower layers depended not only on luminance contrast, but also on chromatic inputs. 6. Responses to near-isoluminant stimuli and to low-contrast luminance modulation were shifted to lower spatial frequencies. 7. We determined the extent to which various temporal frequencies in the response conveyed information concerning spatial frequency, orientation, and color under the steady-state conditions used in these studies. In each case, information is distributed in the response dynamics across a broad temporal frequency range, beginning at 4 Hz (the lowest frequency used). For spatial frequency the information rate remains significant up to at least 25 Hz. For orientation tuning and chromatic tuning, the information rate is lower overall and remains significant up to 13 Hz. In contrast, for texture discrimination, information is shifted to lower temporal frequencies.
As developing or regenerating neurons grow, their axons seek cues in the extracellular matrix that are recognized by integrin receptors. To understand the regulation and structure of neural integrin complexes, we have examined the association of two functionally important integrins, alpha 1 beta 1 and alpha 3 beta 1, within PC12 cells. Detergent-resistant cytoskeletal ghosts were prepared from PC12 cells and examined by immunoblotting. In cells maintained in suspension the alpha 1, alpha 3, and beta 1 integrin subunits were solubilized by Triton X-100 detergent. In contrast, when cells were grown on collagen or laminin about 50% of the alpha 1 and beta 1 subunits were retained with the cytoskeleton, but alpha 3 remained soluble. Confocal immunofluorescence microscopy of whole cells demonstrated that all three integrin subunits were expressed in a punctate pattern on the cell surface in point contacts. Point contacts were also found to be the predominant adhesion structure of dorsal root ganglion neurons. After detergent extraction of PC12 cells, the point contacts remained only at the cell-substrate interface. Vinculin, which is found consistently in focal contacts on non-neural cells, showed only a partial colocalization with the point contacts, being expressed mainly at the tips of filopodia and the periphery of cell bodies. Talin showed no obvious codistribution with beta 1 integrin immunoreactivity in point contacts. Immunoreactivity to p125FAK was not detected in PC12 cells, although astrocytes, which have both focal contacts and point contacts have p125FAK only at focal contacts. These observations, together with previous data (Turner et al., 1989; Tawil et al., 1993), suggest that point contacts are functional adhesion sites and are structurally distinct from focal contacts found in non-neuronal cells.
Coordinate systems are a central issue in computational neuroscience: are they explicitly represented at some reductive level of brain function, and if so, are they only trivial products of associated anatomic geometries? This investigation examined these questions in the neural network that holds eye position, the so-called oculomotor integrator. Since neural activity in the integrator is behaviorally constrained by Listing's law to encode horizontal and vertical eye positions within Listing's plane and zero rotation about the orthogonal torsional axis, it was hypothesized that any integrator coordinate system would be developmentally predisposed to align with Listing's plane. A test for this hypothesis was developed with the use of a kinematically correct model of the three-dimensional saccade generator. Three mathematical integrators were used to represent the neuron populations that control torsional, vertical, and horizontal eye position. Simulated failure of the torsional and vertical integrators produced eye position drift that was parallel to the horizontal plane containing the intrinsic coordinate axes for these components. Furthermore, this drift settled toward a resting range parallel to the intrinsic vertical coordinate axis (for horizontal rotation). To experimentally identify these intrinsic population coordinates, three-dimensional eye positions were measured in four Macaca fascicularis after injection of muscimol into the mesencephalic interstitial nucleus of Cajal (INC), a technique that disrupts the torsional and vertical integrators (Crawford et al., 1991). INC inactivation produced exponential, position-dependent decay in vertical and torsional eye position. There was no position-dependent horizontal drift, but in the original coordinate system (defined arbitrarily by the measurement apparatus) there was a constant-direction horizontal drift. However, this extraneous horizontal drift was eliminated when the data were transformed into a coordinate system that aligned with Listing's plane. The direction of torsional drift correlated well (r = 0.85), across all experiments, with the normal to Listing's plane. On average, these two directions were only 0.06 degrees from perfect alignment. In contrast, drift direction did not correlate with stereotaxic coordinates (r = 0.10). Furthermore, the drift settled toward a range parallel to and correlated with Listing's plane (r = 0.94), whereas this range did not correlate well with stereotaxic coordinates (r = 0.02). On average, the resting range was aligned within 0.98 degrees of Listing's plane. Finally, this resting range was near orthogonal (average 91.9 degrees across all experiments) to the direction of torsional drift. These results show that integrator cell populations use an orthogonal, craniotopic coordinate system that aligns with Listing's plane.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In vivo model systems that can evaluate neuronal death, survival, and regeneration are critical to revealing basic mechanisms of neuronal response and developing strategies for CNS repair. We propose a distinct experimental model of CNS degeneration following lesions to the perforant path connecting the hippocampus and the entorhinal cortex. Within 2 weeks of a unilateral aspirative perforant path lesion, 30% of the ipsilateral entorhinal cortex layer II (ECL II) projection neurons had died with no change in the contralateral ECL II population. Although there was no loss of ECL II neurons with normal aging, animals that survived for 15 months postlesion experienced an almost 50% loss of ipsilateral neurons compared to unlesioned controls. This progressive neuronal death was bilateral, with the contralateral ECL II experiencing a 30% decline in neuronal number relative to unlesioned controls. The use of unbiased stereology ensured that estimates of total number were not distorted by changes in the reference volume. The documented progressive neuronal death resulted in delayed behavioral impairment in spatial learning and performance (latency nearly 200% of controls). We propose, therefore, that the perforant path model is suitable for experimental investigation of neuronal survival and regeneration following CNS trauma.
Studies of the regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation at the neuromuscular junction during development and following denervation suggest that tyrosine phosphorylation of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor is regulated by neuronal innervation of muscle. The finding that agrin, a neuronally derived extracellular matrix protein also induces tyrosine phosphorylation of the nicotinic receptor, suggests that nerve-induced tyrosine phosphorylation may be mediated by agrin. To study this further, we have examined the regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of the nicotinic receptor by innervation in vitro using muscle-neuron cocultures. Innervation of chick myotubes by chick ciliary ganglia neurons induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the nicotinic receptor with the same subunit specificity seen with bath applied purified agrin. Both innervation and agrin-induced phosphorylation of the nicotinic receptor resulted in an increase in tyrosine and serine phosphorylation. In addition, thermolysin phosphopeptide maps of the subunits after innervation or agrin-treatment were identical. The similarity in the agrin- and nerve-induced phosphorylation of the acetylcholine receptor suggests that agrin mediates the nerve-induced phosphorylation during development in vivo and that phosphorylation of the acetylcholine receptor may play an important role in the development of the neuromuscular junction.
Based on the sequencing of genomic and cDNA clones, we were able to determine that the FMRFamide gene consists of five exons covering at least 20 kb and predict the presence of further novel peptides. The exons are alternatively spliced: exon I (hydrophobic leader sequence) to exon II (tetrapeptides) and exon I to exons III (heptapeptides), IV, and V. A cDNA clone encoding the heptapeptides is described and has also been shown to encode further novel peptides SKPYMRFamide, HDYMRFamide, and SSFPRYamide. Analysis of the right internal parietal nerve using mass spectrometry showed that the novel peptide SKPYMRFamide was cleaved from the precursor. This peptide excites neurons, suggesting a physiological function in the CNS.
By using in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and NPY (Y1) receptor mRNA as well as NPY-like immunoreactivity were examined in the lumbar spinal cord (L4-L5) and in dorsal root ganglia (DRG, L5) in rats injected with complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into the hindpaw. A rapid and marked increase in NPY mRNA expression was observed in ipsilateral dorsal horn neurons 6 hr after inoculation as compared to the contralateral side. This was mainly found in the medial part of spinal lamina II. The peak level (88% increase) was reached at 3 d. In adjacent sections of the spinal cord, 96% and 33% increases were found in the number of dynorphin and enkephalin mRNA-positive neurons, respectively. Unilateral inflammation also induced a moderate increase in NPY-like immunoreactivity and the number of NPY-immunoreactive neurons in the medial part of the ipsilateral spinal dorsal horn. In addition, a marked elevation in the expression of c-Fos-like protein was observed in ipsilateral spinal neurons in laminae I, II, and V. However, no NPY mRNA-positive or NPY-immunoreactive neurons were found in the ipsilateral and contralateral DRGs in rats receiving CFA injection. Furthermore, a marked upregulation of NPY (Y1) receptor mRNA expression was detected in the ipsilateral spinal dorsal horn 1 d and 3 d after inoculation. These Y1 receptor mRNA-positive cells were mainly distributed in the medial laminae II and III. Numerous Y1 mRNA-positive, small neuron profiles were found bilaterally in the DRGs in CFA-treated rats. CFA evoked a 34% increase in the number of Y1 mRNA-positive neurons in ipsilateral DRGs as compared to contralateral DRGs. The distinct upregulation of NPY and NPY (Y1) receptor in response to peripheral inflammation suggests an involvement of NPY in the response to inflammation and in nociception.
Previous studies in the hypomyelinating mouse mutant Trembler have suggested that demyelinating axons are smaller in caliber compared to normal axons, and that there are differences in the organization of axonal neurofilaments. In the normal PNS, however, the relationship between neurofilament organization and myelination has not been investigated extensively. In normal axons, only the initial segments, the nodes of Ranvier (approximately 1 micron), and the terminals are not covered by myelin. We took advantage of an unusual feature of the primary sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglion, the relatively long nonmyelinated stem process (up to several hundred micrometers), to determine if the presence of myelination correlates with differences in cytoskeletal organization and neurofilament phosphorylation. Axonal caliber and neurofilament numbers were substantially greater in the myelinated internodes than in the stem process or nodes of Ranvier. Neurofilament spacing, assessed by measuring the nearest-neighbor neurofilament distance, was 25-50% less in the stem processes and nodes of Ranvier than in the myelinated internodes. In the myelinated internodes, neurofilaments had greater immunoreactivity for phosphorylated epitopes than those in the stem process. These findings indicate that interactions with Schwann cells modulate neurofilament phosphorylation within the ensheathed axonal segments, and that increased phosphorylation within myelinated internodes leads to greater interfilament spacing. Lastly, the myelinated internodes had three fold more neurofilaments, but the same number of microtubules. Both the increased neurofilament spacing and the increase in neurofilament numbers in myelinated internodes contribute to a greater axonal caliber in the myelinated internodes.
Dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) catalyzes the conversion of dopamine to norepinephrine, and is expressed specifically in neurons and neuroendocrine cells that release norepinephrine and epinephrine. In the present study, we used DBH-expressing human neuroblastoma SK-N-BE(2)C and rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cell lines to investigate the role of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) in transcriptional regulation of the DBH gene. Coexpression of the catalytic subunit of PKA (PKAc) robustly stimulated the transcriptional activity of the DBH gene in a dose-dependent manner. Conversely, coexpression of a specific inhibitor of PKA abrogated forskolin- and cAMP-mediated but not phorbol ester-mediated transcriptional induction of DBH. Deletion of the cAMP response element (CRE) dramatically reduced the stimulatory effect of PKA, indicating that the CRE mediates the induction of DBH by PKA. In DBH-nonexpressing HeLa and C6 glioma cell lines, coexpression of PKAc changed the transcriptional activity of the DBH promoter to a minimal degree, indicating that basal and PKA-mediated transcription of the DBH gene occur in a cell type-specific manner. Finally, both basal and cAMP-stimulated transcription of the DBH gene are diminished in three PKA-deficient PC12 cell lines, compared to wild-type cells. Based on these data, we conclude that PKA, via the CRE, plays an important role in basal and cAMP-inducible transcription, but is not required for phorbol ester-mediated induction, of the DBH gene in noradrenergic cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the nervous system the influx of Ca2+ orchestrates multiple biochemical and electrical events essential for development and function. A major route for Ca2+ entry is through voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs). It is becoming increasingly clear that the precise contribution VDCCs make to neuronal function depends not only upon their specific electrophysiological properties but also on their distribution over the nerve cell surface. One location where the presence of VDCCs may be critical is the dendritic spine, a structure known to be the major site of excitatory synaptic input. On spines, VDCCs are hypothesized to play an essential role in signal processing, learning, and memory. However, direct evidence for the presence of VDCCs on spines is lacking. Attempts to examine the distribution of VDCCs, or indeed any other components, on spines have been hampered since the size of many spines is close to the limits of resolution of conventional light microscopy. Using a new, biologically active, fluorescein conjugate of omega-conotoxin (Fl-omega-CgTx), a selective blocker of N-type VDCCs, and confocal microscopy, we have mapped the distributions of N-type VDCCs on live CA1 neurons in rat hippocampal slices. VDCCs were found on somata, throughout the dendritic arbor, and on dendritic spines in all hippocampal subfields. A comparison of three-dimensional reconstructions of structures labeled by Fl-omega-CgTx with those outlined by 1,1-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine (Dil) or Lucifer yellow confirmed the presence of N-type VDCCs on dendritic spines. However, spine frequency on dendrites labeled with Fl-omega-CgTx was much lower than the spine frequency on dendrites labeled with Lucifer yellow or Dil, suggesting that some spines lack N-type VDCCs. These results offer the first direct evidence for the localization of any voltage-dependent channel on dendritic spines. The presence of N-type VDCCs on dendrites and their spines argues that these channels may participate in the generation of active Ca2+ conductances in distal dendrites, and is consistent with a role for spines as specialized compartments for concentrating Ca2+.
Fluorescence microscopy shows extensive filling of perikarya and distal dendrites following injections of Fluoro-Gold (FG) into their terminal fields. However, elucidation of synaptic contacts onto identified projection neurons has been limited by the lack of compatibility between electron-dense markers required for ultrastructural analysis and morphology preservation. The recent advent of antisera to FG has revealed numerous potential applications for analyzing chemically defined synaptic circuitry. To take advantage of the high sensitivity of this retrograde tracer in ultrastructural studies, we extended and detailed the original description of single immunocytochemical labeling of FG by comparing the advantages of immunodetection of an antiserum against FG using 2 distinct electron-dense markers: (1) avidin-biotin peroxidase (ABC) reacted with 3,3'-diaminobenzidine and darkened with osmium tetroxide, or (2) silver-intensified 1 nm colloidal gold particles. We subsequently examined the utility of combining these markers in single sections for detection of transmitters (e.g., gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)) in axon terminals presynaptic to retrogradely labeled neurons. Both analyses were carried out on the well-characterized mesolimbic pathway originating from perikarya in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) that project to the nucleus accumbens. Injections of FG were stereotaxically placed in the nucleus accumbens of anesthetized adult rats. From these animals, vibratome sections of aldehyde-fixed brains were examined for light-microscopic detection of FG using: (1) epi-fluorescence without immunocytochemistry, (2) immunoperoxidase, or (3) immunogold-silver. All 3 methods revealed circumscribed injections in the nucleus accumbens. Additionally, both immunocytochemical methods appeared to be as sensitive as epi-fluorescence in light-microscopic detection of retrogradely labeled perikarya and fine-caliber dendrites extending for 2-3 branch points beyond the soma. Electron microscopy showed that the FG was detectable not only in lysosomes but also throughout the cytoplasmic matrix of perikarya and dendrites using either immunoperoxidase or immunogold-silver labeling methods. In the second part of this analysis, single sections of tissue were processed for dual labeling using either immunoperoxidase or immunogold-silver for detection of FG in conjunction with the converse label for GABA or 5-HT, respectively. Regardless of the labeling combinations, the peroxidase and gold-silver reactions were readily distinguished within sections examined by light or electron microscopy. Synaptic junctions from unlabeled or from GABA or 5-HT labeled terminals were most readily identified when the targets were lightly immunoreactive for peroxidase or labeled using silver-intensified colloidal gold.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Electrical stimulation of neuronal tissue is a fundamental part of many experiments in neuroscience. It is now widely accepted that to minimise stimulus artefacts stimulators need to be both constant-current devices and also electrically isolated from ground. This difficult combination of parameters is usually only obtained with battery-powered devices. Here we describe a fully isolated and constant-current mains-powered stimulus interface ('Neurodyne') which is based around a toroidal transformer. It is simple to construct and has the ability to deliver analogue signals as stimuli as well as pulses. The signal amplitude can be up to 20 mA and has a voltage compliance of over 100 V. The device has been shown to perform satisfactorily when applied to a brain slice preparation in vitro.
We present a method for performing intracerebral microdialysis in freely behaving rats while recording the firing of neurons within the dialysis site. Studying hippocampal theta cells and complex-spike cells with this technique, it has been found that: (1) when the microdialysis fluid contained only artificial cerebrospinal fluid, both types of neurons displayed normal electrical activity, (2) the simultaneous single-cell recording/microdialysis procedure could be readily performed for as long as 3 days, and (3) inclusion of drugs into the microdialysis fluid, at appropriate concentrations, caused clear changes in firing pattern. For example, microdialysis with 1% lidocaine completely abolished, whereas that with 50 mM K+ markedly increased, the neuronal electrical activity. These cellular changes developed without apparent EEG or behavioral manifestations and were reversible. In some of the experiments, the extracellular concentrations of glutamate and aspartate in the recording/dialysis site were also measured. The described method allows the extracellular environment of recorded brain cells to be manipulated by drugs delivered through the microdialysis probe and simultaneously allows determination of the neurochemical composition of that environment over a remarkably long period of time and in intact, physiologically functioning, neural network. Such studies will provide new insights into the molecular basis of neuronal activity in the brain in the context of behavior, including learning.
A new method was developed to carry out in vivo microdialysis experiments repetitively and routinely within an individual monkey. We designed and built a dialysis probe guide and holding device ('guide holder') which permits accurate placement of dialysis probes into cortical (e.g., prefrontal, hippocampus, and parietal cortices) and subcortical target areas (e.g., caudate nucleus, amygdala, and nucleus accumbens) of the rhesus monkey brain without extensive and repetitive surgery needed to expose a desired brain region. The guide holder is positioned, using MRI-guided coordinates, and fixed to the skull over an intended targeted region. This design provides an opportunity to conduct several experiments in a single monkey over an extended period and permits placement of several probes accurately into 'fresh' or 'experienced' tissue during repeated microdialysis experiments. In addition, during repeated dialysis experiments tissue trauma is minimized because no surgical procedure is necessary on the day of dialysate collection. This procedure can be readily adapted for use with an awake monkey.
The ability of the lectin, ricinus communis agglutinin I (ricin120), to undergo retrograde axonal transport and cause degeneration of neuronal cell bodies has been frequently exploited to establish the origin of peripheral axons. Since this cytotoxic action of ricin results from its inactivation of ribosomes, the retrogradely transported lectin was employed in the present study to inhibit protein synthesis in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons whose axons project into the lumbar nerve trunk of bullfrog tadpoles. The procedure was developed to examine, during tadpole metamorphosis, the ratio of fast-transported radiolabeled protein accumulating at the proximal side of a nerve trunk ligature to the total newly synthesized protein in the cell bodies of origin. The relatively small diameter and fragility of the developing lumbar nerve trunks necessitated introduction of ricin by bath application to the cut nerve end rather than by intraneural injection. Consistent uptake of ricin was achieved by pretreatment with the phospholipase A2 inhibitor, mepacrine, that blocks resealing of severed nerve fibers. Optimal time and dosage of ricin were established by determining the maximal achievable inhibition of [35S]methionine into DRG protein. In stage XVI tadpoles, maximal inhibition of approximately to 65% was observed after 16 h incubation in 2.5 mg/ml ricin. As evidence that neuronal protein synthesis was effectively suppressed, there was no detectable anterograde axonal transport of [35S]protein subsequent to ricin treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In previous studies, we have reported on the expression of beta 1 integrins in type 1 astrocytes and their function in cell-substratum attachment (Tawil et al., J Cell Biol 120:261-271, 1993). Here we extend those findings by providing evidence that type 1 astrocytes express integrins of the beta 3 and possibly beta 4 subclasses and that the former (alpha v beta 3) functions in attachment by recognizing the peptide, Arg-Gly-Asp, in vitronectin. In addition, we have examined immunocytochemically the expression of beta 1 integrins on type 2 astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. The pattern of expression of integrins on these two cell types is distinct from type 1 astrocytes; most notably type 1 astrocytes but not oligodendrocytes or type 2 astrocytes express alpha 1 beta 1 heterodimers. Since type 2 astrocytes and oligodendrocytes originate from a common precursor (O-2A), the alpha 1 beta 1 heterodimer may be a functional marker which distinguishes O-2A-derived cells from those of the type 1 astrocyte lineage.
Isolated amyloidomas may, albeit rarely, involve the central nervous system. There are three previous reports of amyloidomas that involved the gasserian ganglion and caused unilateral trigeminal neuropathies. The authors report the case of a 49-year-old woman with apparently isolated amyloidomas that caused slowly progressive bilateral trigeminal neuropathies. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain revealed mild swelling of the left trigeminal nerve within the cavernous sinus and uniform enhancement with gadolinium throughout the length of the nerve. At craniotomy, the trigeminal nerve and ganglion were observed to be infiltrated by a tumor-like mass. Biopsy showed extensive infiltration of the nerve and ganglion by amyloid. Immunocytochemical studies of the amyloid were negative for immunoglobulins, kappa and lambda light chains, beta-amyloid A4 protein, transthyretin, beta 2-microglobulin, cystatin C, and gelsolin, but weak focal immunoreactivity with antiamyloid AA antibody was seen in the amyloid in vessels and in some intraneural deposits. Extensive investigations failed to reveal evidence of either systemic amyloidoses or an underlying inflammatory disorder or malignancy.
Herein the authors report the pathology of six cases of VATER association and tethered spinal cord that underwent operative intervention for removal of lipomas of the conusfilum terminale and/or release of the tethered cord. In five of the six patients, the excised filum terminale consistently showed excessive mature adipose tissue, normal blood vessels, small myelinated nerve fibers, and fibrous connective tissue. One patient had mature lobulated adipose tissue and vessels only. It is concluded that patients with the VATER association who present with distal spinal cord pathology consistently have abnormal involution of the filum terminale, the hallmark being an abnormal collection of mature fat, thickening of the filum, and extension of the fat into the conus medullaris.
Previous studies suggest that systemic arterial pressure is tonically regulated by the interaction of peripheral sympathetic nerves with vascular alpha-1A adrenoceptors in vivo. To explore this relationship further, the present study examined the inhibitory effect of selective alpha-1A [5-methylurapidil (5-MU) and nifedipine (NIF)] and alpha-1B [chloroethylclonidine (CEC)] antagonists on the pressor response to electrical stimulation (ES) of the spinal cord in pithed rats. Diastolic pressure changes were measured in the presence of 5-MU or CEC and compared with control responses. Pretreatment with 5-MU (0.5 mg/kg i.v.) significantly suppressed the ES pressor response (50-80% inhibition) at all stimulation frequencies. Likewise, NIF (inhibitor of calcium influx associated with alpha-1A adrenoceptor activation) selectively inhibited the pressor response to ES to the same degree as did 5-MU. CEC (25 mg/kg i.v.) also significantly shifted the ES response curve; however, this effect was mediated by activation of presynaptic alpha-2 receptors on sympathetic terminals because prior administration of idazoxan (5 mg/kg) prevented the inhibitory effect of CEC. Based on the potent inhibitory effects of 5-MU and NIF on the ES pressor response in the pithed rat, it was concluded that vascular alpha-1A adrenoceptors reside in the synaptic region of neurovascular junction where they are primarily activated by neuronal norepinephrine release.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Radioligand binding techniques were used to determine the affinity of a series of substituted guanidine derivatives for 1) the binding site within the ion channel of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, as defined by displacement of MK-801 ([3H]dizocilpine) and 2) sigma sites as defined by displacement of [3H]N,N'-di-(o-tolyl)guanidine. The goal was to find ligands with high affinity and selectivity for the NMDA receptor ion-channel site. The neuroprotective activity of these compounds was assessed by their ability to protect cortical neurons from injury caused by a 5-min exposure to 500 microM glutamate in vitro. Release of lactate dehydrogenase into the culture medium by damaged neurons was used as an index of neuronal injury. The 14 compounds tested had IC50 values ranging from 37.3 nM to 12.7 microM for the NMDA receptor ion-channel site and from 8.3 nM to 7.25 microM for sigma sites. Affinity for the ion-channel site was improved by unsymmetrical substitutions on the guanidine moiety. All compounds in the series protected cortical neurons against glutamate toxicity, with EC50 values (concentration affording 50% protection) ranging from 0.38 to 28.25 microM. The neuroprotective effect of each compound was positively correlated with its ion-channel site affinity (r = 0.94); no correlation between neuroprotective efficacy and sigma site binding affinity was found (r V -0.13) establishing clearly that neuroprotection in this assay was linked to NMDA antagonist properties.
Lumbar puncture was performed on 12 healthy female volunteers at the L4-5 level. CSF concentrations of 5-HIAA, HVA and HMPG were included in turn as dependent variables in repeated analyses of covariance with age, height, tapping-time, atmospheric pressure and the distance on the spine in the lying position as regressors. Use or non-use of oral contraceptives was included as a nominal variable. Results obtained were confirmed by nonparametric statistics. We found significant relationships between 5-HIAA and HVA, respectively, and height when the concentrations per minute of tapping-time (nM/min) were used as dependent variables. Hypothetically, the tapping-time mirrors the transport of concentrated CSF from the cranial to the caudal region when sitting up. We also found significant influences of atmospheric pressure and the use or non-use of oral contraceptives on HMPG. The role of atmospheric pressure is not clear but it might contribute to the transport of HMPG from the periphery to the CSF or affect the outflow of HMPG from the lumbar CSF compartment. The contribution of oral contraceptives might reflect interactions in the cerebral catecholamine metabolism.

The blood-brain barrier (BBB) determines whether or not a given drug can reach the central nervous system (CNS), either by passive diffusion or through carrier or receptor systems. Initial work focused on the structural and physico-chemical requirements favouring transport across the BBB as related to anatomical and physiological features. Such studies have had a significant effect on the design of CNS-active drugs with improved permeability across the BBB. Progress in pharmacology and neurosciences resulted in greater knowledge of CNS diseases and of potential therapies, but also created the need to develop new strategies to improve drug delivery to the brain. For a long time the BBB was considered to be a physical barrier, mainly represented by the cerebrovascular endothelium; however, transport of drugs to the brain may be limited by the metabolic activity of the BBB. The BBB should be regarded as a dynamic rather than a rigid barrier; it can be influenced by astrocytes and probably also by neuronal and hormonal stimuli, and its properties are also affected by diseases of the CNS. This may offer new strategies for targeting drugs to the brain.

We have isolated a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) family member from an embryonic chick-brain cDNA library. This 3.86-Kb cDNA, GbHLH1.4, exhibits extensive sequence similarity in the bHLH domain with Drosophila daughterless and the vertebrate cDNAs E12 and HTF4. Outside of the bHLH region the similarity is significantly reduced. GbHLH1.4 recognizes a 4.0-Kb mRNA and in situ hybridization analysis shows that GbHLH1.4 mRNA is widely expressed at early stages of development but becomes progressively restricted as embryogenesis proceeds. At later stages of embryonic development, mRNA transcripts are localized to several structures including the ventricular layers of the spinal cord and brain, the facial primordia, dorsal root ganglia and heart muscle and cardiac valves. Strikingly, GbHLH1.4 expression in chick embryos exhibits significant overlap with that reported for the murine negative HLH regulator, Id.
Knowledge of the mechanical and electrical output from skeletal muscle is of interest to investigators from several disciplines including physiology, biomechanics, neuroscience, orthopedics, and physical rehabilitation. Estimates of muscle output (i.e., force) have generally been made using indirect calculations. Forward solution (e.g., EMG) and optimization models have recently been developed using a wide variety of input parameters to estimate force output of individual muscles. These estimates, however, have lacked comparison values necessary for validation. In vivo measurements of muscle force have been made in both animals and humans using a &quot;buckle&quot; type tendon transducer surgically implanted on the tendons of the muscles under study. Investigations utilizing these transducers have addressed a wide range of questions regarding muscle function. This review examines the use of this technology and discusses the significance of the future use of &quot;buckle&quot; transducers in studies exploring load sharing among muscles and in the validation of existing models that estimate muscle force.
A novel series of 5-amino-1,4-benzodiazepin-2-one derivatives (amidines), which contain a cationic solubilizing group and which are antagonists for the cholecystokinin (CCK)-B receptor, have been identified. Optimization of this series led to the identification of an azabicyclononane amidine, L-740,093 [N-[(3R)-5-(3-azabicyclo[3.2.2]nonan-3-yl)-2,3-dihydro-1-methyl-2- oxo- 1H-1,4-benzodiazepin-3-yl]-N'-(3-methylphenyl)urea], that bound with high affinity of CCK-B receptors from guinea pig cerebral cortex (IC50 of 0.1 nM) and had a CCK-B/CCK-A receptor selectivity of 16,000. In comparison, L-365,260 had 85-fold lower affinity (8.5 nM) and was only 87-fold selective for CCK-B over CCK-A receptors. L-740,093 bound with high affinity to guinea pig gastrin receptors in vitro (IC50 of 0.04 nM). Electrophysiological studies on slices of rat ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus showed that L-740,093 produced rightward shifts of the concentration-response curve for the CCK-B receptor agonist pentagastrin (Kb of 0.06 nM). L-740,093 blocked pentagastrin-induced gastric acid secretion in anesthetized rats with a 50% inhibitory dose of 0.01 mg/kg, intraperitoneally, showing 100-fold greater activity, compared with L-365,260 (50% inhibitory dose of 1 mg/kg, intraperitoneally). An ex vivo binding assay in mice was used to investigate the interaction of L-740,093 with central CCK binding sites. After intravenous administration, L-740,093 inhibited ex vivo binding dose dependently, with a 50% effective dose of 0.2 mg/kg. These studies demonstrate that L-740,093 is the most potent and selective CCK-B antagonist yet described and that it has excellent central nervous system penetration.
At present, the pharmacotherapy of Parkinson's disease (PD) consists mainly of L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) and/or dopamine D2 receptor agonists. However, in general the clinical efficacy of D2 agonists is less than that of L-DOPA. Therefore, attention is being focussed on the role of the D1 receptor as a target for therapeutic intervention in PD. Recently, we reported that SKF 81297 is a selective D1 agonist that stimulates motor behavior of unilaterally MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine)-lesioned rhesus monkeys. Presently, we studied the effect of coadministration of SKF 81297 and the D2 agonist LY 171555 using the same model of PD. Coadministration of behaviorally active doses of SKF 81297 (0.3 mg/kg) and LY 171555 (0.01 mg/kg) resulted in a prolongation of the motor stimulation induced by either of the drugs alone. Neither administration of SKF 81297, in a dose of 0.03 mg/kg, nor of LY 171555, in a dose of 0.003 mg/kg, were behaviorally active, whereas the combined administration of these compounds induced a significant stimulation of motor behavior. These data suggest that (a) D1 receptor stimulation will prove to be useful in the treatment of PD and (b) better therapeutic results will be obtained by simultaneous stimulation of D1 and D2 receptors as compared with stimulation of both receptors alone.

The effects of chronic administration of ENA-713, an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor, on pre- and postsynaptic cholinergic indices were examined in the senescent rat brain. In the senescent group, the acetylcholine (ACh) level was markedly reduced in the frontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum and thalamus+midbrain, but these reductions were completely prevented by ENA-713. Moreover, although choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity was also significantly decreased in these four regions, it recovered in the frontal cortex, hippocampus and thalamus+midbrain after ENA-713 treatment. In contrast, cholinesterase (ChE) activity was not changed in any experimental groups. The maximum number (Bmax) of muscarinic M1 receptor (M1-R) binding site in the frontal cortex in the senescent group was decreased without any change in affinity, but this decrease was also inhibited by ENA-713. Thus, these findings suggest that ENA-713 may have protective, neurotrophic and therapeutic effects on aging-induced cholinergic dysfunction and be useful for the treatment of aging-related dementia, such as the Alzheimer-type dementia.
The effect of aging on GABAB binding was investigated in rat brain. Receptor autoradiography was used to investigate both GABAB and GABAA binding at 2 months, 3 months, 13 months, and 23 months. GABAB binding decreases significantly between 2 months and 23 months of age, as does GABAA binding, with was investigated in rat brain. Receptor autoradiography was used to investigate both GABAB and GABAA binding at 2 months, 3 months, 13 months, and 23 months. GABAB binding decreases significantly between 2 months and 23 months of age, as does GABAA binding, with the greatest decrease between 2 and 3 months. The decrease in GABAB binding appears to be due to a decrease in binding site affinity rather than a decrease in receptor density. The noncompetitive GABAB antagonist zinc, the competitive GABAB antagonist CGP 35348, and the guanyl nucleotide analogue GTP-gamma-S all inhibit GABAB binding identically in 2 month and 23 month brain. These data indicate subtle age-related changes in the GABAB binding in early adult life but little change with senescence.
Somatic gene transfer offers a means of delivering substances to the central nervous system (CNS) in a regionally specific, high-dose, chronic and well-tolerated manner. Studies in rats have shown that genetically modified cell grafts can prevent neuronal degeneration and promote functional recovery after injury and can improve cognitive function in aged subjects. To assess the potential utility of somatic gene transfer techniques in primate models, retroviral vectors were used to modify genetically monkey and human primary skin fibroblasts to produce and secrete human nerve growth factor (NGF). In vitro, all cell types produced NGF and sustained this production through cell growth to confluency, as determined by both Northern blot analysis and ELISA. Adult human fibroblasts produced as much NGF as did young human fibroblasts. Monkey fibroblasts genetically modified to produce NGF were then grafted to intact adult rhesus and cynomolgous monkey brains. Among nine primates that received a total of 76 grafts, surviving cells were found in all subjects up to the maximal experimental timepoint of 6 months. Cholinergic fibres from the host brain penetrated NGF-secreting grafts up to 6 months after grafting, but showed little penetration in control grafts lacking the NGF gene. Autografts survived better than allografts. These findings indicate that both human and primate fibroblasts can be transduced to produce and secrete NGF, can maintain this production whether in a growing or quiescent state and can elicit robust sprouting responses when primate fibroblasts are grafted to the adult brain. Cells genetically modified to produce trophic factors are a useful model for studying in vitro and in vivo CNS plasticity and for testing potential therapies for neurodegenerative conditions.
Newly synthesized neurofilament proteins become highly phosphorylated within axons. Within 2 days after intravitreously injecting normal adult mice with [32P]orthophosphate, we observed that neurofilaments along the entire length of optic axons were radiolabeled by a soluble 32P-carrier that was axonally transported faster than neurofilaments. 32P-incorporation into neurofilament proteins synthesized at the time of injection was comparatively low and minimally influenced the labeling pattern along axons. 32P-incorporation into axonal neurofilaments was considerably higher in the middle region of the optic axons. This characteristic non-uniform distribution of radiolabel remained nearly unchanged for at least 22 days. During this interval, less than 10% of the total 32P-labeled neurofilaments redistributed from the optic nerve to the optic tract. By contrast, newly synthesized neurofilaments were selectively pulse-labeled in ganglion cell bodies by intravitreous injection of [35S]methionine and about 60% of this pool translocated by slow axoplasmic transport to the optic tract during the same time interval. These findings indicate that the steady-state or resident pool of neurofilaments in axons is not identical to the newly synthesized neurofilament pool, the major portion of which moves at the slowest rate of axoplasmic transport. Taken together with earlier studies, these results support the idea that, depending in part on their phosphorylation state, transported neurofilaments can interact for short or very long periods with a stationary but dynamic neurofilament lattice in axons.
An hypothesis is presented suggesting that the delivery of vesicle-packaged protein from the neuronal soma to the axonal transport system is physiologically coupled to spontaneous fluctuations of intracellular calcium (Cai). Evidence is reviewed that oscillations of Cai, commonly detected as agonist- or voltage-triggered waves and spikes propagating through the cytosol, also occur as spontaneous events. Endogenously-generated oscillations are examined since intrasomal transport persists in the absence of extracellular signals or nerve impulse activity. Vesicle budding from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) may be a key step at which anterograde transport is regulated by events related to the release and reuptake of ER stores of Ca2+.

Magnocellular neurons of the supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular (PVN) nuclei projecting to the neurohypophysis produce, in addition to the classical hormones vasopressin and oxytocin, a large number of other peptides, one of which is cholecystokinin (CCK). Binding sites for CCK have been identified in the posterior pituitary. Recently the cDNAs for CCKA and CCKB receptors were isolated and characterized, and CCKA and CCKB receptor mRNAs were localized in the SON and PVN. We have used complementary oligonucleotides and in situ hybridization histochemistry to study CCKB receptor mRNA in hypothalamic neurons. Changes in the expression of CCKB receptor mRNA in the SON and PVN were analysed in salt-loaded as well as in hypophysectomized animals. Levels of CCKB receptor mRNA in the PVN and SON increased markedly in salt-loaded animals as compared to controls. An increase in CCKB receptor mRNA levels was seen in the SON and PVN after 3 days of salt loading, with high levels continuing through 5 and 7 days. At 14 days, the levels of CCKB receptor mRNA in the PVN were significantly lower as compared to 7 days. Hypophysectomy 5 days prior to sacrifice, resulting in a nerve lesion in the neurohypophysial pathway and removal of the anterior pituitary hormones, induced a significant increase in CCKB receptor mRNA levels in neurons of the PVN. The increase in CCKB receptor mRNA labelling after salt loading was mainly observed in the ventrolateral part of the PVN and in the dorsolateral part of the SON, corresponding to oxytocin-containing neurons, whereas the increase after hypophysectomy was mainly seen in the central part of the PVN and in the ventral part of the SON, corresponding to vasopressin-containing neurons. The results suggest that the synthesis of CCKB receptors in magnocellular neurons is increased upon osmotic challenge and hypophysectomy.
Data from three placebo-controlled and 11 active-controlled studies of tizanidine were combined to permit analysis of the subsets, which were too small to evaluate within the individual studies. Overall analysis of placebo-controlled data confirms the effectiveness of tizanidine in reducing muscle tone in patients with spasticity of spinal cord origin. Subset analyses suggest that patients with more severe spasticity are more likely to respond, but age, sex, and race were not predictive of response. Comparisons of tizanidine with active controls showed no differences in efficacy compared with baclofen or diazepam. However, when compared with controls, patients treated with tizanidine did not experience increased weakness. Furthermore, patients tolerated tizanidine better than the control medications. More patients experienced adverse events during tizanidine treatment than did patients receiving placebo. The most common adverse events reported were dry mouth, somnolence, asthenia, and dizziness. Mild elevations in liver function tests were noted occasionally, but improved in all patients with dose reduction or withdrawal. Three patients from the double-blind database reported formed visual hallucinations. All three cleared; two continued tizanidine, and one discontinued.
Our prior research on patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) found a high correspondence between premortem dementia and accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) with concurrent loss of synapse density in several brain regions. In the present study, we examined these same clinicopathologic relationships in the context of seven subregions of the hippocampal formation using a sample of 16 AD patients who had been administered three well-known mental status tests antemortem. We found NFT counts to be most strongly correlated with degree of dementia when they were seen in CA1, the subiculum, and CA4; NFTs in these subregions appeared significantly clustered on factor analysis. Synapse loss was most strongly correlated with dementia when it occurred in the molecular layers of the dentate fasciculus and stratum lacunosum, CA2/3, and CA4; synapse loss in these subregions appeared significantly clustered on factor analysis. In general, these results were compatible with a two-component model of hippocampal connectivity and function in the context of AD. The first component consists of subregions preceding CA1 in a hypothesized input-processing sequence intrinsic to the hippocampus that summates neuronal excitation and that influences cognition primarily through synapse density. The second component consists of an &quot;output module,&quot; mainly CA1 and the subiculum, that receives the processed signal, passes it on to extrahippocampal cortical and subcortical targets, and affects cognition primarily by NFT accumulation in output neurons. A &quot;net pathology&quot; score combining standardized z-scores for synapse density and NFTs was significantly correlated with all three mental status measures in all hippocampal subregions except the entorhinal cortex, and stepwise regressions on these data found net pathology in CA4 to be the most independent significant predictor of premortem dementia.
When radiation is used to treat nervous system cancer, exposure of adjacent normal nervous system tissue is unavoidable, and radiation-induced injury may occur. Acute injury is usually mild and transient, but late forms of radiation-induced nervous system injury are usually progressive and debilitating. Treatment with corticosteroids, surgery, and antioxidants is often ineffective. We treated 11 patients with late radiation-induced nervous system injuries (eight with cerebral radionecrosis, one with a myelopathy, and two with plexopathies, all unresponsive to dexamethasone and prednisone) with full anticoagulation. Some recovery of function occurred in five of the eight patients with cerebral radionecrosis, and all the patients with myelopathy or plexopathy. Anticoagulation was continued for 3 to 6 months. In one patient with cerebral radionecrosis, symptoms recurred after discontinuation of anticoagulation and disappeared again after reinstitution of treatment. We hypothesize that anticoagulation may arrest and reverse small-vessel endothelial injury--the fundamental lesion of radiation necrosis--and produce clinical improvement in some patients.
The vertebrate ventral midbrain contains 3-4 x 10(4) dopaminergic neurons that influence motor activity, emotional behavior, and cognition. Recently, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) was shown to be a potent survival factor for these dopaminergic neurons in culture. However, many midbrain dopaminergic neurons project to targets that do not express GDNF. We report here that transforming growth factors (TGFs) TGF beta 2 and TGF beta 3, which are distantly related to GDNF, also prevent the death of cultured rat embryonic midbrain dopaminergic neurons at picomolar concentrations. Furthermore, we find that TGF beta 2, TGF beta 3, and GDNF are expressed sequentially as local and target-derived trophic factors and that subpopulations of dopaminergic neurons projecting to distinct targets have access to only one of these factors. These findings are consistent with the idea that GDNF, TGF beta 2, and TGF beta 3 are physiological survival factors for developing midbrain dopaminergic neurons and may have applications as therapeutics for Parkinson's disease, a neurodegenerative disorder of dopaminergic neurons.
In order to evaluate a possible role of brain nitric oxide (NO) on the control of penile erection, the effect of nitroglycerin, that is thought to act by producing NO, was studied on spontaneous penile erection in male rats. In addition the effect of drugs that prevent NO formation and/or activity such as NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (NAME) and methylene blue, on N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA)-, apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced penile erection was also studied. Nitroglycerin induced penile erection in a dose-dependent manner when given intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) (33-99 micrograms) or in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (0.8-3.3 micrograms). Nitroglycerin-induced penile erection was prevented by the guanylate cyclase inhibitor methylene blue injected i.c.v. (200-400 micrograms) but not in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (10-20 micrograms). Conversely, NMDA-, apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced penile erection was prevented by NAME (150 micrograms) or methylene blue (400 micrograms) given i.c.v. NAME (20 micrograms), but not methylene blue (20 micrograms), was effective in preventing the behavioral response also when injected in the paraventricular nucleus. The present results suggest that NO is a common mediator of several neurotransmitters involved in the control of this primary male sexual function.
Although there is evidence from in vitro studies to suggest that NO synthesis may be involved in the induction of hippocampal LTP, other in vitro studies and experiments conducted in vivo have provided conflicting results. In agreement with previous work conducted in this laboratory using an i.p. route of administration, this paper reports that i.c.v. injections of the NO synthase inhibitor, N omego-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), at a dose sufficient to inhibit hippocampal NO synthase by 90-95%, failed to block the induction of LTP in the dentate gyrus in vivo (as measured by the change in the slope of the early rising phase of the field EPSP). The failure to block LTP occurred following both a strong and a weak tetanus. L-NAME injections did, however, result in a small but transient increase in the baseline slope of the field EPSP, a more prolonged enhancement of the baseline population spike, and a significant attenuation of spike potentiation induced by a strong tetanus. These results offer no support for the hypothesis that NO synthase is required for the induction of the synaptic component of LTP, but do suggest a role for NO in the control of cell excitability in the hippocampus.
Nitric oxide (NO) is synthesized by nitric oxide synthase (NOS) from L-arginine (Arg) which has a guanidino group in its molecule. We examined the effect of 23 different Arg analogues on NOS activity in the rat brain. Though homoarginine, epsilon-guanidinocaproic acid and canavanine act as substrates of NOS, production of NO from them was lower than that from Arg. alpha-Guanidinoglutaric acid (2-GGA) and arcaine inhibited NOS activity at levels equal to NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (MeArg), a well known NOS inhibitor. Though almost all previously reported NOS inhibitors were synthesized by substituting the guanidino nitrogen of Arg, the guanidino nitrogens of arcaine and 2-GGA were not substituted. Furthermore, 2-GGA is a known endogenous convulsant in mammals, and arcaine, which was isolated from a marine mollusc, is also a convulsive substance. Hence, 2-GGA and arcaine will be excellent drugs to investigate not only the chemical nature of NOS but also the physiologic function of NO.
Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization the effect of nerve injury and of hormones was analysed in sensory and hypothalamic systems and in the pituitary gland. After peripheral axotomy a marked increase in NOS protein and mRNA levels was observed in dorsal root ganglia, the trigeminal ganglion and a less dramatic effect in the nodose ganglia. This effect lasted in the dorsal root ganglion neurons for at least 10 weeks. In the hypothalamic magnocellular neurons a transient increase was observed in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei. A similar effect was also seen after salt loading. In the anterior pituitary gland NOS was expressed in gonadotrophs and folliculo-stellate cells. Castration markedly increased NOS levels in the anterior lobe, and this could be counteracted by steroid hormone replacement. Thus, the present results show that the constitutive, neuronal NOS can be dramatically regulated in response to various manipulations, suggesting an important involvement of NO in these situations.
Sex steroids and the X chromosome can independently affect cognitive abilities. Because subjects with Turner syndrome (TS) have gonadal aplasia, and various alterations in X chromosome structure and number, they provide a model to study the effects of sex steroids and of the X chromosome on human brain function. We used neuropsychological tests to study the cognitive abilities of 18 TS adults and 19 age/sex matched healthy controls. Nine TS subjects were mosaic for the 45,X karyotype, and 9 were non-mosaic 45,X (full TS). The TS group as a whole, compared to controls, had (i) significantly lower scores in tests of language and visual-spatial function, attention and memory, and (ii) a significantly greater discrepancy between verbal and performance scores. Mosaic TS subjects were intermediate between full TS and controls in some tests of verbal ability, but did not differ significantly from controls in others. Visuospatial ability was significantly lower than controls in both mosaic and full TS. Within the mosaic TS group, there was a significant negative correlation between visuospatial ability and % lymphocytes having a 45,X karyotype. Memory test scores were reduced independently of &quot;X chromosome dosage&quot; in all TS subjects. We conclude that in humans, the X chromosome is involved in development of both cerebral hemispheres, but moreso of the association neocortices. Also, sex steroids may modulate this effect--particularly in hippocampus.
A quantitative analysis of simple spike activity of Purkinje cells (P-cells) in the cerebellum of awake monkeys suggested their possible contribution in motor control. Simple spike activities of ventral parafloccular P-cells were recorded during short-latency ocular following responses. The relationship between the firing frequency of these P-cells and the simultaneously recorded eye movements during ocular following was analyzed by using a linear time-series regression method. The result suggests that ventral parafloccular P-cells contribute to the dynamic (velocity and acceleration) rather than the static (position) control of eye movements.
The effectiveness of a recently developed immunotoxin, 192 IgG-saporin, was evaluated for making selective lesions of subgroups of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. Following a pilot series of injections into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis to establish the effective dose for intraparenchymal lesions, separate groups of rats received injections of the immunotoxin into the septum, into the diagonal band of Broca or into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. The lesions produced extensive and effective loss of cholinergic neurons in the discrete areas of the basal forebrain, as identified by loss of cells staining for acetylcholinesterase and p75NGFr, with a parallel loss of acetylcholinesterase staining and choline acetyltransferase activity in the target areas associated with each injection site in the dorsolateral neocortex, cingulate cortex and hippocampus. The selectivity of the lesion for cholinergic neurons was supported by the lack of gliosis and sparing of small to medium-sized cells at the site of injection of the toxin, including the glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactive cells that contribute to the septohippocampal projection. In spite of the extensive disturbance in the cholinergic innervation of the neocortex and hippocampus, immunotoxin lesions produced no detectable deficit in the Morris water maze task in any of the lesion sites within the basal forebrain. By contrast small but significant deficits were seen on tests of nocturnal activity (septal and nucleus basalis magnocellularis lesions), open field activity (septal and diagonal band lesions), passive avoidance (nucleus basalis magnocellularis lesions) and delayed non-matching to position (septal lesions). The results indicate that the 192 IgG-saporin provides a powerful tool for making effective lesions of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, and that the behavioural sequelae of such lesions warrant further detailed investigation.
Extracellular recordings of neurons in the nucleus accumbens septi of anesthetized rats have previously shown systemic opiates to have mixed effects on rates of unit activity. However, these effects become more predictable as nucleus accumbens septi neurons are functionally categorized by their responses to afferent stimulation. In the present study, the effects of systemic opiates on individual nucleus accumbens septi neurons categorized by their response patterns to ventral pallidum stimulation were examined. Across all nucleus accumbens septi units tested, these experiments showed that morphine either inhibited (42%, n = 91), excited (15%, n = 32) or had no effect (43%, n = 93) on these unit responses. Further experiments were conducted in which nucleus accumbens septi neurons were categorized on the basis of their response patterns to concurrent fimbria and ventral pallidum stimulation. In these studies, if the neuron was orthodromically evoked to respond by both fimbria stimulation and ventral pallidum stimulation, the neurons' responses to ventral pallidum stimulation (but not their fimbria-evoked responses) were consistently inhibited by morphine. In contrast, nucleus accumbens septi unit responses that were orthodromically activated by ventral pallidum stimulation but unaffected by fimbria stimulation were consistently unaffected by morphine. The major observation of this work is that the effect of systemically administered morphine on individual nucleus accumbens septi neurons can be predicted by that neuron's evoked responses to stimulation of different efferent and afferent circuits. Since these studies involve systemic administration of morphine, the results do not elucidate site of action.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The functional effects of grafts of dopamine-rich ventral mesencephalic suspension transplanted in a partially dopamine-depleted striatum were studied in rats performing a reaction-time motor task. The animals were trained to depress a lever, hold it down and release it within a limited period of time (700 ms) after the onset of a visual conditioned stimulus to obtain a food reward. The animals' performances were tested daily for up to two months after transplantation and for up to three months in the case of the animals with lesion only (bilateral striatal 6-hydroxydopamine injection). The baseline performances of the sham-operated control animals tended to improve, whereas the performances of the lesioned rats were significantly disrupted throughout the three months test. The majority of the animals (13/21) in the lesion group showed severe deficits mainly reflected in an increase in the number of the anticipated responses (premature release of the lever before the visual stimulus), and also in the number of the delayed responses (lever release after the time limit) recorded after dopamine depletion. The remaining animals (8/21) exhibited mild deficits (delayed responses only). These differences in the performance deficits appeared to be in relation to the extent of the dopamine denervation within the striatum assessed by the tyrosine hydroxylase immunostaining. Grafted animals showed a large number of dopamine fibers in the reinnervated striata and most of them (73%) significantly improved the reaction-time performance after transplantation. In the most severely impaired animals the number of anticipated errors was totally reversed within one month post-grafting, while the number of delayed responses remained high after transplantation. The performances of the less severely impaired animals returned more rapidly (within three weeks) to the pre-operative levels. The results show that intrastriatal ventral mesencephalic transplants are able to induce substantial or complete recovery in a complex reaction-time task. In the present model for partial dopamine depletion of the striatum, the mechanisms underlying the graft-induced recovery probably involve the participation of endogenous dopamine neurons acting in addition to, and/or in synergy with the dopamine-rich grafted tissue so that a functional level of dopaminergic transmission is restored in transplanted animals.
We have examined the role apoptosis plays in epileptic brain damage using intra-amygdaloid injection of kainate. With the silver staining technique of Gallyas, argyrophylic (dying) neurons were observed, a few hours after the injection, in the amygdala and in the vulnerable pyramidal neurons of the hippocampal CA3 region. In both areas, cell death has apoptotic features, including: (i) nuclear chromatin condensation and marginalization with light and electron microscopy; (ii) DNA fragmentation with a typical ladder pattern on agarose gel electrophoresis; (iii) positive nuclear labelling with a selective in situ DNA fragmentation staining method. Combined in situ DNA labelling and silver staining showed that the DNA fragmentation occurred in dying neurons. CA1 or granule cells which do not degenerate following intra-amygdaloid injection of kainate were not stained with the in situ DNA labelling or the argyrophylic technique. Administration of diazepam blocked the kainate-induced seizures and prevented DNA fragmentation in CA3 but not in the amygdala. Therefore, apoptosis contributes to the local and distant damage induced by kainate.
Shortcomings of current techniques used for the intracerebral transplantation of ventral mesencephalic dopamine neurons include low graft survival, high variability, considerable implantation trauma and suboptimal graft integration. In order to overcome these limitations, we have adopted a microtransplantation approach which allows precise and reproducible implantation of ventral mesencephalon cell suspensions at single or multiple sites with minimal trauma and improved survival and integration of the grafted neurons [Nikkhah et al. (1994) Brain Res. 633, 133-143]. The present study was undertaken to determine the influence of different grafting parameters as well as the time-course of development of micrografted dopaminergic neurons and to devise an optimal microtransplantation procedure in the rat Parkinson model, Rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway received four graft deposits of either 0.25, 0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 microliters along four injection tracts (150,000 cells/microliters) using either a glass capillary (o.d. 50-70 microns) or a regular cannula (o.d. 0.50 mm, metal cannula grafts). At one, two and 12 weeks postgrafting (capillary grafts) and at 12 weeks postgrafting (metal cannula grafts) dopamine neuron survival and graft volumes were measured and the implantation trauma assessed by glial fibrillary acidic protein expression. The results demonstrate that single deposits of 50,000-75,000 cells in 0.5 microliter, implanted with a glass capillary, provide the best environment both for dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic neuron survival. Grafts implanted with the glass capillary showed much weaker long-term glial fibrillary acidic protein expression along the injection tract and around the implants than was the case in grafts implanted with the thicker metal cannula. Optimal graft integration and minimal disturbances of host brain structures can reliably be achieved by small-sized implants (20,000-35,000 cells/deposit). Tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fiber outgrowth from micrografted dopaminergic neurons was seen not only in the surrounding caudate-putamen, but also along white matter tracts into the nucleus accumbens and the overlying cerebral cortex. Spreading of dopaminergic micrografts over multiple small deposits rather than increasing the volume of single grafts gave more extensive reinnervation of the entire host striatum. The micrografting technique provides a useful tool to improve graft-host interactions in the rat Parkinson model, and it allows more precise and reproducible quantitative studies on dopamine neuron survival and growth in intrastriatal ventral mesencephalon transplants. This technique should also be highly useful for the intracerebral implantation of cells derived from primary cultures or cell lines [Gage and Fisher (1991) Neuron 6, 1-12].
Chronic administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to baboons was shown previously to result in a motor syndrome and a pattern of striatal dopaminergic fibre loss similar to those observed in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. In the present study, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons were quantified in the mesencephalon of control (n = 4) and chronically MPTP-treated (n = 3) baboons. MPTP induced a significant reduction in neuronal cell density in the substantia nigra (63.8% reduction) and the ventral tegmental area (53.1%). Within the substantia nigra, obvious mediolateral and dorsoventral gradients of neuronal cell loss were observed. First, the pars lateralis was more affected than the lateral divisions of the pars compacta (89.6% vs 73.8% cell loss), which in turn were more depleted than the medial divisions (60.1% reduction). Second, the ventral regions of the pars compacta were more degenerated than the dorsal parts (82.4 vs 51.5% decrease). This regional pattern is strikingly similar to that observed in Parkinson's disease and indicates that two subpopulations of dopaminergic neurons are distinguishable on the basis of their differential vulnerability to MPTP. Finally, the present study confirms that chronic mitochondrial complex I inhibition using MPTP in primates is sufficient to reproduce the typical dopaminergic cell loss and striatal fibre depletion observed in Parkinson's disease.
Two weeks after infracallosal electrolytic fimbria-fornix lesions, Long-Evans female rats received intrahippocampal suspension grafts of either fetal septal or mesencephalic raphe tissue, or a mixture of both. Ten months after lesion surgery, the concentrations of alanine, aspartate, GABA, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, serine and taurine were determined in a dorsal, a &quot;middle&quot; and a ventral region of the hippocampus. We found neither the lesions nor the grafts to have significantly modified the concentration of these amino acids which, in all groups, presented a regional heterogeneity in their hippocampal distribution. GABA, glutamate and glutamine were highest in the ventral hippocampus, whereas the other amino acids were highest in the dorsal region. Our results (i) show that fimbria-fornix lesions do not result in lasting effects on hippocampal concentrations of the assessed amino acids, (ii) confirm the regional heterogeneity in the distribution of these amino acids in the hippocampus and (iii) demonstrate that cell suspension grafts of fetal septal or mesencephalic raphe tissue, as well as grafts of a mixture of both of these tissues, do not exert a non-specific effect on either of the amino acid concentrations measured. These data complete those of the preceeding paper [Kiss et al. (1990) Neuroscience 36, 61-72] concerning the effects of the same grafts on hippocampal cholinergic, serotonergic and noradrenergic markers, as well as on several behavioural variables.
Changes in discharge rate and responsiveness of muscle spindle afferents from triceps surae muscles were studied during long-lasting fatigue isometric contractions of either medial gastrocnemius or lateral gastrocnemius and soleus muscles in decerebrate cats. The rest of the hind limb was either denervated or its innervation was preserved. In denervated preparations a long-lasting post-contraction increase in discharge rate developed in the majority of primary (15 of 18) and in all (20) secondary afferents. This increase was abolished, while the decrease during muscle contraction was enhanced after application of procaine to the corresponding muscle nerve, to block either the small-diameter afferents from the contracting muscle or the fusimotor axons to the spindle of origin of the afferent recorded. In innervated preparations the long-lasting increase was replaced in the majority of primary endings (14 of 22) by a sharp burst at the end of muscle contraction, while in secondary afferents it was either absent or shorter-lasting than in denervated preparations. Changes in responsiveness to sinusoidal muscle length changes, indicating influences of both static and dynamic fusimotor neurons, were, however, similar in innervated and denervated preparations. The results obtained provide evidence that changes in muscle spindle outflow and responsiveness are elicited by the reflex increase in fusimotor activity developing in response to the fatigue-induced afferent discharges from the contracting muscle. Concomitant afferent inflow of another origin to fusimotor neurons affects the changes in spindle outflow, but not in responsiveness. In this way an appropriate increase in support to skeletomotor activity as well as in information on the fatigued muscle of higher motor centres, initiated by the fatigue itself, could be achieved through the gamma loop.
In the soleus muscle of the rat following section of the L5 ventral ramus (partial denervation) the remaining motor axons increase their territory by sprouting. Nerve sprouts are first seen two to three days after the operation, their number peaks at 10-14 days and subsequently remains at this level. The time course of the initial sprouting in partially denervated muscles is not altered by paralysing the muscles with alpha-bungarotoxin, and the initial extent of the sprouting is, if anything, greater in the paralysed muscles. However, unlike in controls, this level of sprouting is not maintained and neuromuscular contacts are lost when muscles recover from the paralysis. The loss of these contacts can be prevented by treatment of these partially denervated paralysed muscles with leupeptin, an inhibitor of calcium-activated neutral protease. Interestingly, more contacts are rescued when leupeptin is applied 10 days after alpha-bungarotoxin treatment, when sprouting has reached high levels, than at three days, when sprouting has just begun. The neuromuscular connections rescued by leupeptin are functional. Maximum tetanic tension produced by untreated soleus muscles two to five months after partial denervation is 66 +/- 9% of contralateral control muscles, but only 39 +/- 8% when the muscles were paralysed with alpha-bungarotoxin for 12-14 days after partial denervation. However, when partially denervated paralysed muscles were treated with leupeptin three and 10 days after alpha-bungarotoxin treatment their tension output is 74 +/- 3% and 81 +/- 8%, respectively. After partial denervation alone, motor units are twice their normal size. Short-term paralysis with alpha-bungarotoxin prevents this increase in motor unit territory. However, the application of leupeptin to the paralysed muscles rescues neuromuscular contacts, allowing motor unit size to remain expanded, at around 2-2.5-fold. Thus, following recovery from temporary paralysis with alpha-bungarotoxin, there is a sudden withdrawal of neuromuscular contacts and these can be rescued by treatment with leupeptin.
Changes in the spinal expression of the opioid precursor and prodynorphin, which has been implicated in the response to peripheral inflammation, were examined with semi-quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry in rats subjected to collagen II-induced arthritis. The effects of glucocorticosteroid treatment on the basal and inflammation-induced prodynorphin expression were evaluated. Collagen II-induced arthritis caused a 16-fold increase in prodynorphin mRNA levels which comprised all neurons expressing low levels under normal conditions. In the superficial dorsal horn, one group of neurons of a large size reacted with a dramatic increase of prodynorphin mRNA, while another group of small neurons exhibited a moderate elevation of prodynorphin mRNA levels. In the deep dorsal horn of arthritic rats, most prodynorphin neurons were large and showed high prodynorphin mRNA levels. Systemic treatment with the glucocorticosteroid budesonide attenuated the arthritis-induced increase of prodynorphin mRNA expression in a topospecific manner. The budesonide-induced reduction of prodynorphin mRNA levels was more pronounced in the deep dorsal horn than in the superficial dorsal horn. Budesonide treatment of control animals caused a small, but significant increase in prodynorphin mRNA levels in the superficial laminae I/II without affecting prodynorphin mRNA levels in the deep dorsal horn. The degree of arthritis correlated closely with spinal prodynorphin mRNA levels. The tight correlation between severity of arthritis and prodynorphin mRNA levels in non-treated and corticosteroid-treated arthritic rats suggests that spinal prodynorphin expression is a good parameter for the evaluation of the influence of peripheral inflammation and of the efficacy of analgesic/anti-inflammatory drugs in its treatment. Opposite effects of budesonide on basal and inflammation-induced prodynorphin expression may involve a spinal site of action in addition to peripheral anti-inflammatory mechanisms. We suggest that the collagen II-induced arthritis in the rat is an excellent model for human rheumatoid arthritis allowing for the study of molecular plasticity of anti-inflammatory and anti-nociceptive drug action at different levels of the neuroaxis.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a novel vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-like peptide isolated from ovine hypothalami. The presence of PACAP-like immunoreactivity was recently demonstrated in nerve cell bodies of sensory ganglia in the rat. Since PACAP belongs to a large family of chemically related neuropeptides, we have, in the present study, tried to establish the synthesis of PACAP in neurons of sensory ganglia, using in situ hybridization with a 35S-labelled oligonucleotide probe complementary to PACAP mRNA. The expression of PACAP was compared to that of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) using a radiolabelled CGRP oligonucleotide probe. The PACAP probe labelled small to medium-sized neurons in the trigeminal ganglion and dorsal root ganglia at different levels, indicating the presence of PACAP mRNA. The CGRP probe labelled nerve cell bodies of varying size, outnumbering those labelled by the PACAP probe. In dorsal root ganglia, cells expressing PACAP constituted c. 10% and those expressing CGRP 46% of the total number of nerve cell bodies. Expression of PACAP was seen in a small subpopulation of cells expressing CGRP. We conclude that PACAP is synthesized in a subpopulation of neurons of sensory ganglia in the rat. Therefore, the recently described effects of PACAP--cutaneous vasodilation, potentiation of oedema formation and depression of nociceptive spinal reflexes--may be physiological and related to neurogenic inflammation and modulation of pain transmission.
Immunocytochemical properties of dorsal root ganglion neurons innervating the kidney were studied with retrograde tracing of Fluorogold or Fast Blue dyes applied to the cut renal nerves in the rat. The proportions and sizes of renal afferent neurons labelled with a variety of markers were quantified in T9-L1 dorsal root ganglia from five rats. Compared with the overall size distribution in these ganglia, renal afferent neurons were mainly small with a few medium-sized neurons. The majority (79%) of renal afferent dorsal root ganglion neuronal somata were unlabelled by an anti-neurofilament antibody, RT79, and classified as neurofilament-poor with probable C-fibres. These had an approximately normal distribution of cell sizes. Only 21% were RT79-positive and classified as neurofilament-rich with probable A-fibres, and even these were small to medium sized cells, consistent with them being mostly A delta-fibre neurons. Percentages of renal afferent neurons showing labelling were as follows: peripherin-like immunoreactivity: 69%; calcitonin-gene related peptide: 93%; substance P: 37%; the lectins soybean agglutinin: 57% and peanut agglutinin: 68%; Calbindin D28k-like immunoreactivity: 21% (only weak labelling); carbonic anhydrase like immunoreactivity: 0%. There were differences between probable C-fibre and probable A-fibre neurons, classified according to their labelling with RT97. The percentages of RT97-negative and RT97-positive neurons respectively labelled with the other markers were as follows: peripherin-like immunoreactivity: 82%, 25%; calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity: 99%, 79%; substance P-like immunoreactivity: 43%, 0%; soybean agglutinin: 69%, 24%; peanut agglutinin: 76%, 47%; calbindin-like immunoreactivity: 26%, 0%. Thus, the biggest differences between the probable A- and C-fibre renal afferent neurons were in their peripherin, substance P and calbindin contents. Thus, renal afferent neurons in the dorsal root ganglion are not homogeneous and it is suggested the differences may relate to the known different afferent receptor types within the kidney. It is suggested that the low proportion of neurons with substance P-like immunoreactivity in the renal afferent innervation compared to that of other viscera may relate to the role of the renal vasculature in urine formation.
A mapping study was performed to determine where in the rat brain morphine acts to produce analgesia in the formalin test, which is an animal model of prolonged pain associated with tissue injury. A single dose (5 nmol) of morphine was bilaterally microinjected into a wide range of brain areas throughout the midbrain and forebrain. Strong analgesia was elicited from the posterior hypothalamic area, the periaqueductal gray and ventral tegmental area. Other sites from which analgesia was elicited were the nucleus accumbens and a few sites in the retrorubral field and caudate-putamen. Analgesia from the periaqueductal gray or nucleus accumbens was accompanied by decreased locomotor activity and catalepsy, whereas analgesia from the posterior hypothalamic area or ventral tegmentum was accompanied by a noticeable increase in locomotor activity and rearing. Morphine into various thalamic nuclei had no effect. These results indicate that the primary sites of action of morphine in the formalin test are probably the posterior hypothalamic area and periaqueductal gray, with an additional contribution from regions innervated by tegmental dopamine cells.
Activation of neurons in the rostral ventral medulla, by electrical stimulation or microinjection of glutamate, produces antinociception. Microinjection of opioid compounds in this region also has an antinociceptive effect, indicating that opioids activate a medullary output neuron that exerts a net inhibitory effect on nociception. When given systemically in doses sufficient to produce antinociception, morphine produces distinct, opposing responses in two physiologically identifiable classes of rostral medullary neurons. &quot;Off-cells&quot; are activated, and have been proposed to inhibit nociceptive transmission. &quot;On-cells&quot; are invariably depressed, and may have a pro-nociceptive role. Although on-cell firing is also depressed by iontophoretically applied morphine, off-cells do not respond to morphine applied in this manner. The present study used local infusion of the mu-selective opioid peptide Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-MePhe-Gly-ol-enkephalin (DAMGO) within the rostral medulla to determine whether off-cells are activated by an opioid action within this region that is sufficient to produce a behaviorally measurable antinociception. Activity of on- and off-cells was recorded before and after local infusion of DAMGO noxious heat-evoked tail flick reflex was inhibited in 17 of 28 cases. On-cell firing was profoundly depressed, and this occurred irrespective of the antinociceptive effectiveness of the injection. Off-cells were activated following DAMGO microinjections, but only in experiments in which the tail flick reflex was inhibited. Both reflex inhibition and neuronal effects were reversed following systemic administration of naloxone. These observations thus confirm the role of the on-cell as the focus of direct opioid action within the rostral medulla, and strongly support the proposal that disinhibition of off-cells is central to the antinociception actions of opioids within this region.
The present study was an attempt to determine the influence of brain angiotensin II, the activity of which is known to be higher in spontaneously hypertensive rat, on the spontaneous activity of the cardiovascular neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla of the spontaneously hypertensive rat. Both the spontaneous activity of the spinal projecting rostral ventrolateral medulla cardiovascular neurons and the arterial blood pressure were simultaneously measured in the pentobarbital-anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rat and its normotensive control, the Wistar Kyoto rat, following microinjection to rostral ventrolateral medulla of an angiotensin II antagonist, [Sar1, Ile8]-angiotensin II (sarile). A microinjection method was developed that enabled us to perform extracellular recording of the rostral ventrolateral medulla cardiovascular neurons during the microinjection of drug to the vicinity of the neuron. It was found that sarile reduced both the arterial blood pressure and firing rate of some rostral ventrolateral medulla cardiovascular neurons dose-dependently. The effects of sarile were significantly greater in spontaneously hypertensive rat than in the Wistar Kyoto rat. The present findings indicate that the rostral ventrolateral medulla cardiovascular neurons of spontaneously hypertensive rat exhibit an augmented sensitivity to endogenous brain angiotensin II. Such an increase in sensitivity to brain angiotensin II in the spontaneously hypertensive rat may contribute to the enhanced spontaneous activities of rostral ventrolateral medulla cardiovascular neurons, as in the sarile responsive single discharge units, even in the resting or prestimulation state. This interaction of brain angiotensin II and rostral ventrolateral medulla cardiovascular neurons is likely to be contributory to the genesis of hypertension in this strain of rats.
Growth-associated protein-43, an established marker of neuronal plasticity during development and in injury, was used to characterize innervation in the normal human pancreas and changes in chronic alcohol-induced pancreatitis by using light microscopic immunocytochemistry and computer-assisted image analysis. Immunostaining for the pan-neuronal marker protein gene-product 9.5 served as a reference for the characterization of total innervation in both groups. In normal human pancreas, strong protein gene-product 9.5 immunostaining revealed all nerve fibres in nerve trunks, all neuronal cell bodies and the entire parenchymal innervation. In contrast, growth-associated protein-43 immunoreactivity was restricted to a few nerve fibres in interlobular nerve trunks and to fine varicose nerve fibres supplying the parenchyma, blood vessels, pancreatic ducts and intrinsic ganglia. In cell bodies of intrinsic neurons, growth-associated protein-43 immunoreactivity was absent or extremely faint. In chronic pancreatitis, the protein gene-product 9.5 innervation exhibited region-specific changes. In areas with reduced parenchyma, the protein gene-product 9.5 innervation was sparse. In fibrotic regions, which are characteristic for advanced stages of chronic pancreatitis, enlarged nerve trunks showing neuroma-like formations were heavily stained for protein gene-product 9.5. In fibrotic tissue, protein gene-product 9.5-containing nerve fibres were extremely rare. The growth-associated protein-43 innervation in chronic pancreatitis was characterized by a dramatic increase, which was most pronounced in the enlarged nerve trunks. Such nerve trunks were frequently surrounded by infiltrates of immune cells, which in some cases formed follicle-like structures. Digital image analysis of adjacent sections and double fluorescence immunocytochemistry revealed that growth-associated protein-43 immunoreactivity was present in the vast majority of protein gene-product 9.5-immunoreactive nerve fibres. In contrast to the normal pancreas, a major subpopulation of intrinsic neurons immunostained for growth-associated protein-43. The expression of growth-associated protein-43 in the terminal fields of pancreatic nerve suggests that the innervation of the normal human pancreas undergoes continual and toposelective remodelling. The increase in the density of growth-associated protein-43 immunoreactive nerve fibres in enlarged nerve trunks paralleled by augmented expression of growth-associated protein-43 in intrinsic neurons and reduced parenchymal growth-associated protein-43-immunoreactive innervation underline the dramatic plasticity of pancreatic innervation in chronic pancreatitis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A family of receptor subtypes, defined either by molecular (m1-m5) or pharmacological (M1-M4) analysis, mediates muscarinic cholinergic neurotransmission in brain. The distribution and functions of the m3 receptor protein in brain and its relation to M3 ligand binding sites are poorly understood. To better characterize the native brain receptors, subtype-specific antibodies reactive with the putative third inner loops were used: (i) to measure the abundance of m3 protein and its regional distribution in rat brain by immunoprecipitation; (ii) to determine the cellular and subcellular distribution of m3 protein by light microscopic immunocytochemistry; and (iii) to compare the distribution of m3 immunoreactivity with the autoradiographic distribution of M3 binding sites labeled by [3H]4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methyl piperidine methioxide in the presence of antagonists selective for the other receptor binding sites. The m3 protein, measured by immunoprecipitation, accounted for 5-10% of total solubilized receptors in all brain regions studied. Immunocytochemistry also revealed a widespread distribution of m3-like immunoreactivity, and localized the subtype to discrete neuronal populations and distinct subcellular compartments. The distribution of m3 protein was consistent with the messenger RNA expression, and like M3 binding sites, the protein was enriched in limbic cortical regions, striatum, hippocampus, anterior thalamic nuclei, superior colliculus and pontine nuclei. However, m3 immunoreactivity and M3 binding were differentially localized in regions and lamina of cortex and hippocampus. The results confirm the presence of m3 protein in brain, its low abundance compared to other muscarinic receptor subtypes, and provide the first immunocytochemical map of its precise localization. The distribution of m3 suggests that it mediates a wide variety of cholinergic processes in brain, including possible roles in learning and memory, motor function and behavioral state control. However, since the distribution of the molecularly-defined receptor protein is distinct from the pharmacologically-defined M3 binding site, investigations of the functions of m3 in brain must await development of more selective ligands or use of non-pharmacological approaches.
Long-Evans female rats sustained electrolytic lesions of the fimbria and the dorsal fornix and, two weeks later, received intrahippocampal suspension grafts of fetal tissue. The grafts were prepared from regions including either the medial septum and the diagonal band of Broca (septal grafts), or the mesencephalic raphe (raphe grafts), or from both these regions together (co-grafts). All rats were submitted to a series of behavioural tests (home cage and open-field locomotion, spontaneous alternation, radial-arm maze and Morris water maze performance) run over two periods after grafting (one to nine weeks and 20-35 weeks). Two weeks after completion of behavioural testing, histological (acetylcholinesterase and Cresyl Violet staining) and/or neurochemical (choline acetyltransferase activity, high-affinity synaptosomal uptake of choline and serotonin, noradrenaline, serotonin and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid concentrations) verifications were performed on the hippocampus. Compared to sham-operated rats, lesion-only rats exhibited hyperactivity which was transient in a familiar environment (home cage) and lasting in an unfamiliar one (open field), decreased rates of spontaneous T-maze alternation, and impaired memory performance in both the radial-arm maze and the Morris water maze. These rats also showed decreased cholinergic and serotonergic markers with a maximal depletion in the septal two-thirds of the hippocampus. Noradrenaline concentration tended to be increased in the dorsal third of the hippocampus, but was not modified in the other two-thirds. While septal grafts specifically increased the cholinergic markers and raphe grafts the serotonergic ones, neither of these grafts produced a lasting effect on any behavioural variable. Conversely, the co-grafts, which increased both the cholinergic and serotonergic markers in the septal two-thirds of the hippocampus, completely normalized the Morris water maze probe trial performance, but failed to affect any of the other behavioural variables. Our present results confirm that grafts of fetal neurons injected into the denervated hippocampus may induce a neurochemical recovery that depends on the anatomical origin of the grafted cells, and that co-grafting two fetal brain regions allows the combination of their individual neurochemical properties. Furthermore, our results show that these neurochemical effects of the co-grafts may be involved in the recovery of behavioural function observed in the water maze. However, somewhat paradoxically, those effects appear inefficient for inducing any recovery in other behavioural tasks, even in the radial-arm maze; which is assumed to measure similar spatial functions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenergic receptors were localized in developing cat visual cortex by using [3H]prazosin and [3H]rauwolscine, respectively as selective ligands. The effects of neuronal input on the development of the two receptor subtypes were also studied in animals with lesions at various sites within the central visual pathways. Binding densities for both ligands increased during the first few postnatal weeks and declined thereafter. For both receptor subtypes, the highest concentration of binding sites was found in the subplate zone of the cortex in neonatal animals. Both ligands showed their highest concentrations in cortical layer IV beginning at postnatal day 30 and in the superficial cortical layers in adulthood. However, the developmental redistribution of alpha-1 receptors began at earlier ages than that of the alpha-2 sites. The alpha-1 sites were still concentrated in the subplate zone up to 60 days postnatal, while the alpha-2 sites in this region disappeared much earlier. Receptor binding densities were also examined in animals with quinolinic acid lesions within cortex, lesions of the lateral geniculate nucleus and lesions of the optic tract. The results indicate that both alpha-adrenoceptor subtypes were mainly located on cortical cells, and that the absence of neuronal activity during development resulted in a reduction of the binding density for both subtypes in the visual cortex. An additional major reduction in alpha-2 but not alpha-1 binding sites was observed following the lateral geniculate nucleus lesion, suggesting that the development of alpha-2 receptors is also dependent on input from the lateral geniculate nucleus. Removal of the lateral geniculate nucleus early in life resulted in a significant increase in alpha-1 receptors in the subplate region, indicating that receptor densities in this zone may be negatively regulated by the lateral geniculate nucleus afferents. These results show that adrenergic receptors reorganize during postnatal cortical development with a strong temporary concentration in the subplate zone. The reorganization process is heavily influenced by cortical inputs.
Protein tyrosine kinases are pivotal in central nervous tissue development and maintenance. Here we focus on the expression of Ehk-1, a novel Elk-related receptor tyrosine kinase. Ehk-1 gene expression is observed in the developing and adult central nervous system and is highly regulated throughout development at both the messenger RNA and protein levels. Three messenger RNA transcripts of 8.5, 5.9 and 5.1 kb are detectable in the rat brain and a variety of splice possibilities have been identified. However, a major protein species of around M(r) 120,000 predominates throughout development. Ehk-1 messenger RNA and protein levels are highest in the first postnatal week. By in situ messenger RNA hybridization the gene is expressed by all neurons of the adult brain, but mostly in the hippocampus, cerebral cortex and large neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei, as well as the Purkinje and granular cells of the cerebellum. At earlier stages of development, transcripts are most prominent in the periventricular germinal layers of the brain. Immunohistochemistry reveals a pronounced membrane associated protein expression in immature neurons. In the adult animal, peak reactivity was found in the neuropil with sparing of most perikarya. The spatial and temporal pattern of ehk-1 gene expression suggests a role in both the development and maintenance of differentiated neurons of the central nervous system.
Membrane potential oscillations were studied in slices of rat somatosensory cortex maintained in vitro, using intracellular recordings from cells in layers 2/3 and 5. The cells were classified according to their firing patterns during long (0.8-1 s) depolarizing current steps. Subthreshold voltage oscillations were revealed by depolarizing the membrane to voltages around threshold for action potentials; however, these were obvious mainly in cells showing marked spike adaptation. When neurons of all firing patterns were stimulated to fire at 40-60 Hz for tens of seconds, spikes abruptly indicated. Hyperpolarizing the cells by 5-10 mV precipitated pronounced oscillations in 24 out of 35 cells. These oscillations existed in a narrow voltage range, and their frequency varied between 7 and 40 Hz, in a voltage-dependent manner. Spiking frequency was faster than the oscillation frequency for the same membrane potential in a given cell. The Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin abolished both the spikes and the oscillations, and blockade of K+ channels by tetraethylammonium converted the oscillations into prolonged and irregular plateaus. Blocking Ca2+ conductance with Co2+ reduced the oscillations amplitude and frequency in two out of three cells. The oscillations that followed spike inactivation varied in amplitude, frequency and persistence among different cells. Layer 5 nonadapting cells possessed the most periodic oscillations, as judged by autocorrelation analysis. Oscillations were also most persistent in this group, maintaining a stable steady-state. In other cell types, the oscillations were less regular and decayed with time. There was no difference among cell groups in the maximal peak to peak amplitude of the oscillations, or their frequency range. It is suggested that the oscillations are generated by ionic conductances that operate within the voltage range just above and below spike threshold, and thus can shape the cells' firing pattern. The prominence of the oscillations in a specific subset of layer 5 cells may indicate the mechanism that underlies the rhythmic firing pattern of those cells.
Studies during the last few years have shown that glial cells can express a large repertoire of neurotransmitter receptors. In this study, we have characterized the properties of a glutamate receptor in oligodendrocytes and their precursor cells from cultures of mouse brain, using the patch-clamp technique to measure ligand-activated currents and a fura-2 imaging system to determine changes in free cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i). The precursor cells were identified by their characteristic morphology and their voltage-gated currents as described previously [Sontheimer H. et al. (1989) Neuron 2, 1135-1145]. The ligands kainate, domoate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA), as well as L-glutamate but not trans-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylate elicited inward currents at a holding potential of -70 mV and the antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione blocked the glutamate- and kainate-induced response reversibly, indicating the expression of an AMPA/kainate-type glutamate receptor. The response is due to the activation of a cationic conductance as revealed by analysing the reversal potential of the kainate-activated current. Receptor activation is accompanied by two additional responses: (i) an increase in [Ca2+]i mediated by depolarization and a subsequent activation of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels and (ii) a transient blockade of a delayed rectifying K+ current, but not of the A-type K+ current. The blockade of the K+ current was not due to the increase in [Ca2+]i since it was also observed in Ca(2+)-free bathing solution when no increase in [Ca2+]i was detectable after exposure to kainate. In contrast to precursor cells, oligodendrocytes responded weakly or not at all to glutamate or related ligands. We conclude that glutamate activates a complex pattern of physiological events in the glial precursor cells, which may play a role during the differentiation process of these cells.
Consecutive semithin sections of human retinae were treated with antisera recognizing fixed homocysteic acid, glutamate or glutamine. Photoreceptor terminals displayed a co-localization of glutamate-like and homocysteic acid-like immunoreactivities. This was confirmed in the electron microscope by immunogold cytochemistry. A quantitative analysis of the immunogold labelling indicated that glutamate and homocysteic acid occurred at higher concentrations in the terminals than in outer parts of the receptor cells. No such gradient was found for glutamine immunoreactivity, which was concentrated in Mller cell processes. These processes were also labelled by the homocysteic acid antiserum, although less intensely than were the photoreceptor terminals. Control experiments suggested that the homocysteic acid antiserum visualized a pool of authentic homocysteic acid, although it could not be excluded that part of this pool had been generated by non-enzymatic oxidation of precursor molecules. Homocysteic acid immunoreactivity was also demonstrated in photoreceptor terminals of baboon. The present data indicate that primate photoreceptor terminals contain homocysteic acid in addition to glutamate and open up the possibility that homocysteic acid is released as a glutamate co-agonist at photoreceptor synapses.
The motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease are caused by an increase in activity of striatal neurons which project to the globus pallidus. The discharge activity of these striatal cells is normally regulated by a balance between an inhibitory nigral dopamine input and an excitatory cortical glutamate input. The loss of nigrostriatal dopamine in Parkinson's disease allows the cortical glutamatergic input to dominate (see Fig. 1). Pharmacological or surgical manipulations which redress this imbalance in activity in the striatum, or prevent its propagation throughout the basal ganglia, alleviate the motor symptoms of Parkinsonism. We present evidence to suggest the existence of an endogenous mechanism which compensates for the striatal imbalance during the early stages of Parkinsonism. In the rat rendered parkinsonian by systemic administration of reserpine, selective deletion of striatal neurons was observed. The dying striatal neurons exhibited all of the morphological and biochemical hallmarks of apoptosis. This apoptotic cell death was blocked by either administration of glutamate antagonists or decortication. Our data demonstrate that unchecked endogenous glutamate can induce apoptosis of striatal projection neurons in vivo. This observation may have relevance to the neurophysiological mechanisms which maintain the balance of neural activity within the CNS and to the pathology of neurological diseases.
The nodose ganglion contains placode-derived visceral sensory neurons of the vagus nerve. Previous study showed that axotomy-induced deafferentation reduced the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive and increased the number of vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive neurons in the ganglion. The present study was conducted to determine whether the changes in neuropeptide/neurotransmitter enzyme content are associated with changes in the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase and vasoactive intestinal peptide messenger RNAs in the nodose ganglion. We used in situ hybridization histochemistry with 35S-labeled oligonucleotide probes for tyrosine hydroxylase and vasoactive intestinal peptide precursor messenger RNAs. Peripheral axotomy of visceral afferent inputs reduced tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA and increased vasoactive intestinal peptide messenger RNA expression in neurons of the nodose ganglion of the rat. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA-containing neurons was significantly reduced at three, seven and 14 days after axotomy-induced deafferentation compared with intact and sham-operated controls. Labeling density of tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA-containing neurons was significantly reduced at three and seven days. Conversely, the number of vasoactive intestinal peptide messenger RNA-containing neurons increased significantly at three, seven and 14 days, while the labeling density of vasoactive intestinal peptide messenger RNA-containing neurons also increased at one, three, seven and 14 days. The results of the present study indicate that the axotomy-induced down-regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase and up-regulation of vasoactive intestinal peptide in the neurons of the nodose ganglion are associated with changes in their messenger RNAs in response to axotomy-induced deafferentation.
Neurophysiological alterations occurring in the motor cortex of aged rabbits have been examined. Experiments were performed on rabbits of three age groups: one year old (young), four to five years old (middle-aged) and six to seven years old (aged). Extracellular unit activity was recorded in the motor projection of a forelimb. Several sessions of rhythmic (2 Hz) electrocutaneous stimulation were delivered to contralateral forelimb. The neuronal activity was recorded before and after rhythmic stimulation. We also measured the firing rate during spontaneous electromyogram activity of the extensor carpi radialis. Neurons having slow spontaneous firing activity were predominant in aged rabbits as compared with young animals. In young animals the highest values of spontaneous firing rate (15-20 impulses/s) were observed in neurons related to movement. In aged rabbits spontaneous firing rate of movement-related neurons did not exceed 16 impulses/s. During spontaneous movements of extensor carpi radialis, the level of neuronal activity in young rabbits was twice as high as that in aged ones. In young rabbits after rhythmic electrocutaneous stimulation of a forelimb, 20% of recorded neurons exhibited periodic fluctuations in firing rate with the period of preceding stimulation. The repeated stimulation sessions increased the number of rhythmic firing neurons to 40-50%. In aged rabbits, patterns of firing activity of motor cortex neurons did not change significantly after several sessions of rhythmic electrocutaneous stimulation. Decreased neuronal excitability may be the cause of functional alterations in motor cortex neurons of aged rabbits.
According to earlier data, the suprachiasmatic nucleus of neonatal rats is highly innervated by serotonin- and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive fibers [Ugrumov M. V. (1992) Zool. Sci. (Tokyo) 9, 37-45], while the latter were no longer observed in adults. This study has attempted to evaluate the timing of the innervation of the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus by tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive fibers, as well as to specify some morpho-functional characteristics of these fibers. According to our semi-quantitative light microscopic immunocytochemical data, few tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive fibers were observed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus as early as the second postnatal day. They highly increased in number neonatally reaching a maximum at the 10th postnatal day, and then decreased dramatically in adulthood. These data suggest either the provisional character of the tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive fibers themselves or the transient expression of tyrosine hydroxylase within permanent fibers. The tyrosine hydroxylase immunopositivity in the fibers points to their catecholaminergic nature, while the overlapping in the distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase- and serotonin-immunopositive fibers might also suggest the transient expression of tyrosine hydroxylase in serotoninergic neurons. In order to check this hypothesis, the neurotoxins of catecholamine- and serotoninergic neurons, 6-hydroxydopamine and 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine, were intraventricularly injected at the second postnatal day, while their effects were specified by the semi-quantitative immunocytochemistry eight days later. 6-Hydroxydopamine did not modify the content of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive fibers in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Conversely, the treatment with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine resulted in a significant increase in the number of the tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive fibers, while reducing the amount of the serotoninergic ones.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In optic fibers, as in most axons of the central nervous system, the axonal growth-associated protein, GAP-43, is abundant during development but absent in adults. Since optic fibers can be induced to regenerate in culture, we examined whether this was associated with an increased expression of GAP-43 in adult mouse optic fibers that were regenerating from organotypic retinal explants on to laminin substrates. We found that simply placing adult mouse retina in culture under serum-free conditions was sufficient to induce GAP-43, which was detectable after about four to five days in vitro, coincident with the initiation of neurite outgrowth. In explants taken from animals in which the optic nerve was crushed in the orbit eight days prior to culturing, GAP-43 was observed within one day, as was neurite outgrowth. This priming effect was also seen in vivo as an increased level of GAP-43 reactivity in retinal ganglion cells and optic fibers in histological sections taken eight days after nerve crush. Reactivity in the adult fibers in culture was comparable to that observed in optic neurites growing from embryonic retinal explants and could be maintained for at least four weeks in culture. In the adult neurites, especially with longer times in culture, GAP-43 tended to be concentrated into varicosities that were often found in terminal-like arbors that formed in culture. Placing adult retina in culture under serum-free conditions in sufficient to induce re-expression of GAP-43 for an indefinite period of time. This suggests that GAP-43 expression and the propensity for growth in vivo may be repressed by a factor that is absent in vitro.
There is convincing evidence that alcohol consumption during pregnancy causes major CNS abnormalities; however, the molecular and cellular basis of these dysfunctions is currently not understood. This study examined the effects of prenatal ethanol exposure on the expression of insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA and type-1 and type-2 receptor protein and messenger RNA expression in the developing rat brain. Mothers were maintained on an ethanol containing liquid diet from day 2 of pregnancy through parturition and the offspring were killed at birth, 10, 20 and 40 days of age. Insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA, and insulin-like growth factor receptors demonstrated developmentally dependent expression in specific brain regions throughout the postnatal period of CNS maturation. Insulin-like growth factor-1 gene expression in the brain, as analysed by dot-blot hybridization, was greatest at birth, and decreased 61% in ad libitum and pair-fed animals by 20 days of age. In contrast, ethanol-treated animals exhibited only a 25% decrease in insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA levels during the same period. This delay in insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA maturation may be related to a developmental delay in CNS development in the prenatally ethanol exposed offspring. Prenatal ethanol exposure did not alter the observed localization of insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA. While alterations were observed in long-term insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA regulation, quantitative receptor autoradiography and in situ hybridization demonstrated no alterations in either type-1 or type-2 insulin-like growth factor receptor populations in ethanol-treated animals. Changes in hepatic and plasma insulin-like growth factor-1 and insulin-like growth factor-binding protein regulation have also been observed in these animals, suggesting changes in protein translation and the autocrine/paracrine actions of this peptide. The present study demonstrated that insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA and insulin-like growth factor receptors are regionally expressed during early postnatal development and that ethanol administration influenced the long-term regulation of insulin-like growth factor messenger RNA levels in the brain without affecting either its localization or insulin-like growth factor receptor populations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Detailed qualitative and quantitative determinations of cytochrome oxidase activity in the central auditory system of BALB/cJ mice were obtained at the light microscopic level. Cytochrome oxidase activity was determined using quantitative densitometry calibrated with standards of spectrophotometrically assayed enzymatic activity. This was done together with a cobalt-intensified histochemical procedure using fresh-frozen brains without perfusion-fixation. The resulting method showed improved sensitivity and allowed quantification of histochemical labeling as actual enzyme activity units. Adjacent sections were processed for either Nissl, fiber or Golgi stains to correlate the histochemical labeling with tissue morphology. The more peripheral auditory nuclei showed primarily somatic labeling with specific cell types showing predominant reactivity. However, higher auditory structures, including the inferior colliculus, medial geniculate and auditory cortex, showed predominantly neuropil reactivity. Comparison of mean cytochrome oxidase activities for the 27 auditory regions quantified revealed a trend for decreasing activity from the brainstem to the forebrain in central lemniscal structures. The extra-lemniscal auditory regions at each level showed lower activity than the corresponding lemniscal regions. The regions with the higher activity values showed around 10 times the labeling density of the white matter, indicating the high sensitivity of the method. The darkly labeling auditory structures were clearly delineated from surrounding neural regions, supporting the concept that basal levels of oxidative metabolic capacity are larger for the auditory system. It was concluded that the quantitative approach to cytochrome oxidase histochemistry may be applied successfully to the mouse brain. The normative data presented may be used as a starting point for other investigations of the effects of experimental manipulations on the metabolic activity of the auditory system.
Morphological and pharmacological evidence suggest that the dense GABAergic innervation of the supraoptic nucleus is important for regulating the electrical activity of vasopressin and oxytocin neurons. We have employed the technique of intracranial microdialysis to examine extracellular GABA concentrations in the supraoptic nucleus of the anaesthetized rat and questioned whether differences exist in the dynamics of GABA release between virgin and lactating rats, and if events during lactation or following blood pressure manipulation alter endogenous GABA levels in this nucleus. No significant differences were detected between virgin and lactating animals in either basal or 100 mM potassium ion-evoked GABA release. The inclusion of the GABA uptake blocker nipecotic acid (0.5 mM) into the dialysate resulted in a six- to eight-fold increase (P &lt; 0.01) in GABA outflow in both groups of animals. In lactating rats, GABA outflow measured at 4 min intervals was not altered during a 60 min period of suckling by a full litter of pups and no significant change in GABA outflow was detected in relation to individual milk ejections. In virgin rats, removal of 1.5-2 ml of blood resulted in a 30-60 mmHg fall in blood pressure and a non-significant decline in GABA outflow. Replacement of blood resulted in an abrupt 50 mmHg increase in blood pressure and a significant 22% increase in GABA outflow (P &lt; 0.01), but no change in aspartate or methionine concentrations. Repeated intravenous injections of the alpha-adrenoceptor agonist, metaraminol, similarly evoked approximately 50 mmHg increments in blood pressure and a 26% increase in GABA outflow (P &lt; 0.05). Electrical stimulation of the diagonal band of Broca for 10 min produced a two-fold increase in GABA outflow from the supraoptic nucleus (P &lt; 0.05). These results show that the overall profile of basal and potassium-stimulated GABA concentrations in the supraoptic nucleus is not substantially different between lactating and virgin rats. In lactating animals we have found that GABA levels are not altered in response to suckling or at the time of high-frequency firing by oxytocin neurons to induce milk ejection. In contrast, our data further support the hypothesis that GABA inputs to supraoptic neurons are part of a baroreceptor reflex, relaying through the diagonal band of Broca, to signal periods of acute hypertension and inhibit the firing of vasopressin neurons. Such observations suggest the physiological importance of GABA inputs to the supraoptic nuclei and indicate that GABA may be used in a stimulus-specific manner to influence the activity of magnocellular neurons.
Blockade of GABA-mediated synaptic transmission in the rostral ventromedial medulla by local application of GABAA receptor antagonists produces antinociception, indicating that a GABA-mediated inhibition of some population of neurons in this region is normally required if nociceptive information is to be transmitted. The aim of the present study was to elucidate the medullary circuitry mediating this antinociception by recording the activity of putative nociceptive modulating neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla before and after local infusion of the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide. It was thus possible to correlate changes in the activity of cells of different classes with the ability of the infusion to produce a behaviorally measurable antinociception. One class of medullary neurons, &quot;off-cells,&quot; is identified by a pause in firing associated with the occurrence of nocifensor reflexes such as the tail flick evoked by noxious heat. These neurons are uniformly activated following systemic administration of morphine, and are thought to have a net inhibitory effect on nociception. Following local bicuculline administration, off-cells enter a prolonged period of continuous firing that is temporally linked with the period of tail flick inhibition. A second class of neurons, &quot;on-cells,&quot; is identified by a burst of activity beginning just before the tail flick, and is directly inhibited by opioids. Unlike off-cells, cells of this class do not show a consistent change in activity associated with inhibition of the tail flick following bicuculline. These data indicate that alterations in the discharges of on-cells would not be able to explain the antinociceptive effect of bicuculline, and therefore point to disinhibition of off-cells as a sufficient basis for antinociception originating within the rostral ventromedial medulla.
One neuropathological characteristic of Alzheimer's disease is an abundance of reactive astrocytes, particularly in association with senile plaques. Neither the factor(s) responsible for initiating the reactive astrocytosis nor the effects of this event on disease progression are known. We investigated the possibility that beta-amyloid protein, the primary constituent of plaques, contributes to reactive astrocytosis by comparing results derived from both culture studies and immunohistochemical analyses of Alzheimer brain tissue. We report that beta-amyloid peptides, in an aggregation-dependent manner, rapidly induce a reactive phenotype in cultured rat astrocytes. Reactive morphological changes are accompanied by increased immunoreactivities for glial fibrillary acidic protein and basic fibroblast growth factor. Although toxic to other types of central nervous system cells, aggregated beta-amyloid peptides do not significantly decrease astrocyte viability. Rather, the processes of cultured astrocytes envelop aggregated deposits of beta-amyloid peptide. In Alzheimer brain, the processes of reactive astrocytes were also observed to engulf beta-amyloid deposits. Similar to the in vitro findings, the astrocytic response was associated only with beta-amyloid plaques exhibiting an aggregated structure. Further, the plaque-associated reactive astrocytes showed enhanced immunoreactivities for glial fibrillary acidic protein and basic fibroblast growth factor. These data suggest that beta-amyloid which has assembled into beta-sheet fibrils significantly contributes to the reactive astrocytosis characteristic of Alzheimer's disease. Thus, in addition to its hypothesized direct effects on neuronal viability, beta-amyloid may also influence disease progression indirectly via reactive astrocytosis.
The distribution of abnormally phosphorylated tau proteins was investigated in a number of cortical areas and in the basal nucleus of Meynert of 12 patients with Alzheimer's disease. Quantification was performed with a sensitive sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay employing the monoclonal antibody B5-2, which immunoreacts with neurofibrillary tangles, dystrophic neurites surrounding amyloid cores of plaques and neuropil threads. On western blots, the monoclonal antibody B5-2 specifically labels the abnormally phosphorylated paired helical filament-tau species in a phosphorylation-dependent manner but is not cross-reactive to normal tau proteins. The preferential involvement of cytoarchitecturally defined cortical areas showed marked individual differences in Alzheimer's disease, and no unique distribution pattern of abnormally phosphorylated tau proteins could be established. While regional heterogeneities along the rostrocaudal extension of the brain declined with the progression of the disease, lateral differences which were largely non-directional appeared to be more stable over time. The mean content of abnormally phosphorylated tau proteins of individual cases was significantly related to the severity of the disease. On a regional scale, this correlation was highest for the basal nucleus. The formation of abnormally phosphorylated tau was associated with a loss of normal soluble tau proteins. Those cortical areas which in normal brain showed the highest amount of normal soluble tau proteins appeared to be particularly prone to deposition of abnormally phosphorylated tau proteins. The present results indicate that the formation of abnormally phosphorylated tau proteins can be initiated in the neuropil at more than one brain area. The spreading of the pathology appears to involve both intracortical and subcortical pathways but largely spares interhemispheric pathways. It is hypothesized that regional differences in the compartmentation and metabolism of tau proteins might reflect the molecular basis for the regionally different vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease.
Field and intracellular potentials were recorded from CA1 pyramidal stratum in submerged slices (at 33 degrees). During &quot;normal&quot; oxygenation (95% O2 + 5% CO2), tonic depression of population spikes and field excitatory postsynaptic potentials by endogenous adenosine was demonstrated by (i) the marked enhancement by the adenosine antagonists 8-(p-sulfophenyl)theophylline (10 microM) and caffeine (0.2 mM), (ii) depression by the transport blocker dipyridamole (5 microM), and (iii) enhancement by exogenous adenosine deaminase (all tested by bath application). Thus, adenosine deaminase (0.5 units/ml) reduced by 10.7 +/- 3.0% (S.E.) the half-maximal stimulus intensity (for population spikes). The effects of adenosine deaminase were prevented by the specific inhibitor, deoxycoformycin (30 microM). In intracellular recordings, excitatory postsynaptic potentials were enhanced in a comparable manner by adenosine deaminase. By contrast, neither deoxycoformycin (5 and 30 microM) nor erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine (another adenosine deaminase inhibitor; 10 and 50 microM) had significant effects on population spikes. Superfusion with anoxic medium (saturated with 95% N2 + 5% CO2) for 2-3 min suppressed population spikes reversibly, by a mechanism involving adenosine, because 8-(p-sulfophenyl)theophylline (10 microM) and caffeine (0.2 mM) delayed the onset of anoxic block and accelerated the subsequent recovery, and the recovery was much slower or incomplete in the presence of dipyramidole (0.5 microM). However, the anoxic suppression of population spikes was not affected by deoxycoformycin (30 microM) or erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine (10 microM); the corresponding 50% postanoxic recovery times were also unchanged (e.g. 4.0 +/- 0.2 min for controls and 4.1 +/- 0.3 min in deoxycoformycin).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A predictable pattern of selective neuronal cell death occurs in organotypic slice cultures of neonatal rat hippocampus during the second and third weeks in vitro. We serially examined organotypic cultures at three, four, seven, 14, 21 and 28 days in vitro, using uptake of the fluorescent dye propidium iodide to identify degenerating cells. After seven days in vitro, the cell degeneration that accompanies the slicing procedure appears to have ended. However, at 14 days in vitro, degenerating neurons could be identified in area CA3. When many degenerating cells were present in a slice, they were distributed in the dentate hilus (CA4) and proximal portions of CA1 as well. Neuronal degeneration involving mainly CA1 pyramidal cells was still apparent at 21 days in vitro, but was much less marked than at 14 days. Study of fixed cultures with light and electron microscopy methods confirmed the presence of degenerating neurons with a pyknotic or vacuolated appearance. Spontaneous neuronal degeneration at 14 and at 21 days in vitro was almost entirely prevented by the addition of 10.5 mM Mg2+ or 3 mM kynurenic acid (a glutamate receptor antagonist), beginning at seven days in vitro. Cell death was markedly decreased by treatment with 100 microM DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (a selective antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors). Removal of the blocking agents by returning cultures to control media at 28 days in vitro induced widespread neuronal degeneration, involving all the regions of the hippocampal slice cultures. The inhibition of spontaneous neuronal cell death by glutamate receptor antagonists and by blockade of glutamate release at synapses suggests that the mechanism of cell death involves glutamate receptors. The time course of degeneration suggests that the vulnerability to glutamate excitotoxicity is an aspect of developmentally regulated components of glutamatergic synapses acquired in the hippocampal organotypic cultures after the first week in vitro.
Previous studies suggest that chronic depolarization by addition of 25 mM KCl or N-methyl-D-aspartate to primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells promotes expression of the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptor, as determined by electrophysiological responsiveness and susceptibility to excitotoxicity. Recent studies have demonstrated that acute mild acidosis reduces N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channel activity by a non-competitive action of H+ on an extracellular site of the receptor channel complex. Since the level of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor expression in granule cell cultures is activity-dependent, we examined whether chronic mildly acidotic culture conditions would selectively diminish the level of N-methyl-D-aspartate responsiveness in granule cells, in effect producing a functional level of expression more comparable to that observed in vivo. To test this, cerebellar granule cells from eight-day neonatal rats were grown in an HCO3-buffered medium containing elevated K+ (25 mM KCl) either under standard conditions (95% air/5% CO2, pH 7.4), or under chronic mildly acidotic conditions (90% air/10% CO2, estimated pH of 7.1). Glutamate receptor subtype expression was subsequently assessed using standard neurotoxicity assays, a quantitative immunoblotting assay for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and whole cell patch clamp recordings. Cells grown in the 10% CO2 environment exhibited a significant reduction in susceptibility to L-glutamate neurotoxicity (at least 10-fold), but not kainate-induced neurotoxicity, relative to cells grown in 5% CO2. In both culture conditions, L-glutamate- and kainate-induced toxicity were mediated by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, respectively, as determined by the sensitivity of agonist-induced toxicity to specific receptor antagonists. Using polyclonal antibodies generated against a peptide sequence recognizing five of eight splice variants in the common &quot;R1&quot; subunit of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, a 31% reduction in the amount of immunoreactive protein was observed in membrane preparations from cells grown in 10% CO2, relative to the amount detected in cells grown in 5% CO2. Moreover, perfusion of cells with glutamate (50 microM) in a nominally Mg(2+)-free solution containing glycine (2 microM) elicited N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist-sensitive inward currents in proportionately fewer cells cultured in 10% CO2, relative to cells cultured in 5% CO2. Long-term survival was also significantly enhanced in cells exposed chronically to mild acidotic culture conditions, relative to cells grown under standard pH conditions (22 days, 10% CO2 vs 16 days, 5% CO2).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Following chronic neonatal treatment with the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist CGP 39551, adult rats showed increased behavioral responses to the D2 dopamine receptor stimulation. In nucleus accumbens and in n. striatum of similarly treated rats increases in D2 dopamine receptor number were observed. CGP 39551 was administered daily to neonatal rats with increasing doses from postnatal day 1 to 22. At postnatal days 70-82, the rats were observed for hyperactivity induced by the selective D2 dopamine receptor agonist LY 171555, the grooming behavior elicited by the specific D1 dopamine receptor stimulating agent SKF 38393 and the stereotypies induced by the mixed D1/D2 receptor agonist apomorphine. [3H]Spiroperidol and [3H]SCH 23390 specific binding to membranes of nucleus accumbens, nucleus striatum and frontal cortex of similarly treated rats was measured. The hypermotility and the stereotyped behavior induced by LY 171555 and apomorphine, respectively, were augmented, whereas grooming behavior elicited by SKF 38393 was unaffected, in CGP 39551-treated rats. Consistently, both in nucleus accumbens and in n. striatum an increase in [3H]Spiroperidol specific binding was observed, while [3H]SCH 23390 specific binding did not change. The study demonstrates that chronic blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor during the critical period of brain maturation results in long-lasting dopaminergic functional changes.
In vivo microdialysis was used to study the effect of intracerebral administration of dopamine agonists on dynorphin B release in the striatum and substantia nigra of rats. The release of dopamine and GABA was also investigated. Administration of the dopamine D1 agonist SKF 38393 (10-100 microM) into the striatum increased extracellular dynorphin B and GABA levels in the ipsilateral substantia nigra, in a concentration-dependent manner. After a short-lasting increase, nigral dopamine levels were significantly decreased after the highest concentration of striatal SKF 38393. An increase in striatal dynorphin B, GABA and dopamine levels was also observed. When SKF 38393 (10 microM) was administered into the substantia nigra, nigral dynorphin B and GABA, but not dopamine levels increased. No significant effects were observed on striatal levels. Administration of the dopamine D2 agonist, quinpirole (100 microM), into the striatum decreased dopamine levels in both striatum and substantia nigra, while no effect was observed on striatal or nigral dynorphin B and GABA levels. Quinpirole (10-100 microM) given into the substantia nigra, decreased striatal dopamine levels in a concentration manner. In the nigra, a short-lasting increase in dopamine levels was observed following the highest concentration of nigral quinpirole (100 microM). The effect was followed by a decrease in dopamine levels. No significant effects were observed on striatal or nigral dynorphin B and GABA levels. The results show that stimulation of D1 receptors in striatum and substantia nigra leads to activation of the striatonigral dynorphin pathway. A parallel effect could also be seen on nigral GABA release.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Extracellular levels of dynorphin B were analysed with in vivo microdialysis in the neostriatum and substantia nigra of halothane-anaesthetized rats. Dopamine and its metabolites, 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-acetic acid and homovanillic acid, as well as GABA were simultaneously monitored. Chromatographic analysis revealed that the dynorphin B-like immunoreactivity measured in perfusates collected under basal and K(+)-depolarizing conditions co-eluted with synthetic dynorphin B. Dynorphin B, GABA and dopamine levels were Ca(2+)-dependently increased by K(+)-depolarization, while 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid levels were decreased. Dopamine and its metabolites, but not dynorphin B or GABA levels, were significantly decreased after a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine injection into the left medial forebrain bundle. In contrast, following a unilateral injection of ibotenic acid into the striatum, dynorphin B and GABA levels were decreased by &gt; 50% in striatum and substantia nigra on the lesioned side, whereas no significant changes were observed in basal dopamine levels. The inclusion of the peptidase inhibitor captopril (50-500 microM) into the nigral perfusion medium produced a concentration-dependent increase in nigral extracellular levels of dynorphin B. In the striatum, a delayed increase in dynorphin B and GABA levels could be observed following the nigral captopril administration, but this effect was not concentration-dependent. Thus, we demonstrate that extracellular levels of dynorphin B, dopamine and GABA can simultaneously be monitored with in vivo microdialysis. Extracellular dynorphin B appears to originate from neurons, since the levels were (i) increased in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner by K(+)-depolarization, and (ii) decreased by a selective lesion of the striatum, known to contain cell bodies of dynorphin neurons in the striatonigral pathway. Furthermore, (iii) the increase in nigral dynorphin B levels by peptidase inhibition suggests the presence of clearance mechanisms for the released dynorphin peptides.
We have used an identified cholinergic neuro-neuronal synapse in the buccal ganglion of Aplysia to determine which types of Ca2+ channels are involved in triggering transmitter release. omega-Conotoxin as well as funnel web spider toxin partially reduced acetylcholine release indicating that both N- and P-type Ca2+ channels are involved. Nifedipine-sensitive L-type Ca2+ channels are also present but they are not directly implicated in acetylcholine release. We have identified presynaptic receptors to two peptides. FMRFamide and buccalin and to the neurotransmitter histamine. FMRFamide facilitates acetylcholine release by increasing the presynaptic Ca2+ influx whereas buccalin and histamine have an opposite effect. These neuromodulators control only the influx of Ca2+ through N-type Ca2+ channels since their action on transmitter release can be prevented by omega-conotoxin but not by funnel web spider toxin. FMRFamide and histamine, respectively, increased and decreased Ca2+ influx by shifting in opposite ways the voltage sensitivity to activation of the channels. Buccalin reduced Ca2+ influx by decreasing the number of available channels. 2,5-Diterbutyl 1,4-benzohydroquinone, a blocker of the reticulum Ca2+ pump, increased evoked transmitter release by increasing the intracellular concentration of Ca2+ without affecting the presynaptic Ca2+ influx. It is suggested that a reticulum-like Ca2+ buffer, in close proximity to N- and P-type Ca2+ channels, controls the intracellular concentrations of Ca2+ actually triggering acetylcholine release.

Anatomical findings in primates and rodents have led to a description of several parallel segregated basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits leading from a distinct frontocortical area, via separate regions in the basal ganglia and the thalamus, back to the frontocortical area from which the circuit originates. One of the questions raised by the concept of parallelism is whether and how the different circuits interact. The present Commentary proposes that interaction is inherent in the neural architecture of the basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits. This proposal is based on the re-examination of the data on the topographical organization of the frontocortical-basal ganglia connections which indicates that each circuit-engaged striatal region sends divergent projections to parts of both substantia nigra pars reticulata and the internal segment of the globus pallidus (each ventral striatal region sends divergent projections to parts of ventral pallidum, substantia nigra pars reticulata and globus pallidus), and this segregation is maintained at subsequent thalamic and frontocortical levels. This results in an asymmetry in the frontal cortex-basal ganglia relationships, so that while each frontocortical subfield innervates one striatal region, each striatal region influences the basal ganglia output to two frontocortical subfields. Because of this asymmetry, at least one of the frontocortical targets of a given circuit-engaged striatal region is not the source of its frontocortical input. Since this organization is inconsistent with an arrangement in closed segregated circuits we introduce the concept of a &quot;split circuit&quot;. A split circuit emanates from one frontocortical area, but terminates in two frontocortical areas. Thus, a split circuit contains at least one &quot;open&quot; striato-fronto-cortical pathway, that leads from a circuit-engaged striatal region to a frontocortical area which is a source of a different circuit. In this manner split circuits are interconnected via their open pathways. The second striato-fronto-cortical pathway of a split circuit can be another open pathway, or it can re-enter the frontocortical area of origin, forming a closed circuit. On the basis of the available anatomical data we tentatively identified a motor, an associative, and a limbic split circuit, each containing a closed circuit and an open pathway. The motor split circuit contains a closed motor circuit that re-enters the motor and premotor cortical areas and an open motor pathway that terminates in the associative prefrontal cortex. The associative split circuit contains a closed associative circuit that re-enters the associative prefrontal cortex and an open associative pathway that terminates in the premotor cortex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Dysfunction of dopamine neural systems is hypothesized to underlie neuropsychiatric disorders and psychostimulant drug abuse. At least three dopamine systems have been characterized in the brain-nigrostriatal, mesolimbic, and mesocortical. Abnormalities of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons cause motor impairment leading to Parkinson's disease, whereas dysfunction of mesolimbic and mesocortical dopamine neurons are most implicated in psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia and in drug addition. One of the primary neural sites of action of potent antipsychotic agents and psychostimulant drugs of abuse are dopamine receptors and dopamine transporters which, respectively, mediate the induction and termination of dopamine's actions. Very limited information is, however, available about which particular set of dopaminergic cells in the human brain actually express the genes for these dopamine-specific proteins. In this study, we observed that the dopamine transporter and D2 receptor messenger RNAs are differentially expressed within the human mesencephalon: highest expression in ventral subpopulations of the substantia nigra pars compacta neurons with lowest expression in the mesolimbic/mesocortical ventral tegmental area and retrorubral cell groups. These findings suggest that motor- and limbic-related mesencephalic neurons in the human brain differ in the degree of dopamine transporter and D2 receptor gene expression.
The pattern of expression of p75, the low affinity nerve growth factor receptor, in the adult rat cerebellum and its fate after a traumatic lesion were analysed using immunohistochemical localization of this receptor. A subset of Purkinje cells was immunoreactive for low affinity nerve growth factor receptor in the intact adult cerebellum. These cells were arranged in alternating positive and negative parasagittal compartments along the cerebellar cortex. This pattern of expression had 90% homology with zebrin I. After a traumatic lesion, the specific pattern of expression of zebrin I remained unchanged, whereas the low affinity nerve growth factor receptor pattern changed as early as one day: Purkinje cells near the lesion site, independent of zebrin I staining, became immunoreactive. During the first week, the increase in immunoreactivity remained high. Thereafter, there was a short, fast decrease followed by a long period in which a faint immunostaining on lesioned Purkinje cells is maintained for up to one year. The increase in the expression of the low affinity nerve growth factor receptor by all traumatically affected Purkinje cells suggests a correlation between this specific up-regulation and the high resistance of these neurons to axotomy or other traumatic injuries.
Nitric oxide has been put forward as an important inhibitory neurotransmitter in the gut. Nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons were visualized by immunocytochemistry using antibodies against neuronal nitric oxide synthase or by beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase staining in whole mounts and cryostat sections from the gastrointestinal tract and pancreas of several mammals (mouse, rat, hamster, guinea-pig, cat and man). Nitric oxide synthase-containing neuronal cell bodies were numerous in the myenteric but fewer in the submucous ganglia all along the gut of all species. Varicose nerve terminals formed extensive networks in the circular smooth muscle and the myenteric ganglia. Nitric oxide synthase-containing nerve terminals were frequently found around the Brunner glands in the duodenum; scattered nerve terminals were also found in the gastric and colonic mucosa and around blood vessels in the submucosa all along the gut. In the rat small and large intestine nitric oxide synthase-containing submucous neurons terminated within the mucosa/submucosa and nitric oxide synthase-containing myenteric neurons issued short descending projections, approximately 3 mm, to the smooth muscle and other myenteric ganglia. In the pancreas of all species nitric oxide synthase-containing nerve cell bodies were regularly seen in intrapancreatic ganglia. Positive nerve fibers were mainly found within nerve trunks in interlobular spaces and as delicate fibers within the islets. Double staining for nitric oxide synthase and neuropeptides in intestine and pancreas of rat, guinea-pig and man revealed that only occasionally the nitric oxide synthase-containing nerve cell bodies stored in addition vasoactive intestinal peptide and neuropeptide Y, or enkephalin. However, nitric oxide synthase-containing nerve terminals, particularly those in the circular muscle of the gut, frequently contained vasoactive intestinal peptide/neuropeptide Y (rat and man) or vasoactive intestinal peptide/enkephalin (guinea-pig). In intrapancreatic ganglia few nitric oxide synthase-containing nerve cell bodies were also vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive. Coexistence of nitric oxide synthase and vasoactive intestinal peptide in nerve terminals could here be detected around blood vessels and interlobular ducts. The distribution of nitric oxide synthase indicates a major role of nitric oxide in the regulation of gut motility; a role in the regulation of blood flow and secretion in both gut and pancreas is also likely.
Two isoforms of the enzyme heme oxygenase are expressed in distinct populations of neurons in the brain. These enzymes catalyse the oxidative cleavage of heme to the cellular antioxidant biliverdin resulting in the release of carbon monoxide in the process. Both heme and carbon monoxide may play important roles in regulating the nitric oxide-cyclic guanosine monophosphate signal transduction system. Thus we have examined the distributions of both isoforms of heme oxygenase in the rat brain, and compared their localizations with that of nitric oxide synthase determined with the NADPH-diaphorase histochemical technique. Heme oxygenase-1 is highly expressed in a few select populations of neurons including cells in the hilus of the dentate gyrus, in the hypothalamus, cerebellum and brainstem. This enzyme appears to be coexpressed with nitric oxide synthase only in a few cells in the dentate gyrus. Heme oxygenase-2 is much more widely expressed. It is present in mitral cells in the olfactory bulb, pyramidal cells in the cortex and hippocampus, granule cells in the dentate gyrus, many neurons in the thalamus, hypothalamus, cerebellum and caudal brainstem. However, only some of these labelled neurons also displayed nitric oxide synthase. Instead, many neurons expressing heme oxygenase-2 correspond to those known to express high levels of the hemoprotein soluble guanylyl cyclase. These results suggest that heme oxygenase may play a role in modulating guanylyl cyclase independent of nitric oxide synthase. This may result from regulation of intracellular heme and carbon monoxide levels by the heme oxygenase system.
Mast cells and their location in the cat lateral geniculate complex of the thalamus were examined by means of histamine immunohistochemistry and the mast cell stain pinacyanol erythrosinate. Brain sections from seven normal adult pigmented cats were processed for light or electron microscopy. Histamine-containing and pinacyanol erythrosinate-stained mast cells were widespread throughout the dorsal and ventral lateral geniculate nuclei and the surrounding regions. Mast cells were especially numerous rostrally in the complex and in the geniculate C laminae. The cells were found consistently in association with blood vessels, ranging from capillary size to vessels c. 150 microns diameter, and twice as often with arterioles as with venules. Large clusters of many mast cells associated with single blood vessels were seen. Individual mast cells were typically 8 microns in diameter and somewhat oval, although multipolar and crescent-shaped cells were also seen, up to twice as long. The amount of histamine labeling varied across cells. When histamine-labeled material was secondarily stained with pinacyanol erythrosinate, many mast cells were double labeled. In addition, there was a small population of mast cells that stained only with pinacyanol erythrosinate, but was otherwise identical to the histamine-immunoreactive mast cells. Electron microscopic examination showed that the mast cells lie on the brain side of the blood-brain barrier. Mast cells were found in close proximity to the thalamic neuropil, primarily apposed to the processes of astrocytes, but also apposed to neural elements. The distinctive electron-dense cytoplasmic granules in the fully granulated, mature state were largely amorphous in appearance and as large as 700 nm in diameter. Histamine was dispersed throughout some granules and contained within restricted areas of other granules. In degranulated mast cells, large, irregularly shaped, electron-lucent granules were seen fused with the cell membrane on the neuropil side, as well as the lumen side of the mast cell. More mast cells were observed at the electron microscopic level than were expected from the light level observations, which suggests that, despite the numbers of mast cells labeled, these results may still underestimate the total mast cell population present in this region of the thalamus. Mast cells, by their numbers, their distribution and the potent chemical substances they contain, may significantly influence vascular and neural function, directly and indirectly, in the cat lateral geniculate complex.
Striatal dopamine depletion produces an increase in enkephalin and a decrease in substance P messenger RNAs. Subsequent systemic administration of either the D2 dopamine agonist, quinpirole, or the muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine, results in the reduction of the lesion-induced elevation in striatal enkephalin messenger RNA. These changes in enkephalin messenger RNA levels may be mediated solely within the striatum or through trans-synaptic circuits involving the striatum. To dissociate these possibilities, we have compared the effects of systemic and central administration of quinpirole and scopolamine on striatal enkephalin and substance P messenger RNAs using in situ hybridization histochemistry. Systemic administration of both quinpirole and scopolamine blocked the elevation of striatal enkephalin messenger RNA normally observed in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. In addition, high doses of systemic scopolamine (25 and 50 mg/kg per day) prevented the lesion-induced decrease in striatal substance P messenger RNA levels. In order to determine whether the effects of these drugs are mediated directly within the striatum, central administration of quinpirole and scopolamine were compared. In contrast to systemic administration, intraventricular and intrastriatal infusion of quinpirole but not scopolamine prevented the lesion-induced change in striatal enkephalin messenger RNA. However, neither quinpirole nor scopolamine administered centrally affected the level of substance P messenger RNA in the striatum of 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesioned animals. Together, these data suggest that changes in D2 receptor activation directly in the striatum are responsible for the effects of quinpirole on enkephalin messenger RNA. In contrast, the effect of systemic scopolamine on striatal enkephalin and substance P messenger RNAs may not be mediated within the striatum.
The wild-type p53 gene is thought to play a critical role in tumor suppression and has been shown to reverse the transformed phenotype of tumor cells in vitro. Mutational inactivation of this aspect of p53 activity occurs frequently in many human neoplasms, including astrocytomas, and is thought to represent a critical step in tumor progression. We have found previously that the presence of p53 immunoreactivity was significantly associated with malignant astrocytomas arising in younger patients, although occurring infrequently in tumors in older patients. Given that young age is the most consistent clinical factor predictive of longer survival in patients with astrocytomas, this suggested that p53 protein accumulation might be a molecular predictor of enhanced survival. To test this hypothesis, we retrospectively studied the association of p53 overexpression with survival in 149 patients with astrocytomas, using univariate and multivariate analysis to determine its value in predicting survival. Although our analysis reaffirmed the strong association between young age and increased survival, we were unable to demonstrate any difference in survival between patients with Grade III and IV tumors with p53 immunoreactivity compared with those without. Presumably, once a tumor has progressed to high grade, the relative importance of p53 status as a predictor of survival is low, probably because of the large number of accumulated genetic alterations associated with malignant tumors. In contrast, the presence of p53 overexpression in Grade II astrocytomas seemed from survival curves to indicate shorter survival compared with patients who had no p53 immunoreactivity. However, this variable did not quite reach statistical significance (P = 0.08) as an independent predictive variable in multivariate analysis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The report describes the results of a cross-sectional study among two groups of young and older painters and two age-matched control groups. The study was intended to gather information on the occurrence of solvent-exposure symptoms among Dutch workers using a mailed questionnaire. Results indicated that among young painters and to a lesser extent among older painters what is commonly accepted as specific symptoms and additional solvent-related symptoms showed a higher frequency than among the controls. The most interesting observation was a significant relationship between the frequency of periods of heavy exposure and the severity of most symptom categories, whereas there was a lack of consistent relationships with other exposure parameters.
A new amino-cupric silver protocol is described for detection of neuronal degeneration. We describe its selectivity in visualizing both early and semiacute degeneration after intracerebral or systemic administration of a variety of neurotoxicants in rats, and after transient ischemic episodes in gerbils. As early as 5 min after physical trauma, or 15 min following either intrastriatal injections of glutamate analogs or exposure to ischemic episodes, neuronal silver staining was evident at primary sites of trauma (i.g. injection sites) and at hodologically related secondary sites. With intoxication by peripheral injections of trimethyltin (IP) or intracerebral injections of Doxorubicin, reproducible patterns of degeneration are demonstrable after 24 h or after 9-13 days, respectively. The amino-cupric silver method permits simultaneous detection of all neuronal compartments against a clear background. Degeneration in the neuronal cell bodies, dendrites, axons and terminals, as well as the recruitment of new structures in a progressive pathologic process, could be accurately followed. The inclusion of new reagents increased the sensitivity vis--vis previous versions of the cupric-silver method. The advantages and disadvantages of the current method in comparison with other means of neurotoxic assessment are discussed in detail, with special emphasis on its unique ability to discriminate irreversible degenerative phenomena and degeneration of axonal components in cases where the cell body remains apparently intact. The amino-cupric silver method is an especially useful tool for surveying neuronal damage in basic neuroscience investigations and in neuropathologic and neurotoxic assessment.
Neural control of ventilation is exercised at multiple levels and includes an array of sensors and diverse control areas. Abnormalities in the neural control of ventilation are seen in a variety of pathologic states and illnesses commonly seen in critical care. As is common with any complex system, multiple feedback loops work within the system. Interactions between drive and performance are common in mechanically ventilated patients, especially during weaning from the ventilator. Better understanding of these interactions will hopefully lead to better understanding of the common pathologic processes involving control of breathing.
Superantigens (SA) bind to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II antigens and activate T cells through a specific interaction between the V beta region of the T cell receptor and the toxin. Therefore, it has been postulated that SA may trigger or modulate the development of autoimmune diseases caused by T cells. In this report, the effects of SA on the development of experimental and human neurological autoimmune diseases are reviewed and the possibility of the involvement of retroviral SA in the development of human diseases is discussed. In experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), administration of SA prior to antigen challenge protects animals from EAE, whereas the same treatment after antigen challenge augments EAE development. These findings suggest either that 1) exposure of individuals to bacterial toxins during infection stimulates a few potentially autoreactive T cells that have escaped from the process of tolerance to expand above a threshold level, permitting autoattack, or that 2) the toxin suppresses autoreactive T cells which have the capability of inducing autoimmune diseases. In human neuroimmunological diseases such as multiple sclerosis, circumstantial evidence suggests that retroviral SA might be associated with disease development, but no direct proof has been presented so far. The possible reasons for this are also discussed.

The anxiolytic-like effect of (-)-nicotine (1.9 mumol/kg, IP) on the elevated plus-maze in CD1 mice was blocked by the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist flumazenil (1 and 10 mumol/kg, IP). On the other hand, the cholinergic nicotinic channel blocker mecamylamine (1 to 15 mumol/kg, IP), did not affect the anxiolytic-like properties of diazepam in the same test. These data suggest that the reduction in anxiety induced by (-)-nicotine occurs indirectly via the release of endogenous substances that can activate the benzodiazepine receptor.
The effects of the putative anxiolytic agent buspirone on food-handling behavior of laboratory rats were investigated. Rats trained to travel from a covered shelter to a food source were provided with food pellets of six sizes. Smaller pellets were eaten at the exposed food source, whereas larger pellets were carried back to the shelter for consumption. Subcutaneous administration of buspirone hydrochloride (0.2-2.0 mg/kg) reduced carrying of larger food pellets in a dose-dependent manner. Instead, these pellets were also eaten at the exposed food source. Carrying was maximally suppressed 1 h after drug administration. Handling of smaller pellets, travel times, and eating times were not affected by buspirone. Similar results have previously been obtained with diazepam. Buspirone appears to exert its effects through 5-HT1A and/or dopamine receptors, whereas diazepam interacts with benzodiazepine receptors. Thus, manipulations of distinct transmitter systems may have similar behavioral consequences on the food carrying responses of rats.
We have previously reported that spatial reference memory (RM) training-induced alterations in hippocampal cholinergic activity as measured by sodium-dependent high-affinity choline uptake (SDHACU). Each training session was found to induce an immediate (30 s) increase in SDHACU followed (30 s to 15 min posttest) by a deactivation and long-lasting inhibition (15 min to 24 h) of this cholinergic marker. The present experiments were designed to assess the role of septal glutamatergic receptors in this posttraining cholinergic deactivation. In the first experiment, the effects of intraseptal injections of different doses of glutamic acid and glutamatergic antagonists (kynurenic acid, KYN, and AP5) on hippocampal SDHACU were studied in awake but otherwise resting (i.e., naive) mice. The results showed that glutamic acid at the lowest dose used (5 ng) produced a decrease in SDHACU, whereas both glutamatergic antagonists produced a dose-related increase in this cholinergic marker. It was concluded that septal glutamatergic receptors mediate a tonic inhibitory input on the cholinergic cells. Hence, in a second experiment the effect of intraseptal injections of KYN (5 ng) on the training-induced changes in hippocampal cholinergic activity were assessed following variable amounts of radial maze RM training. Trained mice were injected 20 min before the first or the ninth training session and killed 30 s or 15 min posttraining for determination of SDHACU. KYN slowed the posttesting cholinergic deactivation (disinhibition), this effect being more marked in good learners than in bad learners. The present findings suggest that septal glutamatergic receptors mediate an inhibitory input on the cholinergic cells, and that this input could play a role in memory consolidation.
We assessed the functional adrenocortical and behavioral state of rats previously exposed to repeated stressor presentations. In Experiment 1, the whole-body startle response to threshold (91 dB) and suprathreshold (96 dB) stimuli was assessed in rats given 3 daily sessions (3DS) of 40, 2-mA tailshocks. The 3DS rats showed an exaggerated startle response to the threshold auditory stimulus 4 days poststressor compared to nonshocked controls (CON). An exaggerated startle response in stressed rats was not evident either 1 day or 10 days poststressor. In Experiment 2, adrenocortical sensitization and behavioral reactivity were assessed in rats exposed to 1 day (1DS) or 3 days of our stress regimen. Stressed rats exhibited elevated basal plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels 1 day poststressor which recovered by 9 days poststressor. Stressed rats also exhibited suppressed open-field activity 4 days poststressor. On the 10th day poststressor, rats were exposed to a single tailshock. The 1DS and 3DS rats showed both a sensitized and prolonged CORT response to stressor reexposure compared to control rats which received only the single tailshock. In addition, on the 11th day poststressor 3DS rats exhibited a moderate recapitulation of the elevated basal CORT levels seen after the initial stressor exposures. Thus, exposure to our stress regimen produces a chronic stress state in rats characterized by persistent behavioral and adrenocortical sensitization, as well as suppressed open-field activity and elevated basal CORT levels. Rats exhibiting a chronic stress state may be appropriate as a model for the study of stress-related psychophysiological illnesses, such as posttraumatic stress disorder.
Regional changes in the mRNA accumulations for cytoskeletal proteins alpha-tubulin and beta-actin were examined by in situ hybridization and Northern blot analysis in spontaneously hypertensive rat brains at chronic stages after 3 hours of transient ischemia. alpha-Tubulin mRNA accumulations showed no significant change at 2 weeks after transient ischemia except for a significant decrease in the frontal cortex (9.7%, p &lt; 0.01) coinciding with ischemia induced histological changes. beta-Actin mRNA level was significantly increased in the parietal cortex (8.5%), septum (10.0%), amygdala (11.0%), CA4 area (5.8%) and the dentate gyrus (7.5%) of the hippocampus at 2 weeks after recirculation compared with a sham-operated control group (p &lt; 0.01). The ischemic areas of hippocampal and frontocortical lesions receive afferent neurons from those regions where beta-actin mRNA was increased, suggesting that ischemia-induced increases in beta-actin mRNA may reflect actin synthesis in these neurons to compensate for lost synaptic connections. Two cytoskeletal mRNA concentrations reacted differently to cerebral ischemia, and did not parallel histological signs of ischemia either temporally or spatially.

Chronic neuroleptic treatment in rat produces vacuous chewing movements (VCMs), analogous to TD in humans. We hypothesized that these hyperkinetic movements were due to alterations in striatonigral and striatopallidal GABAergic spiny II neurons. Rats were treated for 36 weeks with haloperidol decanoate and withdrawn for 28 weeks. Striatonigral and striatopallidal neurons were assessed using in situ hybridization histochemistry for mRNA levels of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors, preproenkephalin (ENK), prodynorphin (DYN), protachykinin (substance P), and glutamate decarboxylase (GAD67) in the dorsolateral and ventromedial striatum as well as the nucleus accumbens. Rats that did not develop VCMs (-VCM) had increased D2 receptor and DYN mRNA, and reduced substance P mRNA in the dorsolateral striatum. Rats with persistent VCMs (+VCM) had increased D2 receptor, ENK, and DYN mRNA in both striatal regions, and increased ENK and DYN mRNA in the nucleus accumbens, compared with controls. Relative to -VCM rats, however, +VCM rats only had increased ENK mRNA in the nucleus accumbens. Considering the overall pattern of mRNA changes, the data suggest that alterations in both the D1-mediated striatonigral and the D2-mediated striatopallidal pathways play a role in the expression of the VCM syndrome. To the extent that gene expression parallels changes in neuronal activity, this implies that the VCM syndrome is associated with increased activity in both pathways.
The aggregation of amyloid beta-protein has been suggested to enhance its neurotoxicity in cultured hippocampal neurons. We found that aluminum, an epidemiologic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease, promoted the aggregation of synthetic amyloid beta-protein (beta 1-40) using immunoblotting and centrifugation. There were no significant changes by Ca or Mg. Other metals including Zn, Fe caused the small degree of aggregation compared to Al. Furthermore, beta 1-40 which was aggregated by aluminum was applied on cultured rat hippocampal neurons, and the characteristic deposition of amyloid fibrils was observed on cultured neurons. These results suggested that the degeneration of neurons and the deposition of amyloid beta-protein were enhanced by aluminum.
The effects of beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) overexpressing on cell metabolisms of cholinergic neuronal hybridoma cell line (SN49) were examined. The cells stably overexpressing APP contained higher amount of GTP binding protein Go and cytosolic inactive protein kinase C epsilon, and showed less Ca2+ influx through muscarinic acetylcholine receptor ml compared to original and mock cells which had been transfected with a vector alone. The contents of sn-1, 2-diacylglycerol and cyclic AMP were also reduced in the APP transfectants, although the similar changes were observed in the mock cells. These findings strongly suggest that the overexpression of APP affect the transient receptor-mediated ion channel and calcium-related cell metabolisms in neuronal cells.
Conventional brain atlases are collections of micrographs or schematic drawings of brain sections from one or a few brains in which anatomical structures are identified, for example, nuclei, cortical areas and fibre tracts. Conventional brain maps have now been replaced with modern computer-based brain atlases. The structures in computerized atlases are deformable so as to fit the sizes and shapes of individual brains, and transform three-dimensional reconstructions or images of brains into a standard brain format. In order to make generalizations about localization of function and structure at both the macroscopical and microscopical level computerized brain atlases are needed. Computerized brain atlases are also used to compensate for the shrinkage and distortions during sectioning and embedding of post-mortem brains, to study structural-functional relationships in the human brain at both the macroscopical and microscopical level, and variations in gross morphology and microstructure of the human brain, and for establishing a three-dimensional human-brain database for all of the above and also for topographically defined data from the literature.
Brain slices were introduced as a standard preparation for neurophysiological experiments some 20 years ago. A drawback of this preparation compared with cell culture has been the difficulty to visualize individual neurones in standard thick slices. This problem has been overcome by the use of infrared videomicroscopy. Neurones in slices can now be visualized in great detail, and neuronal processes can be patch-clamped under direct visual control. Infrared video-microscopy has also been applied successfully to other fields of neuroscience such as neuronal development and neurotoxicity. A further development of infrared videomicroscopy enables one to visualize the spread of excitation in slices making the technique a tool for the direct investigation of neuronal function.
Since the term 'neuroglia' was called into existence in 1856, the vast majority of neuroscientists dispensed with an integration of glial function into nervous system operation. In the shadow of the neuron doctrine, glial cells have been regarded as a static and functionally passive filling matter. Currently, new insights in glial physiology and glia-neuron interactions increasingly force a radical revision of this view. Meanwhile, some neurobiologists even profess a dynamic and active role for glial cells in the function of the nervous system. As early as the 1890s, Carl Ludwig Schleich (1859-1922), a surgeon and anaesthetist in Berlin, pleaded for this.

Increasing evidence now suggests that excessive activation of the Ca(2+)-dependent protease calpain could play a key or contributory role in the pathology of a variety of disorders, including cerebral ischaemia, cataract, myocardial ischaemia, muscular dystrophy and platelet aggregation. In this review, Kevin Wang and Po-Wai Yuen discuss the evidence linking these disorders to calpain overactivation. At present, it is difficult to confirm the exact role of calpain in these disorders because of the lack of potent, selective and cell-permeable calpain inhibitors. However, given the multiple therapeutic indications for calpain, it appears that achievement of selective calpain inhibition is an important pharmacological goal.
In human subjects, the blind spot is perceptually filled-in by color and brightness from the surrounding visual field. The present behavioral study examined the occurrence of color filling-in at the blind spot in monkeys. First, the location of the blind spot was determined using a monocular saccade task. The blind spots were located on the horizontal meridian at approximately 15-17 deg from the fixation point in the temporal visual field. Then, filling-in at the blind spot was tested by determining if the monkey could discriminate between an annulus presented on the blind spot and a homogeneous disk in the normal visual field. In this task, the monkey was required to make a saccade to a homogeneous disk of the same color and size as an annulus presented simultaneously in the opposite field. Both stimuli were large enough to cover the blind spot and the inner circle of the annulus was confined inside the blind spot. All four monkeys tested performed this task correctly in over 80% of the trials. However, when one eye was covered and the annulus was presented on the blind spot of the uncovered eye, performance deteriorated significantly. To confirm that these results reflected filling-in, one monkey was trained to maintain fixation when two identical homogeneous disks appeared in opposite visual fields. When only one eye was uncovered, and the annulus was presented on the blind spot of the uncovered eye, the monkey maintained fixation in most of the trials. These results show that monkeys were unable to distinguish an annulus from a homogeneous disk when the annulus was presented on the blind spot. This indicates that color filling-in occurs at the blind spot in monkeys and opens possibility to physiological experiments to study the neural mechanisms of filling-in.
Perrone [(1992) Journal of the Optical Society of America A, 9, 177-194] recently proposed a template-based model of self-motion estimation which uses direction- and speed-tuned input sensors similar to neurons in area MT of primate visual cortex. Such an approach would generally require an unrealistically large number of templates (five continuous dimensions). However, because primates, including humans, have a number of oculomotor mechanisms which stabilize gaze during locomotion, we can greatly reduce the number of templates required (two continuous dimensions and one compressed and bounded dimension). We therefore refined the model to deal with the gaze-stabilization case and extended it to extract heading and relative depth simultaneously. The new model is consistent with previous human psychophysics and has the emergent property that its output detectors have similar response properties to neurons in area MST.
A number of experiments were conducted to investigate the interaction of the ON and OFF pathways in the processing of global-motion signals. The stimulus employed was a variant of that used by Newsome and Pare [(1988) Journal of Neuroscience, 8, 2201-2211] in which a small subset of dots move in a common (global-motion) direction in a field of randomly moving dots. The threshold measure was the number of dots required to move in the global-motion direction for that direction to be detected. We found that: (1) the extraction of a global-motion signal carried by light dots (luminance above the background) was impaired by the addition of dark dots (luminance below the background) which did not carry the signal (noise dots); (2) sub-threshold summation occurs for global-motion signals carried by light and dark dots; and (3) a signal dot which changed luminance polarity (went from light to dark) did not result in a motion signal--either in the global-motion direction or in the opposite direction (reverse apparent motion). From these findings we conclude that the inputs to the motion sensitive cells have matched spatial opponency (the ON and OFF pathways remain separate at this level) but that they then combine to form a single pathway prior to the extraction of the global-motion signal. These findings are contrary to those predicted by models which advocate squaring or full-wave rectification prior to global motion processing.

In order to understand the mechanisms underlying the powerful actions of neuropeptides, the present article has emphasized the unique ability of neuropeptides to act as VT signals, which via high-affinity G-protein coupled receptors can exert long-lasting actions and control synaptic transmission via receptor-receptor interactions. Also of substantial importance is the ability of neuropeptides to act as a set of signals via the formation of different types of active fragments, which can act as negative-feedback or positive-feedback signals to modulate the response elicited by the parent peptide and to give origin to syndromic responses. Also in the actions of the fragments on the neuronal network, receptor-receptor interactions may play an important role both by modulating the parent peptide receptors and by modulating other types of VT and/or WT receptors. Future work will have to evaluate the role of neuropeptides as transcellular signals and as regulators of neuronal excitabilities after the formation of carbamates, but certainly new important developments are within the horizon of today's research.
Somatic appositions of glial and neuronal elements in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and the anterior hypothalamus (AH) were evaluated. Neuronal somas in the SCN exhibited more coverage by astrocytes than did those in the AH. Conversely, somas in the AH showed more coverage by neuronal elements than those in the SCN. All measurements of somal appositions were independent of circadian influences.
In the present study the hypothesis has been tested if the dopamine releasing drug D-amphetamine via volume transmission can, at least partly, restore dopamine communication in the dopaminergically denervated neostriatum of rats. The experimental model used, has been a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopamine neurons, based on nigral microinjections of this neurotoxin. Studies on c-fos like immunoreactivity after systemic D-amphetamine treatment demonstrated a wide-spread appearance of c-fos like immunoreactive neuronal nuclear profiles within the neostriatum on both the unlesioned and denervated side. In the unlesioned neostriatum a peak density of c-fos like immunoreactive profiles was found within the central part of the neostriatum, while on the denervated side the distribution pattern of c-fos like immunoreactive profiles peaked medially and gradually declined in a lateral direction. The microdialysis experiments demonstrated, after systemic d-amphetamine treatment, a marked and sustained increase of extracellular dopamine levels in the neostriatum on the unlesioned side, while no increases in the extracellular dopamine levels were observed on the dopaminergically denervated neostriatum. In the electrophysiological experiments, systemic D-amphetamine treatment produced an inhibition of the neuronal activity on the denervated side which showed a significant increase in basal discharge rate compared with the recordings obtained from the striata on the unlesioned side. The present immunocytochemical microdialysis and electrophysiological analysis provides evidence that in the unilaterally markedly dopamine depleted neostriatum with clearcut signs of dopamine receptor supersensitivity (rotational behaviour results), dopamine transmission may be partly restored via systemic D-amphetamine treatment through the release of dopamine, predominantly from the unlesioned neostriatum, which may diffuse into the cerebrospinal fluid to reach the contralateral dopaminergically denervated neostriatum.
Melanocortins accelerate functional recovery after nerve crush and enhance neurite outgrowth in vitro. To get more insight in the mechanism of action of melanocortins, we studied the effects of two neurotrophic peptides: alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha MSH) and an adrenocorticotropin4-9 analogue Org 2766 on second messengers in cultures of spinal cord (SC), dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and Schwann cells. alpha MSH (10 microM) enhanced the forskolin-induced cAMP production in SC- (45%) and in DRG-cells (35%). Org 2766 (1 microM) induced an increase in cAMP only in SC-cells (39%). The peptides did not affect the cAMP levels in Schwann cells. Neither peptide evoked significant changes in the intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) in batch-measurements of all cell types, however, Ca(2+)-imaging revealed an infrequent occurrence of large [Ca2+]i-elevations in individual SC-neurons. The results indicate that SC- and DRG-cells are targets for both peptides, while Schwann cells are not or exploit different pathways. We observed for alpha MSH that cAMP production always coincides with outgrowth stimulation, whereas for Org 2766 cAMP production and outgrowth stimulation appear not causally related. These differences in second messenger stimulation could be explained by receptor heterogeneity. We suggest that alpha MSH and Org 2766 act through different receptors, each with its own signalling pathways.
Glutamate receptors are found in all layers of the cerebral cortex, but NMDA receptors are concentrated in layers II and III in the adult. We investigated the location of these receptors, and their contribution to the responses of cells in layers V and VI, by iontophoresing NMDA at various distances from the cell body along the apical dendrite of the cells, first in artificial CSF, then in TTX to abolish action potentials. Comparison of responses at various distances along the apical dendrite showed that the response generally increases as distance from the cell body decreases. Comparison of responses in layers II and III, before and after TTX, showed that TTX reduced the response considerably. We conclude first that NMDA receptors in layers II and III are located primarily on cells in layers II and III, rather than on the apical dendrites of cells in layers V and VI, and second that the contribution of NMDA receptors to the response of cells in layers V and VI comes primarily from receptors close to the cell body.
The Alzheimer a beta amyloid precursor protein is metabolized by at least two secretory pathways. One generates the A beta peptide and the other a N-terminally truncated A beta fragment termed p3 that is considered non-amyloidogenic. However, direct evidence is missing. We have undertaken to synthesize and purify p3. Pure p3 polymerizes in vitro, forming a lattice with an ultrastructure distinct from the linear fibrils of A beta. In contrast to amyloid, polymerized p3 does not bind thioflavine T. It is therefore concluded that amino acids in the N-terminal part of the A beta molecule are required for formation of typical amyloid fibrils and that the metabolic pathway generating p3 probably is non-amyloidogenic
ERPs were recorded from subjects performing semantic and rhyme matching tasks using either spoken words, printed words or pictures as stimuli. Mismatches enhanced N400 (in the semantic task) and N450 (in the rhyme task). Onset and peak latencies were shorter for N450 than for N400 with spoken words; this relationship was inverted for pictures. Thus these latencies could index availability of semantic and phonological codes. For printed words, the latencies were shorter for N400 than N450, a result that supports direct-access modes of reading with late phonological code activation. The longer latencies found for N400 and N450 to pictures could suggest longer initial decoding for pictures with respect to words.
Many cells recorded from the dorsal hippocampus of freely moving rats are intensely active only when the rat's head is in a particular part of its environment. For this reason, such units are called 'place cells'. We have investigated whether place cells are also found in the ventral hippocampus. Recordings were made from ventral hippocampal units while rats chased food pellets in a cylindrical arena. The rat's position was simultaneously recorded by tracking a light on the rat's head. Our data show the existence of cells in the ventral hippocampus whose positional firing patterns and electrophysiological properties are very similar to those of dorsal hippocampal place cells.
Transmission at individual synaptic contacts on CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons has been found to be very unreliable, with greater than half of the arriving presynaptic nerve impulses failing to evoke a postsynaptic response. This conclusion has been reached using the method of minimal stimulation of Schaffer collaterals and whole cell recording in hippocampal slices; with minimal stimulation only one or a few synapses are activated on the target neuron and the behavior of individual synapses can be examined. Four sources for the unreliability of synaptic transmission have been investigated: (i) the fluctuation of axon thresholds at the site of stimulation causing the failure to generate a nerve impulse in the appropriate Schaffer collaterals, (ii) the failure of nerve impulses generated at the site of stimulation to arrive at the synapse because of conduction failures at axon branch points, (iii) an artifactual synaptic unreliability due to performing experiments in vitro at temperatures well below the normal mammalian body temperature, and (iv) transmission failures due to probabilistic release mechanisms at synapses with a very low capacity to release transmitter. We eliminate the first three causes as significant contributions and conclude that probabilistic release mechanisms at low capacity synapses are the main cause of unreliability of synaptic transmission.
Brain temperature of conscious freely moving rats was recorded during perfusion of the preoptic area (POA) with neuroactive compounds using the microdialysis technique. Unilateral perfusion of the POA with the sodium channel blocking agent, tetrodotoxin (1 microM), induced a pronounced hyperthermia. Of the neuroactive compounds examined, the greatest thermogenic response to local perfusion of the POA was elicited by the GABAergic agonist, muscimol. Muscimol (10, 20 and 100 microM) exhibited a dose-dependent and reversible hyperthermia. This hyperthermia was attenuated by co-perfusion with the GABAergic antagonist, bicuculline (10 microM). Muscimol-induced hyperthermia was independent of prostaglandin biosynthesis, and additive with prostaglandin E2 (10 microM)-induced hyperthermia. Prostaglandin E2-induced hyperthermia was not affected by co-perfusion with bicuculline. These data suggest the existence of two independent neurochemical systems for genesis of hyperthermia colocalized within the POA.
This study, carried out in pig caudate membranes, characterises the radioligand binding site labelled with [3H]L-694,247 (2-[5-[3-(4-methylsulphonylamino)benzyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl ]-1H-indole-3 - yl]ethylamine). The affinities of 27 standard compounds are consistent with binding to a 5-HT1D recognition site. In addition the results indicate that, under the assay conditions described, [3H]L-694,247 specifically labels the 5-HT1D beta recognition site since ketanserin and ritanserin display a low affinity consistent with their activities at this subtype of the 5-HT1D receptor.
An in situ hybridization procedure that identifies cells expressing D2 dopamine receptor mRNA was combined in double-labelling studies with immunohistochemical procedures that identify cells expressing either choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) or somatostatin. D2 receptor mRNA was detected in almost all of the ChAT positive caudate-putamen cells, approximately half of the ChAT positive nucleus accumbens cells and none of the somatostatin-positive cells in either brain region.

Intoxication with organophosphorus (0P) anticholinesterase agents such as soman triggers irreversible lesions in some cerebral areas. Administration of soman at the LD 50 leads to an increased activity of NADPH-diaphorase (= NO-synthase) in the cerebral endothelial cells from the 6th hour after poisoning. This activity culminates after 24 h, whereas variations in this enzymatic activity are not easily detectable in NADPH-diaphorase positive neurons. Since soman triggers astrocytic oedema leading to a possible decrease in the local cerebral blood flow, it is likely that the induction of endothelial NO-synthase exerts an antagonistic effect, since NO is a vasodilator.
Capillary electrophoresis with laser-induced fluorescence detection is used to analyze 10 microL samples of human cerebrospinal fluid. Primary amine-containing compounds in untreated cerebrospinal fluid are labeled with 3-(4-carboxybenzoyl)-2-quinolinecarboxaldehyde prior to analysis, producing fluorescent isoindoles. Electropherograms containing approximately 50 peaks are obtained in less than 35 min from cerebrospinal fluid samples. Ten peaks in the electropherograms have been identified and quantitated: arginine, glutamine, threonine, valine, gamma-amino-n-butyric acid, serine, alanine, glycine, glutamic acid, and aspartic acid. Detection limits for these 10 amino acids range from 0.29 nM for gamma-amino-n-butyric acid to 100 nM for threonine, and separation efficiencies as high as 190,000 theoretical plates are obtained for these analytes. Electropherograms of cerebrospinal fluid samples from patients with Alzheimer's disease and from children with different neurological disorders are compared to those of healthy controls. Differences in individual amino acid levels are observed between the patient groups, and these differences appear to be disease and age related. These results indicate that analysis of cerebrospinal fluid by capillary electrophoresis will be useful as a selective, rapid, and sensitive tool for both diagnosis of central nervous system disorders and for study of the mechanisms of these disorders.
A parallel of generalized viral infection with psychiatric symptoms has been reported in nonorganic psychotic disorders. The patients concerned had been ill for long periods and some of them had been readmitted. In order to determine the presence of viral infection at the very onset of the psychosis, antibodies in blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) to six viruses [cytomegalovirus (CMV), herpes simplex (HSV) Type 1, mumps, measles, varicella zoster virus (VZV), and Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV)] were assayed in 35 psychotic patients [14 schizophrenics; 13 manic patients; and 8 patients with psychosis not otherwise specified (NOS)] within 1 month of onset of illness. Ten (28.6%) patients had a diagnostic (fourfold) change in the antibody titer in the paired serum and/or CSF samples (drawn at 2-week intervals) and another 10 had high titers (above 2 SDs from the mean in 35 control subjects). The striking temporal correlation with the initial severity and resolution of psychopathology by 2 weeks on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) suggests a causally significant, currently active viral infection in these 20 cases.
To better understand the input-output organization of the midline thalamus, we compared the distribution of its peptidergic and monoaminergic afferents, which were visualized by using immunocytochemistry, with the distribution of neurons projecting to different basal forebrain structures, which were mapped using retrograde fluorescent tracers. Serotonin and most of the peptides were found throughout paraventricular thalamic nucleus (PV) and in other midline and intralaminar nuclei (type 1 pattern). Neuropeptide Y, alpha MSH and the catecholamine synthetic enzymes were largely restricted to dorsolateral PV (type 2 pattern). Vasopressin was found in dorsomedial PV and intermediodorsal nucleus in a pattern complementary to the type 2 distribution (type 3 pattern). Neurons projecting to accumbens core were present in paraventricular, intermediodorsal, and other midline nuclei. Neurons projecting to accumbens shell and to central amygdaloid nucleus were found in dorsal PV. The peptidergic zones were only loosely correlated with the distribution of different classes of projection neurons. The type 2 pattern overlapped best with neurons projecting to accumbens shell, and to a lesser extent to central amygdaloid nucleus, while the type 3 pattern overlapped best with neurons projecting to core of accumbens. This partial overlap suggests that some brainstem and hypothalamic nuclei preferentially affect different basal forebrain targets through the midline thalamus, and may allow, for example, information about stress to specifically influence accumbens shell and central amygdaloid nucleus. Nevertheless, most of the peptidergic afferents (type 1 pattern) to midline thalamus cover neurons projecting throughout the basal forebrain, which suggests that all of these neurons receive a variety of brainstem and hypothalamic inputs.
The distribution of alpha 2 (alpha 2)-adrenoceptors along cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and sacral segments of the spinal cord of normal rats has been studied by quantitative autoradiography using the specific alpha 2-antagonist [3H]rauwolscine as a ligand. In addition, the influence of noradrenergic (NA) denervation [obtained either by complete transection of the spinal cord at vertebrae level T8-T9 or by selective lesion of NA spinal cord system carried out by intracisternal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)] on eventual variations of alpha 2-adrenoceptor density at spinal cord target cells was studied in parallel. In control rats, the quantitative analysis of alpha 2-adrenoceptor densities revealed the presence of these receptors throughout the whole gray matter with a preferential location in the superficial dorsal horn. This pattern was the same at all rostro-caudal levels of the cord and appeared very well correlated with the distribution of NA terminals revealed by immunohistochemistry, particularly in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn. After total transection of the spinal cord (caudally to the section) and 6-OHDA-induced lesion, an increase of alpha 2-adrenoceptor density was mainly observed within the distal dorsal horn thus evidencing supersensitivity in this area, while modifications were not detectable in other regions of the spinal gray matter, except at the lumbar level where other dorsal, central, and intermediate zones were significantly enriched.
Dissociated septal and hippocampal neurons from E18 fetal rats were cultured with varying concentrations of ethanol (0.6-2.4 g/dl) and in cultures containing ethanol plus nerve growth factor (NGF) or basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF). These substances have been shown to provide neurotrophic support for these populations and to afford neuroprotection against certain toxic substances or conditions applied to some neuronal populations. Both the septal and hippocampal neurons responded to ethanol in a dose-dependent manner. Survival of septal neurons was generally unaffected by initial ethanol concentrations of 0.6 and 1.2 g/dl but was considerably impaired by higher concentrations (1.8 and 2.4 g/dl), while neurite outgrowth was compromised by all ethanol concentrations except the lowest one applied. The hippocampal neurons survived ethanol concentrations up to 2.4 g/dl, although process extension was decreased in concentrations of 1.2 g/dl and higher. NGF or bFGF in the culture medium (in cultures without ethanol) did not affect neuronal survival or process outgrowth in either population, probably owing to the relatively high plating densities of the cultures. NGF did tend to have a moderate ameliorative effect on the ethanol neurotoxicity in the septal cultures, however, and was slightly effective in this regard in hippocampal cultures at intermediate ethanol concentrations (1.8 g/dl). High concentrations of ethanol (2.4 g/dl) reduced the proportion of cholinergic cells in the septal preparations by approximately 50%. This neuronal loss could be reversed by inclusion of high concentrations of NGF in the culture medium (100 ng/ml) but not by a lower concentration (20 ng/ml). bFGF provided some protection against ethanol cytotoxicity with respect to both populations. The implications of these results for studies of fetal alcohol effects are discussed, as well as their relation to prior reports of trophic factor neuroprotection.
1. The behaviour of medullary respiratory neurons was studied during fictive coughing and swallowing evoked by electrical stimulation of the superior laryngeal nerve (SLN) in decerebrate, paralysed and artificially ventilated cats. Fictive coughing, swallowing and respiration were monitored by recording activities of the phrenic, hypoglossal and abdominal nerves. 2. Extracellular recordings were made from respiratory neurons in the ventral respiratory group (VRG) and in the Btzinger complex (BOT). The neuronal types analysed included decrementing inspiratory neurons (I-DEC), augmenting expiratory neurons (E-AUG) and decrementing expiratory neurons (E-DEC) from the BOT area, and augmenting inspiratory neurons (I-AUG) and augmenting expiratory neurons (E-AUG) from the VRG area. 3. During fictive coughing, all the inspiratory and expiratory neurons were active during the inspiratory and expiratory phases of coughing, respectively. The firing of both I-DEC and I-AUG neurons was increased and prolonged in association with the augmented inspiratory activity of the phrenic nerve. The activity of E-AUG neurons of the VRG did not parallel the abdominal nerve activity, suggesting the existence of additional neurons which participate in the generation of abdominal nerve activity during fictive coughing. 4. During fictive swallowing, half of I-DEC neurons fired transiently at the onset of hypoglossal bursts associated with swallowing; the firing was suppressed during the rest of the hypoglossal bursts. Other I-DEC neurons were silent during hypoglossal bursts. Some I-AUG neurons fired during the initial half of hypoglossal bursts, and others were silent. The brief phrenic activity accompanying the swallowing might have originated from this activity in I-AUG neurons. The discharges of all E-AUG neurons (BOT and VRG) and the majority of E-DEC BOT neurons were suppressed during swallowing. 5. We conclude that these five types of respiratory neurons of the BOT and VRG are involved in the generation of the spatiotemporally organized activity of coughing and swallowing, and that at least a part of the neuronal network for respiration is shared by networks for these non-respiratory activities.

Expression of the messenger RNA coding estrogen receptor (ER-mRNA) was detected in the ventromedial subnucleus of the facial nucleus of the newborn rat by in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH). The hybridization signal in this subnucleus increased from 1 to 6 days of age, then decreased at 11 days. By immunohistochemistry (IHC) using an antiserum which detects estrogen receptor (ER) specifically, immunopositive signals were also detected in the same subnucleus of the adjacent sections. On the other hand, neither of these signals were encountered in the same subnucleus of the adult rat. Thus, the present result extend our previous work (Yokosuka and Hayashi, 1992) showing that the expression of the ER in the facial nucleus is transient. A sex difference in the expression of ER molecules was not apparent by ISHH and IHC. Moreover, daily injections of estradiol from the day of birth suppressed the expression of ER in the subnucleus at 6 and 11 days of age. Thus, as has been detected in the mediobasal hypothalamus, ER-mRNA was revealed to be down-regulated by estrogen.
The present study was performed in order to examine whether or not NGF-mediated processes could be involved in the sparing of function observed after neonatal prefrontal cortex lesions. After unilateral neonatal aspiration lesions of the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, fibers immunoreactive for the low-affinity NGF-binding protein (p75) with a deviant morphology were observed in the severed hemisphere only. The morphology of these fibers was characterized by their large caliber, their large, often bulbous varicosities, and their curly appearance. These fibers were present as soon as 24 h after the operation. Between 3 and 5 days after the operation, the greatest abundance of these fibers was found in the ventrorostral areas of the forebrain and along the pathways of cortical projections of the cholinergic cell groups. After 7 days, such fibers were no longer observed. After comparable lesions in adult animals, a similar type of fiber was observed in the lesioned hemisphere. However, in these cases a response comparable to that observed in the neonatal animals was not observed until 5 days after the operation, with fewer fibers. Furthermore, in contrast to what was observed after neonatal lesions, in adult animals no indications of retrograde transport of p75 immunoreactive material towards the cholinergic cells of the basal forebrain nuclei were found. From these findings it was concluded that the prompt upregulation of p75 expression in neonatal animals may contribute to the survival of the cholinergic cells of the basal forebrain, and may therefore be involved in the restoration of function of the medial prefrontal cortex.
Moxonidine, an imidazoline, binds to alpha 2-adrenoceptors and imidazoline receptors. We sought to determine the effects of moxonidine on accumulation of cAMP, cGMP, and phosphoinositide turnover in minislices of cerebral cortex and brainstem. In cerebral cortex, but not in brainstem, moxonidine inhibited the stimulated production of cAMP, an effect blocked by alpha 2-adrenergic antagonist rauwolscine. It also increased the hydrolysis of phosphoinositide above 100 microM in cerebral cortex and failed to alter accumulation of cGMP in both regions. We conclude that moxonidine is a typical alpha 2-adrenergic agonist inhibiting cAMP production in cerebral cortex, but not in brainstem, its interaction with I1 imidazoline sites in brainstem did not regulate second messenger systems, and moxonidine increased phosphoinositide turnover in cerebral cortex by unknown mechanisms.
Activation of NMDA receptors by glutamate, glycine and spermine was assessed using non-equilibrium [3H]dizocilpine binding. Glutamate and glycine mutually increased their efficacies and affinities to stimulate [3H]dizocilpine binding, which were further increased by spermine. Enhancement curves by glycine in the presence of increasing concentrations of the glycine antagonist 7-chlorokynurenate revealed that spermine markedly increased the affinity of glycine but not that of 7-chlorokynurenate, and that glycine was also required for [3H]dizocilpine binding in the presence of spermine. Spermine had a biphasic effect on [3H]dizocilpine binding, with a stimulatory phase followed by an inhibitory phase. The potency of spermine for both phases was increased by glutamate, but not by glycine. These observations indicate that there are positive cooperative interactions between the glutamate, the glycine and the stimulatory and inhibitory polyamine sites of the NMDA receptor. Moreover, glutamate and glycine, but not spermine, are required to activate the receptor.
Hospital-acquired pressure sores are a costly and often avoidable drain on both patient and hospital resources. This article describes the process and rationale behind a multidisciplinary attempt to develop an effective risk assessment tool for use in a specialist neurosciences setting.
Recent evidence indicates that the neuroleptic-induced increase of in vivo acetylcholine output in the striatum does not depend on the relief of cholinergic neurons from the inhibitory control by dopamine, but on increased dopamine output onto dopamine D1 receptors. The present microdialysis study was aimed at finding if the neuroleptic-induced increase in striatal acetylcholine release persists after chronic treatment, and how it is correlated with dopamine output. Rats were chronically treated with the dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, haloperidol and (-)-sulpiride (0.5 mg/kg and 50 mg/kg i.p., respectively, daily, for 30 days). The stimulant effect of both neuroleptics on striatal dopamine release persisted unaltered throughout the chronic treatment (by about 100% over basal values). In contrast, the enhancing effects of haloperidol and (-)-sulpiride on striatal acetylcholine release remained unchanged up to day 12 of treatment. Thereafter, tolerance developed, so that both neuroleptics became totally ineffective on day 30 of treatment. Both on day 1 and 30, the neuroleptic-induced dopamine release was reversed by gamma-butyrolactone (gamma-hydroxybutyric acid lactone), suggesting that this effect is mediated by enhanced neuronal activity. On day 1 and day 10, the neuroleptic-induced acetylcholine release was antagonized by the blockade of dopamine D1 receptors with SCH 39166 (trans-(-)-(6aS,13bR)-11-chloro-6,6a,7,8,9,13b- hexahydro-7-methyl-5H-benzo[d]napht[2,1-b]azepine-12-ol, hydrochloride) (0.5 mg/kg i.p.). SKF 38393 (1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-(1H)-3- benzazepine-7,8-diol hydrochloride) (5 mg/kg i.p.) increased acetylcholine release by about 50% in control rats and in rats treated with (-)-sulpiride or haloperidol for up to 7 days.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To explore the extent to which various cortical functional pathways are involved in processing and analyzing different types of information that yield the same perceptual entity, we mapped anatomical structures in the human brain participating in the discrimination of visual forms mediated either by motion or color cues. Changes in regional cerebral blood flow were measured in 10 young male volunteers with positron emission tomography and with [15O]butanol. During the measurements, the subjects performed four visual discrimination tasks (form-from-motion, motion alone, form-from-color, and color alone discrimination). The individual regional cerebral blood flow images were standardized in shape and size with the help of a computerized brain atlas. Subtraction images were determined and averaged across data from all subjects. The resulting images were analyzed for statistically significant changes between specific and reference tasks. The discrimination of form by means of motion cues activated functional fields bilaterally in the inferior and lateral occipital gyri, in the lingual, anterior cingulate, middle frontal and orbitofrontal gyri, and in the left fusiform and right inferior temporal gyri. Form discrimination by color cues resulted in activation bilaterally in the inferior temporal, lateral occipital, and orbitofrontal gyri, the left precuneus and intraparietal sulcus, and the right precentral gyrus. The regions engaged in the two kinds of form discrimination did not overlap, demonstrating that differences in visual forms mediated by color or motion cues are processed and analyzed by disparate networks of functional fields in human cerebral cortex.
The objective was to obtain detailed topographic determinations of cytochrome oxidase activity in the gerbil central auditory system at the light microscopic level. Quantitative techniques were developed using (1) tissue standards calibrated to express histochemical measures as actual enzyme activity units, (2) densitometry and image analysis of histochemical reaction product formation, (3) spectrophotometry of cytochrome oxidase activity, and (4) a cobalt-intensified staining procedure compatible with autoradiography and other techniques requiring fresh-frozen brains without perfusion-fixation. Linear relationships between incubation time, section thickness, and activity of dissected brain regions, with their reaction product measured densitometrically were determined. Auditory structures with the high activities showed about 8 times the labeling intensity of the white matter or control sections inhibited with cyanide, glutaraldehyde, or heat. This indicated the high sensitivity of the method without loss of specificity. Specific activity for each of the 18 auditory structures measured were all above the units measured for whole brain homogenates, supporting the notion that basal levels of oxidative metabolism are greater for the auditory system. There was a progressive decrement in activity from brain stem to forebrain auditory structures. The more peripheral nuclei also showed a higher proportion of somatic as compared to neuropil reactivity. In contrast, auditory midbrain and thalamocortical regions were characterized primarily by neuropil reactivity. Comparison of intrinsic patterns of activity with morphological schemes to subdivide nuclei, showed a good correspondence with classical subdivisions derived from Golgi studies. The reported activities may provide a base of normative data in the gerbil for subsequent studies of central auditory functions. The method presented fulfilled established quantitative criteria and provided a more sensitive approach for regional mapping studies of brain cytochrome oxidase activity.
Studies were undertaken to determine whether nitric oxide (NO) is involved in induction of the prolactin surge on proestrus and in that induced by ovarian steroids in ovariectomized (ovx) rats, by using inhibitors of NO synthase, the enzyme that generates NO. Two week-ovariectomized rats were treated either with estradiol benzoate (EB, 30 micrograms/rat, s.c.) alone, or with EB and 2 days later with progesterone (P, 2 mg/rat, s.c.) to evoke a prolactin surge in the afternoon. Injections of the NO synthase inhibitor Nw-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (40 mg/kg, s.c.) at 10.000, 12.00, and 14.00 h completely suppressed the steroid-induced prolactin surge in the afternoon. Similarly, another NO synthase inhibitor, Nw-nitro-L-arginine (100 mg/kg, s.c.), injected at 1000, 1200, and 1400 h on proestrus suppressed prolactin and luteinizing hormone (LH) surges, but failed to alter the daily increase of corticosterone. These studies confirm our earlier report and show that NO is involved in the complex processes that initiate the afternoon prolactin and LH surges of proestrus.
We previously reported that the level of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) alpha and beta proteins increases with postnatal age. In the present study, we investigated the developmental changes in whole protein substrates of CaM kinase II as compared with those of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (A-kinase) in the rat forebrain. Protein substrates were phosphorylated with [gamma-33P]ATP, and analysed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. More than 50 substrates for CaM kinase II were found in the soluble and particulate fractions. The phosphorylation level of more than 15 substrates increased in the particulate fraction during development. Similarly, that of more than 3 substrates increased in the soluble fraction. Some substrates for A-kinase also increased during development, although some decreased. These findings suggest that the expression of some substrates is regulated during development and that the phosphorylation reaction involves the regulation of neuronal development.
The expression of full-length trkB protein, the functional high affinity receptor for BDNF and NT-4, was examined by immunohistochemistry in adult rat L4-L5 dorsal root ganglia after different types of sciatic nerve lesions. In normal ganglia, 52.5% of the neurons showed trkB-like immunoreactivity. Size measurements demonstrated that trkB-like immunoreactivity was seen predominantly in small- and medium-sized cells. This was confirmed by the finding that 28% of all trkB-positive neurons showed affinity to RT97, an antibody which labels a neurofilament epitope specific for medium-sized and large primary afferent neurons. After crush, section or neuroma formation of the sciatic nerve, the proportion of trkB-positive cells was 64.5%, 58% and 61.9%, respectively. Since trkB-receptors are present in regenerating primary afferent neurons, these data could indicate that BDNF and/or NT-4 are involved in sensory nerve fiber regeneration after adult injury.
Studies utilizing fluorescent histochemical techniques first revealed that A13 dopaminergic (DA) perikarya located in medial zona incerta (MZI) project to various regions within the hypothalamus; accordingly, these DA neurons were designated the 'incertohypothalamic' DA neuronal system. More recently, it has been shown that the anterograde neuronal tract tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, after injection into MZI, is identified in nerve terminals outside of the hypothalamus; for example, in horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca (HDB) and central nucleus of the amygdala (cAMY). The purpose of the present study was to determine, using neurochemical techniques, if A13 DA neurons project to the HDB and cAMY. Concentrations of dopamine and one of its metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) were determined in HDB and cAMY following: (1) electrical stimulation of MZI, (2) electrolytic lesion or knife ablation of MZI, and (3) administration of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHBA) into MZI. For comparison, similar measurements were made in nucleus accumbens (N. Acc.), a terminal region of A10 DA neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Electrical stimulation of MZI increased DOPAC concentrations in HDB and cAMY, whereas electrolytic or ablative lesions of MZI decreased dopamine concentrations in both of these regions. By contrast, neither stimulation nor lesion of MZI had any effect on DOPAC or dopamine concentrations in N. Acc. Intracerebral injection of GHBA into MZI increased dopamine concentrations in MZI and HDB, but not in cAMY or N. Acc. Intracerebral administration of GHBA into VTA increased dopamine concentrations in HDB and N. Acc., but not in MZI or cAMY.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The immunohistochemical distribution of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) alpha and beta isoforms in the rat forebrain was examined by using monoclonal antibodies specific to each isoform. The present study confirmed that alpha and beta immunoreactivities are localized only in neuronal elements. At the light microscopic level, specific distribution patterns of these isoforms and staining characteristics were recognized in some regions of the forebrain as follows. Firstly, alpha-immunoreactive neurons were more homogeneously distributed throughout the cellular layers of the cerebral cortex (i.e., layers II-VI) than beta-immunoreactive ones. Secondly, neurons in the globus pallidus were immunostained by the anti-beta antibody, but not by the anti-alpha antibody. Thirdly, neurons in the medial habenular nucleus, the subthalamic nucleus and the reticular thalamic nucleus were more densely stained with the anti-beta antibody than with the anti-alpha antibody. However, marked differences were not observed in the hippocampal formation at the light microscopic level. The electron microscopic analysis of the cerebral cortex demonstrated that subcellular localizations of alpha- and beta-immunoreactive products within the cortical neurons were quite dissimilar: (i) the nucleus was stained only with the anti-alpha antibody, but not with the anti-beta antibody, and (ii) beta-immunoreactive products were more sporadically localized in the cytoplasms of the perikarya and dendrites than the alpha-immunoreactive ones. These regional and subcellular differences between the distribution patterns of alpha and beta immunoreactivities suggest the functional diversity of CaM kinase II alpha and beta isoforms in the central nervous system.
Skeletal muscle from embryonic day 20 (E20) was combined with E15 rat spinal cord in the anterior chamber of the eye of adult albino rats. The two grafts were either transplanted concomitantly or sequentially, in which case muscle tissue was added 4 months after the spinal cord. Control groups received a single graft of either spinal cord or skeletal muscle. Survival and intraocular growth were observed through the cornea. After maturation in oculo, the double grafts were examined immunohistologically utilizing antisera to neurofilament (NF) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE). The grafts were also evaluated using electrical stimulation to determine functional connectivity. The spinal cord and skeletal muscle grafts were found to exert reciprocal trophic effects on each other, evidenced as a larger muscle mass in skeletal muscle grafts allowed to develop in the presence of spinal cord tissue, and a larger volume of spinal cord grafts allowed to develop together with a skeletal muscle graft, respectively. Immunohistochemistry revealed NF-positive nerve fibers leaving the spinal cord graft and entering the muscle tissue. AChE-positive endplates developed in the muscle grafts. Electrical stimulation of the spinal cord part of double-graft combinations generally elicited contractile responses in specific areas of the muscle cograft. These results demonstrate both structural and functional connections between grafts of spinal cord and skeletal muscle tissue in vivo. The fact that such connections were also established between a mature (adult) spinal cord graft and fetal skeletal muscle tissue suggests that some alpha-motoneurons are able to survive for many months in the intraocular grafts without an appropriate target, and that they are able to subsequently innervate skeletal muscle targets.
The immunosuppressant drug FK-506 (3-20 microM) increased the open probability of ryanodine receptor calcium release channels, formed by incorporation of terminal cisternae vesicles from rabbit skeletal muscle into lipid bilayers, with cis (cytoplasmic) calcium concentrations between 10(-7) M and 10(-3) M. FK-506 increased mean current and channel open time and induced long sojourns at subconductance levels that were between 28% and 38% of the maximum conductance and were distinct from the ryanodine-induced subconductance level at about 45% of the maximum conductance. FK-506 relieved the Ca2+ inactivation of the ryanodine receptor seen at 10(-3) M Ca2+. The results are consistent with FK-506 removal of FK-506 binding protein from the ryanodine receptor.
Pain is not usually considered a symptom of chronic relapsing demyelinating polyneuropathy. We report two patients with chronic demyelinating polyneuropathies in whom clinical and electrophysiological worsening was associated with the development of deep and distressing upper limb aching discomfort. One patient had a MGUS-associated hypertrophic demyelinating and prednisone-dependent polyneuropathy, followed over a course of two and a half years. His discomfort regularly predicted electrophysiological relapse of neuropathy, before more obvious clinical signs had emerged. Resolution of the discomfort also predicted subsequent clinical and electrophysiological improvement. Upper limb pain may be an important feature of early relapse in some patients with demyelinating polyneuropathies. Standardized serial electrophysiological testing in patients with chronic demyelinating polyneuropathy can be an important management tool in conjunction with clinical signs and symptoms.
Stroke although rare in children, is an important cause of morbidity in the paediatric age group. Over a period of 8 years, 43 children (17 boys and 26 girls) in the age groups of 1-16 years (mean 8.02 yrs) presented with stroke which constituted 10% of all strokes in the young and 0.7% of all paediatric admissions. The chief clinical features were hemiplegia (86%), convulsions (27%), fever (23%), dysphasia (23%), headache (11%) and altered level of consciousness (11%). Routine laboratory tests were non-contributory. Cranial computerized tomography (CCT) on 21 patients was abnormal in 95% and was useful in revealing the extent of infarction. Infarction was confined to middle cerebral artery territory, often involving basal ganglionic structures and was associated with focal or diffuse atrophy. Angiograms were abnormal in 78% of the patients (18/23) and were complimentary to the CCT. Etiological factors identified were: Moya-moya disease 6, arteritis 5, fibromuscular dysplasia 2, scorpion sting 2, and venous sinus thrombosis and small vessel occlusion one each. Though 23% of the patients had fever at onset, no obvious evidence of systemic or CNS infection was noticed. Stroke in children continues to pose a diagnostic challenge.
Neuropathological and immunohistochemical studies were done on the brain-stem of neonates who had congenital hydrocephalus with aqueductal stenosis or Arnold-Chiari malformation (ACM). The infants with aqueductal stenosis showed heterogeneity in their clinicopathological findings while the infants with ACM were relatively similar in neuropathological findings. There were prominent astrogliosis, decreased immunoreactivity with antisera to tyrosine hydroxylase and myelin basic protein in the periaqueductal area, and an increased reactivity with antiserum to substance P in the tegmentum of most patients with aqueductal stenosis and other malformations. In ACM, there was little gliosis in the tegmentum and periaqueductal area and minimal immunoreactivity of tyrosine hydroxylase, myelin basic protein and substance P. In both groups of cases, the cells in the periaqueductal region differ in neurotransmitter/neuromodulator immunoreactivity and degree of myelination reflecting a difference possibly in their maldevelopment.
In vitro, HIV-1 infection of human fetal glial cells initiates a noncytopathic, productive infection that results in a long-term persistence during which the viral genome remains latent. The cytokines tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin 1 beta (IL-1 beta) reactivate HIV-1 gene expression in these cells, leading to production of infectious virus. Here we show that treatment of human fetal glial cells with TNF-alpha and IL-1 beta increase expression of the reporter gene chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) when placed under the control of the HIV-1 5' LTR. We also show that treatment of human fetal glial cells with TNF-alpha leads to increased binding of the nuclear transcription factor NF-kappa B (p50/p65) to a consensus kappa B-binding site present in the HIV-1 5'LTR. Our results suggest that TNF-alpha stimulation of HIV-1 gene expression in primary cultures of human fetal glial cells is mediated by an increase in binding of NF-kappa B (p50/p65) to the HIV-1 LTR. This is the first report documenting NF-kappa B-binding activity in primary cultures of human fetal glial cells.
The motivation to drink alcohol and the eventual risk of becoming addicted are in part genetically determined. Because opioid peptides are considered central to motivated behaviors, we have analyzed opioid peptides in relevant areas of the brain of two outbred lines of rats: the alcohol-preferring [Alko Alcohol (AA)] line who voluntarily drink alcohol and the alcohol-avoiding [Alko Non-Alcohol (ANA)] line with negligible intake. (Met)enkephalinArg6Phe7 (MEAP) was measured as a marker of proenkephalin, and dynorphin A, dynorphin B, and (Leu)enkephalinArg6 as markers of the prodynorphin system. The major line differences and effects of alcohol intake were observed in mesolimbic brain areas. The mesolimbic dopamine pathway, which projects from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens, is central in the reward system. Basal levels of MEAP and dynorphin peptides were low in the nucleus accumbens of AA rats, whereas (Leu)enkephalinArg6 levels were lower in the VTA of these rats. Alcohol drinking caused MEAP levels in the accumbens to rise, but had no effect on prodynorphin peptides. Opioids also influence the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway. However, this study showed no significant differences for any peptide between rat lines, or effect of alcohol intake, in either substantia nigra or striatum, except for a decrease of nigral and striatal (Leu)enkephalinArg6 levels in alcohol-drinking AA rats. Large line differences were observed in the pituitary gland. AA rats had high basal levels of MEAP, which became even higher after voluntary alcohol consumption for 4 weeks, and low levels of dynorphin peptides, not affected by alcohol drinking.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram (40 mg daily dose) on alcohol intake was investigated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over study. Thirty men with heavy alcohol consumption (mean daily alcohol intake 111 +/- 51 g pure alcohol) completed the study. After a 2-week baseline period, subjects were randomly allocated to treatment with either citalopram or placebo for 5 weeks. In the total sample of heavy drinkers, no difference was found between citalopram and placebo treatment in alcohol consumption or days of abstinence. However, the response to citalopram was negatively correlated (rs = -0.67, p &lt; 0.01) with baseline levels of mean daily alcohol intake. Therefore, we divided the total sample into two subgroups with baseline mean daily alcohol intake above and below median (107 g pure alcohol), respectively. In the group with the higher baseline values (138 +/- 25 g pure alcohol), citalopram was not different from placebo in reducing the daily alcohol intake, but in subjects with the lower baseline values (85 +/- 15 g pure alcohol), citalopram was significantly (p &lt; 0.01) superior to placebo. Consequently, citalopram at the present dose appears capable of reducing alcohol intake only in a subgroup of heavy drinkers with a mean daily consumption of between 60 and 100 g pure alcohol.
We examined the brains of 37 leprosy patients (mean age, 76.3 +/- 7.8 years), 5 patients with Alzheimer-type dementia (mean age, 79.0 +/- 9.5 years), and 23 age-matched non-dementia controls (mean age, 77.6 +/- 5.4 years). The frequency of beta-amyloid (A beta)-positive cases was lower (27.0%) in leprosy patients (n = 37) than in controls (47.8%; P = 0.05, Z = 1.49). When senile plaque subtypes were examined, type III (classical) plaques were significantly fewer (P &lt; 0.05) in leprosy subjects compared with controls. Interestingly, neurofibrillary tangles in the temporal cortex were much more frequent in leprosy patients than in controls (P &lt; 0.05). However, hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons in leprosy patients were well preserved. These data indicate that 1) leprosy patients have a low risk of A beta deposition but a high risk of abnormal tau deposition, 2) abnormal tau deposition is unrelated to A beta deposition in leprosy, and 3) neuronal loss is unrelated to abnormal tau deposition. It is not clear at present whether the result is related to the disease process itself, antileprosy treatment, environmental factors, or the genetic background in leprosy patients.
The present study examined the hypothesis that hypovolemia stimulates vasopressin (VP) secretion by removing tonic inhibitory baroreceptor input. Serial hemorrhage (4 samples of 2 ml/300 g body wt taken every 10 min) increased plasma VP levels in conscious rats devoid of cardiac and arterial baroreceptor reflex responses due to chronic bilateral lesions of nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). The VP response to hemorrhage was similar to that seen in control rats and chronic sinoaortic-denervated (SAD) rats. After subcutaneous injection of 30% polyethylene glycol, NTS-lesioned rats, SAD rats, and control rats had elevated VP levels that correlated with the induced depletion of plasma volume. Additionally, in alpha-chloralose-anesthetized control rats, chronic SAD rats, and chronic NTS-lesioned rats, bilateral vagotomy had minimal effects on basal VP levels, and vagotomy in chronic NTS-lesioned rats did not prevent hemorrhage-evoked increases in VP secretion. These results do not support the idea that hemorrhage-induced VP secretion occurs through reduction in tonic inhibitory baroreceptor input. Instead, neither cardiac nor arterial baroreceptor input appears to be necessary for hypovolemia-induced VP secretion in rats.
Sinoaortic denervation in the rat is associated with an increased sensitivity of vasopressin neurons in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) to peripheral angiotensin II (ANG II). Lesion studies have indicated that the diagonal band of Broca (DBB) and the perinuclear zone of the SON in the lateral hypothalamus (PNZ) are essential components in the central pathway for the baroreceptor inhibition of vasopressin SON neurons. The present study examined the effect of ibotenate lesions in either the DBB or the lateral hypothalamus, which includes the PNZ, on the responses of SON neurons to peripherally administered ANG II (500 pmol/kg ia). Extracellular recordings obtained from vasopressin SON neurons in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats indicate that DBB and PNZ lesions not only interrupted the baroreceptor-mediated inhibition of SON neurons but also significantly increased the excitatory effects of ANG II on putative vasopressin SON neurons. These results suggest that ibotenate lesions of the DBB and the lateral hypothalamus that include the PNZ affect the ANG II-induced activation of putative vasopressin SON neurons in a manner consistent with results obtained from baroreceptor-denervated rats.
Although normally a mixed nerve, intracranially the vagus separates into dorsal rootlets that contain afferent axons and ventral rootlets that contain efferents. Surgical procedures are described for exposing the ventral surface of the occipital bone at the level where the vagus passes through the posterior lacerated foramen. When the foramen is expanded medially and the dura lanced, the intracranial course of the vagus can be observed by use of an operating microscope. Under these conditions, either the efferent or the afferent rootlets can be severed selectively. When the dorsal rootlets are divided and the contralateral trunk is cut below the diaphragm, a selective bilateral subdiaphragmatic afferent vagotomy is produced with unilateral sparing of the efferents. Cutting the efferents intracranially has the converse effect.
We previously reported that even though virtually all human colon cancers were positive for IGF-I receptors, only 50% responded to growth effects of insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I (1-100 nM). The present studies were undertaken to determine whether expression and secretion of IGFs (IGF-I, IGF-II) and IGF-binding proteins (BPs; 1-6) were perhaps different in IGF-responsive (COLO 205, COLO 320, Caco-2) and IGF-nonresponsive (HCT 116, HT-29, DLD-1) cells. Several bands (2.0-6.0 kb) of IGF-II mRNA transcripts were detected in all the cell lines; none expressed IGF-I. Significant concentrations of IGF-II (0.2-0.9 ng/10(6) cells) were measured in the conditioned media (CM) of the cells. All cell lines expressed BP2 and/or BP4 mRNA and secreted BP4 (24 kDa) and/or BP2 (32.5 kDa); BP1 was not detected in any cell line. Interestingly, BP3 mRNA was measured only in the responsive cell lines. The relative concentration of total BPs tended to be higher in the CM of nonresponsive cells. Interestingly, a large concentration of 44- to 48-kDa BP (BP3?) was associated with the membranes of only the responsive cell lines. Our present studies thus demonstrate that human colon cancers do not secrete IGF-I and BP1. Of all the IGF-related factors examined, the quantity and the type of BPs expressed by the human colon cancer cell lines (especially BP2, BP4, and BP3) may significantly dictate the growth response of the cells to exogenous IGF-I.
Subcutaneous involvement by the larval stages of the pork tapeworm Taenia solium in patients suffering from neurocysticercosis (neurocysticercosis) is well-described. It has been a clinical but undocumented impression that subcutaneous nodules are less common in cases of neurocysticercosis in Latin American than in Africa or Asia. We report on the absence of subcutaneous nodules found in a screened population of 2,891 residents of an Andean village in Ecuador with a prevalence rate for neurocysticercosis of 144 per thousand. Thirty-four patients with multiple intracranial calcifications and or cystic or encephalitic parenchymal lesions of neurocysticercosis were examined and questioned about subcutaneous nodules. Only one patient described nodules and this computed tomography plain films are presented. Several hypotheses are presented as to why nodules may be less common in this Andean community with a high prevalence of neurocysticercosis.
The effects of an acute and high dose of palm alcohol (900 mg/kg bodyweight) on brain functioning were investigated in 10 healthy, non-alcoholic men. Each was given randomly-interspaced, paired, frequent standard (80%) and rare target auditory stimuli and asked to detect and signal the target tone by pressing a push button. These brain function tests were carried out before (control) and 1 and 4 h after the subjects began drinking the alcohol. During each experimental session, late, event-related-potential (ERP) components were recorded at the central midline scalp location (Cz). At both times after alcoholization, contingent negative variations and late auditory ERP were lower than those recorded during the control session. Maximal amplitude reduction for N1 and P3 waves was seen 240 min after ingesting alcohol. Reaction times were not significantly longer than those recorded pre-alcoholization but performances were lower at both times post-alcoholization. The results are consistent with the ERP changes reported in subjects under acute ethanol intoxication but they are more pronounced and probably reflect a momentary disruption of central processes rather than sensory impairment at the peripheral level.
Although there have been a number of experimental studies of temporomandibular joint loading, the precise relation between condylar load and condylar strain is incompletely understood. This in vitro study determined the magnitudes and directions of the principal components of strain on the four surfaces of the condylar process of human cadaver mandibles during loading with selected simulated muscle forces, with simultaneous measurement of occlusal and joint forces. Rosette strain gauges were placed on each of the four surfaces and the mandibles were loaded by a load cell to simulate the action of the masseter and medial pterygoid muscles. Force and strain values were measured at five different bite positions and nine different positions of the resultant muscle force. Forces and strain values were highest when the resultant muscle force was closest to the joint and the bite position was furthest from the joint. The ratios of bite force to joint force and the ratios of forces between the two joints conformed to theoretical predictions of many previous models, with the balancing-side joint being loaded more heavily than the working-side joint. At all gauge positions the maximum principal strain was tensile, the minimum principal strain was compressive, and the absolute strain values were correlated with the magnitude of the force on the condyle. However, under the chosen loading regimen, the ratio of compressive to tensile strain differed among the four surfaces. The highest levels of tensile strain occurred on the anterior and lateral surfaces and the highest compressive strain occurred on the posterior surface.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purpose of the experiments was to determine if steroid hormone treatments would attenuate the effect of the muscarinic receptor blocker scopolamine on a memory task. Ovariectomized rats were trained first to alternate for food reward between the arms of a T maze. Following training, females treated with scopolamine hydrobromide (0.2 mg/kg ip) did not alternate correctly between the arms of the T maze and responded at chance levels. However, when estradiol benzoate (25 micrograms) was administered 72, 48, and 24 hr before testing alone or in combination with progesterone (500 micrograms) administered 4-6 hr before testing, females alternated successfully between the arms of the T maze following scopolamine administration. Results indicate that gonadal steroids can completely counteract the impairment of T maze performance induced by scopolamine in female rats.
This study examined the effects of lesions of the prelimbic area of the rat prefrontal cortex on acquisition and retention of nonmatching (NMTS) and matching-to-sample (MTS) tasks. Both tasks involved a reference and a working memory component, but only working memory was impaired by the lesions. A comparison of the 2 tasks revealed quantitatively similar deficits in postoperatively trained rats. In preoperatively trained rats, however, the deficits were more important in the MTS task than in the NMTS task. In addition, an effect of interference between successive trials was observed in the NMTS task but not in the MTS task. Perseverative tendencies were observed in the MTS task only. These results suggest that prefrontal lesions induce working memory deficits as a result of poor temporal encoding and increased susceptibility to interference and impair effortful processing, such as that engaged in response selection mechanisms.
Parametric manipulations of the task demand were used to examine the role of the hippocampus and amygdala in nonspatial and spatial working memory in rats. Hippocampal lesions produced an immediate and long-lasting impairment of nonspatial working memory in an operant task. The memory deficits increased as the delay interval and the amount of proactive interference increased. Hippocampal lesions severely impaired spatial working memory in spatial alternation. Extensive postoperative testing reduced the magnitude of impairment of nonspatial but not spatial working memory. Amygdaloid lesions did not impair any aspect of performance in 2 tasks. The results suggest that the hippocampus, but not the amygdala, is involved in working memory and the task demand is a critical determinant for observing impairments of nonspatial working memory following hippocampal lesions.
The researchers argue that a previous computational account of hippocampal region function in associative learning (M. Gluck &amp; C. Myers, 1993) has emergent implications that accurately describe the role of the hippocampal region in contextual processing. This article unifies 2 seemingly conflicting views of contextual processing: It accords contextual cues no special representational status (e.g., R. Rescorla &amp; A. Wagner, 1972), yet it also allows context to stand in a superordinate relationship to the cues it contains (e.g., L. Nadel &amp; J. Willner, 1980). As a result, the account correctly expects that context can develop occasion-setting properties and that context shifts can weaken learned responses or attenuate latent inhibition. The article also explains data suggesting that hippocampal lesions reduce contextual sensitivity. It may help unify several previous theoretical accounts of the hippocampal region's role in contextual processing.
Gaucher disease (GD) is an inherited deficiency of beta-glucocerebrosidase (EC 3.1.2.45, gene symbol GBA). In type I GD, the CNS is not involved (nonneuronopathic), whereas in type II GD (acute neuronopathic) CNS involvement is early and rapidly progressive, while in type III GD (subacute neuronopathic) CNS involvement occurs later and is slowly progressive. The T6433C (L444P) substitution is prevalent in type GD II. It may occur alone as a single base-pair mutation but often is found as part of a complex allele containing additional GBA nucleotide substitutions, G6468C (A456P) and G6482C (V460V), without (recNciI) or with (recTL) G5957C (D409H). This complex allele is presumed to have formed by recombination (crossover, fusion) of the structural gene with the pseudogene, which contains the mutated sequences. Two complex alleles have never been demonstrated to coexist in any individual. We devised a selective PCR method for the specific amplification of the normal and/or fusion gene. Using this procedure we demonstrated the fusion gene in homozygous form for the first time, in a Macedonian/Ashkenazi Jewish GD type II fetus. Both parents were carriers of the recombination. This was confirmed by direct sequence analysis. A previous conceptus in this family was stillborn at 36 weeks, with features of severe type II GD. Neonates showing a severe clinical phenotype, analogous to the early neonatal lethal disease occurring in mice homozygous for a null allele produced by targeted disruption of GBA, have been described elsewhere, but the specific mutations in these cases have not yet been characterized.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The relation between pretreatment night-time urinary catecholamine excretion and chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting was studied. The first cohort included 17 women and three men with various cancer forms receiving low or moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. The second cohort included 42 women receiving cisplatinum (50 mg m-2) for ovarian cancer and ondansetron as an antiemetic (8 mg i.v. x 3 at chemotherapy and 8 mg p.o. x 3 for 5 days). Relatively higher noradrenaline, but not adrenaline, excretion was associated with an increased intensity of delayed nausea following treatment. Vomiting was not consistently related to the excretion of either catecholamine. The results indicate that noradrenaline modulates delayed nausea resulting from chemotherapy.
1. The ability of lifarizine (RS-87476) to block human voltage-sensitive Na+ channel currents was studied by use of whole cell patch clamp recording from differentiated neuroblastoma cells (SH-SY5Y). 2. The Na+ conductance in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells (24.0 +/- 2.4 nS, n = 11) was half-maximally activated by 10 ms depolarizations to -37 +/- 2 mV and was half-maximally inactivated by predepolarizing pulses of 200 ms duration to -86 +/- 3 mV (n = 11). 3. At low stimulus frequencies (0.1 to 0.33 Hz) voltage-dependent sodium currents were completely blocked, in a concentration-dependent manner, by extracellular application of either tetrodotoxin (EC50 = 4 +/- 1 nM, n = 12) or by lifarizine (EC50 = 783 +/- 67 nM, n = 9). The onset of block by lifarizine (tau = 91 +/- 14 s at 10 microM) was considerably slower than that of tetrodotoxin (tau = 16 +/- 3 s at 100 nM). 4. Lifarizine (1 microM) reduced the peak sodium conductance in each cell (from 26.4 +/- 2.0 nS to 15.1 +/- 2.7 nS, n = 4) without changing the macroscopic kinetics of sodium current activation or inactivation (V1/2 = -35 1 mV and -87 +/- 4 mV respectively, n = 4). Similarly, lifarizine (1 microM) did not affect the reversal potential of the macroscopic sodium current (+14 +/- 5 mV in control and +16 +/- 2 mV in 1 microM lifarizine; n = 4) or reactivation time-constant (tau = 14.0 +/- 4.4 ms). 5. Block of the sodium channel open state by tetrodotoxin (30 nM) did not prevent the inhibition caused by a subsequent application of lifarizine (3 micro M). In contrast the depression caused by lifarizinewas readily reversible after pretreatment of cells with the local anaesthetic, lignocaine (1O mM).6. These data demonstrate that lifarizine is a use- and voltage-dependent antagonist of human voltage sensitive sodium currents. The slow kinetics and pharmacology of the block by lifarizine indicate that access of this drug to the channel is more restricted than that of tetrodotoxin and may involve an allosteric site or state of the channel that is also regulated by local anaesthetics.
The management of thrombosis in stroke requires that several questions be answered concerning the diagnosis, aetiology, identification of problems, general and specific aspects of care, and prevention of further vascular events. Stroke is a clinical diagnosis, but cranial computed tomography (CT) scanning is required where there is diagnostic uncertainty or cerebral haemorrhage must be excluded. No specific medical therapies are of proven benefit in acute stroke but several large trials are currently evaluating promising antithrombotic therapies (antiplatelet, anticoagulant and thrombolytic agents). Aspirin has a proven role in the prevention of further vascular events after a stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA). In stroke and TIA patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation, warfarin is highly effective at preventing recurrent events. The risk of recurrent stroke in patients with a symptomatic, severe carotid artery stenosis is greatly reduced by endarterectomy.
We recently produced four lines of transgenic mice bearing a 34 kb DNA fragment that includes the human gene coding for the neurofilament heavy (NF-H) chain. Analysis of the NF-H transgenics revealed an increase in human NF-H mRNA and protein that parallels the increase in gene copy number, providing the first example of a transgene with copy-dependent expression in neurons. In addition, expression of the human NF-H transgene is induced post-natally following a developmental pattern similar to the endogenous mouse NF-H gene.
Differential regulation of individual neurotrophins by impulse activity potentially allows transformation of instantaneous signalling into diverse, long-lasting neural alterations. To define the temporal profiles of trophin gene expression we examined nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNAs in dissociated cell cultures of rat hippocampus using an improved solution hybridization technique. Traditional methods lack the precision and sensitivity to detect small changes during brief intervals and the facility to process large sample numbers simultaneously. This improved method has now allowed us to better define the dynamics of depolarization-induced changes in expression of individual trophin genes. Using elevated K+ as a depolarizing stimulus, NGF mRNA increased 40% after 48 h. In contrast, BDNF message rose almost 4-fold within 3 h and attained a maximal 6-fold increase within 6 h. Similar increases in BDNF mRNA levels were exhibited following treatment of cultures with glutamate, an excitatory neurotransmitter. To document the sensitivity of BDNF mRNA to depolarizing conditions, we examined expression after K+ withdrawal. BDNF message began decreasing within one hour post-depolarization, and returned to basal levels after 6 h. Observations indicate that BDNF and NGF mRNAs are induced differentially in response to impulse activity; BDNF message is acutely responsive to ongoing changes, whereas NGF mRNA responds more slowly and sluggishly. The physiological implications of this differential regulation are discussed.
Glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has recently been cloned and shown to have trophic effects on dopaminergic nigral neurons. However, GDNF mRNA has not been detected in striatum or other forebrain areas of adult rat. Using limbic motor status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine to activate neurons in motor and limbic areas, we now demonstrate GDNF mRNA signals in the striatum, hippocampus and cortex using in situ hybridisation. The finding of GDNF mRNA in the stimulated striatum opens the possibility that GDNF may be a target-derived, trophic factor in the nigro-striatal system. This expression of GDNF mRNA may be linked to excitatory cortical input. Increases in GDNF mRNA after status epilepticus in hippocampus and neocortex indicate additional roles for GDNF.
Brain Electromagnetic Topography (BET) has attained widespread use. The representation of EEG or MEG parameters as scalp maps (BETm) aids its clinical interpretation. However, some critical issues limit the usefulness of BETm. In particular, the conventional statistical assessment of BETm with respect to normative data is based upon marginal significance probability scales which involve multiple univariate comparisons (one at each recording site). As a consequence, the probability of false positive findings (type I error) is increased above its nominal level. The use of conservative levels avoids this phenomenon but results in a considerable increase of the probability of not detecting real abnormality (type II error). Furthermore, BETm are constructed without taking into consideration the patterns of correlations characteristic of electromagnetic data under normal states of brain functioning. This limits the capability of BETm of representing multivariate aspects of abnormality. This paper introduces some techniques to approach these difficulties. Multivariate Brain Electromagnetic Topographic maps (MBETm) are defined, which retain the attractive features of mapping but also take advantage of multivariate characteristics (in the spatial and frequency domains) to highlight aspects of neuropathology. Moreover, simultaneous significance probability (SSP) scales, valid for both BETm and MBETm, are introduced for the global control of the probability of a type I error. The use of these techniques is illustrated with data from patients with cortical tumours and with epilepsy. ROC analysis shows that in some cases there is a significant improvement in both detection and localization accuracy.
Child and adolescent psychiatry has evolved into its present form through a series of crises over the past 75 years. The current challenge posed by health care reform represents the next developmental opportunity for this subspecialty. The author presents a brief summary of these crises, an overview of other forces affecting practice, and a possible model of adaptive approaches to these dilemmas. He concludes that there is every expectation that the field will mature further in response to this newest crisis.
Psychological and biological components of psychiatric illness must be integrated to avoid the perils of reductionism in diagnosis and treatment. With the decline of dualism, a number of creative thinkers have conceptualized the mind-body problem in a manner that values perspectives derived from psychoanalytic thinking as well as from the neurosciences. Similarly, modern studies of the etiology and pathogenesis of major psychiatric disorders suggest that only through a sophisticated synthesis of psychosocial and genetic/biochemical points of view can causation be comprehensively understood. In light of this accumulating knowledge, the author concludes that treatment must be informed by psychotherapeutic approaches as well as by pharmacotherapy.

1. Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) internally labeled with biotin or digoxigenin were injected into the lateral ventricle of rats and the distribution of the labeled ODNs was examined at several timepoints following the intracerebroventricular (icv) injections. The stability of these injected antisense ODNs, which had no backbone modifications, was also studied by performing recovery experiments. 2. The most intense labeling was observed near the injection site, in periventricular areas, and in perivascular regions. Many of the labeled cells appeared to be neurons, and both the cytoplasm and the nuclei were stained. The labeled cells were detected 15 min after icv injection, demonstrating that the antisense ODNs were taken up rapidly by cells in the parenchyma. The digoxigeninated antisense ODNs were presented in both the cytoplasmic and the nuclear fractions of rat brain extracts, however, the levels appeared to be much lower in the nuclear fractions. 3. Antisense ODNs injected into the lateral ventricle seemed to follow the bulk flow of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), i.e., from the injection site in the lateral ventricle, through the ventricular system, to the subarachnoid spaces and the perivascular spaces. From the ventricular and perivascular spaces, the antisense ODNs diffused into the extracellular space and were taken up by cells. The full-length digoxigeninated antisense ODNs were detectable within cells after only 15 min, indicating their rapid uptake. In addition, the antisense ODNs appeared to be relatively stable in the brain since the full-length digoxigeninated ODNs were still detectable after 4 hr.
We describe the case report of a migraine sufferer who developed ergotamine-induced headache and subsequently replaced ergotamine with daily sumatriptan (100 mg p.o.). The features of the headache were unchanged except for the presence of superimposed migraine-like headaches that occurred every 24 h.
Weakness, easy fatiguing, and lack of endurance are commonly perceived by patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Although the slowed motor repertoire in PD may underlie these experiences, other abnormalities in skeletal muscle utilization also may be involved. We investigated whether an index of metabolic efficiency during a continuous exercise task, the latency until anaerobic threshold (AT), is altered by L-DOPA (LD). While pedalling a bicycle ergometer against a uniform workload, subjects were monitored for expired O2 and CO2. As compared to an unmedicated state, LD treatment delayed AT by a mean (+/-SE) of 5.67 +/- 0.89 to 6.62 +/- 1.23 min (p &lt; 0.05), paired t test). Subjects did not differ in their perceived exertion upon reaching AT. With relief of parkinsonism by LD, the efficiency of energy utilization is also increased in exercised skeletal muscle.
Epilepsy and CNS injury identify a heterogenous group of diseases, many of which exhibit refractoriness (e.g., the partial epilepsies) to established drug therapy or, as in the case of brain and spinal cord injuries of variable etiologies, remain a formidable target for successful drug development. As such, the search for safe, effective antiepileptic and neuroprotective drugs continues. Although several CNS targets have been identified for drug development, especially the excitatory amino acid receptors, free-radical systems, gangliosides, and nitric oxide, etc., the opioid system and its diversity of receptors have, until recently, received little attention. This review attempts to focus on one opioid system, namely the kappa receptor class of opioid ligands, specifically addressing the potential anticonvulsant and neuroprotective properties of the arylacetamide series of kappa opioid analgesics as novel pharmacotherapeutic approaches to the treatment of epilepsy, stroke, or trauma related brain or spinal cord injury.
Felbamate, 2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol dicarbamate, is an antiepileptic drug recently approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration. It has a novel mechanism of action whereby it may decrease excitation by inhibiting glycine binding at the NMDA receptor, and it appears to have neuroprotective properties in addition to antiepileptic ones. A number of animal models have demonstrated felbamate to have a broad range of efficacy as well as a favorable safety profile. In humans it has been potentially linked to some cases of aplastic anemia. It is effective in the treatment of partial and secondarily generalized tonic-clonic seizures as well as seizures associated with the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, especially drop attacks. It may also be effective against atypical absence as well as other seizure types. Felbamate monotherapy is generally well tolerated, with such side effects as insomnia and anorexia occurring most commonly. Felbamate shows great promise as a useful antiepileptic drug, but its role in clinical practice awaits further investigation of recently reported cases of aplastic anemia.
EPEXS is an expert system for evoked potential analysis and interpretation (a medical examination performed in clinical neurophysiology laboratories), working from available clinical records and numerical data extracted from evoked potential traces. EPEXS integrates two formalisms of knowledge representation: rules and structured objects. The rules represent the elementary concepts (shallow knowledge) and include a model of possibility based on the Dubois and Prade default reasoning and possibility theory. The structured objects (prototypes) are organized as hierarchical taxonomies (underlying knowledge). These allow the description of both the objects and their relationships. The heuristics used to interpret knowledge are based on two hypotheses: the unicity of the pathological process leading to several given symptoms and the progression from the general to the specific, leading to the adoption or rejection of a class of diagnoses. This avoids the problem of the differential diagnosis. These sources of knowledge are used in a dynamical way that could be described as a four-step process: acquisition of clinical data in order to define the nosological frame of the pathology, production of hypotheses about the nature and topography of lesions, interpretation of data in accordance with these hypotheses, and finally evaluation of their likelihood. The validation shows that EPEXS topographic diagnoses were correct in 100% of cases and 92% of it nosologic diagnoses were correct, and no pathological record was interpreted as normal. When examined on a given pathology basis EPEXS was not significantly different from human experts as regards to performance, specificity, and sensitivity.
The project's aim is to develop a dedicated workstation in order to process multiple channels of electrophysiological signals in real-time during sleep. In ESPIS we are aiming to define both an architecture and an environment for EEG signal interpretation in medicine based on computer science gold standards (Unix, XWindow, Motif). Signal processing and pattern recognition analysis are provided by parallel processing on a specific developed acquisition architecture (DSP) based on transputers. The main result is a high performance prototype demonstrating signal interpretation during sleep which has already been tested in a medical environment. The overall specifications allow this biomedical device to be extended to other types of medical signals.
The ability to transplant an unlimited supply of clonally related neural progenitors that, in the brain, have the capacity to differentiate into neurons and glia in an anatomically and, perhaps, functionally appropriate manner, may not only facilitate developmental inquiries, but may also circumvent the limitations of primary fetal tissue for neural transplantation. These types of transplants also make possible new strategies for gene therapy and repair of the CNS, including replacement of degenerated cells, engineering donor cells to be resistant to toxins, delivery of missing metabolic or other gene products, over-expression of molecules, and substitution of alternate metabolic pathways.
The use of gene transfer techniques to express novel proteins within different cellular populations has provided insights into the function and plasticity of the brain. Recently, this technique has been successfully used to explore physiological processes within the CNS and to intervene in neurodegenerative disease and cancer. Progress in manipulating transgene products in vivo and in achieving cell-specific targeting of genetic material offers promise for enhancing the usefulness of this technique and its therapeutic potential for treating human disorders of the CNS.
The various neurotrophic factors influence a wide range of cell functions in the developing, mature and injured nervous system. Recent studies have provided valuable insights on the receptors that mediate these effects and on the intracellular events that follow the binding of the ligand. Although growth factors were known to be expressed by non-neuronal cells in the targets and pathways of neuronal projections, it is now clear that the neurons themselves can also be a source of these molecules. A better understanding of the mechanisms of action of trophic factors on the survival and differentiation of neurons, coupled with advances in methods for the delivery of these molecules to the nervous system have provided an impetus for exploring their use as aids to the protection and regeneration of the injured nervous system.
The past year has seen widespread confirmation that the epsilon 4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene is a major risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. The epsilon 4 allele also appears to correlate with life expectancy. This allele has been found to be present in over 50% of Alzheimer patients, regardless of whether or not they have a family history of dementia. It is not yet clear how the epsilon 4 allele mediates its actions; however, recent evidence suggests that apolipoprotein E4 may be responsible for the accelerated formation of beta-pleated amyloid from soluble beta-amyloid peptide, as is seen in the neuritic plaques of Alzheimer patients, as well as interacting with intraneuronal microtubular transport mechanisms.
Recent advances in the identification of factors that inhibit axon extension lead us to suggest that there exist at least two functionally distinct categories of inhibitory factors: those that inhibit the motile apparatus of the growth cone, and those that destabilize interactions of the growth cone with the substratum. These two types of inhibitory factors could play an important role in growth cone guidance.
A variety of soluble growth factors influence the peripheral nervous system. Although of considerable importance during development and growth, they appear also to be implicated in tissue maintenance in adult life and, particularly, during nerve regeneration. In addition, cell-surface and extracellular connective tissue matrix molecules are intimately involved in regeneration. So far, the possible participation of such growth factors in the causation of diabetic neuropathy is only speculative, but there are indications that their use could be of value in treatment.
Auditory event-related potentials (ERPs) and especially the mismatch negativity component (MMN) were examined in 14 dysphasic and 12 normal children (aged 7-13). The ERPs were elicited by sine tone stimuli using the passive oddball paradigm and short ISI (350 msec). We measured the peak latency and peak amplitude of MMN responses to frequency (500/553 Hz) and duration (50/110 msec or 50/500 msec) differences. In the dysphasic group the peak amplitude of the frequency MMN was significantly attenuated. The duration MMN showed a significant difference between the two groups only for stimuli with highly contrasting values (50/500 msec). In normal subjects we found a negative correlation between the peak latency of the frequency MMN and age. The maturational changes of long-latency ERPs were non-significant in dysphasic children. Evidence of differences in hemispheric asymmetry between the two groups was observed.
NADPH-diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemistry was combined with estrogen receptor (ER) immunohistochemistry in order to study effect of estrogen on NADPH-d activity and establish an anatomical relationship between NADPH-d and ER-immunoreactivity (ir) containing neurons in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMN). Gonadectomized female and male rats received either oil (control group) or 10 micrograms of estradiol benzoate (EB) for two successive days and were sacrificed on day 4. While NADPH-d histochemistry stained a specific subpopulation of neurons in the ventrolateral portion of the VMN of all groups, there was a marked sex difference in the effect of EB treatment. EB elevated the number of NADPH-d positive neurons in females but had no significant effect in males. Double-labeling histochemistry revealed that more than 70% of the NADPH-d positive neurons contained ER-ir in the VMN of all groups, with EB-treated females having a significantly higher frequency than all other groups. Since neuronal NADPH-d is nitric oxide synthase (NOS), these results provide anatomical evidence for an association of estrogen with NOS in the rat VMN and suggest that NOS activity can be modulated by estradiol in estrogen sensitive neurons.
beta-Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a 26-kilodalton protein that may have a broader distribution and set of functions than its name implies. Its functions are now linked to both the neuroendocrine and the immune systems. NGF immunoreactivity has been found in specific cell types in the anterior pituitary (AP) gland. The purpose of this study was to characterize further the NGF activity in AP cells, learn if it can be secreted, and determine the factors that may control secretion. NGF bioactivity was detected with assays of neurite outgrowth in PC12 tumor cells, and immunoreactivity was detected by an enzyme-linked immunoassay. AP cells secreted both bioactive and immunoreactive NGF at basal levels in vitro. In the enzyme-linked immunoassay, the anti-NGF recognized 2.5S NGF at a concentration of 0.10 pM, but it did not recognize brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), or NT-4, at concentrations as high as 10 nM. AP cells cultured for 6 days at 10(5) cells/200 microliters in DME plus 10% fetal calf serum secreted 1.5 +/- 0.16 pM NGF. Tests of substances that might regulate NGF secretion showed that interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) at a concentration of 1 nM caused up to a 2.5 fold increase in NGF secretion. In addition, GH releasing hormone, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, basic fibroblast growth factor, and forskolin all caused an inhibition of NGF secretion below basal levels. The evidence demonstrates the presence and secretion of authentic NGF from AP cells. The fact that secretion is enhanced by IL-1 beta suggests that AP NGF may be a regulatory factor in the neuroendocrine-immune circuit.
beta-Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) is a 26-kilodalton protein that has, in recent years, been discovered to have functions beyond that of its classical neurotrophic actions. It has been linked to both the neuroendocrine and the immune systems, and NGF-like bio- and immunoreactivities have been found in the anterior pituitary (AP) gland. The purpose of this study was to assay for NGF immunoreactivity in the AP and to identify the cell type(s) by their hormone content. We also wanted to determine if the AP was a target for NGF action, by looking for the p75 (low affinity) and gp140trkA (high affinity) NGF receptors. Immunoreactivity was detected by immunolabeling with the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex protocol. Immunolabelling showed NGF immunoreactivity in 31 +/- 5% of AP cells. For the NGF receptors, we found that AP cells were p75 negative, but gp140trkA positive (23 +/- 2%). We found NGF immunoreactivity in 10% of cells containing ACTH, 64% of cells with TSH, 75% of cells with LH, 51% of cells containing GH, and 42% of cells with PRL antigens. Expression of gp140trkA immunoreactivity was also found in 33% of ACTH-containing cells, 45% of TSH-containing cells, 44% of LH-containing cells, 23% of cells with GH, and 41% of cells containing PRL. This evidence demonstrates the presence of NGF immunoreactivity in specific hormone-containing AP cells that contain hormones. The presence of gp140trkA receptors suggests that some of these cells could be targets for NGF action, possibly through autocrine or paracrine pathways.
The importance of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha) in female reproductive development was assessed using transgenic mice bearing a human TGF alpha complementary DNA under the control of a mouse metallothionein-1 promoter (MT1-hTGF alpha). Examination of the brain and ovaries 5 h after a single sc injection of zinc chloride, administered to activate the MT1-hTGF alpha transgene, revealed that prominent sites of human TGF alpha messenger RNA expression within these tissues were the hypothalamus and ovarian follicles, respectively. In vitro experiments showed that acute transgene activation increased hypothalamic release of LH-releasing hormone. In contrast, the ovarian steroidal response to gonadotropins, examined in vitro, was markedly attenuated. Chronic activation of transgene expression by daily administration of zinc chloride delayed the time of first estrus (an index of peripubertal estrogen secretion), but shortened the interval between first estrus and the onset of estrous cyclicity (an index of reproductive competence). Accumulation of small antral follicles, accompanied by thecal hypertrophy and enhanced androgen production, preceded the acquisition of ovulatory capacity. These changes were accompanied by reduced serum LH levels, suggesting that the relative inability of small antral follicles to develop further in TGF alpha-overexpressing mice is at least in part due to inappropriate gonadotropin support. Serum LH levels in these animals may be reduced by an augmented androgen negative feedback signal. Nontransgenic mouse ovaries, placed under the control of a transgenic hypothalamus by heterologous grafting, rapidly ovulated and initiated estrous cyclicity. In contrast, acquisition of reproductive capacity was severely delayed in nontransgenic mice bearing transgenic ovarian grafts. The results indicate that TGF alpha regulates female reproductive development through two opposing mechanisms: within the brain, it facilitates the neuroendocrine activation of the process; at the ovarian level, modulates the stimulatory effect of gonadotropin hormones on follicular growth and steroidogenesis.
An open-field provocation, in front of an ordinary TV set, of 2 patients regarding themselves as suffering from skin problems due to work at video display terminals (VDTs) is presented. Using immunohistochemistry, in combination with a wide range of antisera directed towards cellular and neurochemical markers, we were able to show a high-to-very high number of somatostatin-immunoreactive dendritic cells as well as histamine-positive mast cells in skin biopsies from the anterior neck taken before the start of the provocation. At the end of the provocation the number of mast cells was unchanged; however, the somatostatin-positive cells had seemingly disappeared. The reason for this latter findings is discussed in terms of loss of immunoreactivity, increase of breakdown, etc. The high number of mast cells present may explain the clinical symptoms of itch, pain, edema and erythema. Naturally, in view of the present public debate, the observed results are highly provocative and, we believe, have to be taken seriously.
The objective of the present investigation was to determine if baseline glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression and the increases in GFAP expression induced by chronic constriction of the sciatic nerve were modified by the specific N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801. Changes in immunohistochemical staining densities of GFAP within the L4 spinal cord were quantified and compared in three groups of animals: (1) nonneuropathic rats, (2) nondrug-treated neuropathic rats, and (3) neuropathic rats treated for 7 days with MK-801. The results indicate that baseline GFAP staining density in naive animals is dependent on NMDA receptor activity and that an ongoing NMDA-dependent signal is, at least in part, responsible for the increase in GFAP observed following peripheral nerve injury.
The vigorous ingrowth of cut CNS axons into peripheral nerve grafts indicates that the lack of neuronal regeneration within the brain and spinal cord cannot be explained merely by CNS neurons having an inherent weak regenerative capacity. Rather, the brain and spinal cord seem to contain molecules that inhibit axonal growth and, indeed, oligodendrocyte myelin has been demonstrated to effectively block nerve fiber growth. Macrophages can in vitro counteract this growth prohibitory property of the CNS. In this study we have examined the recruitment of macrophages and the removal of myelin in relation to neurite adhesive/repulsive properties in the injured spinal cord of adult rats. Cells immunoreactive for the macrophage-specific antibody ED1 rapidly invaded the lesion area after an incision in the dorsal or ventral funiculus. The number of macrophages remained high for several weeks in the scar tissue formed after both these injuries. This type of scar tissue has previously been reported to permit ingrowth and long-term persistence of axons. In the denervated area rostral to a dorsal funiculus transection, no or few ED1-immunoreactive cells were detected within the first month after the injury. However, at subsequent stages an increasing number of macrophages was found in this region. Myelin was removed much more rapidly at the site of the lesion than rostral to this (in the area undergoing Wallerian degeneration). In order to study adhesive/repulsive properties in the injured spinal cord in relation to local myelin content we employed an in vitro system in which PC12 cells were cultured on spinal cord slices. PC12 cells failed to adhere to sections from the intact spinal cord as well as to sections taken rostral to a dorsal funiculus transection, whereas many cells adhered to the glial scar formed at the lesion. Even at 15 months after the injury, very few PC12 cells attached to sections taken rostral to the transection despite the fact that no myelin could be detected in the denervated area at that time. These data suggest that, in addition to myelin-related growth inhibitory molecules, other factors may be involved in the failure of PC12 cells to adhere to the denervated spinal cord. Such factors could also affect axonal regrowth after spinal cord injury. The adhesion of PC12 cells to the lesion area may be a result of a locally high content of extracellular matrix molecules and/or cell adhesion molecules, factors which are not expressed in the region undergoing Wallerian degeneration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

This article reviews the current status of three-dimensional reconstruction as a tool in the understanding of microscopical morphology. Many microscopical structures have a three-dimensional shape that cannot readily be appreciated by the study of sections alone. Three-dimensional reconstructions often provide novel information about such structures and enable researchers to formulate new hypotheses about the subject of their study. This review concentrates primarily on the methodology involved and how it is used to generate three-dimensional images and to provide three-dimensional quantitative data.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder primarily affecting motor neurons. The etiology of the majority of cases remains unknown. Recent findings from several laboratories suggest a role for neurofilaments in the development of motor neuron disorders. The C-terminal region of the human neurofilament heavy subunit (NEFH) contains a unique functional domain consisting of 43 repeat motifs of the amino acids Lys-Ser-Pro (KSP). This C-terminal region of NEFH forms the sidearm projections which cross-link the neurofilaments. Previously, we have demonstrated polymorphism in the C-terminal region of the human NEFH: an allelic variant of a slightly larger molecular size, containing an additional KSP phosphorylation motif. Novel mutations in this region were found in five ALS patients. We propose that changes in the KSP-repeat domain may affect the cross-linking properties of the heavy neurofilament subunit and perhaps contribute to the development of neurofilamentous swellings in motor neurons, a hallmark of ALS.
Sixty-two subjects in age range of 25-50 years consuming more than 300 ml of alcohol daily, and an equal number of age matched non-alcoholic volunteers serving as control were tested. Their clinical and neurological evaluation, including electrophysiology was carried out. Their cognitive functions were measured using the modified WAIS system. In alcoholics there was a significant impairment of cognition, especially in orientation, attention and immediate recall. Their P300 wave was grossly abnormal as compared with the controls. Other electrophysiological investigations (EEG, NCV, EMG, BAER, VER) were normal. It is concluded that cognition may be grossly impaired in chronic alcoholics, which may not manifest clinically but is observed only after formal testing.
An interactive simulation of neuronal synaptic potential is presented. The set-up comprises of two synaptic terminals and one postsynaptic membrane from which the intracellular potential is recorded. Certain parameters are interactively changeable by the user. For example, each synaptic terminal may cause changes in the membrane conductance to sodium, potassium, or chloride ions, or some combinations of them. One synaptic terminal may be turned on/off to allow study of the spatio-temporal summation of postsynaptic potentials with adjustable delay. The postsynaptic membrane may also be set at various values in order to study the effects of membrane potentials on the direction and magnitude of postsynaptic potentials. This simulation has been used with some success as an aid for teaching cellular neurophysiology.
The immunoregulatory effects of fentanyl and a fentanyl-related compound, OHM3295, were studied in mice. Male CD1 mice treated with a range of fentanyl doses (0.1-1.0 mg/kg, subcutaneously) showed suppression of splenic natural killer (NK) activity following 0.25-0.50 mg/kg fentanyl dose but not higher (0.75-1.0 mg/kg) or lower (0.1 mg/kg) doses. Fentanyl (0.01-32.0 mg/kg) also induced dose-related analgesia as measured by an increase in tail flick latency; these analgesic effects were antagonized by naltrexone (1.0-10.0 mg/kg). Pretreatment with naltrexone (1.0-3.2 mg/kg) resulted in significant suppression of splenic NK activity following fentanyl (10.0-32.0 mg/kg) administration. In comparison to fentanyl, OHM3295 (3.2-25.0 mg/kg) augmented splenic NK activity in a naltrexone-reversible manner. Similar to fentanyl, OHM3295 (1.0-32.0 mg/kg) also induced a naltrexone-sensitive, dose-related analgesia as measured by an increase in tail flick latency. These results with OHM3295 demonstrate a novel profile of effects which includes naltrexone-sensitive analgesic effects in the absence of immunosuppressive effects. In addition, this is the first reported case in which a compound with opioid analgesic effects has been shown to potentiate natural killer cytolytic activity following in vivo administration.
The present study was undertaken to determine the effect of combination of selenium and vitamin E on experimentally induced dyskinesia in rats. The dyskinetic syndrome was produced in 4 groups of 6 male rats each weighing 250-300g by intraperitoneal (ip) administration of iminodipropionitrile (IDPN) in doses of 100 mg/kg body weight daily for 12 days. A group of 6 rats (group 1) served as control and received normal saline only. The rats in group 2 (IDPN only) received normal saline (ip) 30 minutes before the administration of IDPN. The animals in groups 3, 4 and 5 received selenous acid (5 mumol/kg), vitamin E (500 mg/kg p.o.) and a combination of selenous acid and vitamin E respectively, daily, 30 minutes before IDPN for 12 days. Twenty four hours after the last dose of IDPN, the dyskinetic behavior including vertical head movements (retrocollis), horizontal head movements (laterocollis), circling and backwalking of each rat was studied for a period of 10 minutes. Immediately after behavioral studies, the animals were sacrificed and brains were dissected out for the analysis of conjugated dienes, lipid hydroperoxides and vitamin E. The results of this study showed that treatment of rats with IDPN only for 12 days produced dyskinetic syndrome in all the rats characterized by vertical and horizontal head movements, circling and backwalking. Concomitant treatment of rats with vitamin E and selenium individually reduced IDPN induced dyskinesia, and the symptoms were almost completely absent when the combination of these two agents was used.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The Birleson DSRS, a depression self-rating scale for children, was evaluated in a group of adolescent psychiatric inpatients and a community-based group of adolescents. The DSRS was a valid measure of depression but slightly less powerful with these patients than with children. The DSRS might be a useful tool for screening of depressive symptoms, at least in clinical settings.
The innervation of the capsule of the guinea pig spleen was studied by light microscopy using an indirect fluorescent-labelled antibody technique, as well as by electron microscopy. A dense network of nerve fibres immunoreactive to the general neuronal marker, protein gene product 9.5 was observed in tangential sections through the capsule corresponding to the subcapsular compartment. The PGP 9.5-immunoreactivity in the fibres appeared to a large extent to be colocalised with tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y (NPY) immunoreactivities as well as with synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Only very occasional fibres with substance P or calcitonin-gene-related peptide immunoreactivity were observed in tangential sections of the capsular region. By electron microscopy unmyelinated nerve fibres in the capsule were found to contain a large number of small dense-cored as well as clear vesicles and large dense-cored vesicles in varicose parts of the axons. The axolemma of the varicose regions was often naked, devoid of Schwann cells, and sometimes appeared denser than the nonspecialised parts of the membrane. These naked regions were observed in single sections to be apposed to splenic cells with variable intervals of extracellular space and interposed basal lamina material. Another type of contact was characterised by a very close association with splenic cells with no basal lamina interposed between the plasma membranes of the axon and the splenic cell. An intimate ultrastructural relationship was often also seen between varicose vesicle-containing axons and neighbouring axons in the nerve fibre bundles. The results show that the splenic capsule and its immediate neighbouring regions are innervated by catecholaminergic, NPY-containing fibres, which appear to establish different types of relations with the splenic cells as well as with one another.
To get more insight into developmental aspects of neuropeptide Y (NPY)-containing neuronal structures in the brain of amphibians and their possible involvement in background adaption, we have studied immunohistochemically the distribution of this neuropeptide in embryos, larvae and adults of Xenopus laevis. Antisera against NPY revealed that already at early embryonic stages NPY immunoreactive cell bodies are present in the ventral thalamus and rhombencephalic tegmentum. Slightly later, cell bodies appear in the olfactory bulb, the basal forebrain including the lateral and medial amygdala, the preoptic area, the ventral and dorsal thalamus, the suprachiasmatic region, the anteroventral tegmental nucleus and the solitary tract area. At late embryonic stages, the NPY cell groups not only show an increase in number of cells, but also stain more intensely. Around the time of hatching, a dramatic decrease in the number of immunodetectable cells occurs, particularly in the basal forebrain and in the rhombencephalic tegmentum. At the same time, however, new cell groups appear in telencephalic pallial regions and in the torus semicircularis. By the end of the premetamorphic stages, the distribution of NPY-immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers resembles closely the pattern observed in adult Xenopus brains. When compared with the development of catecholamine systems, it is clear that the NPY neurotransmitter system develops earlier. However, the expression of NPY- and dopamine-immunoreactivity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus occurs at about the same time (around stage 40) and coincides with several other events related to background adaptation, suggesting that this nucleus plays a key role in this complex neuroendocrine mechanism.
The distribution and synaptic arrangement of thyrotropin-releasing hormone-, substance P- and enkephalin-immunoreactive axonal boutons have been studied in the ventrolateral nucleus (Onuf's nucleus) of the upper sacral spinal cord segments in the cat. For this purpose, the peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunohistochemical technique was used. Immunoreactive axonal boutons were traced in complete series of sections in order to reveal synaptic contacts with the bundled dendrites of the ventrolateral nucleus. As judged from the cross-sectional diameter of the postsynaptic dendrites, the distribution of immunoreactive boutons was non-random. Enkephalin-immunoreactive axonal boutons, presumed to be mostly of segmental origin, displayed a rather restricted distribution to mainly (&gt; 80%) medium-to-large dendrites. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive boutons, that derive from supraspinal levels, were also found to impinge on medium-to-large dendrites (&gt; 80%), indicating a proximal location within the dendritic trees. The skewness toward large postsynaptic dendrites was even more marked for thyrotropin-releasing hormone- than for enkephalin-immunoreactive boutons. Substance P-immunoreactive boutons, that are of either supraspinal or spinal origin, showed a more even distribution throughout the dendritic trees, including both thin distal branches and thick proximal dendrites. In view of the well-known fact that virtually all thyrotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive boutons in the ventral horn co-contain substance P (and serotonin) it was assumed that substance P-immunoreactive boutons in synaptic contact with the finest-calibre dendrites as well as most of those with a very proximal juxtasomatic location on the dendritic trees were of segmental origin, while those impinging on medium-to-large dendrites could be of either spinal or supraspinal origin. Fine-calibre dendrites (&lt; 1 micron) represent about 25% of the dendritic branches in the ventrolateral nucleus, but receive, with the exception of substance P (8%), very little (&lt; 3%) peptidergic or GABAergic (Ramrez-Len and Ulfhake, 1993) input, although the degree of dendritic membrane covering by bouton profiles in the ventrolateral nucleus does not seem to vary much with the calibre of the postsynaptic dendrite (Ramrez-Len and Ulfhake, 1993). Both substance P- and enkephalin-immunoreactive axonal boutons established synaptic contact with more than one dendrite. Furthermore, one and the same bouton could be found in contact with two dendrites that were coupled to each other by a dendro-dendritic contact of desmosomal or puncta adherentia type.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Antiepileptic drug therapy in children can be challenging because seizure semiology and drug disposition change dramatically over time. Close monitoring of drug clearance is required in early life because of the rapid ontogenesis of drug-eliminating organs. Large variations in serum peak and trough antiepileptic drug concentrations increase the risk for both adverse drug effects and unsatisfactory seizure control. Antiepileptic drug adverse effects also differ, probably relative to different receptor sensitivities in children. Failure to appreciate the developmental differences between children and adults can result in medication noncompliance, breakthrough seizures, and unacceptable adverse effects.
Views on human brain organization early in development have swung back and forth between the extreme notions of complete equipotentiality and adult-like specialization. Recent research on the cognitive effects of early brain damage supports an intermediate position and suggests that many claims on the older literature must be re-examined in the light of new evidence that cognitive impairments are sometimes attributable to previously ignored factors, such as a history of seizures, time since injury, and unsuspected lesions that are now detectable with neuroimaging techniques.
Fifty-six cases with childhood onset deficits in attention, motor control and perception (DAMP) were followed-up at age 16 years and compared with 45 children without DAMP. Both groups had originally been recruited from the general population at the age of 6 years. Psychiatric disorders (affective disorders in particular) were more common in the DAMP group. Personality disorders were common in both groups, but the DAMP group much more often had a combination of several different personality disorders. The reasons for the discrepancies between teenagers with and without a prior history of DAMP are discussed.
Gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) is developmentally expressed in human fetal lung and is a growth factor for normal and neoplastic lung but its role in normal lung development has yet to be clearly defined. In this study we have characterized the expression of GRP and its receptor in fetal rhesus monkey lung and determined the effects of bombesin on fetal lung development in vitro. By RNA blot analysis, GRP mRNA was first detectable in fetal monkey lung at 63 days gestation, reached highest levels at 80 days gestation, and then declined to near adult levels by 120 days gestation; a pattern closely paralleling GRP expression in human fetal lung. As in human lung, in situ hybridization localized GRP mRNA to neuroendocrine cells though during the canalicular phase of development (between 63-80 days gestation) GRP mRNA was present not only in classic pulmonary neuroendocrine cells, but also in cells of budding airways. Immunohistochemistry showed that bombesin-like immunoreactivity was present in neuroendocrine cells, but not in budding airways, suggesting that in budding airways either the GRP mRNA is not translated, is rapidly secreted, or a related, but different RNA is present. RNase protection analysis using a probe to the monkey GRP receptor demonstrated that the time course of receptor RNA expression closely paralleled the time course of GRP RNA expression. In situ hybridization showed that GRP receptors were primarily expressed in epithelial cells of the developing airways. Thus GRP would appear to be secreted from neuroendocrine cells to act on target cells in developing airways. This hypothesis was confirmed by organ culture of fetal monkey lung in the presence of bombesin and bombesin antagonists. Bombesin treatment at 1 and 10 nM significantly increased DNA synthesis in airway epithelial cells and significantly increased the number and size of airways in cultured fetal lung. In fact, culturing 60 d fetal lung for 5 d with 10 nM bombesin increased airway size and number nearly to that observed in cultured 80 d fetal lung. The effects of bombesin could be blocked by specific GRP receptor antagonists. Thus this study demonstrates that GRP receptors are expressed on airway epithelial cells in developing fetal lung and that the interaction of GRP with the GRP receptor stimulates airway development.
Four patients with chronic schizophrenia were treated with a combination of fluvoxamine, haloperidol, and benztropine. The combination significantly impaired performance on tests of delayed recall memory and attentional function. Haloperidol concentrations in serum were monitored in three patients and were robustly elevated by fluvoxamine.
Previous research on adaptation to visual-motor rearrangement suggests that the central nervous system represents accurately only 1 visual-motor mapping at a time. This idea was examined in 3 experiments where subjects tracked a moving target under repeated alternations between 2 initially interfering mappings (the &quot;normal&quot; mapping characteristic of computer input devices and a 108 degree rotation of the normal mapping). Alternation between the 2 mappings led to significant reduction in error under the rotated mapping and significant reduction in the adaptation aftereffect ordinarily caused by switching between mappings. Color as a discriminative cue, interference versus decay in adaptation aftereffect, and intermanual transfer were also examined. The results reveal a capacity for multiple concurrent visual-motor mappings, possibly controlled by a parametric process near the motor output stage of processing.
The identification of targets in visual search arrays may be improved by suppressing competing information from the surrounding distractor items. The present study provided evidence that this hypothetical filtering process has a neural correlate, the &quot;N2pc&quot; component of the event-related potential waveform. The N2pc was observed when a target item was surrounded by competing distractor items but was absent when the array could be rejected as a nontarget on the basis of simple feature information. In addition, the N2pc was eliminated when filtering was discouraged by removing the distractor items, making the distractors relevant, or making all items within an array identical. Combined with previous topographic analyses, these results suggest that attentional filtering occurs in occipital cortex under the control of feedback from higher cortical regions after a preliminary feature-based analysis of the stimulus array.
Galen was the leading physician of the Roman empire during the last half of the second century. Unlike some of his predecessors, Galen concluded that the brain controlled cognition and willed action. The initial evidence for this doctrine was that the brain was the site of termination of all of the five senses: touch, taste, smell, sight, and hearing. Galen presumed that the information from these five senses was organized by a part of the brain that generated a concept of an object common to all senses; this part of the brain he considered to be the area of common sense. Galen thought that he could differentiate sensory from motor nerves (not nerve fibers) by palpation. Sensory nerves were soft because they needed to be impressed with the essence of the object seen, heard, felt, smelled, or tasted. Motor nerve fibers were very hard because they needed to carry the force of the will from the brain to the muscles. Strong willed people had especially firm motor nerve fibers; hence, the modern term that a person with great bravery has 'nerves of steel'. Galen considered that common sense, cognition, and memory were functions of the brain. Personality and emotion were not generated by the brain, but rather by the body as a whole (or perhaps by the heart and liver). Galen's studies of respiration and of the recurrent laryngeal nerve solidified the knowledge that the brain, not the chest, was the site of the rational power that guides human behavior. This doctrine has continued from Galen's time to the present.
Paul Broca is unanimously recognized as the founder of neuropsychology. Helis development of the scientific method to map mental functions onto brain topographpy has been enormously influential. Nevertheless, Dax's paper on the left hemisphere dominance for speech was written and published before Broca explicitely proposed the same theory. Probably, Broca was aware of the paper prior to 1865, but he never acknowledged Dax's original theoretical contribution. On the contrary, he always claimed to be the first to espouse the theory of left hemisphere dominance for language and never quoted Marc Dax (Broca, 1877 p 536), 'I do not like dealing with the questions of priority concerning myself. That is the reason why I did not mention the name of Dax in my paper'. In our opinion, the weight of evidence reported here suggests that the theory of the left hemisphere dominance for speech must be attributed equally to Dax and Broca, and henceforth should be called 'the theory of Dax-Broca'.
Synapsins are neuron-specific phosphoproteins associated with small synaptic vesicles in the presynaptic nerve terminal. Synapsin I, which has been demonstrated to bundle F-actin in vitro, has been postulated to regulate neurotransmitter release by cross-linking synaptic vesicles to the actin cytoskeleton. To investigate the possible interaction of synapsin II with actin filaments, we expressed synapsin II in Spodoptera frugiperda and High Five insect cells using a recombinant baculovirus. Purified recombinant synapsin IIa was incubated with F-actin, and bundle formation was evaluated by light scattering and electron microscopy. Synapsin IIa was found to bundle actin filaments. Dose-response curves indicated that synapsin IIa was more potent than synapsin I in bundling actin filaments. These data suggest that synapsin IIa may cross-link synaptic vesicles and actin filaments in the nerve terminal.
Cerebellar granule neurons in primary culture express metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) coupled to the stimulation of phosphoinositide hydrolysis and to the inhibition of cyclic AMP (cAMP) formation. To evaluate which mGluR mRNAs are expressed in granule neurons under different depolarizing conditions, we measured the absolute amounts of selected receptor mRNAs in neurons cultured for 3-13 days in the presence of either 10 or 25 mM KCl. mGluR-specific primer pairs and internal standards, corresponding to unique regions of mGluR1a, mGluR2, mGluR3, mGluR4, and mGluR5, were constructed and used in a competitive PCR-derived assay to quantify the corresponding mRNA levels. For phosphoinositide-coupled receptors, the absolute content of mGluR1a mRNA was three to 10 times higher than the content of mGluR5 mRNA. The expression of mGluR5 mRNA increased up to 9 days in vitro and was much higher in 10 mM than in 25 mM KCl. For the cAMP-coupled receptors, there was a large amount of mGluR4 mRNA and a much smaller content of the mGluR3 and mGluR2 mRNAs. Maintaining the granule neurons in vitro in 10 mM KCl increased the absolute amount of mRNAs encoding mGluR2 and mGluR4 at 9 and 13 days in vitro. In contrast, the content of the mGluR3 mRNA was consistently higher in neurons cultured in 25 mM KCl. These data are consistent with the possibility that in primary cultures of cerebellar neurons, phosphoinositide responses may be predominantly mediated by mGluR1a, rather than mGluR5, and that cAMP inhibition involves preferentially mGluR4 and mGluR3.
The effects of alpha-guanidinoglutaric acid (GGA), the levels of which were increased in the cobalt-induced epileptic focus tissue in the cerebral cortex of cats, on brain nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity were observed. GGA inhibited NOS activity in a linear mixed manner (Ki = 2.69 microM) and was as effective as NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (MeArg; Ki = 3.51 microM), a well-known NOS inhibitor. Although MeArg was synthesized by substituting the guanidino nitrogen of L-arginine (Arg), GGA was a non-guanidino nitrogen-substituted guanidino compound. On the other hand, Arg, which is an endogenous NOS substrate, elevates the threshold of seizures induced by GGA. There is evidence that GGA is an endogenous, potent, and non-guanidino nitrogen-substituted NOS inhibitor and that suppression of nitric oxide biosynthesis may be involved in GGA-induced convulsions. Therefore, GGA may be a useful tool in elucidating the chemical nature of NOS and the physiological function of nitric oxide.
We found in cultured glioma (C6BU-1) cells that excitatory amino acids (EAAs) such as glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), aspartate, and metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist trans-(+/-)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylate caused an increase in the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate formation and the intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in the absence of extracellular Mg2+ and Ca2+. Pertussis toxin treatment abolished this glutamate-induced [Ca2+]i increase. Various antagonists against NMDA receptor-ion channel complex, such as Mg2+, D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (D-APV), HA-966, and MK-801, also inhibited the increase in [Ca2+]i induced by glutamate. These results indicate that these metabotropic EAA receptors coupled to pertussis toxin-susceptible GTP-binding protein and phospholipase C system in C6BU-1 glioma cells have the pharmacological properties of NMDA receptor-ion channel complexes. We also found that in the presence of Mg2+ these metabotropic receptors resemble the NMDA receptor-ion channel complex interacted with 5-hydroxytryptamine2 (5-HT2) receptor signaling. EAAs inhibited 5-HT2 receptor-mediated intracellular Ca2+ mobilization and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate formation in a concentration-dependent manner. The inhibitory effect of glutamate was reversed by various NMDA receptor antagonists (D-APV, MK-801, phencyclidine, and HA-966), but L-APV failed to block the inhibitory effect of glutamate. The same result was observed in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. In addition, this inhibitory effect on 5-HT2 receptor-mediated signal transduction was abolished by treatment of C6BU-1 cells with pertussis toxin, whereas 5-HT2 receptor-mediated [Ca2+]i increase was not abolished by pertussis toxin treatment. We can, therefore, conclude that the inhibitory effect of glutamate is not a result of the influx of Ca2+ through the ion channel and that it operates via metabotropic glutamate receptors, having NMDA receptor-ion channel complex-like properties and being coupled with pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding protein and phospholipase C.
Transcranial Doppler ultrasound provides a useful adjunct to extracranial ultrasound in the diagnosis of carotid bifurcation disease. Previous studies have shown that collateral flow patterns and diminished flow velocities in the ipsilateral middle cerebral artery correlate with hemodynamically significant carotid disease. In a series of 7,054 carotid duplex and transcranial Doppler examinations, 12.5% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 8.7, 16.4) of 287 ophthalmic arteries ipsilateral to an apparent carotid occlusion had no detectable flow signal, compared with 0.5% (95% CI: 0.3, 0.7) of 6,767 ophthalmic arteries ipsilateral to a non-occluded carotid artery (p &lt; 0.001). Carotid siphon signals were not detectable in 24.4% (95% CI: 19.4, 29.4) of arteries ipsilateral to the carotid occlusion, versus 1.0% (95% CI: 0.8, 1.3) ipsilateral to nonoccluded carotid arteries (p &lt; 0.001). A significant number of absent ophthalmic artery and carotid siphon signals (5.7 and 8.7%, respectively) were also found in patients with 80 to 99% extracranial carotid stenosis. A subset of 216 studies with angiographic correlation confirmed the high association of these transcranial Doppler findings with severe stenosis or occlusion of the internal carotid artery. Primary ophthalmological disease or siphon occlusion did not explain these findings. An absent ophthalmic artery or carotid siphon signal on transcranial Doppler examination is believed to represent a failure to detect slow flow distal to severe carotid bifurcation lesions. As a sign of ipsilateral carotid occlusion, the sensitivities of absent ophthalmic artery and carotid siphon signals are quite low (12.5 and 24.4%, respectively). The high specificities of 99.5 and 99.0%, however, make these findings useful in confirming the diagnosis of presumptive carotid occlusion by carotid duplex ultrasound.
This paper examines spatial and temporal processing in migraineurs (diagnosed according to International Headache Society criteria, 1988), using psychophysical tests that measure spatial and temporal responses. These tests are considered to specifically assess precortical mechanisms. Results suggest precortical dysfunction for processing of spatial and temporal visual stimuli in 11 migraineurs with visual aura and 13 migraineurs without aura; the two groups could not be distinguished. As precortical dysfunction seems to be common to both groups of patients, it is suggested that symptoms that are experienced by both groups, such as blurring of vision and photophobia, may have their basis at a precortical level.

We examined 19 muscle biopsies from 14 patients with autosomal recessive distal muscular dystrophy (DisMD) histochemically and immunohistochemically to characterize the histologic features of this disease and to determine whether dystrophin and dystrophin-associated proteins (DAPs) are normally present in the muscles of patients with this disorder. The common histologic features in DisMD were active muscle fiber necrosis and regeneration with variation in fiber size, predominantly in the gastrocnemius muscle. There were occasional disorganizations of the intermyofibrillar network such as moth-eaten appearance, lobulated, whorled and targetoid fibers. In one half of the patients, small angular fibers and scattered rimmed vacuoles were also found. On immunohistochemical examination, dystrophin, DAPs, spectrin and laminin were normally expressed along the surface membrane of muscle fibers, even in the advanced stages of the disease. In contrast, dystrophin was absent and DAPs reduced in the sarcolemma of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) muscles. The overall histochemical features in DisMD were similar to those seen in DMD, though dystrophin and DAPs were normally expressed even in severely affected gastrocnemius muscle. A defect in an as yet unidentified protein rather than in DAPs and dystrophin is probably responsible for the muscle fiber necrosis in DisMD.
1. We recorded the simple spike firing rate of gaze velocity Purkinje cells (GVP-cells) in the flocculus/ventral paraflocculus of two monkeys during the smooth pursuit eye movements evoked by a target that was initially at rest, started suddenly, moved at a constant velocity, and then stopped. 2. For target motion in the preferred direction, GVP-cells showed a large transient increase in firing rate at the onset of pursuit, a smaller but sustained increase during the maintenance of pursuit, and a smooth return to baseline firing with little undershoot at the offset of pursuit. For target motion in the nonpreferred direction, GVP-cells showed a small decrease in firing rate at the onset of pursuit, a similar sustained decrease during the maintenance of pursuit, but a large transient increase in firing rate at the offset of pursuit before returning to baseline firing. 3. We pooled the data in our sample of horizontal GVP-cells by subtracting the population average of firing rate recorded during pursuit in the nonpreferred direction from the population average recorded during pursuit in the preferred direction. We transformed this net population average by passing it through a model of the brain stem final common pathway and the oculomotor plant. This yielded a signal that closely matched the observed trajectory of eye velocity during pursuit. We conclude that the transient overshoots exhibited in the firing rate of GVP-cells can provide appropriate compensation for the lagging dynamics of the oculomotor plant.
1. Cell-permeant Ca2+ chelators such as 1,2-bis-(2-amino-phenoxy)ethane- N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid acetoxymethyl ester (BAPTA-AM) protect neurons against excitotoxic and ischemic neuronal injury in vitro and in vivo. Here we provide the first steps toward characterizing the mechanisms by which these agents produce their neuroprotective effects. 2. Cultured mouse spinal neurons were simultaneously loaded with the Ca2+ indicator fura-2 and with one of three permeant chelators derived from the fast Ca2+ buffer BAPTA, or with ethylene glycol-bis(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid acetoxymethyl ester (EGTA-AM). Adding these chelators did not interfere with the fluorescence spectrum of fura-2 and had no effect on baseline [Ca2+]i. 3. The neurons were challenged with 250 microM L-glutamate for 50 min, producing a marked transient [Ca2+]i increase followed by a decay of [Ca2+]i to a lower &quot;plateau.&quot; About 80% of control neurons succumbed to this excitotoxic insult. Neurons that survived adjusted their plateau [Ca2+]i to lower levels than those that succumbed. 4. Neurons that were pretreated with permeant Ca2+ chelators became more resistant to these neurotoxic challenges. 5. We examined whether this reduction in glutamate neurotoxicity could be related to the given buffer's known Ca2+ affinity (Kd), its Ca2+ binding kinetics, and its ability to attenuate glutamate-induced [Ca2+]i increases. 6. Pretreatment of neurons with BAPTA analogues having Kds ranging from 100 to 3,600 microM 1) attenuated the amplitude and 2) lengthened the time constant describing the rise and decay of the glutamate-evoked [Ca2+]i transient. The magnitude of these effects paralleled the affinity of the chelator for Ca2+. 7. BAPTA-AM and its analogues dramatically attenuated the early neurotoxicity of glutamate, reducing cell deaths by up to 80%. However, in contrast with the graded effects of chelators having different Ca2+ affinities on Ca2+ transients, all BAPTA analogues were equally protective. These protective effects did not relate to the chelators' Ca2+ affinity within a Kd range of 100 nM (for BAPTA) to 3,600 nM (for 5,5'-dibromo BAPTA). 8. BAPTA-AM protected neurons in a concentration-dependent manner with 50% protection obtained with 10 microM, a concentration having no effect on the [Ca2+]i transient amplitude. 9. EGTA, a slow Ca2+ buffer with a similar Ca2+ affinity to BAPTA produced the same effects as BAPTA on [Ca2+]i transient kinetics. However, it was far less protective than BAPTA. 10. The time course of early glutamate neurotoxicity was altered by the BAPTA analogues, but not EGTA. BAPTA analogues caused a small increase in cell deaths in the first minutes of each experiment, followed by relative sparing from further neurodegeneration. 11. The ability of low Ca2+ affinity chelators such as 5,5'-dibromo BAPTA to protect neurons without markedly attenuating measured [Ca2+]i increases conflicts with the hypothesis that global elevations in [Ca2+]i are responsible for triggering neurotoxicity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. We simultaneously recorded neuronal responses to cutaneous stimulation from matched somatotopic representations in the nucleus cuneatus and ventrobasal complex of intact, halothane-anesthetized rats. A total of 95 cuneate and 86 thalamic neurons representing hairy skin on the forelimb were activated by hair movements produced by air jets at multiple skin sites. Mean responsiveness was higher among neurons in nucleus cuneatus (34.4 spikes per stimulus) than in thalamus (23.7 spikes per stimulus), a result that was consistent with the greater proportion of &quot;sustained&quot; responses recorded in nucleus cuneatus (80%) than in the thalamus (62%). 2. Cross-correlation analysis of 166 pairs of cuneate and thalamic neurons showed that 56 neuron pairs displayed time-locked correlations in activity that were characterized primarily by excitatory interactions (44 pairs) or a combination of excitatory and inhibitory interactions (10 pairs). Unilateral interactions in the cuneothalamic direction (31 pairs) and reverse direction (11 pairs) were observed, as well as multiphasic interactions in both directions (14 pairs). Most excitatory interactions involved intervals of 1-7 ms between successive cuneate and thalamic discharges, whereas most inhibitory influences involved intervals &gt; 7 ms. Connection strength, defined by the ratio of time-linked interactions to the number of cuneate discharges, varied widely among neuron pairs but was largest for interactions involving interspike intervals of &lt; or = 15 ms. 3. The relationship between connection strength and receptive field topography was analyzed in 103 cuneate-thalamic neuron pairs. The region of skin shared by both neurons varied substantially among neuron pairs and the probability of detecting interactions increased proportionately with larger amounts of receptive field overlap. Neuron pairs with moderate (25-50%) amounts of receptive field overlap had connection strengths 3-4 times greater than neuron pairs with minimal (0-25%) overlap. Connection strength was essentially identical, however, for neuron pairs with moderate or large (&gt; 50%) amounts of overlap. 4. Cuneate-thalamic neuron pairs displaying functional connections were usually tested at multiple peripheral sites, but only 37% (18 of 49) of these neuron pairs displayed interactions at more than one stimulation site. Stimulation at different sites altered the timing of interactions in seven neuron pairs, including three that showed timing shifts across time zero in the cross-correlation histogram. In neuron pairs displaying interactions at multiple sites, connection strengths for 67% of the cases were strongest when stimulation was delivered within the region of receptive field overlap.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The possible involvement of calcium-dependent potassium channels (KCa) in the termination of locomotor bursts was investigated by administration of a specific blocker, apamin, in the lamprey spinal cord in vitro. The effects were examined by recording the efferent activity in ventral roots and by intracellular recording from interneurons and motoneurons. During fictive locomotion induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), apamin was found to affect both the frequency of bursting and the regularity of the locomotor pattern. 2. At the single cell level, NMDA can induce pacemaker-like membrane potential oscillations in individual neurons after administration of tetrodotoxin. Apamin (2.5 microM) produced a marked increase of the duration of the depolarizing plateau phase occurring during these NMDA-induced oscillations; this shows that the repolarization of the plateau is initiated by a progressive activation of apamin-sensitive KCa-channels. 3. The action potential is followed by an afterhyperpolarization (AHP) with a fast and a slow phase (sAHP). The latter is known to be caused by apamin-sensitive KCa-channels. During repetitive firing, the interspike interval is dependent on the amplitude and the duration of the sAHP. Apamin caused a reduction of the spike frequency adaptation with a concomitant increase in the firing frequency. In some cells, apamin in addition reduced the threshold for the action potential. Apamin-sensitive KCa-channels thus will be involved in controlling both the onset and the duration of neuronal firing in the lamprey spinal cord. 4. During fictive locomotion induced by NMDA (40-200 microM), a blockade of KCa-channels by apamin produced an increase of the coefficient of variation (mean = 167%, n = 26), which was statistically significant in 21 out of 26 experiments. At 40-150 microM NMDA, an average increase in cycle duration was 77% and statistically significant in 15 out of 20 preparations. At 200 microM NMDA (corresponding to higher burst rate), on the other hand, the average increase was only 6% and the increase was statistically significant in only 1 out 6 cases. For a given experiment, the strength of the apamin effect depended on the level of NMDA drive used, being more pronounced at slow rhythms, when it often caused a complete disruption of the locomotor pattern. At high burst rates, however, the cycle duration was less affected and a disruption of the regular burst pattern did not occur.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. We tested the hypothesis that interactions occur between eye and hand movements produced in conjunction. This was accomplished by having human subjects with cerebellar dysfunction and age-matched controls perform two tasks: 1) tracking a moving target with the hand and 2) performing a pointing movement to intercept the target. Our prediction was that the inaccuracies that are characteristic of eye and hand movements generated in isolation by cerebellar subjects would be accentuated in each system during combined eye-hand tasks. 2. The cerebellar subjects took longer to respond to the onset of target motion in both tasks. This was true for both the eyes and hand, regardless of whether the eye and hand movements were generated in isolation or in conjunction with each other. 3. The cerebellar subjects also displayed a larger degree of error and/or variability in their hand movements than the control subjects. A significant amount of this increased variability was due to systematic changes in the trajectory of the hand during the critical periods leading up to and after each ocular saccade. These systematic changes were consistent with an overestimation of target velocity in the perifoveal visual field. 4. The increased variability of the cerebellar subjects' hand movements was markedly reduced by restricting eye movements. A similar reduction in variability occurred when vision of the hand was restricted in the tracking task. This effect was accompanied by improved eye movements. 5. For both sets of subjects the eye movements were affected by the hand movements produced in the tracking task. In particular, eye movement accuracy was improved in the controls and degraded in the cerebellar subjects when compared with the eye movements generated in isolation. In contrast, no changes were observed in the interception task. 6. Taken together, these results imply that a reciprocal interaction occurs between the eye and hand motor systems and/or that common &quot;upstream&quot; sites influence each of these systems in a similar manner. The functional anatomy and neurophysiological characteristics of several sites where such interactions may take place are discussed.
1. Activation of neurokinin receptors contributes to the excitation of many dorsal horn neurons by cutaneous sensory stimuli, particularly noxious stimuli. In the present study we investigate the role of neurokinin receptors in the activation of primate spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons by cutaneous mechanical stimuli and by intradermal injection of capsaicin. This was done by testing the responses of these neurons to a battery of cutaneous stimuli before and during infusion by microdialysis of antagonists selective for NK1 and NK2 receptors. 2. The NK1 receptor antagonists cis-3-(2-methoxybenzyl-amino-2-benzhydrylquinuclidine (CP96345) and D-Pro9-[Spiro-y-lactam]-Leu10,Trp11)-Physalaemin(1-11) (GR82334) did not significantly reduce the responses of STT cells to mechanical stimulation of the skin. Both NK1 antagonists did, however, produce a significant reduction in the responses of STT neurons to an intradermal injection of capsaicin. Finally, despite having no effects on responses to mechanical stimuli, both NK1 antagonists prevented the sensitization of the responses to cutaneous stimuli that is usually observed after intradermal injections of capsaicin. 3. The NK2 selective antagonists PhCO-Ala-Ala-D-Trp-Phe-D-Pro-Pro-Nle-NH2 (GR98400) and [Tyr5,D-Trp6,8,9,Lys10]-NKA (4-10) (MEN10376) had effects very similar to those of the NK1 antagonists, but with an important difference. Neither NK2 antagonist affected the responses of STT neurons to noxious or innocuous mechanical stimulation of the skin, but they did reduce the responses to intradermal capsaicin injections. These compounds failed to prevent capsaicin-induced sensitization. In fact, cells exposed to GR98400 or MEN10376 showed unusually sustained increases in the responses to mechanical stimuli after the first capsaicin injection, suggesting that these compounds actually induced sensitization. 4. These results support the contention that both neurokinin receptors participate in the processing of nociceptive information in the dorsal horn, especially responses to strong stimuli such as intradermal injection of capsaicin. NK1 receptors are also involved in the sensitization of STT neurons after peripheral injury. A clearer understanding of the role of NK2 receptors in sensitization requires further studies with improved antagonists.
Many patients with schizophrenia show clinical signs of frontal lobe dysfunction, including blunted affect, difficulty with problem solving, and impoverished thinking. The authors present cytoarchitectural, neuropsychological, and functional neuroanatomical evidence of frontal abnormalities from recent studies of frontal dysfunction in schizophrenia. It is suggested that the failure of intracortical connectivity of the prefrontal cortex accounts for both cognitive and psychotic manifestations of this illness.
Positive deflection of the sensory hair bundle of a vertebrate hair cell opens transduction channels to depolarize the cell. In bullfrog saccular hair cells, there is a subsequent adaptation process, whereby the proportion of transduction channels that are open, and thus the receptor current, declines toward the resting value. This occurs because the sensitivity curve, relating open probability to bundle deflection, shifts along the deflection axis in response to bundle deflections, in a manner consistent with a relaxation of mechanical tension on transduction channels. In this study we determined the extent of adaptation, measured as the shift of the sensitivity curve following deflection of the hair bundle. The shift was determined both by comparison of the receptor current in the adapted state to the resting sensitivity curve, and by comparison of pre- and postadapted sensitivity curves. The adaptive shift approached steady state with a time constant of 20-30 msec, and was at steady state within 150 msec. For all positive and for small negative deflections, both methods showed a shift that was approximately 80% of the deflection. For larger negative deflections, the shift reached a fixed limit that was 100-500 nm negative to the freestanding bundle position. The limited extent of adaptation confers a time-dependent sensitivity: the cell has an instantaneous or phasic sensitivity curve that is steep, and steady-state or tonic sensitivity curve that is about five times broader. It also suggests the existence of two additional structural elements within the transduction apparatus. A revised quantitative theory accommodates these elements.
The coordinated activity of hippocampal neurons is reflected by macroscopic patterns, theta and sharp waves (SPW), evident in extracellular field recordings. The importance of these patterns is underscored by the ordered relation of specific neuronal populations to each pattern as well as the relation of each pattern to distinct behavioral states. During awake immobility, consummatory behavior, and slow wave sleep, CA3 and CA1 neurons participate in organized population bursts during SPW. In contrast, during theta-associated exploratory activity, the majority of principle cells are silent. Considerably less is known about the discharge properties of retrohippocampal neurons during theta, and particularly during SPW. These retrohippocampal neurons (entorhinal cortical, parasubicular, presubicular, and subicular) process and transmit information between the neocortex and the hippocampus. The present study examined the activity of these neurons in freely behaving rats during SPW (awake immobility) as well as theta (locomotion and REM sleep). A qualitative distinction between the activity of deep (V-VI) and superficial (II-III) layer retrohippocampal neurons was observed in relation to SPW as compared to theta. Deep layer retrohippocampal neurons exhibited a concurrent increase in activity during hippocampal SPW. In contrast, deep layer neurons were not modulated by the prominent theta oscillations observed throughout the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex. On the other hand, superficial layer retrohippocampal neurons were often phase-related to theta oscillations, but were surprisingly indifferent to the SPW-associated population bursting occurring within the deep layers. These findings indicate a concerted discharge of the hippocampal and retrohippocampal cortices during SPW that includes neurons within CA3, CA1, and subiculum as well as neurons in layers V-VI of the presubiculum, parasubiculum, and entorhinal cortex. Further, they suggest a temporal discontinuity in the input/output relations between the hippocampus and retrohippocampal structures. We suggest that SPW-associated population bursts in hippocampal and retrohippocampal cortices exert a powerful depolarizing effect on their postsynaptic neocortical targets and may represent a physiological mechanism for memory trace transfer from the hippocampus to the neocortex.
It has been suggested that an inhibitory ECM containing chondroitin-6-sulfate proteoglycan (C-6S-PG) and tenascin (TN), which appears homogeneously in the core of the OB following afferent fiber arrival, helps position ingrowing olfactory axons in the prospective glomerular layer (GL) (Gonzalez and Silver, 1992; Gonzalez et al., 1993). Later, a similar ECM associated with astrocytes envelopes axonal glomeruli in rings, suggesting that axons may control the precise ECM patterning. The question remains whether formation of the matrix ring pattern around each axonal glomerulus is an intrinsic property of the matrix-producing cells or a response to developing axons. To determine if the organization of glial associated matrix in the OB was dependent on the presence of axons, we studied the effect of unilateral injection of a neurotoxin into the olfactory epithelium of postnatal rats. Using olfactory marker protein (OMP), beta-tubulin (TUJ1) antibodies, and Nissl staining, we found that at 5 and 10 d following neurotoxin administration the number of glomeruli decreased by an average of 77.0% in the injected side. At the same time, we observed that the TN/C-6S-PG rings and periglomerular cells were present only around the remaining small number of glomeruli. Elsewhere, ECM expression and the periglomerular cell configuration were more disorganized in the GL. The pattern of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) did not change significantly. We found that OMP staining, beta-tubulin immunoreactivity, and periglomerular cells reformed in a glomerular-like pattern as the olfactory axons reformed by 20 d. As the glomeruli-shaped collection of axon terminals reappeared, TN/C-6S-PG immunoreactivity also reoccurred in rings around the new axon bundles. Again, at this later stage, the expression of GFAP was similar in both sides. In our previous study (Gonzalez et al., 1993), we suggested that the initial gross positioning of glomeruli may be controlled by the overall positioning of TN/C-6S-PG. In the present study, we suggest that the formation of TN/C-6S-PG in the precise ring pattern around glomeruli appears to be dependent upon the presence of bundled olfactory axons. Various mechanisms are discussed that may explain the dynamic change in ECM expression that occurs inside the glomerulus after the neurotoxin treatment.
Earlier studies have shown the formation of a novel neural lobe after hypophysectomy, an experimental manipulation that causes transection of neurohypophyseal nerve fibers and removal of pituitary hormones. The mechanisms that underly this regenerative process are poorly understood. The localization and number of peptide-immunoreactive (-IR) fibers in the median eminence were studied in normal rats and in rats at different times of survival after hypophysectomy using indirect immunofluorescence histochemistry. The number of vasopressin (VP)-IR fibers increased in the external layer of the median eminence in 5 d hypophysectomized rats. Oxytocin (OXY)-IR fibers decreased in the internal layer and progressively extended into the external layer. At long survival times (9 and 16 months) both VP- and OXY-IR fibers had a bilayered distribution occupying both the external and internal layers. Double-labeling experiments combining VP and tyrosine hydroxylase antisera as well as OXY and growth hormone-releasing factor antisera showed that injured neurosecretory fibers growing into the external layer displaced fibers from parvocellular cells originally located there. As a result, there was essentially an inversion in the distribution of these fibers within the median eminence. Galanin (GAL)- and cholecystokinin (CCK)-IR fibers exhibited a similar pattern of distribution after the lesion. Thus, after 5 d there was an increase in GAL- and CCK-IR fibers in the internal layer. At 14 and 30 d, the number of GAL- and CCK-IR fibers progressively decreased, but after longer survivals (9 and 16 months) there was a dramatic reappearance. Dynorphin (DYN)-LI showed a dramatic increase at all levels of the median eminence at short survival times after hypophysectomy, followed by a subsequent decrease to a final stage of a few, strongly immunoreactive fibers in the external layer at longer survival times. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)- and peptide histidine-isoleucine (PHI)-IR fibers in hypophysectomized animals had already contacted portal vessels 5 d after hypophysectomy, and from then on progressively increased in numbers. Finally, most of the peptide fibers described above formed dense innervation patterns around the large blood vessels along the lateral borders of the median eminence. The present results show that hypophysectomy induces a wide variety of changes in hypothalamic neurosecretory fibers. Not only is the expression of several peptides in these fibers modified following different survival times, but a reorganization of the distribution of immunoreactive fibers within the median eminence is demonstrated. The hypothesis is raised that regeneration of injured neurosecretory fibers may be dependent on changes in the expression of peptides possessing trophic actions.
The National Institute of Mental Health recognizes the importance that creative development of technology and methodology play in brain and behavioral science research. This institute is making major efforts to support such development through specific initiatives, like the Human Brain Project. In addition, this Institute is actively building bridges between business and academic research communities to make optical use of funds for the research and development of commercially viable technologies relevant to all aspects of the Institute's mission through the Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business Technology Transfer Programs. Together, these efforts will culminate in a more vigorous scientific enterprise, and ultimately benefit the entire mental health community and society.
We describe the details and application of a digital brain atlas for the comparison and integration of graphical neurobiological data. The atlas consists of multiple sets of high-resolution video images acquired from histological tissue sections representing a 3-dimensional (3D) volume of an exemplar rat brain. Through an interactive graphical interface running on a standard computer workstation, experimental data is brought into register with the atlas. Once in the atlas, coordinate reference frame data can be compared, analyzed, and visualized in 3 dimensions. We demonstrate the validity and usefulness of the digital brain atlas with a series of results on the visceral neuraxis in the rat.
Light scattering by brain tissue and phototoxicity are major obstacles to the use of high-resolution optical imaging and photo-activation ('uncaging') of bioactive compounds from inactive ('caged') precursors in intact and semi-intact nervous systems. Optical methods based on 2-photon excitation promise to reduce these obstacles (Denk, 1994; Denk et al., 1990, 1994). Here we show a range of imaging modes based on 2-photon laser scanning microscopy (TPLSM) as applicable to problems in neuroscience. Fluorescence images were taken of neurons labeled with ion-sensitive and voltage-sensitive dyes in invertebrate ganglia, mammalian brain slices, and from the intact mammalian brain. Scanning photochemical images with whole-cell current detection (Denk, 1994) show how the distribution of neurotransmitter receptors on the surface of specific cells can be mapped. All images show strong optical sectioning and usable images can be obtained at depths greater than 100 microns below the surface of the preparation.
Many of today's image acquisition devices (scanners and cameras) yield high-resolution (1280 x 1024 pixels is typical) and/or high-precision (&gt; 8 bits) image data. When coupled to a powerful image analyzer these image acquisition devices offer practical advantages in many bioscience applications. The benefits of high resolution include better contrast transfer (sharper images with more accurate density rendition) and an ability to work with large specimens at lower optical magnifications (larger field of view). High precision is useful if images contain subtle features (e.g., fluorescently labeled processes at densities close to background) and/or wide dynamic range. Examples are given, illustrating the use of a number of medium- and high-performance image acquisition devices with an advanced image analyzer. The examples include a comparison of intensified and integrating cameras in fluorescence microscopy, evaluation of the performance of a fast, cooled integrating camera in ratio fluorescence imaging, and a comparison of film and storage phosphor-plate performance in quantitative receptor autoradiography.
The intracarotid amobarbital procedure, by inactivation of each hemisphere, provides the opportunity to evaluate language and memory function of the individual considering epilepsy surgery. Careful explanation of this procedure, and its importance to the proposed surgery are vital to the patient's cooperation and performance during this examination. The neuroscience nurse has a significant role in the success of this procedure. Nursing interventions include patient education, monitoring for potential complications, providing comfort measures, and assisting in the management of any life-threatening complications which do develop. A relatively little-known procedure outside of comprehensive epilepsy centers, the IAP offers opportunities for nursing research. These queries include investigation of emotional reactions in relation to gender differences, cultural and educational factors which may effect stimulus selection (eg, bilingual patients) and patient performance.
The purpose of this study was to test a neurological assessment instrument (NAI), used to assess neurological function in adults with acute brain lesions. Instrument items were designed to reflect different aspects of neurological function and assess consciousness along the arousal/awareness continuum as described by Plum and Posner. Content of the NAI was validated by 10 neuroscience expert physicians, nurses and speech pathologists. Reliability was tested with one pair of raters on 39 neurologically stable patients with acute brain lesions. Based on preliminary findings, the critical preliminary steps have been taken towards establishing a reliable and valid instrument with the potential of improving the assessment of neurological function in patients with acute brain lesions.
Societal awareness of toxins in general has been heightened in the past few decades with the increased focus on environmental concerns. The medical profession has been aware of the effects of some toxins such as lead and mercury for centuries, while other toxins have more recently been identified. Neuroscience nurses are challenged to be aware of the neurological effects of lesser known toxins, such as ciguatera and methyl bromide, and to meet the complex needs of patients who are suffering from the effects of toxic levels of these substances.
The aim of this study was to examine whether axotomy-induced motoneuron death in adult mammals differ: (1) with the distance between the site of injury and the nerve cell body, and (2) if contact between the transected nerve stumps is established after the injury, compared with cases where contact is prevented. The hypoglossal nerve of adult rats was transected either proximally in the neck (proximal injury) or close to the tongue (distal injury). The nerve stumps were then either deflected from each other in order to prevent axon regeneration into the distal nerve stump, or sutured. Three months later, the extent of nerve cell loss was examined bilaterally in cresyl violet-stained sections of the hypoglossal nucleus. In addition, we examined hypoglossal neuron survival twelve months after a proximal nerve transection with prevented regeneration. Our results show that there was no significant difference in neuronal survival after a proximal nerve transection compared with a distal one, neither if contact between the nerve stumps was established nor if it was prevented. However, contact between the transected nerve stumps increased the likelihood of neuronal survival significantly after both proximally and distally located injury compared to nerve injury with prevented regeneration. There was no significant decrease in nerve cell survival after twelve months with prevented reinnervation compared with survival after three months. These observations indicate that the extent of axotomy-induced motoneuron death in adult mammals does correlate with the proximo-distal level of peripheral injury.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3, DHA) is derived in vertebrate animals from n-3 fatty acids present in the diet (i.e., alpha-linolenic acid, 18:3n-3 and/or other n-3-long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids) and is found in very high concentrations in phospholipids from membranes of the central nervous system. Disk membranes of photoreceptor outer segments and synaptic terminals display a preferential enrichment in DHA-phospholipids that appears to be necessary for normal excitable membrane functions. Because of the relevance of adequate DHA-phospholipid synthesis and sorting toward new assembled disk membranes and synaptic terminals, as well as the pathophysiological implications of abnormal DHA metabolism (including its synthesis, delivery to the retina, and incorporation into lipids by de novo and turnover pathways), we reviewed recent studies of: a) the preferential uptake and retention of DHA by photoreceptors and its metabolism as it is activated to DHA-CoA and incorporated preferentially into phospholipids; b) pharmacological manipulations using amphiphilic cationic drugs (i.e., propranolol) to show an active esterification of DHA into lipids via de novo synthesis; and c) perturbations in DHA metabolism in retinas from dogs with progressive rod-cone degeneration (prcd).
Recent findings have suggested a relationship between 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)4 receptors and sigma binding sites. To test this idea, the affinity of 5-HT4 receptor ligands for sigma binding sites was examined. In contrast to the 5-HT4 receptor ligands BIMU-1 [endo-N-(8-methyl-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]oct-3-yl)-2,3- dihydro-3-ethyl-2-oxo-1H-benzimidazole-1-carboxamide hydrochloride] and BIMU-8 [endo-N-(8-methyl-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]oct-3- yl)-2,3-dihydro-(1-methyl)ethyl-2-oxo-1H-benzamidazole-1-carbox ami de hydrochloride], DAU 6215 ]N-(endo-8-methyl-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1.]oct-3-yl)-2,3-dihydro-2-oxo-1H- benzimidazole-1-carboxamide hydrochloride], 5-HT and 5-methoxytryptamine had low affinity for sigma binding sites (pKi &lt; 6). Conversely, the sigma ligands haloperidol and pentazocine had low affinity for 5-HT4 receptors. Thus, no relationship was found between the affinity of ligands at 5-HT4 receptors and sigma binding sites. However, one potent 5-HT4 receptor antagonist, RS-23597-190 [3-(piperidine-1-yl)propyl-4-amino-5-chloro-2-methoxybenzoate hydrochloride], had high affinity for sigma-1 (pKi = 8.4) but not sigma-2 (pKi = 6.2) binding sites. [3H]RS-23597-190 bound to a saturable site with the pharmacology of a sigma-1 binding site: (pIC50) haloperidol (9.0) &gt; (+)-pentazocine (8.8) &gt; (+)-3-(hydroxyphenyl)-N-(1-propyl)piperidine (8.2) &gt; 1,3-di-o-tolyl-guanidine (8.0) &gt; (-)-pentazocine (7.8) = (+)-SKF 10,047 [N-allylnormetazocine] &gt; (-)-SKF 10,047 (6.2) &gt; BIMU-1 (5.3) &gt; 5-HT and 5-methoxytryptamine. The distribution of [3H]RS-23597-190 binding sites was similar to that described for other sigma radioligands, with the greatest binding densities in cranial nerve nuclei, the tegmental nucleus and in the mamillary nucleus. In contrast to (+)-3-(hydroxyphenyl)-N-(1-propyl)piperidine, [3H]RS-23597-190 binding was not allosterically modulated by phenytoin. These studies do not support the notion of an obvious relationship between sigma and 5-HT4 receptors, but they provide additional insight into the structure/affinity relationship of ligands at specific sigma binding sites, and they uncover a novel sigma-1 receptor ligand whose binding is insensitive to the action of phenytoin.
CDP-choline participates in brain phospholipid metabolism and acts as an endogenous intermediate in a biosynthetic pathway incorporating free choline into phosphatidylcholine and choline plasmalogens in several tissues, including the central nervous system (CNS). In patients with chronic cerebrovascular disorders, CDP-choline reduces the slow delta frequencies and increases alpha activity in spectral electroencephalogram analysis. We have studied the effect of CDP-choline (cytidine-S-diphosphate-choline; 1000 mg/day x 30 days, p.o.) on brain electrical activity mapping and mental performance in 19 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients (10 males/9 females; age: 66.21 +/- 1.48 years; Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE): 26.55 +/- 1.22, Spanish version max. score 35). EEG was registered from 19 electrodes placed according to the 10-20 system and digitalized online. Artefact-free 2-s periods were visually selected, submitted to a frequency analysis and averaged across periods. CDP-choline significantly decreased spectral amplitude in the theta band in F4, F8, and T4 electrodes, and did not modify relative power parameters in any of the frequency bands (delta, theta, alpha, beta) as compared to basal recordings. In patients with late-onset AD (LOAD; N = 6; age: 73.5 +/- 1.34 years; MMSE: 28.75 +/- 2.33), CDP-choline tended to increase relative alpha power in O1 and O2 electrodes. No changes were found in early-onset AD patients (EOAD; N = 13; age: 62.85 +/- 1.21 years; MMSE: 25.54 +/- 1.4). We detected a significant improvement in mental performance after 1 month of treatment with CDP-choline in patients with early-onset AD in whom brain electrical activity data correlated with cognitive parameters. It is likely that the bioelectrical changes induced by CDP-choline in AD are the result of its immunogenic and/or neurotrophic activity in the vicinity of the vascular microenvironment.
CLK is a dual-specificity protein kinase capable of phosphorylating serine, threonine, and tyrosine residues. We have investigated the action of CLK by establishing stable PC12 cell lines capable of inducibly expressing CLK. Expression of CLK in stably transfected PC12 cells mimicked a number of nerve growth factor (NGF)-dependent events, including the morphological differentiation of these cells and the elaboration of neurites. Moreover, CLK expression enhanced the rate of NGF-mediated neurite outgrowth of these cells, indicating that CLK expression and NGF treatment activate similar signal transduction pathways. CLK expression, unlike NGF, was not able to promote PC12 cell survival in serum-free media, demonstrating that CLK only partially recapitulated the actions of NGF on these cells and that the biochemical pathways necessary for morphological differentiation can be stimulated without also stimulating those necessary for survival. Induction of CLK expression also resulted in the selective activation of protein kinases that are components of growth factor-stimulated signal transduction cascades, including ERK1, ERK2, pp90RSK, and S6PKII. Induction of CLK expression, however, did not stimulate pp70S6K or Fos kinase, two NGF-sensitive protein kinases. These data indicate that CLK action mediates the morphological differentiation of these cells through its capacity to independently stimulate signal transduction pathways normally employed by NGF.
There is considerable interest in identifying factors responsible for expression of the O-6-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) gene, as MGMT is a major determinant in the response of glioma cells to the chemotherapeutic agent 1,3 bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea. Recently we have shown that MGMT expression is correlated in a direct, graded fashion with methylation in the body of the MGMT gene and in an inverse, graded fashion with promoter methylation in human glioma cell lines. To determine if promoter methylation is an important component of MGMT expression, this study addressed the complex interactions between methylation, chromatin structure, and in vivo transcription factor occupancy in the MGMT promoter of glioma cell lines with different levels of MGMT expression. Our results show that the basal promoter in MGMT-expressing glioma cell lines, which is 100% unmethylated, was very accessible to restriction enzymes at all sites tested, suggesting that this region may be nucleosome free. The basal promoter in glioma cells with minimal MGMT expression, however, which is 75% unmethylated, was much less accessible, and the basal promoter in nonexpressing cells, which is 50% unmethylated, was entirely inaccessible to restriction enzymes. Despite the presence of the relevant transcription factors in all cell lines examined, in vivo footprinting showed DNA-protein interactions at six Sp1 binding sites and one novel binding site in MGMT-expressing cell lines but no such interactions in nonexpressors. We conclude that in contrast to findings of previous in vitro studies, Sp1 is an important component of MGMT transcription. These correlations also strongly suggest that methylation and chromatin structure, by determining whether Sp1 and other transcription factors can access the MGMT promoter, set the transcriptional state of the MGMT gene.
To understand the possible role of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in human lymphocytes, and the regulation of APP gene expression in this cell type, we determined levels of cellular APP protein and of mRNA in human T-cell-derived Jurkat cells that were treated with lectin, phorbol ester, and calcium ionophore. We also related these levels to cell aggregation and adhesion. Cell-cell aggregation and cell-plastic adhesion were observed over a 24-h period after incubating cells for 2 h with phytohemagglutinin or phorbol myristate acetate. Cells treated with a calcium ionophore showed no aggregation or adhesion. Western blots indicated no obvious alteration in the level of cellular APP with different treatments. Northern blots showed a significant transient increase of APP mRNA after incubation with the calcium ionophore, whereas phorbol ester treatment showed a slight increase of APP mRNA. We analyzed the level of APP mRNA in human peripheral T cells which had been separated from peripheral lymphocytes. The level increased transiently by up to threefold after treatment with calcium ionophore plus phorbol esters. These data suggest that cell-cell aggregation and cell-matrix adhesion by human lymphocytes are not associated with an increased level of cellular APP protein or of mRNA.
Autonomic neuropathy is an important and common complication of Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS). Manifestations be present in cardiovascular, sudomotor, gastrointestinal and other systems involving both sympathetic and parasympathetic fibers. Some apparently selective acute autonomic neuropathies may be subvarieties of GBS. Experimental work in animal models, pathological studies of GBS patients, and autonomic function studies have provided some help in the understanding of this complication. In managing GBS patients with autonomic dysfunction there are important practical considerations that can improve their care. In this article we review the literature on autonomic neuropathy in GBS and propose a management scheme to accommodate it in the overall treatment of the neuropathy.
Development of the dopamine (DA) neuron phenotype was monitored in cultures of embryonic rat mesencephalon (MES) and hypothalamus (HYP) maintained for 1 to 21 days in vitro (DIV) in the absence of glial support cells. Cell counts following immunohistochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) demonstrated that the number of DA neurons declined by 85% in MES cultures yet increased 5-fold in cultures of HYP, so that by 21 DIV equal numbers of DA neurons were present in these culture systems. After 21 DIV MES DA neurons exhibited a multipolar morphology, with numerous branching processes. HYP DA neurons were primarily fusiform in shape with fewer processes and process branch points. Double-label immunohistochemistry for TH and microtubule-associated protein 2 identified the majority of TH-positive processes in either culture system as dendrites. Individual MES but not HYP DA neurons were also found to generate axons. Western analysis showed that between 1 and 21 DIV the concentration of TH protein increased 2-fold in MES and 4-fold in HYP cultures. After 21 DIV the concentration of TH protein in MES cultures was twice that found in cultures of HYP. In the period between 1 and 21 DIV levels of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) increased by 6-fold in MES and 20-fold in HYP cultures. After 21 DIV BH4 content was 3-fold higher in HYP than in MES cultures. The abundance of the mRNA encoding for GTP cyclohydrolase I, the rate-limiting enzyme in BH4 biosynthesis, was similar in MES and HYP cultures despite this difference in BH4 levels. In contrast, TH mRNA was 4-fold more abundant in MES than in HYP cultures. Treatment of MES cultures with the DA neuron toxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium decreased DA cell numbers, TH protein content and BH4 levels, demonstrating that BH4 is localized primarily to DA neurons. Similar treatment of HYP cultures did not effect any of these parameters. Steady-state levels of DA and the rate of DA synthesis were both 3-fold higher in MES than in HYP cultures. A 95% decline in BH4 content produced by inhibiting BH4 biosynthesis resulted in 64% and 84% declines in the rate of MES and HYP DA synthesis, respectively. Overall, these observations indicate that, with the exception of the capacity to synthesize DA, DA neurons in MES and HYP cultures share few common properties.
Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) is a potent ACTH secretagogue which activates the release of hypothalamic CRH. Direct injections of IL-1 beta into the hypothalamic median eminence (ME), a site which lacks a blood-brain barrier, has been shown to rapidly induce ACTH secretion. Therefore, the ME is a likely site whereby circulating IL-1 beta can access the brain to stimulate CRH and, consequently, ACTH secretion. To further evaluate this hypothesis, an angular stereotaxic approach was developed to localize the spread of IL-1 beta to the ME and to optimally separate the injectate from the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), another proposed site of IL-1 action. Studies of the diffusion of [125I]-IL beta (100 nl delivered over 60 s) showed that 97% remained within 200 microns of the ventral surface of the hypothalamus and 87% was contained within a radius of 550 microns of the injection site in the sagittal plane. Additional rats received recombinant human IL-1 beta (0.2-25.0 ng in 100 nl) into the ME (intra-ME). Plasma ACTH levels were significantly elevated by a much lower dose (0.5 ng, p &lt; 0.001) of IL-1 beta than that previously reported. Responses appeared to be dose-dependent and ACTH was maximally stimulated by 2.0 ng IL-1 beta. Also, immunocytochemically labelled CRH in the ME was markedly depleted after intra-ME IL-1 beta. Indomethacin, an inhibitor of prostaglandin (PG) synthesis, has been shown to block both the induction of CRH secretion by IL-1 beta from hypothalamic explants, as well as the ACTH response to intravenous IL-1 beta. Thus, indomethacin was used to determine whether PGs are mediators of the ACTH response to IL-1 beta delivered into the ME. The ACTH response was abolished (p &lt; 0.005) when a low dose of indomethacin (1 mg/kg i.v.) was administered 20 min before intra-ME IL-1 beta (25 ng). Finally, plasma ACTH was elevated in a dose-dependent manner by the intra-ME administration of PGs. The hierarchy of ACTH responses to PGE2 were: CSF &lt; 0.5 micrograms (p &lt; 0.001) = 2.0 micrograms &lt; 4.0 micrograms (p &lt; 0.05). Responses to PGF2 alpha were: CSF &lt; 0.5 micrograms (p &lt; 0.001) &lt; 2.0 micrograms (p &lt; 0.05) = 4.0 micrograms. Since these PGs appear to activate different second-messenger systems, a submaximal dose of each was administered alone or in combination.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Studies in female rats have shown that transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) stimulates release of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), the neuropeptide controlling sexual maturation, and that expression of the TGF alpha gene in the hypothalamus increases during both the initiation of normal puberty and after hypothalamic lesions that induce sexual precocity. Since blockade of epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFR), which mediate TGF alpha actions, delayed the normal timing of puberty, it was postulated that TGF alpha/EGFR contributes to the neuroendocrine process that underlies the initiation of normal female puberty. The present study was undertaken to examine the hypothesis that hypothalamic expression of the TGF alpha gene and its receptor changes in relation to the stage of sexual development in nonhuman primates, and to determine whether these changes are accompanied by corresponding alterations in LHRH gene expression. DNA fragments complementary to the coding regions of the rhesus monkey TGF alpha, EGFR and LHRH genes were cloned by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), sequenced and used to prepare monkey-specific antisense RNA probes. A quantitative RT-PCR was developed in which the cloned sequences were utilized to prepare RNA standards for the quantitation of tissue mRNA levels. Both TGF alpha and EGFR mRNA levels in the medial basal hypothalamus and preoptic area of female monkeys were elevated during neonatal life (1 week to 6 months of age), when FSH secretion is also high, decreased during juvenile development (8-18 months of age), when secretion of both FSH and LH is low, and markedly increased during the expected time of puberty (30-36 months of age). No such changes were observed in either the cerebellum or the cerebral cortex, two brain regions irrelevant to neuroendocrine reproductive control. In contrast to the pronounced alterations in hypothalamic TGF alpha/EGFR gene expression observed during sexual development, LHRH mRNA levels did not vary significantly during this time. Hybridization histochemistry revealed the presence of both TGF alpha and EGFR mRNAs in cells scattered throughout the hypothalamus, but more predominantly in the median eminence, suprachiasmatic nuclei, optic chiasm and cells along the wall of the third ventricle. These results demonstrate that increases in TGF alpha and EGFR gene expression, specific to the neuroendocrine brain, occur during developmental phases in which gonadotropin output is also elevated--most noticeably at the time of puberty.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Recent research in computational neuroscience has suggested that psychosis associated with disturbed catecholamine neurotransmission may result from disturbances in the gain parameters of neural networks that these same secondary neurotransmitters are thought to control. We propose a mathematical model based upon cooperativity theory used in thermodynamics to explain how the gain parameter that momentarily increases the effect upon the post-synaptic cell of a given weighted connection from the presynaptic cell could be instantiated in the fluctuating electrical conductance of the dendrite of a neuron without requiring extensive ion transport or utilization of the ATP energy cycle. More specifically we propose that catecholamine neurotransmission serves to maintain the dendrite in a cooperative state with regard to changes in electrical conductance due to impulse traffic alone. In this way we supply the neuron with an activity driven gain parameter that not only increases volume of neuronal output at very low energy cost but that also upscales cooperative effects at the mechanico-chemical level of the dendrite to the network level itself. An important implication of this model is that two extreme states for dendritic electrical conductance will occur if cooperativity is lost at the level of catecholamine depletion or excess due to drug effects. These are the AND gate effect in which dendritic conductance is so low that the neuron requires extensive synaptic activity in order to output significantly. We correlate this state with negative symptoms in schizophrenia and psychomotor retardation in depression as well as the rigidity in Parkinsonism. The other extreme is represented by the OR gated dendrite in which conductance is so high that even noisy input to the dendrite will lead to significant nerve cell output. We correlate this condition with the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, the agitated features of psychotic depression and the tremors of Parkinsonism.


Dysphagia is a common problem in patients with neurologic disease and is often associated with significant morbidity and mortality. To evaluate primary brain tumor patients who complained of dysphagia, we adapted grading scales for severity of complaint and level of alertness (scale of 1 to 4) and bedside swallowing assessment and videofluoroscopic examination (scales of 1 to 5). Over 13 months, we prospectively screened 117 patients for dysphagia. Seventeen of these (14.5%) complained of dysphagia (mean age, 50.2 years; range, 20 to 75); an additional six control patients were studied from a group with no dysphagic complaints. Scoring for severity of complaint (mean, 2.3) and level of alertness (mean, 2.2) was mild-moderate in the majority of patients. Eleven of 17 patients scored &gt; or = grade 3 (mean 3.2, moderate impairment, requiring supervision) on bedside testing, and six of seven scored &gt; or = grade 3 (mean 3.8, moderate-moderately severe abnormality, trace or frequent aspiration) during videofluoroscopic evaluation. Bedside testing scores of the study group differed significantly (p &lt; 0.001) from those of the control group. Level of alertness correlated strongly with bedside (r = 0.794) and videofluoroscopic (r = 0.780) scoring. Primary brain tumor patients with dysphagia are likely to have impairment of swallowing out of proportion to their complaints and therefore are at risk for aspiration and nutritional compromise. We recommend that these patients undergo formal swallowing assessment followed by rehabilitation or implementation of alternative feeding methods.
Post-polio syndrome (PPS) refers to the late development of new neuromuscular symptoms in previously stable poliomyelitis patients. Whether psychological disturbance plays a role in the manifestation of symptoms in these patients is unclear. We examined 22 patients fulfilling the clinical criteria for PPS with the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-II (MMPI-II), Beck Depression Inventory, Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Scales, Chapman and Chapman Psychosis-Proneness Scales, Fatigue Scales, a neurobehavioral rating scale, and Cognitive Symptoms Self-Report Scales. The overwhelming majority of scale scores were within normal limits, and there was no indication that psychopathologic symptoms were associated with the development or severity of new muscle weakness in PPS patients. Women with PPS had significantly more somatic complaints, but were less socially isolated than men with PPS. This study confirms that the development or severity of new muscle weakness in carefully diagnosed PPS patients is not due to, or influenced by, underlying psychopathology.

Contact-dependent axon growth inhibitory activity is present in CNS myelin, but the inhibitory proteins have not been fully characterized. We report here that at least two peaks of inhibitory activity can be separated by fractionating solubilized CNS myelin proteins by DEAE chromatography. A major peak of inhibitory activity corresponded to the elution profile of myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG). Immunodepletion of MAG from these inhibitory fractions removed neurite growth inhibition, whereas recombinant MAG (ectodomain) was a potent inhibitor of neurite outgrowth. Immunodepletion of MAG from total extracts of CNS myelin restored neurite growth up to 63% of control levels. These results establish that MAG is a significant, and possibly the major, inhibitor in CNS myelin; this has broad implications for axonal regeneration in the injured mammalian CNS.
Double labelling immunohistochemistry using antibodies to thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) and somatostatin (SS) was undertaken in the anterior hypothalamus in 6 rats. Light microscopic quantitation revealed that 94.5% of SS immunopositive perikarya in the preoptic anterior hypothalamic area (PO/AHA) and 97.5% in the paraventricular nucleus appeared to be contacted by one or more TRH immunopositive terminals. In the chronically cannulated unanaesthetised male rat, unilateral microinjections of a range of doses of TRH were made in the PO/AHA, where SS neurons are located, or in the medial basal hypothalamus, where growth hormone (GH)-releasing factor (GRF) neurons are located. Transient reductions in GH plasma levels occurred only after injections of the highest (10 nmol) dose of TRH in both sites. The function of TRH inputs to both somatostatin and GRF neurons appears to be inhibitory for GH. The physiological conditions in which these inputs function remain to be defined.
For the analysis of neural activity over a long period of time, the organotypic culture of mammalian brain slices provides excellent specimens. To effectively utilize the slice culture, we developed a device for automatic sampling of the culture medium. This device is a computer-controlled combination of a multichannel peristaltic pump to remove the media from the glass culture containers, a fraction collector designed to allow quick freezing of the samples, and a multichannel syringe pump to deliver new media to the containers. Using this device, substances released as results of neural activities can be collected at regular intervals over several days. We monitored the circadian release of arginine-vasopressin from cultured suprachiasmatic nuclei. We also monitored tonic releases of lactate dehydrogenase from cultured hippocampi phasically treated with an excitotoxin and from those transiently deprived of oxygen/glucose.
In the present study, the influence of extracellular ATP and ATP agonists in the physiology of the vestibular organs was examined, using the in vitro model of the isolated semicircular canal of the frog (Rana pipiens). The firing activity of the afferent nerve, the d.c. nerve potential and the transepithelial potential were measured in the absence and presence of mechanical stimulation of the sensory epithelium. Administration of ATP into the perilymphatic compartment, from 10(-12) to 10(-3) M, increased the firing rate of the afferent fibers recorded in the absence of mechanical stimulation. Recordings of the d.c. nerve potential indicated that the afferent fibers were hyperpolarized. The presence of the purine also modified the transepithelial potential. During mechanical stimulation of the sensory epithelium, both the evoked afferent firing and the evoked variation of the d.c. nerve potential were reduced in the presence of ATP. However, ATP did not effect the evoked modulation of the transepithelial potential, evoked by the mechanical stimulation. Administration of the P2x purinoceptor agonists, alpha, beta-methylene-ATP and beta, gamma-methylene-ATP, at concentrations between 10(-12) and 10(-3) M, did not significantly modify the different bioelectrical activities investigated. In contrast, 2-methylthio-ATP, a P2y purinoceptor agonist, more potent and efficacious than ATP in its effect on the spontaneous firing. Concurrently, no modification of the d.c. nerve potential, the transepithelial potential and their variation during mechanical stimulation was observed. In opposition to the ATP effect, the total amplitude of the evoked firing was increased in the presence of 2-methylthio-ATP. These data suggest that extracellular ATP, present in the perilymphatic compartment, may act as a neuromodulator in the vestibular physiology. The effects of the purine appear to be mediated by the activation of a P2y subtype of purinoceptor. The absence of an effect of ATP and 2-methylthio-ATP on the evoked variation of the transepithelial potential suggest that the purine did not affect the processes responsible for the generation of the receptor potential but more likely modified the mechanisms involved in the release of the neurotransmitter from the hair cells and/or acted on the afferent endings.
Induction of hsp71 mRNA, coding for the inducible heat shock protein HSP71, and the constitutively expressed, hsc73 mRNA coding for the heat shock cognate protein HSC73 were studied after heat shock using northern blotting and in situ hybridization. Two cDNA oligonucleotides complementary to the messenger RNAs for hsp71 and hsc73 and suitable for in situ hybridization were designed and shown to hybridize selectively to their respective mRNAs. The inducible hsp71 was rapidly synthesized in brain after heat shock and disappeared in 6 h. A high level of expression was observed first in the dentate granule cell layer and then slightly later in the hippocampal pyramidal cell layer. There was also a dramatic increase in the granular layer of the cerebellar cortex. There was a more modest increase in expression of hsc73 after heat shock in forebrain and in cerebellum (granular layer). The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.), given 15 min before heat shock, significantly reduced the expression of hsp71 but had no effect on hsc73. These results suggest that glutamate plays a role in heat shock-induced expression of hsp71 in brain.
There is a great deal of interest in the role of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the central nervous system, although their function is not well understood at present. Currently, central nicotinic receptors can be classified broadly as either alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites with low affinity for acetylcholine agonists, or as high-affinity agonist binding sites with low affinity for alpha-bungarotoxin. Neuronal nicotinic receptors with a high affinity for agonists are distributed widely in the central nervous system. Evidence from molecular biology and electrophysiology suggests that multiple nicotinic receptor types exist in the brain. In this study we have used the agonist [3H]cytisine as a ligand for autoradiography to generate a detailed quantitative map of the high-affinity agonist binding nicotinic receptor in the rat brain. Optimized binding conditions, characterization of the kinetic and equilibrium binding properties, and demonstration of the nicotinic pharmacology of this binding site in tissue sections confirm the usefulness of [3H]Cytisine as a ligand for nicotinic receptor autoradiography. [3H]Cytisine autoradiography provides excellent anatomic resolution with very low non-specific binding. This property has allowed us to describe variations in receptor density within subnuclei and gradients of receptor density in larger brain regions. Data from several studies suggest that the predominant high-affinity agonist binding nicotine receptor in the central nervous system is composed of the alpha 4 and beta 2 subunits. The data in the current study are consistent with the suggestion that [3H]cytisine labels only the alpha 4 beta 2 nicotinic receptor with high affinity, offering the possibility of localizing a specific nicotinic receptor subtype in the central nervous system. In summary, we characterize the optimum experimental conditions for the use of [3H]cytisine in tissue section autoradiography. [3H]Cytisine proves to be an excellent marker for nicotinic cholinergic receptors with a very high affinity and very low background. We provide a detailed quantitative characterization of nicotinic receptor density in the rat central nervous system and we find there are significant variations and gradients in receptor density within specific brain regions, including subregions previously thought to be homogeneous.
Distribution of the messenger RNA for the prostaglandin E receptor subtype EP3 was investigated by in situ hybridization in the nervous system of the mouse. The hybridization signals for EP3 were widely distributed in the brain and sensory ganglia and specifically localized to neurons. In the dorsal root and trigeminal ganglia, about half of the neurons were labeled intensely. In the brain, intensely labeled neurons were found in Ammon's horn, the preoptic nuclei, lateral hypothalamic area, dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, lateral mammillary nucleus, entopeduncular nucleus, substantia nigra pars compacta, locus coeruleus and raphe nuclei. Moderately labeled neurons were seen in the mitral cell layer of the main olfactory bulb, layer V of the entorhinal and parasubicular cortices, layers V and VI of the cerebral neocortex, nuclei of the diagonal band, magnocellular preoptic nucleus, globus pallidus and lateral parabrachial nucleus. In the thalamus, moderately labeled neurons were distributed in the anterior, ventromedial, laterodorsal, paraventricular and central medial nuclei. Based on these distributions, we suggest that EP3 not only mediates prostaglandin E2 signals evoked by blood-borne cytokines in the areas poor in the blood-brain barrier, but also responds to those formed intrinsically within the brain to modulate various neuronal activities. Possible EP3 actions are discussed in relation to the reported neuronal activities of prostaglandin E2 in the brain.
Retinoic acid, the active metabolite of retinoids (vitamin A compounds), is thought to act as a gene regulator via ligand-activated transcription factors. In order to investigate possible roles of retinoids and retinoid-controlled gene expression in brain function, we have used immunohistochemistry to localize the possible presence of two intracellular retinoid-binding proteins, cellular retinol-binding protein type I and cellular retinoic acid-binding protein type I, in the adult rat central nervous system. We find a widespread, yet distinct, presence of these two binding proteins in the brain and spinal cord. Most of the immunoreactivity is neuronal, including cell somata, as well as dendritic and axonal processes and axon terminals. Cellular retinol-binding protein type I-immunoreactivity is also found in the walls of cerebral blood vessels, the meninges, the choroid plexus, certain ependymal cells, tanocytes and certain other glial elements. The cellular retinol-binding protein type I- and cellular retinoic acid-binding protein type I-immunoreactivity patterns appear to be almost exclusively non-overlapping. Very strong cellular retinol-binding protein type I-immunoreactivity is found in the dendritic layers of the hippocampal formation and dentate gyrus. Cellular retinol-binding protein type I-immunoreactivity is also present in layer 5 cortical pyramidal neurons and neurons in the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb. Many other areas, e.g. hypothalamic nuclei and amygdala areas, contain networks of varicose cellular retinol-binding protein type I-immunoreactive nerve fibers. The medial amygdaloid nucleus contains strongly cellular retinol-binding protein type I-positive neurons. Cellular retinoic acid-binding protein type I-immunoreactivity is more restricted in the adult brain. Strong cellular retinoic acid-binding protein type I-immunoreactivity is, however, found in a population of medium-sized neurons scattered throughout the striatum, in neurons in the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb, the olfactory nerve and in a group of nerve cells close to the third ventricle in hypothalamus. The remarkably selective patterns of cellular retinol-binding protein type I- and cellular retinoic acid-binding protein type I-immunoreactivity discovered in the adult rat brain suggest that retinoids have important roles as regulators of gene expression in normal brain function. The high levels of cellular retinol-binding protein type I-immunoreactivity found in hippocampus suggest that one such role might relate to brain plasticity.
By means of a monoclonal mouse immunoglobulin G2a antibody against the rat liver glucocorticoid receptor and the indirect immunoperoxidase technique, the distribution of glucocorticoid receptors in neuronal and glial cell populations was mapped in the central nervous system of the male rat. The mapping was complemented by computer-assisted morphometric and microdensitometric evaluation of glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity in many brain regions. The quantitative analysis allowed us to achieve for the first time an objective characterization of glucocorticoid receptor distribution in the CNS, thus avoiding the ambiguities of previous mapping studies based on subjective evaluations. In addition, a taxonomic analysis of central nervous system regions containing glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity was carried out utilizing the quantitative parameters obtained in the morphometric evaluation. Nuclei of neuronal and glial cells containing glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity were detected in a widespread, but still highly heterogeneous, fashion in the central nervous system, underlining the view that glucocorticoids can control a large number of central nervous system target cells via effects on gene expression. Many nerve cell populations have been shown to contain substantial amounts of nuclear glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity, whereas only a low density of glial cells, in both gray and white matter, show nuclear glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity. Thus, in most brain areas, the major target for glucocorticoids appears to be the nerve cells. Interestingly, an inverse correlation was found in the regional density of glucocorticoid receptor-immunoreactive nerve and glial cells, suggesting that glucocorticoids may influence a brain area either via glial cells or, more frequently, via nerve cells. The results on mapping highlight the impact of glucocorticoids in areas both traditionally and not traditionally involved in stress responses. The distribution of glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity also emphasizes a role of glucocorticoids in the regulation of the afferent regions of the basal ganglia and the cerebellar cortex, and of both afferent and efferent layers of the cerebral cortex. Glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity is widely distributed over the thalamus, probably leading to modulation of activity in the various thalamocortical pathways transmitting inter alia specific sensory information to the cerebral cortex. Many unspecific afferents to the cerebral cortex are potentially regulated by glucocorticoid receptors such as the noradrenaline and 5-hydroxytryptamine afferents, since their nerve cells of origin contain strong glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity. Eight brain regions involving sensory, motor and limbic areas were shown to have a similarity with regard to glucocorticoid receptor-immunoreactive parameters at the level of 95%. The density of glucocorticoid receptor-immunoreactive nerve cells appeared to be the main factor in determining such a very high level of similarity. Overall, our results emphasize that glucocorticoids may appropriately tune networks of different areas to obtain optimal integration and in this way improve survival of the animal under challenging conditions.
Light-microscope visualization in rat brain of a pattern of distribution of immunoreactivity, which included immunolabeled perikarya and beaded processes, was achieved using an immunoaffinity purified polyclonal antibody, Ab165, which recognizes the amino acid sequence, IRNLRQDRSKYY, found in the mu-opioid binding protein purified in our laboratory. Immunohistochemical staining with Ab165 was carried out by the avidin-biotin procedure. Antibody, preabsorbed with antigen, served as control. Extensive immunoreactivity was seen in the hippocampal formation, the amygdaloid complex, the striatal complex, cortical regions, select areas of the thalamus and hypothalamus and in laminae I and II of the dorsal horn in spinal cord. The distribution of immunoreactivity in the rat brain of antibody 165, which recognizes a purified mu-opioid binding protein, is concordant with the distribution of mu-opioid binding sites as determined by other laboratories in autoradiographic, electrophysiological and immunocytochemical studies. These findings have enabled us to distinguish areas possessing large fields of mu-opioid receptor containing cell bodies from areas possessing dense networks of immunolabeled neuronal processes or mixtures of both.
Mechanisms of regulation of GABAA receptor function by intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) were examined in cell somata and apical dendrites of pyramidal cells, acutely dissociated from the CA1 hippocampal subfield of adult guinea-pigs. GABAA receptor-mediated currents were measured by whole-cell clamp recordings. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated currents were used as conditioning source of calcium influx. Peak amplitudes of somatic GABAA whole-cell currents were reduced to about 15% of control values when net inward charge accumulation by N-methyl-D-aspartate currents reached 1.85 nC. A similar decline of GABAA currents was observed in dendritic recordings. The N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated reduction of somatic and dendritic GABAA currents was accompanied by a well correlated decrease in peak and chord conductances. Pharmacological blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate currents by 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid prevented the N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated suppression of GABAA responses. The N-methyl-D-aspartate effect was mediated by the calcium component of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated currents as demonstrated by a lack of effect in the absence of extracellular calcium and faster N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated suppression of GABAA responses in lower intracellular 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N&quot;-tetra-acetate. N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated suppression of GABAA currents was significantly less expressed when intracellular ATP was replaced by its analog adenosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) and when the specific phosphatase 2B inhibitor cypermethrin was added intracellularly. The reduction of GABAA responses persisted after cessation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated calcium influx, indicating a long-term action of N-methyl-D-aspartate on GABAA responses. Voltage-activated calcium currents did not affect GABAA responses under the experimental conditions applied. In conclusion, the data presented show that calcium influxes through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels result in long-term suppression of GABAA receptor function in CA1 pyramidal cells. Intracellular mechanisms of N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated reduction of GABAA conductances involve activation of phosphatase 2B and consecutive dephosphorylation of the GABAA receptor or a closely associated GABAA receptor-regulating enzyme. Possible mechanisms of such a distinct N-methyl-D-aspartate-dependent calcium signalling pathway in the dephosphorylation-dependent suppression or GABAA receptor function are discussed.
We investigated the effect of in vivo administration of an antiepileptic drug, phenytoin, on the saxitoxin binding capacity of receptor site 1 of the Na+ channel alpha-subunit, and the expression activity of the channel messenger RNA in epileptic El mouse brains, as compared with parental ddY mice. Subchronic treatment with phenytoin (25 mg/kg per day) for 14 days increased the [3H]saxitoxin binding to brain-derived synaptic membranes of both El and control ddY mice in a time dependent manner. This increase plateaued at 21 +/- 4% in El mice and 28 +/- 3% in ddY control mice after administration of phenytoin for seven days. After cessation of treatment with phenytoin, [3H]saxitoxin binding capacity returned to the basal level within two weeks in both ddY and El brains. Scatchard plot analysis revealed that the phenytoin treatment caused a 20-30% increase in maximum binding capacity of [3H]saxitoxin binding without any change in equilibrium dissociation constant in the brain cortical synaptic membranes of both epileptic El and control ddY mice. A single injection of phenytoin (25 mg/kg) elevated the level of Na+ channel messenger RNA within 1 h in ddY mouse brains. The increase in Na+ channel messenger RNA reached a peak (about 80% increase) after 5 h of phenytoin administration in a concentration-dependent manner (6.25-50 mg/kg). On the other hand, in El mouse brains, Na+ channel messenger RNA was not elevated until more than 5 h after phenytoin injection, and was increased by only about 33%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The substantia nigra is innervated by massive inhibitory GABAergic projections from the striatum and globus pallidus, deafferentation of which is supposed to lead to anterograde trans-synaptic degeneration of the nigral neurons. An immunohistochemical method was used to examine the induction of 72,000 mol. wt heat shock protein in the substantia nigra following cerebral hemitransection or transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. At three and four days post-transection, strong immunoreactivity for 72,000 mol. wt heat shock protein was found in the ipsilateral substantia nigra pars reticulata. Light microscopic observation revealed a number of pars reticulata neurons showing strong immunoreactivity for 72,000 mol. wt heat shock protein in their perikarya and proximal processes. In addition, Golgi-like stained neurons with dystrophic features were occasionally observed in the ipsilateral substantia nigra pars reticulata. The immunoreactivity for 72,000 mol. wt heat shock protein in the ipsilateral pars reticulata gradually declined and almost disappeared by 15 days after transection. No apparent induction of 72,000 mol. wt heat shock protein was found in the substantia nigra pars compacta throughout the time period examined. Massive striatal ischemic injury produced by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion also induced expression of 72,000 mol. wt heat shock protein in the pars reticulata neurons three and four days postoperatively. These findings suggest that deafferentation of the striatal or striatopallidal inputs per se is a harmful stress for the substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons, inducing 72,000 mol. wt heat shock protein synthesis. The present data may contribute to our understanding of the molecular basis of the pathomechanism of the transneuronal regression of substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons, which may occur after removal of inhibitory GABAergic inputs.
The excitatory effect of [Arg8]-vasopressin and its potential contribution to the circadian cycle of electrical activity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the rat was investigated using extracellular recordings from hypothalamic slices from virgin female rats. The majority of neurons tested for their responses to vasopressin and [Arg8]-vasotocin displayed coincident, dose-dependent excitation by both peptides, although the relative efficacy varied between neurons, with some showing a highly preferential excitation by vasotocin. Perifusion with the vasopressin receptor antagonist d(CH2)5[Tyr(OEt)2,Val4,Cit8]-vasopressin was able to block the majority of responses to vasopressin or vasotocin (20/25), and similar excitation could be induced by the selective agonist [Phe2,Orn8]-vasotocin, indicating a mainly V1 receptor-mediated effect. Few neurons (3/27; 11%) responded to the oxytocin-specific agonist, [Thr4,Gly7]-oxytocin, suggesting a low occurrence of oxytocin receptors. In addition to blocking the action of exogenous vasopressin, the V1 antagonist caused a reversible suppression of spontaneous basal activity in 7/25 cases, consistent with the presence of an endogenous excitatory vasopressin tone. In agreement with previous reports, the activity of suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons showed a significant correlation between spontaneous activity and the light-dark cycle, with activity decreasing during the subjective dark phase. When neurons were divided on the basis of their response to vasopressin and/or vasotocin, the peptide-sensitive neurons continued to show a strong correlation (r = 0.513, P &lt; 0.01) while the insensitive neurons showed no correlation (r = 0.136, P &gt; 0.05). These data confirm the presence of V1 type receptors in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and also indicate a small number of neurons possessing additional classes of receptor selective for either oxytocin or vasotocin. Contrary to previous reports, they also demonstrate that endogenous vasopressin tonically excites suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons. The fact that vasopressin-sensitive (but not vasopressin-insensitive) neurons show a level of basal activity correlated with time, suggests that this tone may contribute to the circadian cycle of electrical activity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus.
In acute experiments on cats anaesthetized with ketamine (25 mg/kg, i.m.) and immobilized with myorelaxine (2 mg/kg, i.v.) the activity of two groups of motor thalamic (nucleus ventralis anterior thalami-nucleus ventralis lateralis thalami) relay neurons was studied. The neurons (n = 7) receiving afferents from deep cerebellar nuclei and projecting to the motor area 4 gamma were included in the first group, and those (n = 12) receiving afferents from nucleus entopeduncularis and projecting to the supplementary motor area 6 were included in the second one. All changes in the background activity and reactions to cerebellothalamic or nucleus entopeduncularis stimulation developing under the influence of D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol (1.5-1.7 mg/kg, i.v.) have been studied in the same cell. Under haloperidol influence both groups of neurons showed a reliable decrease of background activity and generation of high frequency discharges accompanied by a shift in the mode of interspike interval histograms. A regular decrease of probability and increase of response latencies after stimulation of afferent input were observed in neurons receiving afferents from the cerebellum. In nucleus ventralis anterior thalami-nucleus ventralis lateralis thalami neurons with an inhibitory input from nucleus entopeduncularis, a shortening of inhibition from 17.5 +/- 3.6 to 9.1 +/- 1.8 ms (P &lt; 0.05) under the haloperidol influence was evident. If the inhibition evoked by nucleus entopeduncularis stimulation consisted of two phases separated by a period of excitation (n = 4), the duration of the second phase of inhibition after haloperidol injection regularly increased and the excitation separating the phase of inhibition after haloperidol injection regularly increased and the excitation separating the phases of inhibition became more prominent. Observation on the spontaneous activity and reactions of the same neuron for 2 h or more showed a gradual moderation of the changes evoked by haloperidol. On the basis of data obtained it is concluded that the blockade of D2 receptors is followed by the increase of inhibitory processes in the relay neurons of motor thalamic nuclei. The suggestion is discussed that during the blockade of D2 receptors afferent impulsation to the motor cortex is being restricted and its influence on segmental apparatus of the spinal cord decreases. These conditions are beneficial for the development of spasticity (rigidity). At the same time, hyperpolarization of the relay neurons promotes the development of oscillatory processes at least in part of them and creates conditions for forming of tremor generators.
Animal models of event-related potentials have recently been developed in rats in order to gain further understanding of the psychobiological variables which underlie these waveforms. In the present study, unanesthetized male Wistar rats, chronically implanted with electrodes, were utilized in order to: (i) compare event-related potentials recorded following the presentation of passively presented auditory stimuli from different neocortical, hippocampal and perihippocampal sites; (ii) test the effects of changes in stimulus probability and loudness on event-related potentials recorded from those sites; and (iii) record event-related potentials from rats who were actively performing in a tone discrimination task. The results of these studies showed that in all electrode sites (frontal cortex, parietal cortex, entorhinal cortex, hippocampus) a series of large amplitude potentials in the 10-200 ms latency range could be recorded in response to passively presented stimuli. Late positive potentials in the 300-400 ms range were only identified in recordings from the posterior cortex, entorhinal area, and dorsal hippocampus. Some of these late positive components were also found to be sensitive to changes in stimulus probability. A similar series of waves were detected in a paradigm where rats were required to actively discriminate between two tones; however, the morphologies of the waveforms were found to be more distinct. These studies suggest that rats may be good subjects for the exploration of the neural origins of event-related potentials. These studies demonstrate that rats performing in an auditory discrimination task can generate electrophysiological potentials which are time locked to the onset of a &quot;cognitively relevant&quot; stimulus (event-related potentials). These potentials can be recorded in limbic (hippocampus and amygdala) and cortical (parietal cortex) brain sites. The event-related potentials recorded in rats respond to changes in stimulus parameters in a similar fashion to those previously described in monkeys and human subjects. The identification of a rat model of event-related potentials provides an opportunity to further explore the neural origins of event-related potentials, to estimate the role of genetics in determining individual variation in waveforms, as well as to provide electrophysiological assays of the effects of various drugs on neurosensory and cognitive processing.
This study concerns expression of the genes encoding three multifunctional proteins: clusterin and two complement cascade components, C1q and C4. Previous work from this and other laboratories has established that clusterin, Clq and C4 messenger RNAs are elevated during Alzheimer's disease, and in response to deafferenting and excitotoxic brain lesion. This study addresses hippocampal clusterin, ClqB and C4 expression in response to neurotoxins that caused selective neuron death. Kainate, which preferentially kills hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons but not dentate gyrus granule neurons induced clusterin immunoreactivity in CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neurons and adjacent astrocytes, but not in dentate gyrus granule neurons. In contrast, colchicine, which preferentially kills the dentate gyrus granule neurons, induced clusterin immunoreactivity in the local neuropil as punctate deposits, but not in the surviving or degenerating dentate gyrus granule neurons. Clusterin messenger RNA was increased in astrocytes. ClqB and C4 messenger RNAs increased within 48 h after kainate injections, particularly in the CA3 pyramidal layer, less in the dentate gyrus-CA4, and less in CA1. Clq immunoreactivity was detected in CA1 pyramidal neurons and also as small punctate deposits in the CA1 region at eight and 14 days after kainate. The increase of both clusterin and ClqB messenger RNAs after kainate injections was blocked by barbiturates that prevented seizures and neurodegeneration. In primary hippocampal neuronal cultures treated with glutamate, a subpopulation of cultured neurons that survived glutamate toxicity also had parallel elevations of clusterin and ClqB messenger RNA. In conclusion, cytotoxins that target selective hippocampal neurons increase the expression of both clusterin and ClqB in vivo and in vitro. These results show that elevations of clusterin messenger RNA or protein can be dissociated from each other and from cell death. These increased messenger RNAs were associated with immunoreactive deposits that differed by cell type and intra- versus extracellular locations. These results suggest that the complement system is involved in brain responses to injury.
The portion of the complementary DNA encoding the third intracellular loop of the rat 5-hydroxytryptamine1A (serotonin) receptor was subcloned into the vector pGEX-KG and expressed in Escherichia coli as a fusion protein coupled with the glutathione S-transferase of Schistosoma japonicum. The fusion protein was purified on a glutathione-agarose affinity column and used to immunize rabbits for the production of polyclonal anti-5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor antibodies. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay revealed that antibodies were produced as early as one month after the first injection of the fusion protein, and immune response plateaued at a maximum after the third (monthly) booster injection. These antibodies only marginally affected the specific binding of [3H]8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propyl-amino) tetralin to solubilized and membrane bound 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors, and did not interfere with serotonin-induced inhibition of forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase negatively coupled to 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors in rat hippocampal membranes. However, antibodies were able to immunoprecipitate 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor binding sites solubilized from rat hippocampal membranes. The distribution of immunoautoradiographic labelling and immunohistochemical staining of rat brain sections exposed to the antibodies raised against the fusion protein superimposed to that of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor binding sites labelled by specific radioligands, with marked enrichment in the limbic areas (dentate gyrus and CA1 area in the hippocampus, lateral septum, entorhinal cortex) and the anterior raphe nuclei. The differential cellular location of immunoreactivity within the hippocampus (where dendritic fields but not pyramidal cell somas were immunostained) and the median raphe nucleus (where the plasmic membrane of somas was strongly immunoreactive) suggests that the addressing of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors might differ from one neuronal cell type to another.
Previous studies have demonstrated that the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin, is located within a population of GABAergic interneurons in the neostriatum of the rat. Anatomical studies have revealed that these cells receive asymmetrical synaptic input from terminals that are similar to identified cortical terminals and that they innervate neurons with the ultrastructural features of medium spiny cells. Furthermore, electrophysiological studies suggest that some GABAergic interneurons in the neostriatum receive direct excitatory input from the cortex and inhibit medium spiny cells following cortical stimulation. The main objectives of the present study were (i) to determine whether parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons in the rat receive direct synaptic input from the cortex, (ii) to determine whether parvalbumin-immunopositive axon terminals innervate identified striatal projection neurons and (iii) to chemically characterize this anatomical circuit at the fine structural level. Rats received stereotaxic injections of biocytin in the frontal cortex or injections of neurobiotin in the substantia nigra. Following an appropriate survival time, the animals were perfused and the brains were sectioned and treated to reveal the transported tracers. Sections containing the neostriatum were treated for simultaneous localization of the transported tracer and parvalbumin immunoreactivity. Tracer deposits in the cortex gave rise to massive terminal and fibre labelling in the neostriatum. Parvalbumin-immunoreactive elements located within fields of anterogradely labelled terminals were examined in the electron microscope and corticostriatal terminals were found to form asymmetrical synaptic specializations with all parts of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons that were examined. Tracer deposits in the substantia nigra produced retrograde labelling of a subpopulation of striatonigral neurons. Areas of the neostriatum and nucleus accumbens containing retrogradely labelled neurons and parvalbumin-immunoreactive structures were selected for electron microscopy. Parvalbumin-immunopositive axon terminals formed symmetrical synaptic specializations with the perikarya of retrogradely labelled medium spiny projection neurons. Postembedding immunocytochemistry for GABA revealed that parvalbumin-immunoreactive boutons in synaptic contact with medium spiny neurons were GABA-positive. These data demonstrate directly a neural circuit whereby cortical information may be passed to medium spiny cells, via GABAergic interneurons, in the form of inhibition and provide an anatomical substrate for the feed-forward inhibition that has been detected in spiny neurons in electrophysiological experiments.
We investigated immunohistochemically the cellular localization of multifunctional type II Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase in the rat basal ganglia and intrastriatal grafts derived from fetal striatal primordia, in comparison with that of calcineurin, a reliable marker for striatal medium-sized spinous neurons. The type II Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase-positive neurons were of medium size, with a mean diameter of 16.1 +/- microns (average +/- S.D., n = 72, range 13.6-18.3 microns) and comprised approximately 70% of the total neuronal population in the striatum. Light microscopy showed that the type II Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase-positive cells had round, triangular or polygonal cell bodies with relatively little cytoplasm. Analysis of serial sections showed that type II Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase and calcineurin immunoreactivities were co-localized in the striatal neurons examined with a similar distribution pattern. Type II Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase-positive cells were always immunoreactive for calcineurin and cells negative for type II Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase showed no apparent calcineurin immunoreactivity. Type II Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase-positive nerve fibers in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra almost disappeared following striatal ischemic injury produced by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion and cerebral hemitransection, respectively, suggesting that these immunopositive fibers were striatal projections. Thus, most type II Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase-positive neurons in the rat striatum are considered to be of the medium-sized spinous type. Type II Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase or calcineurin immunoreactivity was also observed in a large number of neurons in transplants derived from fetal striatal primordia grafted into striatal ischemic lesions. In addition, type II Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase- or calcineurin-immunoreactive nerve fibers appeared in the deafferented globus pallidus of the host rats, suggesting that the striatopallidal pathway was reformed by striatal projection neurons of the transplants. This finding may also indicate that Ca2+/calmodulin-regulated enzymes are useful for tracing striatal projection fibers as endogenous marker proteins.
Previous direct neurochemical studies of the temporal dynamics of cholinergic activation in the septohippocampal and nucleus basalis magnocellularis-cortical pathways at various stages during repeated testing of mice with selective spatial reference or working memory protocols [Durkin and Toumane (1992), Behav. Brain Res. 50, 43-52] showed that the post-test durations of cholinergic activation in each pathway varied as a function of the type of memory tested and the level of task mastery. Since (i) the hippocampal formation is considered to constitute a critical component of a temporary memory buffer, and (ii) working memory items are not thought to be submitted to consolidation and permanent storage, we postulated that the duration of testing-induced cholinergic activation in the septohippocampal pathway may govern the maintenance of the working memory trace over the retention interval. In order to test directly this hypothesis C57 B1/6 mice were extensively trained (one trial/day, 25-30 days) on an identical selective working memory task to attain high levels of retention (&gt; 80% correct), but using either 5 min (Group 1), or 60 min (Group 2) retention intervals. At various times (30 s-75 min) following the initial acquisition phase of the test, cholinergic activity in the hippocampus and frontal cortex was quantified using measures of high-affinity choline uptake. Whereas cholinergic activation was observed in both pathways at 30 s post-acquisition and throughout the 5 min retention interval in Group 1, the situation in Group 2 is different, activation of the septohippocampal pathway being maintained for only 15 min, while activation in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis-cortical pathway is maintained for the totality of the 1 h retention interval. The nucleus basalis magnocellularis-cortical cholinergic pathway, in addition to its role in long-term reference memory storage processes may, thus, via an intervention in the temporal encoding of information, also subsume a complementary intermediate-term buffer storage role in working memory situations requiring retention intervals in excess of 15 min in mice. This secondary, &quot;backup&quot;, function of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis-cortical pathway would thus liberate the septohippocampal complex from its primary active role in the temporary maintenance and/or accessibility of the working memory trace in these particular cases requiring long retention intervals.
To study the role of calcium in neuronal death during ischemia, we examined the characteristics of intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) changes in single rat forebrain neurons exposed for 5 min to glutamate (3 microM + 1 microM glycine), NMDA (30 microM + 1 microM glycine), kainate (100 microM) or high K+ (50 mM), under both normal and ischemic conditions. The parameters of [Ca2+]i change measured included peak [Ca2+]i level, plateau [Ca2+]i level, area under the [Ca2+]i response curve and time taken by [Ca2+]i to recover to 10% of the peak response. Under normal conditions, all the agonists studied produced similar [Ca2+]i changes. Chemical ischemia simulated by application of 5 mM KCN in glucose-free buffer had no effect on the basal level of [Ca2+]i, but significantly enhanced and prolonged the [Ca2+]i changes produced by all the agonists. However, in toxicity studies, chemical ischemia significantly potentiated the toxicity of only glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate. In correlation studies, all the neurons which died displayed an irreversible secondary [Ca2+]i load prior to loss of viability. These studies suggest that while Ca2+ entry may play a critical role in neuronal death, the magnitude of initial [Ca2+]i change does not predict the toxicity of an agonist in cortical neurons.
Spontaneous synchronous field potentials of negative polarity (duration = 200-700 ms, inter-event interval = 9.1 +/- 2.9 s; n = 27 slices) were recorded, during application of 4-aminopyridine (50 microM), from the superficial/middle layers of slices of human neocortex obtained in the course of neurosurgery for the relief of intractable seizures. The negative-going field potential corresponded to an intracellular long-lasting (duration = 200-1600 ms) depolarization that could be preceded by preceded by an excitatory postsynaptic potential-hyperpolarizing inhibitory postsynaptic potential sequence and followed by a long-lasting hyperpolarization. This synchronous activity continued to occur following blockade of excitatory synaptic transmission by excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists, but was greatly reduced and eventually disappeared during application of the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide. Simultaneous extracellular recordings from three sites in the slice located along an axis parallel to the pia showed that successive synchronous field potentials could originate from any of the three areas. They invaded the other two sites in c. 35.5% of the cases, while propagation to another site only or no propagation at all was observed, respectively, in 44.4% and 20% of instances. The velocity of lateral propagation of the synchronous field potential was 7.9 +/- 2.5 mm/s (range = 4.5-11.8 mm/s, n = 6). The modalities of origin and propagation remained the same after blockade of excitatory amino acid receptors. Under these conditions, however, there was a higher incidence of non-propagation and the velocity was significantly lower than in control (5.6 +/- 1.9 mm/s; range = 2.8-7.7 mm/s, n = 6). These data indicate that, in the human neocortex, 4-aminopyridine can reveal a synchronous field potential that correlates with an intracellular long-lasting depolarization and is mainly due to the activation of postsynaptic GABAA receptors. The action of excitatory amino acid receptors is not necessary for the generation and propagation of these GABA-mediated potentials. We propose that this potential represents a novel mechanism for synchronization and spread of neuronal activity, including seizure-like discharges in the human neocortex.
The release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens of anaesthetized rats was evoked either by electrical stimulation of the mesolimbic dopaminergic pathway or by local ejection of N-methyl-D-aspartate in the ventral tegmental area. Untreated carbon-fibre electrodes implanted in the nucleus accumbens were held at +400 mV versus a reference electrode, and the oxidation current was continuously monitored. Despite a poor selectivity to dopamine versus other oxidizable compounds such as ascorbic acid, the evoked responses were solely due to dopamine overflow in the extracellular fluid since they were closely correlated with the stimulations and exhibited all the expected characteristics related to a dopamine release. First, these effects were closely consistent with the anatomy of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system. Second, the responses to electrical stimulations were abolished by a tetrodotoxin ejection in the vicinity of the carbon-fibre electrode and they were strongly, but reversibly, diminished (60% decrease) when cadmium was substituted for calcium in an artificial cerebrospinal fluid ejected close to the electrode. Third, their maximal amplitudes were enhanced by amphetamine, pargyline, nomifensine and haloperidol. Fourth, inhibition of dopamine reuptake by nomifensine induced a five-fold decrease in the rate of decline of the evoked oxidation current. Fifth, contribution of noradrenaline and serotonin to the observed effects seems unlikely since specific reuptake blockers (desipramine and sertraline, respectively) did not alter them. Dopaminergic neurons discharge either in a single spike mode with a mean firing rate below 5 Hz or in a bursting pattern (intraburst frequency: 10 to 20 Hz).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Central dopaminergic neurons exhibit two kinds of discharge activity: single spikes and bursts of two to six action potentials. Since these neurons can switch from one discharge pattern to the other whereas the mean discharge rate remains little affected, bursts may be more potent in triggering the release of their neurotransmitter, dopamine. Electrical stimulations mimicking the bursting pattern were actually twice as potent as regularly spaced stimulations to enhance the dopamine extracellular concentration. This suggested that dopamine release might be facilitated by increasing the impulse flow frequency. The high extracellular overflow evoked by a burst might also be due to accumulation of the released dopamine whereas, at lower frequencies, dopamine might be readily eliminated between every action potential. In the present study the dopamine overflow evoked by electrical stimulation of the dopaminergic pathway was measured in vivo by carbon fibre electrodes combined with continuous amperometry. We observed a small facilitation of the release per pulse during stimulations mimicking a burst but only in mesolimbic areas. The high extra-cellular dopamine level evoked by a burst was mainly due to accumulation of the released dopamine.
Opioid peptides and opioid receptors, particularly the delta receptor, are abundant in the striatum where they contribute to the neuronal interactions, and are involved in various behavioral effects. The recent cloning of the delta-opioid receptor now allows the identification of the striatal neurons that express it, and that are direct targets of endogenous opioid peptides such as enkephalins. In this context, we have used in situ hybridization histochemistry to determine the distribution of the delta-opioid receptor messenger RNA in the forebrain, and especially the phenotype of the neurons expressing the delta-opioid receptor gene in the striatum. We show that the topgraphy of the neurons containing the delta-opioid receptor messenger RNA is similar to the topography of the neurons containing the choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA in the mouse forebrain. Comparison of adjacent serial sections demonstrates that the delta-opioid receptor gene is indeed expressed exclusively in cholinergic interneurons in the striatum. As these neurons also selectively express the substance P receptor gene, our data suggest that the striatal cholinergic interneurons are a common link in the interactions between the two striatal efferent populations, namely enkephalin and substance P neurons.
We have investigated the effects of the C-terminal amyloid precursor protein fragment His 657-Lys 676 upon calcium currents in NG108-15 neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cells. The amyloid precursor protein fragment His 657-Lys 676 (1-10 microM) did not affect calcium currents per se, but clearly blocked the calcium current suppression mediated by both adrenergic alpha 2B- and opioid delta receptors in a concentration-dependent manner. The reverse amyloid precursor protein fragment Lys 676-His 657 and the shorter amyloid precursor protein fragment Gly 659-Lys 676 did not affect calcium current suppression by adrenergic alpha 2B- and opioid delta receptors. The similar interaction of C-terminal amyloid precursor protein with adrenergic alpha 2B- and opioid delta receptors suggest that the effect occurs downstream of the receptor, possibly via the GTP binding protein Go.
Selective replacement of degenerated neurons in the adult brain with allogeneic fetal neuroblasts is a promising therapeutic modality for human neurodegenerative diseases, but is confounded with practical and potential ethical problems. To evaluate the potential of xenogeneic donors as a cell source for neural transplantation, we have critically examined the available experimental evidence in animal models pertaining to the survival, integration and function of xenogeneic fetal neuroblasts in the host brain. A statistical meta-analysis across multiple studies revealed that immunologically-related transplantation parameters (immunosuppression and donor-host phylogenetic distance) were the main determinants of neural xenograft survival. The immunological basis for xenograft rejection is reviewed in the context of novel immunoprotection strategies designed to enhance xenograft survival. Furthermore, the evidence for behavioral recovery based on anatomical and functional integration of neural xenografts in the host brain is examined with an awareness of developmental considerations. It is concluded that neural xenotransplantation offers a unique opportunity for effective neuronal replacement with significant potential for clinical use.
This study addressed the intraspinal release of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide in vivo during mechanical stimulation of the normal joint and during the development of an acute experimental inflammation in the knee joint in the anaesthetized cat (spinalized) and rat (not spinalized). Release was assessed using microprobes coated with antibody to calcitonin gene-related peptide; inhibition of binding of [125I]calcitonin gene-related peptide to these probes following insertion into the spinal cord is equated with intraspinal release of the endogenous (unlabelled) peptide. Probes inserted prior to inflammation showed marked basal release of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide in the dorsal horn with a maximum in the superficial dorsal horn in the absence of intentional stimulation. The pattern of binding of [125I]calcitonin gene-related peptide was not or only minimally changed by innocuous mechanical stimuli (flexion of and innocuous pressure to the knee in the cat and innocuous pressure to the knee of the rat) but was significantly altered by electrical stimulation of the tibial nerve in the cat (sufficient to excite unmyelinated afferent fibres), indicating release of the peptide by the latter stimulus. During the first hours of the development of an experimental inflammation in the knee joint induced by intra-articular injections of kaolin and carrageenan, the pattern of binding of [125I]calcitonin gene-related peptide changed. In the cat, the level of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide showed a persistent increase in the gray matter and up to the surface of the cord and release was slightly increased by innocuous stimuli. In the rat, increased levels of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide were mainly seen in the superficial and deep dorsal horn during innocuous pressure (this stimulus did not evoke release of the peptide prior to inflammation) and noxious pressure applied to the injected knee, whereas increased basal levels were only observed at later stages. These data show that the development of an acute experimental inflammation in the joint is associated with an enhancement of the intraspinal release of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide. Since the changes in the release were noted at an early stage, within the first hours, they could contribute to the generation of inflammation-evoked changes of the responsiveness of spinal cord neurons and hence to the mechanisms inducing inflammatory pain.
The daily cycle of phenotypic variation in the mammalian pineal provides a unique model for the investigation of the molecular mechanisms that regulate neurotransmitter synthesis. In the rat, a circadian adrenergic mechanism directs a change in serotonin metabolism that results in the nocturnal production of melatonin. Activity of the activator protein-1 transcriptional regulatory complex, as demonstrated by band-shift assays of rat pineal gland extracts, has now been shown to exhibit a rhythm, in vivo, which is temporally correlated with the rhythm of melatonin synthesis. Thus, nocturnal activator protein-1 activity (23.00 h) is markedly elevated, being 8-fold higher than the level of light-phase activity (P &lt; 0.005). The nocturnal activator protein-1 protein complex is induced through a trans-synaptic, beta-adrenoceptor-linked mechanism and is characterized by the prolonged participation of JunB as demonstrated using antibodies for specific activator protein-1 proteins. Indeed, JunB appears to be a major component of nocturnal changes in activator protein-1 activity, JunD forming an additional, constitutive component which is not affected by the nocturnal adrenergic signal. The alpha 1-adrenoreceptor-linked c-Fos protein, which is coordinately induced with JunB, does not form a stable component of nocturnal activator protein-1 activity. In contrast, parallel experiments showed that c-Fos does form a major component of the hippocampal activator protein-1 complex that is induced in rats following kainic acid treatment. In the pineal, a similar, although not identical, pattern of activator protein-1 activation has also been demonstrated in cultured glands following treatment with norepinephrine. Immunoblotting has demonstrated parallel accumulation of JunB and c-Fos protein in pineal nuclear fractions following stimulation both in vivo and in vitro. The results provide evidence of posttranscriptional selection of neurotransmitter-stimulated activator protein-1 protein complexes, a mechanism which complements the differential induction of fos and jun genes in the pineal, and serves to generate a specific activator protein-1 transcription factor complex. This finding has general implications for the functional interpretation of fos and jun gene induction in neuronal systems. The stable JunB complex demonstrated here may be considered as one component of a timing mechanism which acts to perpetuate synaptic signals and thereby maintain an appropriate period of nocturnal pineal function.
The occurrence and distribution of neurons and nerve fibres showing vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like and neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity were re-examined in the enteric nervous system of the small and large intestine of the adult rat using dual-labelling indirect immunofluorescence histochemistry to detect the co-existence of these neuropeptides. In the myenteric plexus of both small and large intestine, a population of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons that did not contain vasoactive intestinal polypeptide was noted; it accounted for 29-53% of neuropeptide Y neurons. Such neurons were also found in the submucosa but there they constituted at most 2% of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons. In both myenteric and submucous plexuses, regional variations were observed in the number of immunoreactive neurons and in the proportion of dual-labelled neurons. In the myenteric plexus, for example, the density of neurons with immunoreactivity to these two neuropeptides was constant throughout the small intestine, whereas it progressively increased distally within the colon. In addition, a distinct but small subset of immunoreactive myenteric neurons was found to have a novel soma morphology, unclassifiable according to the criteria used for porcine or guinea-pig enteric neurons. Such neurons had one or more conspicuous processes, which were much longer than the short, lamellar somal processes of typical Dogiel Type 1 neurons; moreover, these protruded from an essentially smooth soma and terminated at distances of up to two cell diameters from their point of origin. Thus, our results suggest that the organization of the enteric nervous system of the rat differs from that of other species and indicate that investigation of the co-localizations of neuropeptides and biologically active mediators in the intestinal tract would be incomplete without reference to regional differences in the incidence and distribution of such neurochemicals.
It is hypothesized here that the same cortical areas which process signals from exteroreceptors (visual, acoustic, etc.) in wakefulness process signals from visceral organs during sleep. To check this hypothesis, the activity of 49 neurons (hypercomplex, complex and simple, as defined by conventional visual stimulation) was recorded from visual areas V1 and V2 in chronic cats at different stages of the sleep-waking cycle. Neuronal responses to electrical stimulation of the area of stomach and small intestine (single pulses of 100-500 microA. 0.5 ms duration) were investigated. It was found that intraperitoneal stimulation delivered during slow wave sleep evoked clear excitatory responses in most simple and complex cells. In hypercomplex cells, only inhibitory responses were observed. All these responses disappeared in wakefulness. These observations are compatible with the above hypothesis.
This study used retrograde and anterograde tracing methods to characterize the origin and terminal distribution of vestibular nuclear projections to the caudal dorsal cap of the inferior olive in albino rabbits. Comparisons of the retrograde labeling patterns from Cholera toxin B fragment-horseradish peroxidase and Fluoro-Gold injection sites centred in either the caudal dorsal cap or the rostral dorsal cap plus ventrolateral outgrowth revealed that they receive projections from different vestibular nuclear regions. Tracer injections in the rostral dorsal cap and ventrolateral outgrowth produced a sparse bilateral distribution of labeled neurons in the superior vestibular nucleus and an almost exclusively ipsilateral pattern of labeled neurons in caudal pars alpha of the lateral vestibular nucleus. Injections in the caudal dorsal cap, though, labeled neurons bilaterally in the rostral medial vestibular nucleus, predominantly ipsilaterally in pars beta of the lateral vestibular nucleus and almost exclusively ipsilaterally in caudal pars alpha of the lateral vestibular nucleus and the rostral aspect of the inferior vestibular nucleus. Vestibular nucleus injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin indicated (1) that a predominantly ipsilateral projection to the caudal dorsal cap originates bilaterally from the pars beta of the lateral vestibular nucleus and the rostroventral aspect of the rostral medial vestibular nucleus, (2) that the medial half of the caudal medial vestibular nucleus is the source of a predominantly contralateral projection to dorsal cap, (3) that the caudal aspect of nucleus prepositus hypoglossi contributes a predominantly ipsilateral projection to the medial accessory olive and (4) that the rostral aspect of inferior vestibular nucleus and the dorsal and lateral aspects of the caudal medial vestibular nucleus project to nucleus beta of the medial accessory olive. In addition, axons containing anterogradely transported PHA-L were observed bilaterally in the oculomotor and abducens nuclei from injection sites involving pars beta of the lateral vestibular nucleus. It is hypothesized that bilateral vestibulo-caudal dorsal cap pathways coordinate activity in the left and right flocculus and nodulus during horizontal head movements to facilitate the performance of conjugate vestibulo-ocular and optokinetic reflexes.
The phenotypic characteristics of expressed tyrosine hydroxylase protein have been precisely analysed in the rat nucleus tractus solitarius, which contains the majority of A2 noradrenergic and C2 adrenergic neurons of the medulla oblongata. This study was based upon quantitative analysis of immunohistochemical and immunoradioautographic staining of tyrosine hydroxylase protein in serial coronal sections. In control rats, there were few tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing cell bodies which express less than 2% of the immunoradiolabeled tyrosine hydroxylase protein measured in the structure. These cell bodies were scattered throughout an extensive immunopositive neuropile, which precisely delimited the topological space of the nucleus tractus solitarius quantiatively reconstructed using a polar coordinate system. The quantification of tyrosine hydroxylase tissue concentration from immunoradioautograms allowed us to subdivide the structure into two distinct regions. The posterior region of the nucleus tractus solitarius, which mainly corresponds to the A2 cell group, contains a relatively high tissue concentration of tyrosine hydroxylase protein (18.56 +/- 0.154 units per mg of tissue). The anterior region, which mainly corresponds to the C2 cell group, exhibits a relatively low concentration (12.09 +/- 0.81) of this protein. Three days after an intraperitoneal injection of RU24722, there was a strong increase (90 +/- 17%) in tyrosine hydroxylase protein content only in the anterior region of the nucleus tractus solitarius. This increase was associated with a dramatic elevation (142 +/- 20%) in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing cell bodies. The additional cell bodies were mainly located inside the initial perikarya-containing area.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous evidence has suggested that neurons in the medial medullary reticular formation play a critical role in the modulation of forebrain and spinal cord activity that occurs during the sleep-waking cycle and particularly in association with the state of paradoxical sleep. The importance of these neurons, including cholinergic, serotonergic and GABAergic cells [Holmes C. J. et al. (1994) Neuroscience 62, 1155-1178] for sleep-wake states was investigated after their destruction with the neurotoxin quisqualic acid injected into the medullary gigantocellular and magnocellular tegmental fields in cats. To assess the effects of the neuronal loss, polygraphic recording and behavioural observations were performed in baseline and for three weeks after the lesion, and the changes in these measures were correlated with the volume of destruction of medullary regions and the numbers of chemically identified cells within those regions. Following the cytotoxic lesions, which affected approximately 60% of the medullary gigantocellular and magnocellular tegmental fields, there was a significant reduction in the amount of paradoxical sleep (to a mean of 64% of baseline) during the first postlesion week, that recovered variably across cats in the second and third weeks. There was little to no change in the amount or organization of waking and slow wave sleep. The individually variable amounts of postlesion paradoxical sleep were correlated positively with the number of surviving cholinergic cells, negatively with the number of surviving serotonergic cells and positively with the ratio of surviving cholinergic or GABAergic cells to serotonergic cells. The most marked effect of the lesion was a substantial increase in the amplitude of the nuchal electromyogram during slow wave sleep (to 198%) and paradoxical sleep (to 378% of baseline in the first postlesion week). The increase in muscle tone was associated with movements of the head, neck or limbs during paradoxical sleep. Although, in some cats, the abnormal neck muscle tone decreased with time, limb movements continued to occur during paradoxical sleep for the duration of the experiment. The ratio of the total number of remaining cholinergic or GABAergic cells to serotonergic cells correlated negatively with the increased muscle tone and/or movements. It was concluded that the neurons of the medial medullary reticular formation contribute to, but are not necessary for, the generation of paradoxical sleep, and have particular importance for the regulation of muscle tone and inhibition of movement during this state.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
As part of a larger study concerning the role of neurons in the medial medullary reticular formation in sleep-wake states, the distribution and projections of cholinergic, GABAergic and serotonergic neurons were studied within the lower brainstem of the cat. Cells were plotted with the aid of an image analysis system through the medullary reticular formation and raphe in adjacent sections immunostained for choline acetyltransferase, glutamic acid decarboxylase and serotonin. Immunostained fibres and varicosities were examined and quantified by microdensitometry in regions of the medulla, pons and upper spinal cord in normal and quisqualate-injected animals to assess the loss of local and distant projections following cytotoxic destruction of neurons in the medial medullary reticular formation. Choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons are unevenly and sparsely distributed, though none the less in significant numbers (estimated at approximately 9080 in total), through the medial medullary reticular formation, and are present in all tegmental fields, including the gigantocellular (approximately 3700) and magnocellular (approximately 1760) rostrally and the ventral (approximately 3240) and paramedian (approximately 380) caudally, and are absent in the midline raphe. Glutamic acid decarboxylase-immunoreactive neurons are more evenly and densely distributed in large numbers (estimated at approximately 18,720) through the medial medullary reticular formation, being present in the gigantocellular (approximately 5960), magnocellular (approximately 8260), ventral (approximately 2280) and paramedian (approximately 2220) tegmental fields, and are also numerous within the raphe magnus and pallidus-obscurus nuclei (approximately 3880). Serotonin-immunoreactive cells are sparse in the medial medullary reticular formation (estimated to total approximately 1540), where they are mainly located in the magnocellular tegmental field (approximately 1340), and are concentrated in larger numbers within the raphe nuclei (approximately 8060). Cholinergic varicose fibres were moderately densely distributed through the medial medullary reticular formation, as well as through more distant lateral, rostral and caudal brainstem and upper spinal regions. After cytotoxic lesions focussed in the gigantocellular and magnocellular tegmental fields, a loss of approximately 55% of the cholinergic neurons in the medial medullary reticular formation was associated with a minor decrease (approximately 35% in optical density measures) of local cholinergic fibres. Small and variable reductions in varicose fibres (and their optical density measures) were detected in distant structures (including the pontine lateral, gigantocellular and subcoerular tegmental fields and the caudal spinal trigeminal nucleus), that were none the less correlated with the number of intact medial medullary cholinergic cells, suggesting that these cells may project to distant brainstem targets, in addition to providing a minor proportion of the local cholinergic innervation of the medial medullary reticular formation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The evolution of the distribution and density of somatostatin receptors was studied in the human cerebellum during ageing. The brain tissues were collected 3-30 h after death from 20 individuals aged from 28 to 86 years. In vitro autoradiographic experiments were performed on blocks of vermis and of right and left cerebellar hemispheres, using [125I-Tyr0,DTrp8]S14 as a radioligand. In the vermis, the mean concentrations of somatostatin receptors in the molecular layer, the granular layer and the medulla were 140 +/- 9, 150 +/- 22 and 61 +/- 13 fmol/mg proteins, respectively. For each individual, the density of sites in the two lateral lobes was similar. The mean concentrations of somatostatin receptors in the molecular layer, the granular layer and the medulla were 152 +/- 17, 190 +/- 20 and 56 +/- 11 fmol/mg proteins, respectively. The mean level of somatostatin receptors and the type of distribution of the receptors were not correlated to the age of the patients. Different distribution patterns of somatostatin receptors were noted among the patients studied. In the majority of patients (11/20), the density of somatostatin receptors was higher in the granular layer than in the molecular layer. Conversely, in four patients, the density of somatostatin receptors was higher in the molecular layer. The other individuals exhibited similar concentrations of somatostatin receptors in the granular and molecular layers. The present study indicates that the adult human cerebellum contains a high concentration of somatostatin receptors (&gt; 100 fmol/mg proteins) and that the receptor level does not decline during ageing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lesioning of thalamic target neurons in the adult rat provokes a resorption of terminal axonal branches of afferent neurons from the dorsal column nuclei. There is, however, no massive neuronal loss in the dorsal column nuclei. In the adult, therefore, the thalamic post synaptic target cells influence primarily the extent of the terminal component of the afferent neurons. The subcellular changes underlying the regression of these adult terminals are unknown. To address this issue, we have looked at the electron microscopic level for the ultrastructural correlates of this retraction of the terminal compartment of target-deprived neurons in the adult rat thalamus. By analysing the fine structure of target-deprived axons and their immunoreactivity for a specific synaptic protein, synaptophysin, we have observed that all the organelles and the protein formed in the cell body, including dense-core vesicles, continue to be transported to the terminal compartment and accumulate at this level. At the terminal level, engorgement of organelles induces the formation of varicosities. An enormous increase in local degradative activity occurs in parallel to this accumulation. In contrast, organelles involved in membrane turnover and degradation (including synaptic and coated vesicles, multivesicular bodies, lysosomes) in the nerve terminals are clearly modified. There is a progressive loss of synaptic vesicles, whereas clathrin-coated vesicles and multivesicular bodies are numerous. We propose that the resorption of terminal axonal branches after thalamic target deprivation in the adult is associated with a bias of the system of membrane recycling at the axonal terminals towards degradation. In the absence of apparent changes in the pathways originating from the cell body in these conditions, it is unlikely that presynaptic neurons in the adult thalamus are dependent upon post synaptic target neurons for the delivery of organelles and proteins to the terminals.
The ventral pallidum is a basal forebrain region that is thought to integrate cognitive processes with motoric behaviors. These functions are influenced by ventral pallidal inputs, which include projections from the amygdala and the ventral tegmental area/substantia nigra zona compacta. By examining the consequences of this convergence at the neuronal level, the present study indicates that electrical activation of ventral tegmental regions releases dopamine in the ventral pallidum which subsequently modulates pallidal electrophysiological responses evoked by stimulating the amygdala. Stimulation-evoked responses were characterized for extracellular single unit recordings of spontaneously active ventral pallidal neurons from chloral hydrate anesthetized rats. Stimulation of the amygdala evoked short latency (&lt; or = 12 ms; possibly monosynaptic) and/or long latency (&gt; 12 ms; polysynaptic) responses in all ventral pallidal neurons tested. Fifty-nine per cent of the tested neurons responded to ventral tegmental stimulation with short latency inhibition, and these neurons were often sensitive to microiontophoretically applied dopamine. Iontophoresis of dopamine antagonists SCH23390 (a D1 antagonist) or sulpiride (a D2 antagonist) attenuated the ventral tegmental-induced inhibitions. These observations indicate that the evoked responding was the result of endogenously released dopamine, and that D1 and D2 receptors were involved in this effect. Ninety-two per cent of the ventral pallidal neurons that demonstrated short latency responses to amygdala stimulation also exhibited short latency responses to activation of the ventral tegmentum. This suggests that these inputs often converge onto the same pallidal neurons. Amygdala-evoked responses were consistently attenuated by prior stimulation of the ventral tegmentum. Similarly, microiontophoretic ejection of dopamine attenuated amygdala-evoked effects. These results indicate that dopamine modulates amygdala-evoked pallidal responses. Such modulation may contribute to the integrative functions of the ventral pallidum.
Non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, including phencyclidine, ketamine, and MK801, produce vacuoles and induce the hsp 70 stress gene in layer III pyramidal neurons of the rat cingulate cortex. This study shows that phencyclidine (50 mg/kg) induces hsp 70 messenger RNA and HSP70 stress protein primarily in pyramidal neurons in posterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortex, neocortex, insular cortex, piriform cortex, hippocampus, and in the basal nuclei of the amygdala. Several neurotransmitter receptor antagonists inhibited induction of HSP70 produced by phencyclidine (50 mg/kg): haloperidol (ED50 = 0.8 mg/kg), clozapine (ED50 = 1 mg/kg), valium (ED50 = 1 mg/kg), SCH 23390 (ED50 = 7 mg/kg) and muscimol (ED50 = 3 mg/kg). Baclofen had no effect. Nifedipine blocked the induction of HSP70 produced by phencyclidine in some regions (cingulate, neocortex, insular cortex) but only partially blocked HSP70 induction in other regions (piriform cortex, amygdala). These results suggest that phencyclidine injuries pyramidal neurons via dopamine D1, D2, D4, sigma and other receptors. Several factors appear to contribute to this unusual multi-receptor mediated injury. (1) Phencyclidine blocks N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors on GABAergic interneurons resulting in decreased inhibition of pyramidal neurons. This may help to explain why multiple excitatory receptors mediate the injury and why GABAA agonists decrease the injury produced by phencyclidine. (2) Phencyclidine blockade of an amine transporter helps explain why dopamine receptor antagonists ameliorate injury. (3) Phencyclidine depolarizes neurons and produces high, potentially damaging intracellular calcium levels probably by blocking K+ channels that may be linked to sigma receptors. Since nifedipine prevents injury in cingulate, insula, and neocortex, it appears that calcium entry through L-type voltage gated calcium channels plays a role in the pyramidal neuronal injury produced by phencyclidine in these regions. There are similarities between the cingulate neurons injured by phencyclidine and circuits recently hypothesized to explain receptor changes in cingulate gyrus of schizophrenic patients. The present and previous studies also provide approaches for decreasing the clinical side effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists to facilitate their possible use in the treatment of ischemia and other disorders.
Depolarization-induced, intracellular alkaline shifts were studied in reactive astrocytes within slices of gliotic hippocampus. Slices were prepared 10-28 days after sterotaxic injection of kainic acid into the hippocampus of anesthetized rats. Astrocytes in gliotic CA3 were impaled with double-barreled pH sensitive microelectrodes and depolarized by iontophoresis of K+ from an adjacent micropipette. Elevation of extracellular K+ produced an intracellular alkalinization that grew with increasing membrane depolarization, ranging from approximately 0.10 to 0.30 pH units. Exposure to Ba2+ depolarized the cells and produced a similar alkalinization. In the presence of Ba2+, the K(+)-induced depolarization and the associated alkaline shift were abolished. The depolarization-induced alkaline shifts were partially inhibited (40 +/- 8.9%) in Na(+)-free media and were enhanced in bicarbonate versus HEPES-buffered saline. The alkalinizations were unaffected by incubation in chloride-free media, or by the stilbene 4,4'-dinitrostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid. It is concluded that the depolarization-induced alkaline shift of reactive astrocytes is mediated in part by a Na+ and HCO3(-)-dependent mechanism that is insensitive to stilbenes. These characteristics correspond well with the properties of depolarization-induced acid secretion in the gliotic tissue. In addition, a separate, Na(+)-independent mechanism contributes to the depolarization-induced alkalinization. In view of the absolute Na+ dependence of acid secretion in the gliotic slices, we propose that the latter mechanism does not extrude acid across the plasma membrane.
Gliotic hippocampal slices were used to study glial acid secretion in a tissue largely devoid of neural elements. Rat hippocampal slices were prepared 10-28 days after sterotaxic injection of kainate. Cresyl Violet staining and immunohistochemistry for glial fibrillary acidic protein demonstrated a loss of neurons and a proliferation of reactive astrocytes in area CA3. Extracellular pH and K+ shifts were recorded in CA3 in response to K+ iontophoresis. Elevation of K+ evoked an extracellular acid shift that was two- to three-fold larger in gliotic versus unlesioned tissue. Ba2+ caused a slow extracellular acidification, and blocked both the depolarizing responses of the glial cells and the acid shifts evoked by K+. The K(+)-evoked acid shifts were abolished in Na(+)-free media, and diminished in HEPES-buffered solutions. Inhibition of extracellular carbonic anhydrase caused a reversible enhancement of the K(+)-evoked acid shifts, an effect that could be mimicked during H+ iontophoresis in agarose gels. Gliotic acid shifts were unaffected by amiloride or its analogs, stilbenes, zero Cl- media, zero or elevated glucose, lactate transport inhibitors, zero Ca2+ or Cd2+. Smaller acid shifts could be evoked in normal slices which were also enhanced by benzolamide, and blocked by Ba2+ and zero Na+ media. It is concluded that acid secretion by reactive astrocytes is Na+ and HCO3(-)-dependent and is triggered by depolarization. The similar pharmacological and ionic sensitivity of the acid shifts in non-gliotic tissue suggest that these properties are shared by normal astrocytes. These characteristics are consistent with the operation of an electrogenic Na(+)-HCO3- co-transporter. However, the enhancement of the acid shifts by inhibitors of extracellular carbonic anhydrase suggests that CO3(2-), rather than HCO3-, is the transported acid equivalent.
In rats trained for 14 days to consume a palatable liquid chocolate meal (Sustacal), in vivo brain microdialysis was used to measure release of acetylcholine in the frontal cortex and hippocampus during anticipation and consumption of the meal. Rats were trained in an experimental chamber in which they were separated from the Sustacal by a screen for 20 min (trained, rewarded group). The screen was then removed and the rats were allowed 20 min of access to the meal. Two control groups were run concurrently: these groups consisted of rats (i) that were trained over 14 days but only had access to water in the experimental chamber (trained, non-rewarded), or (ii) that were introduced into the experimental chamber for the first time on the final test (i.e. dialysis) session, and presented with Sustacal (naive). Different results were obtained in the hippocampus and frontal cortex. In the hippocampus there were no group differences with respect to acetylcholine release. Thus, in all three groups acetylcholine release increased to about 220% of basal values when animals were placed in the experimental chamber. In the frontal cortex, acetylcholine release also increased significantly in all three groups. However, the extent of this increase was significantly greater in the trained, rewarded group, reaching approximately 300% of basal values during the anticipatory and consummatory components of the task. The significant increases in acetylcholine release which occurred in both the hippocampus and frontal cortex of each of the three groups are consistent with an involvement of cholinergic basal forebrain neurons in the regulation of arousal or attention. In addition, however, acetylcholine release in the frontal cortex can be further selectively enhanced by the animal's past training experience, perhaps being associated with the anticipation of reward.
The characteristic electroencephalographic patterns within the hippocampus are theta and sharp waves. Septal neurons are believed to play an essential role in the rhythm generation of the theta pattern. The present study examined the physiological consequences of complete and selective damage of septohippocampal cholinergic neurons on hippocampal theta activity in rats. A selective immunotoxin against nerve growth factor receptor bearing cholinergic neurons (192 immunoglobulin G-saporin), [Wiley R. G. et al. (1991) Brain Res. 562, 149-153] was infused into the medial septal area (0.11-0.42 microgram). Hippocampal electrical activity was monitored during trained wheel running, drinking and the paradoxical phase of sleep, as well as following cholinomimetic treatment. A moderate dose of toxin (0.21 microgram) eliminated the septohippocampal cholinergic projection, as evidenced by a near total absence of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons in the medial septum and the vertical limb of the diagonal band, and by the absence of acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers in the dorsal hippocampus. In the same rats, parvalbumin immunoreactivity, a reliable marker for septohippocampal GABAergic neurons, [Freund T. F. (1989) Brain Res. 478, 375-381], remained unaltered. In addition, retrograde transport of the tracer fluorogold demonstrated that the parvalbumin cell population preserved its axonal projection to the hippocampus. Following toxin treatment, the power of hippocampal theta, but not its frequency, decreased in a dose-dependent manner. Reduction of theta power occurred between three and seven days after the toxin treatment and remained unaltered thereafter up to eight weeks. A dose which eliminated all septohippocampal cholinergic neurons (0.21 microgram) left a small but significant theta peak in the power spectra during wheel running, paradoxical phase of sleep and intraseptal infusion of carbachol (5 micrograms). Peripheral administration of physostigmine (1 mg/kg) induced only slow (1.5-2.0 Hz) rhythmic waves. No changes were observed in the gamma (50-100 Hz) band. These findings indicate that the integrity of the septohippocampal GABAergic projection is sufficient to maintain some hippocampal theta activity. We hypothesize that cholinergic neurons serve to increase the population phase-locking of septal cells and thereby regulate the magnitude of hippocampal theta.
Long-term potentiation induced by high-frequency stimulation in the CA1 region of the hippocampus exhibits EPSP-spike potentiation. This consists of an increase in population spike amplitude exceeding that predicted by EPSP potentiation alone. This phenomenon is apparently due to an increase in pyramidal cell excitability. Patterns of afferent stimuli which activate pyramidal cells to reproduce the theta rhythm observed in the hippocampus under physiological conditions, have been shown to induce LTP-like enhancement of synaptic responses in vitro. The aim of this study was to investigate the presence of EPSP-spike potentiation and/or changes in pyramidal cell excitability during the long-term potentiation induced in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices by theta-like patterns of stimuli: the primed burst and the patterned stimulation. Using extracellular recording, a significant leftward shift in the EPSP-spike relationship was found 30 min after primed burst or patterned stimulation. The magnitude of EPSP-spike potentiation induced by patterned stimulation was similar to that produced by high-frequency stimulation. Both were significantly greater than that induced by a primed burst, indicating that only a subset of pyramidal cells were potentiated by this kind of afferent activation. Modifications in synaptic efficacy and cell excitability brought about by a primed burst were investigated in 25 intracellularly recorded pyramidal cells. Consistent with extracellular results, it was found that only 11 out of 25 neurons receiving a primed burst were potentiated. In these cells the increase in probability of firing action potentials elicited by synaptic activation with test shocks was accompanied by enhanced cell excitability, but not by an increase in EPSP slope. High-frequency stimulation delivered 40 min after a primed burst invariably increased the EPSP slope, the probability of firing upon synaptic stimulation, and the excitability of cells. The presence of EPSP-spike potentiation and of increased excitability of potentiated cells during the primed burst-induced long-term potentiation strengthen the suggestion that theta pattern-induced synaptic potentiation can be considered similar to high-frequency stimulation and long-term potentiation and supports the notion that the EPSP-spike potentiation is a constitutive characteristic of long-term potentiation.
The release of the neurohormones oxytocin and vasopressin from the neural lobe into the circulation is regulated in a complex manner, which has only been partly elucidated. At the level of the neural lobe, regulation of release can occur by various endogenous compounds that act on specific receptors present on the nerve terminals themselves. In addition, release may be modulated by an alternative pathway in which the local glia cells, the pituicytes, are involved. It is especially the latter pathway that is discussed in detail in this commentary.
The non-N-methyl-D-aspartate binding sites have been characterized in chick brain using quantitative autoradiography, and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) as a radioligand. [3H]CNQX binding sites were densely localized in the molecular layer of cerebellum. Other areas of prominent binding were the superficial layers of optic tectum, one of the isthmic nuclei, the hippocampus, the hyperstriatum accessorium and the archistriatum ventrale. Analysis of equilibrium binding data in the cerebellar molecular layer indicated that [3H]CNQX bound to a single class of sites (Kd = 78.9 +/- 11.8 nM and Bmax = 41.2 +/- 3.0 pmol/mg protein). Competition experiments in six different regions of chick brain gave the Ki and Bmax values for the inhibition of [3H]CNQX binding by various standard compounds and indicated that: (i) [3H]CNQX labelled non-N-methyl-D-aspartate binding sites with high affinity of (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) and kainate, (ii) the displacement curves for AMPA and kainate were biphasic in all regions studied, and (iii) the potencies of AMPA and kainate in displacing [3H]CNQX binding were different in the regions studied. Our results indicate that [3H]CNQX labelled non-N-methyl-D-aspartate binding sites in chick brain. In the cerebellar molecular layer, these sites were more sensitive to kainate than AMPA, as were the binding sites in the superficial layers of optic tectum and nucleus isthmi magnocellularis. However, non-N-methyl-D-aspartate binding sites in forebrain regions such as hippocampus and hyperstriatum ventrale appeared to be different in being equally sensitive to AMPA and kainate.
Basal forebrain cholinergic neurons atrophy and degenerate in aging and Alzheimer's disease for unknown reasons. In this study, aged male Sprague-Dawley rats (26-30 months old) showed a significant 31% reduction in the number of septal cholinergic neurons which take up and retrogradely transport 125I-labelled nerve growth factor injected into their target hippocampus, as compared with young adult rats (three to six months old). In aged rats, cholinergic neurons not transporting nerve growth factor were severely atrophied and had a significant 60% reduction in mean cross-sectional area as compared with [125I]nerve growth factor transporting neurons. These changes were accompanied by a significant 43% decline in relative levels of messenger RNA encoding the high affinity nerve growth factor receptor TrkA, in the septal region of aged rats. There was no difference between young and aged rats in messenger RNA levels encoding the low affinity nerve growth factor receptor, p75NGFR. These findings suggest that aged basal forebrain cholinergic neurons exhibit a reduced capacity to sustain receptor mediated uptake and retrograde transport of target-derived neurotrophin. This reduced capacity is associated with severe neuronal atrophy and may contribute to the pronounced vulnerability of these neurons to degeneration in aging and Alzheimer's disease.
The novel gaseous neuromediator nitric oxide is thought to play an important role in development and plasticity. Despite this, gene-knockout mice lacking neuronal (Type I) nitric oxide synthase exhibit relatively normal brain development and behavior. The nervous system of these mice (especially the forebrain) retains some calcium-dependent nitric oxide synthesis, presumably reflecting other isozymes. Type I nitric oxide synthase has NADPH-dependent diaphorase activity. However, this stain also recognizes other isozymes, and it remains controversial whether all diaphorase-positive neurons contain Type I nitric oxide synthase. To assess whether neurons containing another isoform of nitric oxide synthase may be present in the forebrain of normal rodents, we studied co-localization of diaphorase staining with immunocytochemistry for Type I nitric oxide synthase. Co-localization was complete in the striatum, but some neurons deep in cortex were diaphorase-positive and immunonegative, and therefore may contain a splice variant or novel isozyme of nitric oxide synthase.
Dose-response studies of N-methyl-D-aspartate channel openings were carried out using cell-attached patches in dentate gyrus granule cells acutely isolated from control and kindled rats. The tips of the patch electrodes were first filled with regular extracellular solution, followed by backfilling through the shank with the agonist containing solution. As the two solutions joined, the agonist (N-methyl-D-aspartate, 25 microM) steadily diffused to the cell membrane, and the concentration gradually built up resulting in the progressive increase in the opening probability of N-methyl-D-aspartate channels. The reliability of this cell-attached diffusional drug delivery method was tested by determining the concentration dependence of competitive antagonism of N-methyl-D-aspartate induced channel activity by D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid. The Ki for D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid in the presence of 25 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate was found to be 6.8 microM. Twenty-four hours following the last seizure, N-methyl-D-aspartate channels on kindled neurons were consistently activated by lower N-methyl-D-aspartate concentrations than channels on control granule cells, indicating a higher potency of agonist at epileptic N-methyl-D-aspartate channels. The higher potency of the agonist is most likely a reflection of the long-term alterations in the modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor function in epileptic neurons.
It has been suggested that changes in brain 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptor function may contribute to some behavior disorders, such as anxiety, schizophrenia and drug abuse. We are using the whole-cell version of the patch-clamp technique to study the function of 5-hydroxytryptamine3 channels in neurons freshly dissociated from rat nodose ganglion. In these cells, 5-hydroxytryptamine elicits an inward current over the concentration range of 0.25-100 microM (EC50 = 2.62 microM) by activating 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptors. The muscarinic cholinergic antagonist atropine reduced the amplitude of 5-hydroxytryptamine activated inward current in a concentration-dependent manner. Other muscarinic antagonists, scopolamine, dexetimide, the M1 muscarinic receptor antagonist pirenzepine, the M2 receptor antagonist methoctramine and the M3 receptor antagonist 4-DAMP methiodide also inhibited 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced inward current. Atropine did not appear to change the reversal potential of this current. In the presence of 5 microM atropine, the concentration-response curve for 5-hydroxytryptamine current was shifted to the right in a parallel fashion. The EC50 value for 5-hydroxytryptamine was increased from 2.62 to 8.76 microM. Schild plots of increasing atropine and 5-hydroxytryptamine concentrations revealed a pA2 value of 5.74 for atropine (apparent KD = 1.8 microM). These observations suggest that atropine competitively antagonizes the activation of a receptor for the neurotransmitter serotonin, a novel action of muscarinic antagonists in the nervous system. This effect of atropine may contribute to the clinical symptoms seen in severe atropine intoxication.
Recent studies demonstrate that nitric oxide and cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate may mediate hyperalgesia induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate at the level of the spinal cord. One possible mechanism for this action is that nitric oxide increases transmitter release from the primary afferent nociceptors that synapse in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. To address this possibility, we investigated whether various nitric oxide donors and cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate could alter the release of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide from rat sensory neurons in culture. Sodium nitroprusside (100 nM to 100 microM) had little effect on basal release of either peptide, but it significantly increased the release of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide induced by 50 nM capsaicin. In contrast, sodium nitroprusside did not alter release evoked by 100 nM bradykinin or 30 mM KCl. Two other nitric oxide-donating compounds, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine and 3-morpholinosydnonimine did not enhance resting or capsaicin-evoked peptide release, although they induced a marked elevation in the intracellular cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate levels. Pretreating the cultures with 8-bromo-cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate, (0.5 or 0.1 mM for 30 or 60 min) did not result in the enhancement of capsaicin-induced release from sensory neurons. Moreover, pretreating the cells with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine (100 microM), abolished the rise in cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate induced by capsaicin without altering capsaicin-stimulated release of either peptide.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Single microelectrode voltage-clamp recordings were made from submucous neurons of the guinea-pig caecum. The slow excitatory postsynaptic current was compared with the currents induced by neurokinin A and substance P. The current induced by neurokinin A (100-300 nM) was associated with a decreased membrane conductance and reversed in polarity between -90 and -100 mV. The neurokinin A current was reduced by Co2+ (1-2 mM), but was not affected by Cs+ (1-2 mM), Ba2+ (10-100 microM) or low Cl- (20-40 mM) solutions. In about 80% of the neurons, the current induced by substance P (100-300 nM) was associated with a decreased membrane conductance and did not reverse with hyperpolarization of the membrane potential up to -130 mV. The current was reduced by Co2+ (1-2 mM) and augmented by low Cl- (20-40 mM) solutions, but was not affected by Cs+ (1-2 mM) or Ba2+ (10-100 microM)-containing solutions. In about 20% of the neurons, the substance P current reversed in polarity between -100 and -120 mV. The slow excitatory postsynaptic current elicited by repetitive nerve stimulation (10-40 Hz, three to five pulses) was accompanied by a decreased membrane conductance, and reversed in polarity between -90 and -100 mV. The slow excitatory postsynaptic current was abolished by Co2+ (1-2 mM) or low Na+ (12 mM) solutions, but was not affected by Cs+ (1-2 mM), Ba2+ (10-100 microM) or low Cl- (20-40 mM) solutions. In such neurons, the neurokinin A current was reversed at approximately the same potential at which the slow excitatory postsynaptic current was reversed, while the substance P current was not reversed even by much stronger hyperpolarizations. It was concluded that the neurokinin A current was mainly due to depression of potassium conductances, while the substance P current resulted from both increased anion conductance and decreased potassium conductances. The conductance change underlying the slow excitatory postsynaptic current is similar to that caused by neurokinin A.
Glutamate dehydrogenase is one of the main enzymes involved in the formation and metabolism of the neurotransmitter glutamate. In the present study we investigated the enzyme ultrastructurally in the cerebellar cortex, a region rich in well defined glutamatergic neurons, by pre-embedding immunocytochemical staining (peroxidase-antiperoxidase), as well as by post-embedding immunogold labelling employing a new system for quantitation and for specificity testing under the conditions of the immunocytochemical procedure. A new antiserum against immunologically purified bovine liver glutamate dehydrogenase or antibodies isolated from this by affinity chromatography were used in rats fixed by perfusion with aldehydes. The pre-embedding method displayed peroxidase reaction preferentially in mitochondria of astroglial cells (including the Bergmann glia). Mitochondria of neuronal tissue elements were usually free of peroxidase-reaction product. Extra-mitochondrial staining was not observed. The post-embedding immunogold method was employed to overcome penetration problems and allow semiquantitative analysis of localization and specificity. The highest densities of gold particles were found over the mitochondria in astroglial cell elements (including the Bergmann glia). Mitochondria in cell bodies of Bergmann glia had a lower particle density than those in astrocytic processes. In the latter, analysis of frequency distribution revealed no evidence of a population of mitochondria lacking glutamate dehydrogenase, but suggested the presence of populations with different levels of immunoreactivity. Comparison with the labelling of embedded bovine liver glutamate dehydrogenase indicated that the enzyme constitutes a high proportion (10%) of the total matrix protein of these mitochondria. A weaker but significant labelling was found in oligodendrocytes of the white matter. The labelling of mitochondria in neuronal elements including glutamatergic mossy fibre terminals was of the order of 15% of that in astroglial mitochondria. No difference was detected between glutamatergic neurons (mossy and parallel fibres, granular cells) and non-glutamatergic neurons (Purkinje cells). The particle density over non-mitochondrial areas was very close to background over empty resin. The results, obtained with different methods of tissue and antibody preparation, agree to show that the present form of glutamate dehydrogenase is restricted to mitochondria and preferentially localized in astrocytes.
There is evidence that the neurokinin substance P plays a role in learning and reinforcement processes. Reinforcing effects of substance P were found upon injection into several parts of the brain. The aim of the present study was to gauge possible reinforcing effects of microinjections of substance P into the ventromedial caudate-putamen in rats. Two different behavioral paradigms were employed. In the first experiment a two-compartment choice procedure was used and the rats could trigger substance P injections (500 pg per 5 nl injection volume) into the ventromedial caudate-putamen by entering one distinctive compartment. During the injection period, substance P-injected animals spent significantly more time in the drug-paired compartment than vehicle-injected controls. In the second experiment, nose-poking through a hole in one wall of the cage was used as the operant. Rats that could self-administer substance P (100 pg per 5 nl injection volume) into the ventromedial caudate-putamen emitted a significantly higher rate of operant responding on the first day of testing and a significantly lower rate on the third day compared to vehicle-injected animals. The experiments provide evidence that the administration of substance P into the ventromedial part of the caudate-putamen can have positive reinforcing effects, but that repeated injections can have aversive properties. These effects are discussed, firstly, with regard to the possible mechanisms of intrastriatal substance P on striatonigral and striatopallidal output systems and, secondly, with respect to their possible relevance in the study of the basal forebrain reinforcement system.
Patients with GCSE and NCSE are common and may present to the emergency department or the NICU. In the NICU, NCSE is a more common presentation than GCSE. In the emergency department, GCSE commonly evolves to NCSE, either as a late sequela of prolonged SE or due to partial treatment with antiepileptic medication or neuromuscular blocking agents. In the emergency department, acute cerebral injuries are commonly found in patients presenting with SE, regardless of whether they have preexisting epilepsy. In the NICU, almost by definition, SE occurs in patients with acute cerebral injuries. Status epilepticus has been found to evolve sequentially through several stages, the end-point of which is a condition of refractory SE leading to neuronal necrosis and permanent cerebral injury. The responsiveness of SE to treatment is time-dependent. This makes early diagnosis and initiation of treatment essential. Most published treatment algorithms stress a 60-minute time window from the diagnosis of SE to its successful control. Unfortunately, the practical problem of patients with SE accessing such treatment protocols has been overlooked. Our preliminary (unpublished) data suggest that this access problem must be solved for treatment algorithms to improve the outcome of SE. In the NICU, access is less of a problem, and the determining factor is early diagnosis by NICU personnel. Because these patients usually sustain NCSE, which can be difficult to diagnose, a high index of suspicion and, optimally, continuous EEG monitoring are necessary for early diagnosis. NICU patients may be more susceptible to the ravages of SE because of their preexisting cerebral injuries. Expedited treatment may therefore be more important in this patient group. Clinical management of SE requires meticulous attention to ventilation and oxygenation, maintenance of adequate blood pressure, prevention of hyperthermia, and close monitoring for cardiac abnormalities. No specific medication is ideal for controlling SE. The knowledgeable and prompt use of intravenous lorazepam, a diazepam-phenytoin combination, or phenobarbital is acceptable as first-line treatment and as part of a systematic treatment algorithm. Refractory SE has been treated conventionally with high-dose intravenous barbiturate coma. Recent evidence suggests that high-dose intravenous midazolam may provide a useful alternative.
The selection of variables for continuous monitoring in the neurosurgical intensive care unit is based upon the requirement for constant perfusion and oxygenation of the brain and knowledge of the frequency and prognostic significance of abnormal values. Both arterial and intracranial pressure must be considered in the form of cerebral perfusion pressure. Body temperature and arterial oxygen saturation are essential to monitoring. Measurement of jugular venous oxygen saturation and cerebral blood flow velocity provide information of value in determining the source of raised intracranial pressure, the most appropriate means of treating it, and the safety of therapy.
Neurotoxicology integrates the best aspects of pharmacology, neuroscience, and toxicology and has established unique approaches, questions, and model systems. It has contributed to (i) isolating the multitude of environmental factors that damage the nervous system, (ii) characterizing the nature of the insult in both developing and mature organisms, and (iii) identifying the populations at risk. These efforts have symbolized the scope of modern neurotoxicology but there is now a growing appreciation that neurotoxicology, neurology, and biological psychiatry share common interests that are based upon a set of unified conceptual questions. The unifying goals for all of these disciplines are to discern the biology of neural insult, its functional consequences, and the extent and underlying mechanisms of recovery of function. While research is beginning to unravel the biology of neurological disorders there is a widening gap between our understanding of the substrates of these diseases and our ability to prevent or treat them. A concerted effort must be mounted to develop new and appropriate treatments for neurodegenerative disorders. The vulnerability of the hippocampus to a broad spectrum of insults (cerebrovascular insufficiency, excitotoxins, age-related neurodegenerative disorders, drugs of abuse) and its involvement in cognitive function makes it a logical focal point for the study of the behavioral and neurobiological correlates of recovery of function. This article discusses models of neurodegeneration and different therapeutic strategies that might limit injury or promote recovery of function.
No definitive evidence for the participation of the immune system in progressive brain damage has been previously reported. However, glial cells continue to accumulate after degeneration of neurons appears to be completed, and a recent study showed that microglia and leukocytes also accumulate after brain damage. Thus, it seemed possible that immune responses might play a role in the delayed effects. Cyclosporin A (CsA) is a cyclic undecapeptide of fungal origin with a strong immunosuppressive action but low myelotoxicity. We examined the effect of CsA administration on three different kinds of animal models for neurological deficits. Late onset reduction of muscarinic receptors after transient forebrain ischemia in gerbils was prevented by daily post-ischemic administration of CsA. This indicates that an immune mechanism may be involved in the progressive brain damage occurring after transient ischemia. On the other hand, CsA exacerbated iminodipropionitrile-induced dyskinesia both behaviorally and biochemically. CsA also mimicked pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures. These findings suggest that immune mechanisms may play important roles in the progression of brain damage and possibly that immunosuppressants might open a new chapter in the pathophysiology and treatment of chronic progressive neurodegenerative diseases. Further investigations on the immune response in the progressive brain damage are needed.




This paper reviews the literature describing the condition of the adrenal medulla in Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized primarily by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Clinical observations have revealed that Parkinson's disease is also frequently accompanied by a variety of autonomic symptoms. The adrenal medulla is a major component of the autonomic nervous system. However, until recently this organ has not been of particular interest in Parkinson's disease. Early studies found histologic abnormalities in adrenal medullary cells, and several groups measured urinary and plasma catecholamines to determine general autonomic status. In the late 1980s adrenal medullary tissue was first transplanted to the caudate nucleus in an attempt to augment the decreased levels of dopamine, and thus treat the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. At this time the status of the adrenal medulla in this disease became clinically important. We measured the total catecholamine content of the parkinsonian adrenal medulla in tissue collected both at autopsy and in conjunction with adrenal-caudate transplants. Adrenal medullary catecholamines and several neuropeptides were severely depressed in parkinsonian glands. Thus, the adrenal medulla appears to be a target of the peripheral manifestations of Parkinson's disease.



The actions mediated by limbic system output projections of the basal ganglia were investigated by studying the effects of ventral pallidum (VP) stimulation on the activity of neurons in thalamic target nuclei, including several of the dorsal thalamic nuclei and the nucleus reticularis, using in vivo intracellular recordings in rats. Intracellular injection of Lucifer yellow was used in a subset of experiments to identify the neurons recorded and to confirm their location with respect to the specific thalamic nuclei targeted. Stimulation of the VP evoked ipsps in 79% of the mediodorsal cells recorded. In the reticular nucleus, 73% of the neurons tested responded with evoked ipsps. In contrast, in other dorsal thalamic nuclei VP stimulation evoked depolarizations in 58% of the cells recorded. The latency to onset of the ipsps in the mediodorsal nucleus and in the reticular nucleus were not substantially different (1.7 +/- 1.1 msec vs. 2.7 +/- 1.1 msec), whereas the depolarizing response evoked in dorsal thalamic nucleus neurons typically occurred at longer and more variable latencies (3.5 +/- 2.7 msec). These experiments support a dual functional role for limbic system output from the basal ganglia in the regulation of thalamocortical activity: a) a direct inhibitory projection from the VP to the mediodorsal nucleus and b) an indirect disinhibition of neurons in other dorsal thalamic nuclei that occurs via a direct inhibitory projection to the reticular nucleus of the thalamus. Such an anatomical arrangement may be relevant to the presence of hypofrontality and the breakdown of cognitive filtering observed in schizophrenics.
Ovarian development and mature ovarian function are subjected to the regulatory influence of several growth factors exerting their biologic actions via membrane-anchored receptors endowed with intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity. The actions of these growth factors appear to be anatomically, functionally, and temporally coordinated. Whereas transforming growth factor alpha (TGFalpha)-produced in thecal cells- facilitates cell proliferation and slows gonadotropin-dependent biochemical differentiation of both thecal and granulosa cells, IGF-I-produced in granulosa cells-amplifies the effect of gonadotropins on this ovarian compartment. The interactive paracrine-autocrine influence of both growth factors may facilitate the simultaneous occurrence of the two basic processes underlying follicular development: growth and cytochemical differentiation. Upon completion of preovulatory development, fibroblast growth factors (FGFs)-produced by granulosa, and also perhaps by thecal-interstitial cells-may come into play, accelerating cytodifferentiation of thecal cells into luteal cells by reducing the androgenic response of thecal cells to gonadotropins. In addition, FGFs may facilitate proliferative events underlying the organization of pregranulosa cells during early ovarian development. Neurotrophins may exert their greatest impact during these same developmental windows affected by FGF. Neurotrophins may contribute to regulating cell-cell interactive processes related to follicular organization and/or formation during early ovarian development, and to the preovulatory cytodifferentiation of thecal-interstitial cells that precedes ovulatory rupture. Neurotrophins may also regulate the density of follicular innervation. Because each of these growth factors binds to a different receptor tyrosine kinase and expression of each receptor is highly compartmentalized and developmentally regulated, it appears clear that activation of receptor tyrosine kinases is intimately linked to both normal and deranged ovarian development.
How do animals use the same peripheral structures to generate different behavioral responses? Three different neuronal architectures have been proposed to mediate this task: dedicated circuitry; distributed circuitry; and reorganizing circuitry. This review will critically examine the evidence for these different architectures in invertebrate circuits, and then examine the evidence for them in more complex vertebrate circuits. The evidence suggests that these different architectures are unlikely to be found in pure form in most neural circuits, but are useful for guiding the experimental analysis of circuitry.
Second-order Type I and Type II plaids were constructed by combining two random-dot gratings. Each component consisted of a dynamic random-dot field, the contrast of which was modulated by a drifting sinusoidal grating. Orienting the two components suitably and interleaving at 120 Hz allowed us to produce a two-dimensional plaid pattern made from one-dimensional second-order components. The perceived direction of motion of both Type I and Type II plaids was measured as a function of stimulus duration. Type I plaids had a perceived direction close to the intersection of constraints/vector sum solution (which only coincide for these patterns) at all durations. Type II plaids had a perceived direction that moved away from the vector sum and toward the intersection of constraints solution as the duration of presentation increased. These results are similar in form to those found for plaids made from first-order (luminance-defined) components [Yo &amp; Wilson (1992), Vision Research, 32, 135-147]. This suggests that a delay which operates specifically on second-order signals cannot be the sole cause for the change in perceived direction of Type II plaids made from first-order components [Wilson, Ferrera &amp; Yo (1992), Visual Neuroscience, 9, 79-97].

Striated muscle alpha-tropomyosin expressed in Escherichia coli is unacetylated, polymerizes poorly, and binds weakly to F-actin (Hitchcock-DeGregori, S. E., and Heald, R. W. (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 9730-9735). To define the structural requirements of NH2-terminal modification for striated tropomyosin function, an acetylated recombinant tropomyosin and an unacetylated short fusion recombinant tropomyosin were compared. An acetylated recombinant chicken striated muscle alpha-tropomyosin was expressed in insect Sf9 cells using the baculovirus expression vector system. The purified tropomyosin (approximately 15 mg/liter of insect cell suspension) polymerized, comigrated with chicken striated alpha-tropomyosin purified from muscle on two-dimensional polyacrylamide gels, was blocked at the NH2 terminus, and had the same actin affinity as muscle tropomyosin. These results conclusively show the importance of NH2-terminal acetylation for striated tropomyosin function. To learn if a short fusion peptide would substitute for amino-terminal acetylation, tropomyosin with AlaSer-Arg on the NH2 terminus was constructed and expressed in E. coli as an unacetylated protein. This f3-tropomyosin bound to actin with a 10-fold higher affinity than striated muscle alpha-TM and, unlike muscle tropomyosin, exhibited a shear-dependent viscosity. The altered function of f3-tropomyosin shows that the naturally occurring acetylated NH2 terminus is required for full, normal function. It is proposed that a major requirement for cooperative binding of striated muscle tropomyosin to actin is modification of the alpha-amino group of methionine to be an amide, as when acetylated or in a peptide bond in a fusion protein, to make the extreme NH2 terminus more hydrophobic. The results are discussed in terms of known coiled coil structure.
Destruction of the substantia nigra produces striatal D1 dopamine receptor supersensitivity without increasing receptor number or affinity, thus implicating postreceptor mechanisms. The nature of these mechanisms is unknown. Increased striatal c-fos expression ipsilateral to a unilateral lesion of the substantia nigra in rats treated with appropriate dopamine agonists provides a cellular marker of D1 receptor supersensitivity. D1 receptors are positively linked to adenylate cyclase and therefore to cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Because expression of the c-fos gene in response to cAMP- and Ca2+/calmodulin-regulated protein kinases depends on phosphorylation of cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) at Ser-133, we examined CREB phosphorylation after dopaminergic stimulation in cultured striatal neurons and in the striatum of rats after unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine ablation of the substantia nigra. Using an antiserum specific for CREB phosphorylated at Ser-133, we found that dopamine increases CREB phosphorylation in cultured striatal neurons. This effect was blocked by a D1 antagonist. L-Dopa produced marked CREB phosphorylation in striatal neurons in rats ipsilateral, but not contralateral, to a 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. This response was blocked by a D1 antagonist, but not a D2 antagonist, and was reproduced by a D1 agonist, but not a D2 agonist. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that D1 receptor supersensitivity is associated with upregulated activity of cAMP-dependent or Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases, or both, following dopamine denervation of striatal neurons.
Prosaposin was identified as a neurotrophic factor stimulating neurite outgrowth in murine neuroblastoma (NS20Y) cells and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in human neuroblastoma (SK-N-MC) cells. The four naturally occurring saposins, which are derived by proteolytic processing of prosaposin, were tested for activity. Saposin C was found to be active, whereas saposins A, B, and D were inactive as neurotrophic factors. Dose-response curves demonstrated that nanomolar concentrations of prosaposin and saposin C stimulated neurite outgrowth and increased ChAT activity. Prosaposin and saposin C exerted activity by a mechanism independent of nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and neurotrophin 3. Binding assays utilizing saposin C as a ligand gave two saturable binding constants, a high-affinity (Kd = 19 pM) and a low-affinity (Kd = 1 nM) constant, with 2000 and 15,000 sites per NS20Y cell, respectively. Phosphorylation stimulation experiments demonstrated that brief treatment with prosaposin or saposin C enhanced phosphorylation of a variety of proteins, some of which contained phosphorylated tyrosine(s). Since both cell lines were also stimulated by ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) as well as prosaposin, inhibition was tested by utilizing an anti-gp130 monoclonal antibody, which specifically inhibited CNTF stimulation; this antibody did not inhibit prosaposin or saposin C stimulation. These results indicate that prosaposin and saposin C are neurotrophic factors which initiate signal transduction by binding to a high-affinity receptor that induces protein phosphorylation.
Differences in the acetylcholine (ACh)-mediated neuronal system of the brain between aged and young rats were studied by measuring choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity, muscarinic M1 receptor (M1-R) and their respective mRNA levels. In aged rats, ChAT activity and the M1-R level were significantly reduced in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and striatum compared with that in young rats. On the other hand, there was no difference in the ChAT mRNA level in the striatum and the basal forebrain, or the M1-R mRNA level in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and striatum between aged and young rats. The effects of chronic administration of bifemelane (4-(2-benzylphenoxy)-N-methylbutylamine hydrochloride), which is used for the treatment of sequelae of cerebrovascular diseases, were also evaluated. In aged rats chronically administered bifemelane, the ChAT activity recovered to the level in the young rats in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, and the M1-R level recovered completely in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and striatum. However, the ChAT mRNA level and the M1-R mRNA level were not affected by bifemelane administration. Thus, the decreases and recoveries in ChAT activity and M1-R level did not parallel the changes in their respective mRNAs. These results suggest that the age-related impairments in ACh-mediated neuronal system are considered to be caused primarily by disorders of post-transcriptional events.
Quantitative receptor autoradiography using [3H]MK-801, [3H]glycine, [3H]CNQX and [3H]kainate was employed to determine the distribution and density of excitatory amino acid (EAA) binding sites in the midbrain and basal ganglia of the normal human nervous system. Detailed knowledge of the anatomy and subtype specificity of glutamate receptors is important both in understanding the normal physiology of basal ganglia neurotransmission and the pathophysiological changes occurring in diseases affecting the basal ganglia such as Parkinson's disease (PD). In PD, glutamate receptor activation may contribute to cell death of dopaminergic neurones in the substantia nigra. In addition, perturbation of glutamate neurotransmission resulting from dopamine depletion in the basal ganglia is likely to contribute to the clinical manifestations of motor dysfunction. The distribution and density of ligand binding representing N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), AMPA (2-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid) and kainate receptors has a heterogeneous distribution in the human midbrain and basal ganglia. In the substantia nigra relatively high densities of [3H]MK-801 and strychnine-insensitive [3H]glycine binding sites representing NMDA receptors were present, whereas only moderate densities of [3H]CNQX and [3H]kainate binding sites were present, compared to other regions. In both the medial globus pallidus and subthalamic nucleus, binding sites representing NMDA, AMPA and kainate receptors were all present at low density. These findings suggest that the clinical usefulness of modifying glutamatergic neurotransmission in these basal ganglia nuclei may be limited by the relatively low density of EAA binding sites present.
Previous studies from our laboratory showed a transient suppression of the febrile response to intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) PGE1 in the one-kidney, one-clip (1K1C) model of hypertension. This may have been due to an enhanced vasopressinergic transmission since arginine vasopressin (AVP), acting within the central nervous system (CNS), is thought to mediate endogenous antipyresis. These initial experiments utilized a protocol for the induction of 1K1C hypertension which produced an initial rapid rise in blood pressure, evident by day 4 following surgery, with a corresponding inhibition of the febrile response. The present experiments utilized a more slowly developing 1K1C hypertension (evident by day 12 following surgery) to firstly attempt to determine if inhibition of the febrile response is due to the actual change in blood pressure or to neural signals arising from the clipped kidney, and secondly to determine if the concentration of AVP in push-pull perfusates of the ventral septal area (VSA) of pyrogen-treated sham-operated and 1K1C rats were altered. In urethane-anaesthetized rats, i.c.v. PGE2 evoked brisk monophasic fevers in both 1K1C and sham-operated animals, with no significant difference between fever heights. Consistent with this, we found no increase in immunoreactive AVP from perfusates of the VSA of 1K1C rats. These results suggest that there is no inhibition of the febrile response to PGE2 when a slower developing hypertension is induced, nor is there an elevated release of AVP into the VSA under our conditions. We conclude that a rapid increase in blood pressure, and not high blood pressure per se, is required to produce an inhibition of the febrile response.
Regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) by second messenger pathway activators was examined in rat olfactory bulb cell cultures. The number of TH-immunoreactive neurons was increased 2-3-fold by 36 h treatments with forskolin (Fsk, 10(-6) M) or phorbol myristate acetate (PMA, 10(-7) M), but was not significantly increased by a depolarizing concentration of KCl (45 mM). In contrast, KCl increased media [Met5]enkephalin (ME) immunoreactivity 2-fold in these cultures, equivalent to stimulation with Fsk or PMA. The possibility was examined that ME or another opioid produced by the cultures selectively inhibited the TH response to KCl. Pretreatment with the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (10(-6) M) greatly increased the number of TH-immunoreactive neurons observed in response to KCl treatment, but had no effect on basal or Fsk-stimulated TH immunostaining, nor on basal or stimulated ME release. The increase in TH-immunoreactivity observed with combined KCl plus naloxone treatment was prevented by pretreating the cultures with the calcium channel blocker nimodipine (10(-6) M), which had no effect on Fsk stimulation or basal TH immunostaining. These data suggest that endogenous opioids selectively inhibit KCl-stimulated Ca2+ entry and thus TH induction in olfactory bulb cell cultures. These cultures offer a simple model system for further study of TH regulation in dopaminergic neurons.
The effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine methylester (NAME) and N-mono-methyl-L-arginine (NMMA), inhibitors of nitric oxide (NO) synthase on penile erection and yawning induced by N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) injected in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) was studied in male rats. NAME (75-150 micrograms) and NMMA (250-500 micrograms), but not N-monomethyl-D-arginine (D-NMMA)(250-500 micrograms) prevented both responses in a dose-dependent manner when given intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) 15 min before NMDA (50 ng). NMDA-induced penile erection and yawning was also prevented by the guanylate cyclase inhibitor methylene blue (200-400 micrograms i.c.v.), but not by the NO scavenger methemoglobin (50-100 micrograms i.c.v.). NAME (10-20 micrograms), but not Methylene blue or methemoglobin (10-20 micrograms), prevented NMDA-induced responses also when injected in the PVN 15 min before NMDA. The present results suggest that NMDA-induced penile erection and yawning is mediated by an increased NO synthesis in the PVN.

Repetitive activation of hippocampal mossy fibers evokes a long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic responses in pyramidal cells in the CA3 region that is independent of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. Previous results suggest that the site for both the induction and expression of this form of LTP is presynaptic. Experimental elevation of cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) both mimics and interferes with tetanus-induced mossy fiber LTP, and blockers of the cAMP cascade block mossy fiber LTP. It is proposed that calcium entry into the presynaptic terminal may activate Ca(2+)-calmodulin-sensitive adenylyl cyclase I which, through protein kinase A, causes a persistent enhancement of evoked glutamate release.
Activation of kappa-opioid receptors by U69,593 in a concentration of 1 microM maximally inhibited dopamine release. Withdrawal from chronic (4 days) treatment with U69,593 (1 microM) induced a long-lasting (at least 7 days) increase (30-50%) in [3H]dopamine release induced by 25 mM K+ from cultured rat mesencephalic neurons without causing functional kappa-opioid receptor desensitization. Incubation of these cultured neurons with the glucocorticoid agonist, dexamethasone (3 nM), had no effect on basal or 25 mM K(+)-induced dopamine release, whereas the steroid completely blocked the development of opiate-induced neuronal supersensitivity to depolarization. This blockade was found to be concentration-dependent, with an EC50 of about 0.3 nM and was not associated with changes in corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptor, dopamine D2 autoreceptor or kappa-opioid receptor functioning. Therefore, opioid and glucocorticoid receptors appear to be co-localized in dopaminergic neurons of rat ventral mesencephalon and interact in a functionally antagonistic manner. Interestingly, the mineralocorticoid agonist, aldosterone (5 nM), itself increased K(+)-stimulated [3H]dopamine release by about 25%, consistent with the putative role of mineralocorticoid receptors in maintaining neuronal excitability. Moreover, whereas 1 nM corticosterone appeared to mimic the dopamine release-facilitating effect of aldosterone, 30 nM corticosterone displayed a modulatory effect similar to that of dexamethasone. Thus, whereas mineralocorticoid receptors that are already activated at low plasma corticosterone levels may uphold neuronal sensitivity to depolarizing stimuli, activation of glucocorticoid receptors by higher plasma corticosterone levels may prevent the development of neuronal supersensitivity, e.g. following chronic activation of kappa-opioid receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
It is now commonly accepted that the arthropod nervous system has evolved only once, and so homologies between crustacean and insect nervous systems can be meaningfully sought. To do this, we have examined the distribution of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine)-like immunoreactive neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) of four common British isopods. Two species of terrestrial woodlouse, Oniscus asellus and Armadillidium vulgare, the littoral sea slater, Ligia oceanica, and the aquatic water hoglouse, Asellus meridianus, all possess approximately 40 pairs of serotonin-like immunoreactive neurons, distributed throughout the CNS in a very similar pattern. Interspecific homology is clearly suggested. Serotonin-like immunoreactive neurons in the first (T1) and fourth (T4) thoracic ganglia are particularly prominent in each of the four species studied. Whole-mount immunohistochemistry shows that the pair of T1 neurons have large dorsolateral cell bodies and prominent neurites that project medially and then anteriorly, whereas the pair of T4 neurons have ventrolateral cell bodies and neurites that bifurcate to form a thin axon projecting anteriorly to terminate in T3 and a thick medial axon that projects posteriorly into the abdominal neuromeres of the terminal ganglion. Intracellular cobalt staining of these neurons reveals more of their arborizations: the T1 neurons send three processes anteriorly, which arborize in the brain and exist from the CNS via peripheral nerves, whereas the T4 neurons contribute considerably to the extensive pattern of serotonin-like immunoreactive fibres in T3-T6 ganglia. The overall pattern of serotonin-like immunoreactive neurons in the isopods is similar to that in decapod crustacea, and a number of putative homologies can be assigned. It is more difficult to homologize the isopod serotonin-like immunoreactive neurons with those in the insect CNS, but some stained brain and thoracic neurons share common cell body positions and axon trajectories in isopods, decapods, and insects and may therefore be homologous.
The immunosuppressive action of the drug FK506 involves inhibition of calcineurin in T-lymphocytes by a complex of FK506 and an FK506 binding protein, FKBP12, a member of the immunophilin protein family. The functional role of brain immunophilins is, however, unclear. We show here that FK506 is a powerful neuroprotective agent in an in vivo model of focal cerebral ischaemia when administered up to 60 min post-occlusion. The minimum effective neuroprotective dose is comparable with the immunosuppressant dose in humans, suggesting that FK506 may have clinical potential for the treatment of stroke. Although the related immunosuppressants rapamycin and cyclosporin failed to reduce brain damage, the finding that rapamycin pretreatment blocked the effect of FK506 confirms a role for immunophilins in the neuroprotective mechanism.
The effect of central administration of angiotensin II (AII) on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) formation was studied in pentobarbital-anesthetized, artificially-ventilated rats. CSF production was measured by the ventriculocisternal perfusion method with Blue Dextran 2000 as the indicator. Baseline value of CSF production was 3.35 +/- 0.08 microliters/min. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion of AII at rates of 0.5 and 5 pg/min significantly lowered (P &lt; 0.01) CSF formation by 23% and 16%, respectively. In comparison, high peptide doses (50 and 500 pg/min) did not alter this parameter. The inhibitory effect of low AII doses on CSF formation was blocked by the i.c.v. AT1 receptor subtype antagonists, losartan and SK&amp;F 108566 (2.4 and 2.7 ng/min, respectively), but not by the AT2 receptor subtype-specific agent, PD 123319 (3.8 ng/min). Peptide AII antagonists, [Sar1,Ile8]AII (5 ng/min), which binds to both AT1 and AT2 receptors, had a similar effect to those of AT1-specific blockers. It is concluded that AII, by controlling CSF formation, may influence the water and electrolyte balance in the brain.
Corneal input to the spinal trigeminal nucleus (Vsp) was assessed by examining Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI) after chemical irritant stimulation by mustard oil in chloralose-anesthetized cats. The distribution of Fos-LI within the ipsilateral Vsp was bimodal: a dominant group of cells within the superficial laminae at caudal levels of subnucleus caudalis and a second group of cells within the ventrolateral pole of Vsp at obex levels and within the adjacent interstitial islands. Few Fos-positive cells were seen within the Vsp rostral to the mid-portion of subnucleus interpolaris or within the contralateral Vsp. To assess the involvement of caudal portions of the Vsp in mediating the adrenal and autonomic responses to corneal stimulation, mustard oil was applied before and after lidocaine blockade of the Vsp at obex levels in a second group of cats. Corneal stimulation alone increased significantly (P &lt; 0.001) the adrenal secretion of catecholamines, adrenal blood flow, mean arterial pressure and heart rate. With the exception of heart rate, the adrenal and autonomic responses to mustard oil were greatly attenuated or abolished by lidocaine blockade of the ipsilateral Vsp at the level of the obex, a region that displayed a high number of Fos-positive cells after corneal stimulation. These results indicate that neurons within the Vsp at or more caudal than the level of the obex process chemical irritant input from the cornea and are necessary for corneal-evoked changes in adrenal and autonomic function.
In rats, secretion of vasopressin initiated by hemorrhage was completely abolished after muscimol-induced inhibition of neuronal function in the A1 region of the ventrolateral medulla oblongata. The A1 neurons are essential links in the central pathway to hypothalamic vasopressin-synthesizing neurons in this species.
Prader-(Labhart-)Willi syndrome (PWS) is characterized by infantile hypotonia, early childhood obesity, mental deficiency, short stature, small hands and feet and hypogonadism. In 70% of the cases this syndrome is associated with a defect of chromosome 15 at 15q11-q13, close to the location of the 7B2 gene (15q13-q14). The majority of the remaining PWS patients display maternal uniparental disomy on chromosome 15. Since the 7B2 gene products are expressed in neuroendocrine cells that are probably affected in PWS, e.g. by a pleiotrophic influence of the neighboring deletion, the presence of 7B2 was studied in the supraoptic and paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of five subjects clinically diagnosed as PWS patients using five antibodies against various parts of the 7B2 precursor polypeptide. Three of the five PWS patients studied showed no reaction to the 7B2 antibody MON-102, whereas all 30 control patients did. However, one of the three MON-102 non-reacting PWS patients reacted to other 7B2 antibodies. In conclusion, the vanishing of 7B2 gene products is not obligatory for PWS, possibly due to the variable genetic background of PWS patients. However, in most patients there is a clear modification of 7B2 expression, pointing to altered neuroendocrine functions.
The aim of the present study was 2-fold: (1) to determine the ratio between the amount of GAD67 and GAD65 (two isoforms of the GABA synthetizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase) in nerve endings in the mature rat cerebral cortex damaged by hypoxia-ischemia during early postnatal life; and (2) to compare two different computer-assisted procedures developed for quantitative analysis of immunofluorescence images obtained with a confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM). One procedure was based on a program present in the standard Leica CLSM software packet for full-field analysis, the other on a specially written program for object-oriented analysis run on a Kontron IBAS-KAT image analysis system. To this end, rat pups were unilaterally exposed to hypoxic-ischemic conditions and, after a survival period of 6.5 months, sacrificed by perfusion fixation. After dissection of the brain and vibratome sectioning, three animals with substantial damage on one cortical side were selected. Sections of these animals were double-stained with primary antibodies against GAD67 and GAD65 and fluorophore-conjugated secondary antibodies and subsequently sampled with a CLSM. Analysis of the CLSM images with both computer-assisted procedures showed for all three animals a clear tendency to higher GAD67/GAD65 ratios in cortical GABAergic nerve endings on the hypoxia-damaged side than in matched areas on the contralateral side. This outcome led to the following conclusions. (1) The correspondence between the outcome of both analysis procedures indicates that both procedures are valid for quantification of immunofluorescence images of nerve endings obtained with a CLSM. (2) The outcome lends further support to our view that hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, sustained during early postnatal life, may result in an unstable cortical network generating abnormal synchronizations and oscillations which can be amplified and propagated as true epileptic discharges. In such a network both excitatory and inhibitory processes are tonically enhanced, the latter probably as a homeostatic reaction tending to keep abnormal excitation within physiological limits.
Pretreatment with bromocriptine (5 mg/kg, i.p., 7 days) completely protected against the decrease in mouse striatal dopamine and its metabolites induced by intraventricular injection of 6-hydroxydopamine after intraperitoneal administration of desipramine, but similar pretreatment with L-DOPA/carbidopa (75/7.5 mg/kg, i.p., 7 days) showed only partial protective effect. Furthermore, in an in vitro system that generated.OH from FeSO4-H2O2, bromocriptine dose-dependently reduced the number of .OH radicals. These findings indicate that bromocriptine has a neuroprotective effect against neurotoxins such as 6-hydroxydopamine, probably due, in part, to its hydroxyl radical scavenging activity and inhibiting effect on dopamine turnover rate. This suggests that early introduction of bromocriptine in the therapy of Parkinson's disease may be superior to treatment with L-DOPA alone.
The analgesic effect of systemic morphine (4 mg/kg, s.c.) was antagonized in a dose-dependent manner by cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) (0.1-0.5 ng) administered bilaterally to the nucleus accumbens of the rat. This effect of CCK-8 could be reversed by devazepide, a CCK-A receptor antagonist, at 50 ng and 200 ng and by L-365,260, a CCK-B receptor antagonist, at 5 ng administered bilaterally to the nucleus accumbens. A marked potentiation of morphine analgesia was achieved by intra-nucleus accumbens injection of 200 ng devazepide or 5 ng L-365,260. Since the effect of L-365,260 in antagonizing the anti-opioid effect of CCK-8 in the nucleus accumbens is 40 times more potent than devazepide, it is suggested that the anti-opioid effect of CCK-8 is mediated by CCK-B receptors. In conclusion, nucleus accumbens is a strategic site where CCK-8 exerts an anti-opioid activity, most probably via the CCK-B receptors.
alpha-Dystroglycan, a 156 kDa dystrophin-associated glycoprotein, binds laminin in skeletal muscle. Here we demonstrate that alpha-dystroglycan is a binding protein of laminin (A/B1/B2) and merosin (M/B1/B2) in peripheral nerve. Immunocytochemical analysis demonstrates the localization of alpha-dystroglycan and merosin surrounding myelin sheath of peripheral nerve fibers. Biochemical analysis demonstrates that the 120 kDa peripheral nerve alpha-dystroglycan binds merosin as well as laminin. The binding of laminin and merosin is Ca2+ dependent and is inhibited by NaCl and heparin. Recently, merosin was shown to be deficient in the peripheral nerve of dy mice which have defects in myelination. The interaction between alpha-dystroglycan and merosin may play a role in the regulation of Schwann cell myelination and/or maintenance of myelin sheath.
Previous studies have shown that the polysialic acid (PSA) moiety associated with the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) has strong antiadhesive properties that can influence a variety of cell-cell interactions. Based on the size and structure of this long linear homopolymer, we have proposed that the activity of PSA results from its physical properties. In the present study, the premise that the charge and hydration properties of PSA underlie its effects on membrane vesicle aggregation is investigated through the manipulation of ionic strength. The results establish that the antiadhesive properties of PSA are accentuated at low ionic strength, where charge and hydration cause expansion of the polymer size, and are absent at high ionic strengths, where the polymer size collapses. These large effects of PSA on aggregation were shown not to result from changes in the osmolarity of the solvent or from the relatively small effect of ionic strength on the intrinsic functional properties of the adhesion receptors. In addition to this influence on overall membrane-membrane interaction, PSA was found to have a highly localized and ionic strength-sensitive effect on the binding of monoclonal antibodies to NCAM. Together these results suggest that the charge and hydration properties of PSA can impede both molecular interactions between apposing membranes and more direct contact of NCAM with other proteins at the cell surface.
The preparation and structure-activity relationships of a series of 2-amino-alpha-thienylbenzeneethanamines are described. From this work, (+/-)-2-amino-N-methyl-alpha-(3-methyl-2-thienyl)-benzeneethanamine++ + (3a) and the homologous N-ethyl analog 3b emerged as novel noncompetitive NMDA antagonists with neuroprotective properties. Optical resolution of 3a and X-ray crystallography of (+)3a were performed. The racemate and enantiomers were evaluated for neuroprotective properties in models of ischemia-induced hippocampal damage (gerbil) and cerebral focal ischemia (rat). Pretreatment with 3a, (+)3a, or (-)3a significantly reduced ischemia-induced CA1 hippocampal damage. Posttreatment with 3a afforded a lower degree of neuroprotection. A highly significant reduction in infarct volume was observed with 3a in the cerebral focal ischemia model, with only weak positive effects being displayed by (+)3a. Dose-limiting side effects were associated with all three compounds in this model. In summary, the results demonstrate the utility of noncompetitive NMDA antagonists as neuroprotective agents for ischemia-induced neurodegeneration.
The formation of specific connections in the developing central nervous system is thought to result from mechanisms that increase the strengths of synapses at which pre- and postsynaptic activity are correlated and decrease it otherwise. In the visual cortex, initially widespread inputs normally sort out into eye-specific patches during early life. If only one eye can see during this period, its patches are much larger than normal, and patches from the occluded eye become much smaller. Anatomical experiments here show that closed-eye inputs expand within a region of cortex that is silenced, establishing that inhibition of common target cells gives less active inputs a competitive advantage.
The organization of the hippocampus is generally thought of as a series of cell groups that form a unidirectionally excited chain, regulated by localized inhibitory circuits. With the use of in vivo intracellular labeling, histochemical, and extracellular tracing methods, a longitudinally widespread, inhibitory feedback in rat brain from the CA1 area to the CA3 and hilar regions was observed. This long-range, cross-regional inhibition may allow precise synchronization of population activity by timing the occurrence of action potentials in the principal cells and may contribute to the coordinated induction of synaptic plasticity in distributed networks.
We examined the expression of several proteins normally present in Mller's glia after the production of experimental retinal detachment in adult cats. Retinas were detached for one-half to seven days, after which the tissue was processed for correlative immunocytochemistry and biochemistry. Previous studies demonstrated that the intermediate filament proteins glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin, increase after long-term retinal detachment (30 to 60 days), whereas glutamine synthetase, carbonic anhydrase C, and cellular retinaldehyde-binding protein all decrease to barely detectable levels. Alterations in Mller cell protein expression are rapid and specific events that can be detected as early as two days after retinal detachment. By seven days, levels of protein expression are similar to those in the long-term retinal detachments. Within the first week after injury the Mller cell processes hypertrophy and begin forming glial scars, which indicates that early intervention may be required to halt or reverse the effects of detachment.
Dystrophin-associated glycoprotein complex is classified into two subcomplexes: the dystroglycan complex (156DAG and 43DAG) and the sarcoglycan complex (50DAG, A3b, and 35DAG). Severe childhood autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy (SCARMD) was first reported to result from a deficiency of 50DAG. We examined muscles from five SCARMD patients and found that dystrophin and 43DAG were present in almost normal levels while 35DAG and the newly-identified protein A3b in addition to 50DAG were absent or greatly reduced. Therefore, SCARMD is the disease with a selective defect of the sarcoglycan complex.
Glycosphingolipids were determined in human spinal cord, cauda equina and femoral nerve of 10 subjects aged 20-70 years and in dorsal and ventral roots of four subjects aged 17-60 years. Myelin was isolated from corresponding tissue. Axons were isolated from the four specimens of dorsal and ventral roots. The concentration (mean and standard error of mean) of gangliosides in spinal cord was 0.80 +/- 0.03 mumol sialic acid/g fresh tissue, in cauda equina 0.40 +/- 0.02 mumol/g and in femoral nerve 0.23 +/- 0.01 mumol/g. In spinal cord only trace amounts of glycosphingolipids of the lacto series were found, and the ganglioside pattern differed from that in cerebral white matter by a relatively high proportion of GD3 and a low proportion of GD1a. The ganglioside patterns were almost identical in cauda equina and femoral nerve--the major ganglioside being 3'-LM1, 0.07 and 0.04 mumol/g respectively. Another ganglioside of the lacto series, 3'-HexLM1, was 25% of 3'-LM1. Peripheral nerve also contained three acidic glycosphingolipids in addition to sulfatide--LK1 and HexLK1 belonging to the glycosphingolipid lacto series and containing glucuronyl-3-sulfate instead of sialic acid, and inositolphosphoryl galactosylceramide. The dorsal (sensory) and ventral (motor) roots had the same major membrane lipid composition but the ganglioside concentration was 30% higher in sensory than motor nerve and myelin. The patterns of gangliotetraose gangliosides were, however, the same in motor and sensory myelin and axons. The ceramide composition of the gangliosides is also reported.
Measuring dopamine D1 receptor stimulated cyclic AMP production in cultured astrocytes from rat, monkey and human brain, we demonstrate that the 'classical' drug SKF 38393 (7,8-dihydroxy-1- phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1 H-3-benzazepine) is a partial agonist with particularly low intrinsic activity in primates. Furthermore, its analogue SKF 81297 (6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5- tetrahydro-1 H-3-benzazepine) is shown to be a full agonist in rats but a partial, albeit more efficacious, agonist in primates, whereas the benzopyran A 68930 ((1R,3S)-1-aminomethyl-5,6- dihydroxy-3-phenyl-isochroman HCl) displays full efficacy in both species. The data suggest that cultured astrocytes provide a good model to study species differences in the pharmacological characteristics of dopamine D1 receptor agonists and indicate that SKF 38393 is not suited to study dopamine D1 receptor function in primates.
The nature of the senktide response of the human NK3 receptor expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells was characterised using the Ca2+ sensitive dye Fura-2 and imaging methods. Application of the NK3 receptor agonist senktide caused an increase in [Ca2+]i in the cells. The profile for NK3 receptor agonists was that senktide was more potent than [beta-Ala8]neurokinin A-(4-10) which was more potent than [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P. SR 48968 was a poor antagonist of the senktide response in intact cells confirming the weak affinity of this agent for the NK3 receptor (IC50 of approximately 1 microM) shown in binding assays. The NK3 receptor mediated increase in intracellular Ca2+ was independent of [Ca2+]o, blocked by the microsomal Ca2+ ATPase inhibitor thapsigargin and the phospholipase C inhibitor U73122 but not by ryanodine. Thus the source of the Ca2+ was probably a ryanodine insensitive, inositol triphosphate sensitive intracellular store.
Human tachykinin NK3 receptors expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO-K1) cells were characterised using the novel radioligand [125I]iodohistidyl,[MePhe7]neurokinin B ([125I][MePhe7]neurokinin B). [125I][MePhe7]neurokinin B was shown to label human NK3 binding sites with high affinity in a saturable and reversible manner. The rank order of affinity of a range of tachykinin ligands confirmed that the tachykinin receptor expressed was the NK3 receptor type. An interspecies comparison of NK3 binding sites revealed pharmacological differences between human, guinea pig and rat tachykinin NK3 receptors. The NK2 selective antagonist SR 48968, inhibited binding of [125I][MePhe7]neurokinin B to NK3 binding sites with Ki values of 287 nM and 205 nM in human and guinea pig respectively, but was &gt; 30-fold less active in the rat.
In the present study we have evaluated the complexity and scaling properties of the morphology of retinal neurons using fractal dimension as a quantitative parameter. We examined a large number of cells from Pseudemys scripta and Mauremys caspica turtles that had been labeled using Golgi-impregnation techniques, intracellular injection of Lucifer Yellow followed by photooxidation, intracellular injection of rhodamine conjugated horseradish peroxidase, or intracellular injection of Lucifer Yellow or horseradish peroxidase alone. The fractal dimensions of two-dimensional projections of the cells were calculated using a box counting method. Discriminant analysis revealed fractal dimension to be a significant classification parameter among several other parameters typically used for placing turtle retinal neurons in different cell classes. The fractal dimension of amacrine cells was significantly correlated with dendritic field diameters, while the fractal dimensions of ganglion cells did not vary with dendritic field span. There were no significant differences between the same cell types in two different turtle species, or between the same types of neurons in the same species after labeling with different techniques. The application of fractal dimension, as a quantitative measure of complexity and scaling properties and as a classification criterion of neuronal types, appears to be useful and may have wide applicability to other parts of the central nervous system.
1. Previous studies suggest that arginine vasopressin (AVP) is released into the ventral septal area (VSA) of the rat brain during the antipyresis induced by the cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor indomethacin. In addition, there is evidence for increased AVP transmission in the VSA of animals having a reduced pyretic response following three intravenous injections of bacterial endotoxin (LPS) (endotoxin tolerant). Since ventral septal AVP receptors can also become 'sensitized' following exposure to AVP, we questioned whether the antipyretic action of indomethacin would increase, via an action involving central AVP, if this drug were administered into LPS-tolerant rats. 2. Intraperitoneal indomethacin (7.5 mg kg-1) was effectively antipyretic when administered 2 h after an intravenous challenge with LPS (50 micrograms kg-1) into conscious unrestrained rats. This dose of indomethacin had no effect on the core temperature of non-febrile rats given intravenous 0.9% pyrogen-free saline. 3. Three intravenous injections of LPS over a period of 3 days resulted in rats that were tolerant to the pyrogenic effects of LPS. When indomethacin was administered 2 h following the third LPS injection, a dose-dependent hypothermia was observed. This effect was age dependent, as profound hypothermia was seen in 8 week but not 20 week old rats. 4. A mortality rate of 41% (P = 0.02) was observed within 24 h of indomethacin treatment in 8 week old tolerant rats compared with 0% in 8 week old non-tolerant and 20 week old tolerant rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The placebo induces a significant analgesia on average in 35% patients with some variations according to the studied pathology and the modalities of the therapy. This placebo effect is especially influenced by the expectations and beliefs of the patient, the doctor, the environment and the quality of the doctor-patient relationship. As with a real psychogenic analgesia, this effect could partly result in a release of endogenous opioid substances. By a good relationship with his patient and a treatment corresponding to his expectations and his beliefs, the doctor induces a powerful placebo effect which increases the specific effects of his analgesic treatment.
The description of painful phenomena in humans has to take into account its different components: sensory component (relevant to nociception), affective and emotional components. Nociceptor's (physiology is best understood with electrophysiological and neurochemical methods allowing a clear description of hyperalgesia, with its peripheral and spinal mechanisms. A functional model is partly available to explain allodynia, spontaneous burning pain and lightning pain, the three main consequences following deafferentation. At the thalamo-cortical level, one can describe nociceptive pathways and other pathways or neuronal networks involved in the affective and emotional components of pain.
In the present immunohistochemical study the distribution of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) was studied in various autonomic ganglia and in related peripheral tissues of the rat. For comparison some other neuronal markers including acetylcholinesterase and tyrosine hydroxylase as well as several neuropeptides were analysed on adjacent or the same sections. The distribution of NOS-like immunoreactivity (LI) and of these other markers has been semiquantitatively summarized. In some parasympathetic ganglia such as the sphenopalatine and submandibular ganglia NOS-LI was present in most ganglion cells, at least partly coexisting with peptide histidine isoleucine (PHI), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY). In the pelvic ganglia a comparatively smaller proportion of neurons was NOS-positive and they often contained VIP-LI and less frequently NPY-LI. In the tissues innervated by these ganglia, such as nasal mucosa and salivary glands, NOS-positive fibers were observed around blood vessels and within the glandular parenchyma, although generally less abundant than VIP/PHI nerves, while in the uterus, vas deferens and penis a more close correlation was seen. NOS-positive fibers were also widely distributed in other tissues. In the sympathetic ganglia NOS-LI was mainly present in dense fiber networks, which disappeared after transection of the sympathetic trunc central to the ganglion. Since many cell bodies in the sympathetic lateral column of the spinal cord also were NOS-positive, it is likely that the majority of preganglionic fibers innervating sympathetic ganglia are NOS-positive. VIP-positive cells in stellate ganglia did not contain NOS-LI. The present results suggest that NO may be a messenger molecule both in parasympathetic postganglionic neurons and in preganglionic sympathetic neurons.
Interactions between alpha 2-adrenoceptors and angiotensin II receptors were evaluated in the nucleus tractus solitarii of the rat by means of quantitative receptor autoradiography and cardiovascular analysis. In binding experiments using l-noradrenaline to compete for [3H]p-aminoclonidine binding sites, angiotensin II (1 nM) increased the IC50 value of l-noradrenaline by 50%. The angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonist, DUP753 (losartan), not only blocked this action but also decreased the IC50 value of l-noradrenaline. The modulatory effect of angiotensin II was also evaluated after addition of both DUP753 and PD123319, an angiotensin AT2 receptor antagonist, and counteraction of the reduction in the IC50 value of l-noradrenaline was observed. In saturation experiments angiotensin II increased the KD and Bmax values of [3H]p-aminoclonidine binding sites, compatible with possible uncoupling of the alpha 2-adrenoceptors. Cardiovascular analysis demonstrated that a threshold dose of angiotensin II (0.05 pmol) counteracted the vasodepressor effect produced by an ED50 dose of l-adrenaline, l-noradrenaline or clonidine coinjected in the nucleus tractus solitarii. DUP753 fully blocked this in vivo modulation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors by angiotensin II. These findings suggest the existence of an antagonistic angiotensin AT1/alpha 2-adrenoceptor interaction in the nucleus tractus solitarii. Therefore, it can be surmised that the activation of angiotensin II AT1 receptors may reduce the transduction of the alpha 2-adrenoceptors and thus the alpha 2-mediated vasodepressor responses.
We demonstrated that pleiotrophin (PTN) and midkine (MK), proteins which constitute a novel heparin-binding growth factor family, are expressed in the postnatal developing cerebellar cortex by an immunohistochemical method. The expression patterns of both factors were quite similar both temporally and spatially; the levels of protein expression reached a peak at P7, and strong immunoreactivities were localized primarily in the premigratory zone of the external granular layer, the molecular layer, and the white matter. These findings suggest that PTN and MK are co-localized and thereby exert synergistic functions in the developmental events such as the migration of granule cells and the process outgrowth of neurons.
In nerve terminals, Ca(2+)-stimulated synaptic vesicle exocytosis is rapidly followed by endocytosis. Synaptic vesicle endocytosis requires clathrin-coated pits similar to receptor-mediated endocytosis in fibroblasts. Binding of clathrin AP-2 (adaptor complex) to an unidentified high affinity membrane receptor appears to be necessary for coated pit assembly in fibroblasts. We now show that synaptic vesicles have a high affinity AP-2 site (KD, approximately 1 x 10(-10) M) similar to the one observed in fibroblasts. Using a combination of competition and direct binding assays, we demonstrate that synaptotagmin I, an intrinsic membrane protein of synaptic vesicles, has all of the properties of the AP-2 receptor and that AP-2 binds to the second C2 domain in the molecule. Thus, synaptotagmin I may be a multifunctional protein with a function in endocytosis in addition to the previously proposed role in exocytosis.
Taurine is an endogenous amino acid that can occur in nerve terminals in the central nervous system and that can produce inhibitory neuronal responses. It is unclear, however, whether this amino acid can function as a synaptic transmitter. To examine the distribution of taurine at high anatomical resolution in a vertebrate, light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical postembedding techniques were applied to the lamprey spinal cord (Ichtyomyzon unicuspis and Lampetra fluviatilis), which contains many large, unmyelinated axons. The most intense immunolabeling occurred in a population of liquor-contacting cells (tanycytes), located around the central canal, which extended processes to the dorsal, lateral, and ventral margins of the spinal cord. In addition, a proportion of the taurine-immunoreactive cells contained gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-like immunoreactivity. A moderate level of taurine immunoreactivity was also present in ependymal cells, located around the central canal, as well as in astrocytes throughout all regions of the spinal cord. At the ultrastructural level, the taurine immunoreactivity showed an even distribution in the cytoplasm of the labeled cells. In contrast to the glial labeling, neuronal cell bodies and axons exhibited very low levels of taurine labeling, which were similar to the level of background labeling. The synaptic vesicle clusters within the axons did not show any clear accumulation of taurine immunoreactivity. These results suggest that taurine may have metabolic roles in the lamprey spinal cord, and, as in other systems, it may take part in osmoregulation. However, the lack of immunolabeling in presynaptic elements is not consistent with a role of taurine as a synaptic transmitter.
To determine whether dopamine receptors in the brain stem can mediate inhibition of feeding behaviour male rats in which the forebrain was disconnected from the brain stem were studied. Such decerebrate rats do not approach food but display ingestive responses if infused intraorally with a 1 M solution of sucrose at 0.6 ml min-1. Intraperitoneal injection of 5 micrograms cholecystokinin octapeptide, a physiological satiety peptide, or 400 micrograms apomorphine, a dopamine D1-D2 receptor agonist, suppressed intake of the sucrose solution. The results support a role of brain stem dopamine receptors in the control of ingestive behaviour.
PEC-60, a 60-residue intestinal peptide structurally related to the pancreatic secretory type of trypsin inhibitor, has been isolated, characterized and molecularly cloned. It shows biological activity as a hormone in both the gastrointestinal tract and in the immune system. We now report immunohistochemical evidence suggesting its neural localization exclusively within central and peripheral catecholamine (CA) neurones. PEC-60-like immunoreactivity was present in cell bodies, dendrites and nerve terminals of virtually all catecholamine neurones examined and including the noradrenergic gland cells of the adrenal medulla. PEC-60-like immunoreactivity was not seen, however, within the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive but CA-negative arcuate neurones producing growth hormone releasing hormone. The findings open up the possibility that a PEC-60-like peptide may represent a generalized co-transmitter in the peripheral and central CA neurones.
The non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist, ifenprodil, discriminates two receptor populations, each of which shows a reciprocal abundance in cultured cortical and cerebellar granule cells. Thus approximately 70% of NMDA-gated membrane current was antagonized with high affinity (IC50 = 1.4 +/- 0.9 microM) in cortical neurones whereas only approximately 20% was antagonized with high affinity (IC50 = 1.3 +/- 0.3 microM) in granule cells. Inhibition curves for CGS 19755 appeared relatively monophasic: this competitive NMDA antagonist had a significantly higher affinity for the granule cell receptor (Ki = 0.8 +/- 0.2 microM) compared with that on cortical neurones (Ki = 2 +/- 0.6 microM). The data suggest that these two antagonists may be of value in identifying the expression of subpopulations of native NMDA receptors in other brain regions.
The effects of the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist ACPD ((1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid) on single neurones and on the network underlying locomotion in the lamprey have been analysed. ACPD induces a depolarization in lamprey spinal cord neurones, which is insensitive to tetrodotoxin (TTX) and ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists, but is reversibly blocked by the mGluR antagonist MCPG ((+)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine). The ACPD-induced depolarization persists in a calcium-free solution or when the calcium channel blocker cadmium is added to the solution. At the network level ACPD causes an increased burst frequency during fictive locomotion by increasing the excitability level of network neurones.
It has been recently established in both adult monkeys and humans that visual recognition memory, as assessed with a preferential visual fixation technique, depends on the integrity of the neural structures situated in the medial part of the temporal lobe. This kind of memory has been observed in infant monkeys not earlier than day 15. Using a familiarization technique we established that this recognition memory is present in human infants as early as postnatal day 3 when a 2-min retention interval is used. This visual recognition memory might be controlled by subcortical structures. The possibility that the medial temporal structure involved in adult visual memory is operating at birth cannot, however, be ruled out.
The regulation of intracellular free Ca2+ concentration was examined in single dissociated chick pineal cells using the fura-2 technique. Approximately 10% of cells examined exhibited spontaneous Ca2+ oscillations while the rest were quiescent. Application of salines containing 80 mM KCl evoked large increases in intracellular free Ca2+ that were dependent upon external Ca2+ ions. These responses were inhibited by 10 microM nifedipine indicating involvement of L-type Ca2+ channels. Application of the tumor promoter thapsigargin (2 microM) evoked increases in intracellular free Ca2+. These responses could be observed in the absence of external Ca2+ indicating mobilization of internal stores. In the absence of external Ca2+, the responses to thapsigargin gradually decayed due to depletion of internal Ca2+ pools. A subsequent exposure to saline containing 5.8 mM CaCl2 caused a rapid increase in intracellular Ca2+ that was consistently larger than the peak response to thapsigargin. Application of 100 nM vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), a neurohormone that stimulates melatonin secretion from pineal cells, induced a sustained increase in intracellular free Ca2+ in a subpopulation of cells. In a small number of cells, VIP evoked Ca2+ oscillations. Approximately half of the cells examined showed no response to VIP. Application of 200 microM norepinephrine, which inhibits melatonin secretion from the chick pineal, had no effect on intracellular free Ca2+ in any quiescent or spontaneously oscillating cells. Application of 5 mM 8-Br-cAMP evoked sustained increases in intracellular Ca2+. Similar effects were obtained with the phosphodiesterase inhibitors papaverine (50 microM) or isobutylmethylxanthine (100 microM). Application of 200 nM forskolin, an activator of adenylate cyclase, evoked increases in intracellular free Ca2+ that could be detected in the presence of 10 microM nifedipine. The responses to forskolin gradually decayed in Ca(2+)-free external salines due to depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores. Subsequent exposure to external Ca2+ caused a rapidly developing increase in intracellular Ca2+ that was larger than the peak response to forskolin. These results indicate that the regulation of intracellular free Ca2+ in chick pineal cells is complex. These cells exhibit Ca2+ oscillations and can mobilize both external and internal Ca2+ pools. Agents that increase intracellular cAMP cause mobilization of internal Ca2+ stores, possibly secondary to effects on other second messenger systems. Chick pineal cells, like many other cell types, possess mechanisms to allow for refilling of depleted internal Ca2+ stores. These results suggest new mechanisms for the regulation of melatonin synthesis and secretion and possible sites of action for the intrinsic circadian oscillator.
Previously, we showed three differentially sulfated forms of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPG) associated with senile plaques, astrocytes and neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease. Here, monoclonal antibodies were used to demonstrate CSPGs in other neurodegenerative diseases. CSPGs were found associated with inclusions of Parkinson's, diffuse Lewy body, Pick's diseases, and progressive supranuclear palsy. Reacting astrocytes in each of these neurodegenerative diseases and Huntington's disease showed immunoreactivity for CSPG. CSPG distribution in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases suggests that similar mechanisms may be involved in the accumulation of proteoglycans in a number of filamentous inclusions.
The number of GABA-like immunoreactive (LI) cells in lamina I-III of the rat spinal cord was significantly decreased bilaterally 48-72 h after photochemical induction of transient spinal cord ischemia compared to sham-operated controls. No significant changes in the number of GABA-LI cells were observed at cervical level. The number of GABA-LI cells was restored 2 weeks after ischemia. These data, together with recent behavioral and electrophysiological findings, suggest that decreased intraneuronal GABA levels after spinal cord ischemia may underlie the development of the temporary pain-like response to innocuous mechanical stimuli (allodynia) in rats after transient spinal cord ischemia.
The formation of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and paired-helical filaments (PHFs) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) reflects a major disorganization of the cytoskeleton. The role of the neuronal membrane skeleton in the development of these abnormalities has not previously been investigated. In this study, we used 9 antibodies raised against the erythrocyte membrane skeleton protein 4.1 (P4.1) for immunocytochemical and immunoblot analyses to investigate whether or not the brain homologues of this protein were constituents of NFTs or PHFs. Our results show that 7 of the 9 monospecific antibodies against the human and pig erythrocyte P4.1 stained NFTs in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus of AD brains. The P4.1 antibodies used here did not cross-react with tau protein isolated from AD brain, and preabsorption of these antibodies with tau protein did not cause loss of NFT staining. In age-matched control brains, these P4.1 antibodies stained neuronal cell bodies or nuclei. Six of the antibodies also stained isolated NFTs but the SDS-insoluble NFTs were immunostained only by two of the P4.1 antibodies. By using inositol hexaphosphate affinity chromatography and immunoblot analysis, we identified a 68-kDa protein as the most likely brain analogue of P4.1. When SDS-extracted proteins from the isolated NFTs were immunoblotted, a 50-kDa band was immunostained. The 68-kDa and 50-kDa proteins were not stained by tau protein and neurofilament subunit NF-H antibodies, that strongly stained NFTs. We conclude that brain protein 4.1 isoform(s) are constituents of NFTs in AD.
The vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) has been identified and characterized based on the acquisition of high affinity vesamicol binding and proton-dependent, vesamicol-sensitive acetylcholine accumulation by a fibroblast cell line transfected with a clone from a rat pheochromocytoma cDNA library encoding this protein. The distribution of VAChT mRNA coincides with that reported for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the enzyme required for acetylcholine biosynthesis, in the peripheral and central cholinergic nervous systems. A human VAChT cDNA was used to localize the VAChT gene to chromosome 10q11.2, which is also the location of the ChAT gene. The entire sequence of the human VAChT cDNA is contained uninterrupted within the first intron of the ChAT gene locus. Transcription of VAChT and ChAT mRNA from the same or contiguous promoters within a single regulatory locus provides a previously undescribed genetic mechanism for coordinate regulation of two proteins whose expression is required to establish a mammalian neuronal phenotype.
The use of reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography for the separation of a mixture of 14 phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated enkephalins is described. The influence of two homologous series of hydrophobic ion-pairing reagents, consisting of perfluorinated carboxylic (trifluoroacetic, pentafluoropropionic and hexafluorobutyric) acids and sodium salts of sulfonic (butane-, hexane- and heptane-) acids, on the retention of enkephalin peptides was investigated. The incorporation of the phosphate group reduces retention time in proportion with the resulting change in hydrophobicity of the peptide. All peptides exhibit increase in retention time with increase in the counter ion hydrophobicity. The increase is proportional to the number of positively charged groups present in a peptide. Phosphopeptides show small increases in retention times than their corresponding non-phospho derivatives. The near-neighbor effect of the Tyr-O-phosphate group is responsible for suppression of the ion-pairing interaction of the mobile phase counter ions with the positively charged terminal amino group of enkephalins.
Suckling in the lactating rat (days 6-10 of lactation) was used to characterize the effects of intracerebral oxytocin (Oxt) antisense oligonucleotide treatment on the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system. Vehicle, mixed bases, Oxt antisense, or vasopressin antisense oligonucleotides (2.5 micrograms/0.5 microliter each) were infused directly into the left and right supraoptic nucleus (SON), 4 h before a litter of 10 pups was allowed to suckle for 30 min. In the Oxt antisense group, there was a significant reduction in the number of milk ejection reflexes (to 34.6 +/- 4.88%, P &lt; 0.001), as well as in the weight gain of the litter (to 18.8 +/- 6.98%, P &lt; 0.03) compared with vehicle (100%)-, mixed base-, or vasopressin antisense-treated animals, which did not differ from each other. The time to onset of suckling, however, was unchanged. Compared with presuckling values, plasma Oxt was significantly increased in all four groups 30 min after onset of suckling (vehicle, to 325 +/- 117%; mixed bases, to 258 +/- 48.2%; vasopressin antisense, to 330 +/- 55.7%), but this increase was less pronounced in Oxt antisense-treated rats (to 157 +/- 20.5%; P &lt; 0.05 vs. vasopressin antisense). In contrast to these changes in neuroendocrine functions during suckling, Oxt as well as vasopressin content and Oxt immunoreactivity in posterior pituitaries and the SON, respectively, did not differ among groups. Our data indicate rapid and specific effects of an Oxt antisense oligonucleotide infused into the SON on neuroendocrine, suckling-related parameters that are not due to depleted stores of Oxt in the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system.
In addition to neuromodulation, endogenous opioids also serve as growth factors. To investigate the involvement of the naturally occurring opioid peptide [Met5]enkephalin [termed opioid growth factor (OGF)] in the renewal of epithelium, adult mice were given systemic injections of OGF (1 mg/kg) and examined 2 h later at 0700 or 1700 h. DNA synthesis in the tongue was investigated using [3H]thymidine and autoradiography. OGF depressed DNA synthesis of the basal epithelial cells in the tip, and dorsal and ventral surfaces of the tongue (42-44% of control levels) only at 0700 h. This decrease in DNA synthesis was blocked by concomitant administration of the opioid antagonist naloxone (10 mg/kg); naloxone alone had no influence on cell replicative processes. Both OGF and its receptor, zeta (zeta), were detected in the stratified squamous epithelium of the ventral and dorsal surfaces of the tongue by immunocytochemistry. Photodensitometric measurements of immunocytochemical preparations revealed almost twofold more OGF and zeta-receptor immunoreactivity at 1700 h than at 0700 h. These results indicate that an endogenous opioid peptide and its receptor are present and govern cellular renewal processes in the tongue and regulate DNA synthesis in a circadian rhythm-dependent fashion.
The percentage, distribution, shape, intensity of staining and morphometrical parameters of the pituitary TSH immunoreactive cells and the histological features of the thyroid glands, were compared between adult rats with intact adrenals, without adrenals and biadrenalectomized animals with neonatal adrenal grafts. After the removal of the adrenal glands, TSH immunoreactive cells increased in percentage and exhibited a higher complexity of the cellular outline, than that of the intact animals. The nuclear, cytoplasmic and cell areas were significantly increased. However the bigger enhancement of the cytoplasmic area relative to the nuclear area, produced a decrease in the nuclear/cell area ratio. The thyroid glands showed some histological evidences of activation. After the transplantation of neonatal adrenal glands to adult rats, several adrenocortical nodules were present in the lumen of the small bowel segment. These adrenal masses induced a great decrease in the TSH cell area, which coupled with a smaller but significant variation of the nuclear area, led to an increase in the nuclear/cell area ratio relative to that observed in adrenalectomized animals. In addition, the distribution, shape and intensity of the immunoreactive material was similar to that observed in intact animals. In this experimental group, thyroid histology was observed to be similar to that of the intact animals.
Many years ago, we introduced advanced neurophysiological and psychobehavioural methods to our laboratory and have since applied our techniques on workers exposed to various occupational factors. In this article, we summarized our recent findings on the neurophysiological subclinical effects of lead, mixed solvents, toluene, styrene, local vibration and visual display terminal (VDT) work in relation to psychobehavioural effects. The methods used were as follows: 1) cerebral evoked potentials, i.e. short-latency somatosensory and visual evoked potentials (SSEP and VEP) and brainstem auditory evoked potential (BAEP), 2) event-related potential (P300), 3) psychological performance test, 4) computerized static posturography, 5) electrocardiographic R-R interval variability (CVRR), 6) distribution of nerve conduction velocities (DCV), and 7) conventional nerve conduction velocity (NCV). The following results were obtained: 1) Delay in SSEP latency in lead workers, in VEP latency in lead and VDT workers, in BAEP latency in vibrating tool workers and in P300 latency in lead workers, as well as significant correlations of P300 latency with blood lead concentrations in lead workers and of BAEP latency with length of work in brush saw operators; 2) Increase in postural sway and its significant correlation with urinary hippuric acid in toluene workers; 3) Decrease in CVRR in lead, mixed solvent, toluene, styrene and vibrating tool workers, and a significant correlation of the CVRR with length of exposure in mixed solvent workers; 4) Slowing of faster nerve fibre conduction in DCV and of NCV in lead, mixed solvent, styrene and vibrating tool workers, and their correlations with blood lead and length of work in lead and chain saw operators, respectively; 5) Decrease in the score on picture completion test in lead and styrene workers and its correlation with blood lead in lead workers. These findings suggest that recent advances in neurophysiological methods have enabled the detection of subclinical effects of various occupational and environmental factors.
The pyrrolidone cyclic gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) derivative nefiracetam [DM-9384; N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)-2-(2-oxo-1-pyrrolidinyl)acetamide] has been shown to enhance acquisition and ameliorate amnesia in different learning tasks in rodents. In the present study, the effects of nefiracetam on the brain monoamine systems were studied. Male, adult Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with nefiracetam in single doses (0, 1, 3, 10, 30 or 100 mg/kg, p.o.) and analyzed after 1 and 4 hr, or treated by daily doses (0, 1, 3, 10 or 30 mg/kg, p.o.) for 2 weeks. In general, no or only weak effects were observed on tissue monoamine levels, either following acute or 14 days treatment with nefiracetam. Acute administration of intermediate doses of nefiracetam induced minor increases in dopamine (DA) and homovanillic acid (HVA) tissue levels in the striatum, while hypothalamic 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) decreased at 1 hr. Noradrenaline (NA) and serotonin (5-HT) levels increased in some regions after higher doses of nefiracetam. Increases in 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) were also seen at 4 hr, but only after the 3 mg/kg dose. Minor decreases of HVA and DOPAC levels were seen in some regions after treatment with various doses of nefiracetam for 14 days, while an increase in 5-HT levels was observed occasionally. Using in vivo microdialysis in freely moving animals, no significant effects on extracellular levels of HVA, DOPAC and 5-HIAA in the striatum or of HVA, DOPAC and NA levels in the dorsal hippocampus were seen after acute administration of nefiracetam. On the other hand, extracellular hippocampal 5-HIAA levels decreased by 20% after the 1 and 3 mg/kg doses. Nefiracetam, in a concentration range of 1 nM to 10 microM, did not affect the in vitro synaptosomal uptake of [3H]NA and [3H]5-HT in the cortex or of [3H]DA in the striatum. Taken together, nefiracetam appears to exert minor, regionally restricted and not dose-dependent effects on the monoamine systems following either acute or repeated administrations in normal rats. A direct or indirect, possible GABA-mediated, influence of nefiracetam may underlie the modest changes seen on monoamines. The cognitive-enhancing action of nefiracetam does not seem to be related to effects on presynaptic monoamine functions.

Male rats were chemically labyrinthectomized (n = 22) by intratympanic injections of sodium arsanilate, and control rats (n = 15) received intratympanic injections of isotonic saline. All rats were tested for labyrinthine integrity and then adjusted to a 23 h.d-1 water deprivation schedule. Both labyrinthectomized and control rats were exposed to a conditioned taste aversion (CTA) procedure or a control procedure. The CTA technique involved pairing a novel saccharin taste with subsequent intraperitoneal injection of ethanol (1.5 g.kg-1; 15% solution). The control CTA procedure paired a novel saccharin taste with injections of isotonic saline. Following two conditioning trials and 3 d of water only, saccharin preference ratios were obtained in two-bottle choice tests (saccharin vs. water) over 4 consecutive days. Control rats conditioned with ethanol exhibited a strong CTA (p &lt; 0.01) relative to control rats injected with saline. Labyrinthectomized rats drinking saccharin followed by ethanol injections showed a strong CTA (p &lt; 0.01) if conditioning occurred 29-30 d post-labyrinthectomy. However, CTA's were not apparent in labyrinthectomized rats conditioned with ethanol 19 d post-labyrinthectomy. Thus, ethanol-induced CTA formation varied across the post-labyrinthectomy time period.
The purpose of this study was to compare a systematic tracheostomy weaning procedure to a random weaning approach by asking the question: &quot;What is the benefit to the patient of a systematic vs. random weaning process for tracheostomy removal as defined by the number of weaning attempts and post-weaning complications?&quot; A tracheostomy weaning procedure was developed at St. Boniface General Hospital as a joint venture between the neuroscience nurses and neurosurgeons in response to a perceived clinical need. This project evaluated the systemic procedure in two neuroscience units in Manitoba on ten adult patients who met the assessment criteria for tracheostomy removal established in the procedure. The patients were monitored for thirty days post removal for complications. In addition, a retrospective chart review was completed on twenty charts of patients who had undergone random tracheostomy weaning from 1990-1992. Content analysis of the documentation immediately before, during and after each tracheostomy weaning procedure was undertaken. The results of the study indicate that there were fewer weaning attempts required for the patients with the systemized procedure than the random procedure, and although not statistically significant, there were fewer post-removal complications per patient in the systemized procedure than with the random procedure. Content analysis of the retrospective data indicates that the random tracheostomy weaning procedure was subject to the individual nurses' judgement. The systemized procedure was more standardized and conformed to the protocols in the procedure. Most importantly, the patient's comfort and safety were greatly enhanced through the use of standard tracheostomy weaning procedure.


We previously reported that systemically administered N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists significantly impair spontaneous alternation behavior. Others have reported that the restricted blockade of hippocampal NMDA receptors disrupts performance on different tests of spatial learning and have suggested that the resulting impairments are attributable to a disruption of endogenous NMDA-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP). In the present study, we determined whether spontaneous alternation performance was disrupted by circumscribed blockade of hippocampal NMDA receptors as well as by a second class of compounds which disrupt LTP, protein kinase inhibitors. The effect of hippocampal NMDA blockade on inhibitory avoidance was also examined insofar as this behavior too is disrupted by systemically administered NMDA antagonists. When injected into the hippocampus 15 min prior to spontaneous alternation testing, the NMDA antagonists CPP and D,L-AP5 each decreased alternation rates. The specific protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, NPC 15437, also disrupted spontaneous alternation, whereas the more general kinase inhibitor, PMXB, did not. When injected 15 min prior to inhibitory avoidance training, CPP also impaired inhibitory avoidance learning as assessed during a subsequent test session, 48 h later. Interpretation of these data was complicated by the additional findings that intrahippocampal infusion of L-AP5 (which is inactive with respect to NMDA receptors) also disrupted alternation performance, and that both the D- and the L-isomers of AP5 as well as each kinase inhibitor dramatically disrupted evoked responses (i.e., population spike amplitude, spike latency, and EPSP slope), as recorded in the dentate gyrus and evoked by perforant path stimulation. These data indicate that behaviorally effective doses of AP5 may have effects which extend beyond NMDA blockade. Moreover, the effects of these compounds on hippocampal transmission, in general, suggest that attribution of the amnestic consequences of their administration to impaired LTP may be unwarranted.
We have applied multiple site optical recording of transmembrane voltage (MSORTV) to patterned growth cultures of heart cells to analyze the effect of geometry per se on impulse propagation in excitable tissue, with cellular and subcellular resolution. Extensive dye screening led to the choice of di-8-ANEPPS as the most suitable voltage-sensitive dye for this application; it is internalized slowly and permits optical recording with signal-to-noise ratios as high as 40:1 (measured peak-to-peak) and average fractional fluorescence changes of 15% per 100 mV. Using a x 100 objective and a fast data acquisition system, we could resolve impulse propagation on a microscopic scale (15 microns) with high temporal resolution (uncertainty of +/- 5 microseconds). We could observe the decrease in conduction velocity of an impulse propagating along a narrow cell strand as it enters a region of abrupt expansion, and we could explain this phenomenon in terms of the micro-architecture of the tissue. In contrast with the elongated and aligned cells forming the narrow strands, the cells forming the expansions were aligned at random and presented 2.5 times as many cell-to-cell appositions per unit length. If the decrease in conduction velocity results entirely from this increased number of cell-to-cell boundaries per unit length, the mean activation delay introduced by each boundary can be estimated to be 70 microseconds. Using this novel experimental system, we could also demonstrate the electrical coupling of fibroblasts and endotheloid cells to myocytes in culture.
This study examined the effects of dorsal midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) stimulation on both splenic and peripheral blood natural killer (NK) cell function as well as the proliferative response of lymphocytes to phytohemagglutinin mitogen. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with bipolar electrodes in the dorsal PAG. Following recovery, bipolar electrical stimulation eliciting a flight response was delivered at the rate of one/min for 30 min to freely moving rats. While dorsal PAG stimulation did not alter mitogen response or splenic NK activity, stimulation of this region of the PAG produced a marked decrease in peripheral blood NK response. In order to begin to explore a possible mechanism regulating suppression of peripheral blood NK activity, naltrexone (10 mg/kg) was administered prior to dorsal PAG stimulation. The results of this experiment replicated the findings that demonstrated suppression of peripheral blood NK following dorsal PAG stimulation. Naltrexone did not effect PAG induced suppression of peripheral blood NK. These findings point to the importance of the dorsal aspect of the PAG in the regulation of peripheral blood NK activity and further suggest that this phenomenon may not be opioid mediated.
Expectancies about face-structure can be induced by viewing parts of faces, which generates constraints due to two types of knowledge: feature-content and configuration. In a first experiment ERPs were recorded when parts of familiar faces were completed with incongruent features (from another face), as opposed to congruent features (from the same face). All features were in the correct configuration. An enhanced negativity was found for incongruent completions (N374) that was larger over the right side of the scalp. This replicates the results of Valdes-Sosa and Bobes (1990). In another two experiments, ERPs were recorded when parts of familiar faces were completed by congruent features, but sometimes placed in an incorrect position. In one experiment the features were jumbled; in the other, the features were slightly displaced. These configuration distortions were associated to late positive components, with a maxima at the centro-parietal region, of equal amplitude for both kinds of configuration anomalies. The N374 component seems to be a non-linguistic analog of the N400. The different ERP signatures for expectancy violations of configuration and feature-content suggest that these types of information are processed separately at some stages.
We used a strategy combining immunodetection, peptide chemistry, and a novel method, direct peptide fingerprinting of neurons and small pieces of nerve by using matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry, to structurally identify and localize the neuropeptide myomodulin-A in the mollusc, Lymnaea stagnalis. Lymnaea myomodulin appeared to be identical to Aplysia myomodulin-A and is produced by many central neurons, including neurons located in the ventral lobe of the right cerebral ganglion that innervate the penis complex via the penis nerve. Myomodulin-A could also be characterized from the penis complex, and physiological concentrations of the peptide enhanced the relaxation rate of electrically induced contractions of the penis retractor muscle in vitro in a dose-dependent fashion.
In the present study, using quantitative receptor autoradiography and in situ hybridization histochemistry the effects of unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions on the binding density levels of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors and the levels of mRNA encoding D1 and D2 receptors were investigated in the core and shell territories of the nucleus accumbens (Acb) and in the caudate-putamen (CP). The lesions induced contrasting effects on the D1 binding and D1 mRNA in the Acb and CP, i.e. an increase in binding and a decrease in the mRNA levels. For the D2 receptor an increase in both the binding density and mRNA levels was observed. The lesion-induced effects displayed regional differences. For D1 mRNA and D1 and D2 binding, the lesion effect was more pronounced in the core than in the shell of the Acb. For the D2 mRNA levels an increase was observed in the CP but not in the two territories of the Acb. Furthermore, the decrease in D1 mRNA was greater in the rostral than in the caudal parts of the core and shell of the Acb. These results indicate that the core and shell of the Acb and the CP respond differentially to dopamine depletion.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) has been shown to modulate the in vitro and in vivo survival, proliferation and differentiation of many neuronal cell types. Evidence indicates that it produces most if not all these effects by binding to a receptor subunit referred to as the CNTF receptor alpha component (CNTFR alpha). We cloned a cDNA encoding part of the rat CNTFR alpha and used it in Northern analyses to study CNTFR alpha mRNA expression. Examination of various tissues of embryonic day 18 and postnatal day 14 rats indicated that CNTFR alpha mRNA is primarily but not exclusively expressed in brain at these stages of development. Further studies revealed that the CNTFR alpha transcripts are present throughout brain development from embryonic day 12 to adulthood and display a widespread distribution in the adult brain. A survey of rodent cell lines detected highest CNTFR alpha mRNA concentrations in neuronal lines and a low concentration in a Schwann cell derived line. CNTFR alpha mRNA was not detected in fibroblast lines and a glioma line. Finally, nerve growth factor treatment decreased CNTFR alpha mRNA levels in PC12 cells. This result demonstrates that signal transduction processes activated by a neurotrophin can influence CNTF activated signal transduction processes. Such cross-talk may play an important in vivo role in the development and maintenance of the many neuronal cell types that are responsive to both neurotrophins and CNTF.
Previous studies have revealed that kindled seizures induced via chronically implanted electrodes up-regulate the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), the protein constituent of intermediate filaments in astrocytes. The present study evaluates the consequences of a single electroconvulsive seizure (ECS) on glial gene expression. ECS were induced in mice via externally-placed electrodes. GFAP mRNA levels were evaluated 1, 2, 4, and 6 days post-seizure by in situ hybridization. GFA immunocytostaining was evaluated in a separate series of animals. Following a single ECS, the levels of mRNA for GFAP increased several fold by 1 day and were still substantially elevated at 4 days. The increases occurred primarily in the dentate gyrus despite the fact that the seizures involved widespread brain regions. GFAP mRNA levels were also increased in areas bordering the ventricles, especially in areas immediately adjacent to the dentate gyrus. These results indicate that ECS up-regulates the mRNA for a key structural protein of astrocytes in a manner that is similar to the response that occurs following injury, that this response occurs selectively in a part of the brain that plays a key role in memory function, and that the increase may be due in part to a diffusible substance that also affects glial gene expression in nearby structures.
The light yellow neuropeptidergic cell system of the basommatophoran snail Lymnaea stagnalis is homologous to the R3-R14 system of the opisthobranch Aplysia californica, and produces three different neuropeptides. Systems homologous to the light yellow cells of Lymnaea stagnalis have been investigated morphologically in two Basommatophora (Lymnaea ovata, Bulinus truncatus) and three Stylommatophora (Helix aspersa, Cepaea nemoralis, Deroceras reticulatum). To this end, an antibody to synthetic light-yellow-cell peptide-II and oligonucleotides to mRNAs encoding parts of peptide-I and peptide-III, were used. The in situ hybridization probes gave negative results. On the other hand, neuronal cell clusters were observed in the central nervous system of all species studied by immunocytochemistry. These clusters were located in the ganglia of the visceral complex. The neurons project axons into all nerves of these ganglia, especially into the pallial nerves, into the connective tissue of the central nervous system, and into the neuropile of various ganglia. The morphology of the systems is similar to that of the light-yellow-cell system of Lymnaea stagnalis. In all species, the wall of the aorta was innervated by immunoreactive axons. Peripheral innervation by the light-yellow-cell system was investigated in Helix aspersa and Deroceras reticulatum. Serial and alternate sections of whole snails were studied. Reconstructions were made of the heart-kidney-lung complex of these animals. In both species, the muscular vessels of the pulmonary system at the right side of the body were strongly innervated by immunoreactive axons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hans-Lukas Teuber (1916-1977) was one of the most influential neuropsychologists of his generation. In the first part of his career he headed the Psychophysiology Laboratory at the New York University--Bellevue Medical Center. There he and his associates played a major role in establishing human neuropsychology as a rigorous experimental science closely linked to contemporary neurophysiology and experimental psychology. In the second part of his career he founded the Department of Psychology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. This rapidly became a world center of the neuro- and cognitive sciences and a model for the establishment of new neuroscience centers that brought together neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, neuropsychology, and cognitive psychology into an interacting community. Teuber's contributions extended far beyond the institutions he founded and the many important experimental and theoretical papers he wrote. He was a consummate organizer, synthesizer, and sponsor of research on the brain, as well as the mentor of many of today's leading brain researchers. This special issue on object recognition and the temporal lobes is dedicated to his memory.
The authors report the computed tomographic (CT) findings in a patient with an unusual large intracranial chordoma involving the midline sellar region. This rare intracranial tumor is reviewed in the literature, and in particular the values of CT evaluations are detailed in the presented case with a special reference to differential diagnosis of the tumors in and around the sella turcica.
Number of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) treatments administered and severity of psychopathology confound the interpretation of clinical studies that address the relationship between the rate of administration of ECT and cognitive morbidity occasioned by the treatment. A preclinical study was therefore conducted to address the issue. Three groups (n = 8/group) of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received six electroconvulsive shocks (ECS) in daily ECS, 3 ECS/week, and 2 ECS/week schedules; a fourth group (control; n = 8) received only sham ECS. From days 2 to 7 after the conclusion of the ECS/sham ECS course, the rats were monitored for learning on the Hebb-Williams complex maze. The control, 2 ECS/week, and 3 ECS/week groups showed significant learning by days 3, 5, and 7, respectively, while the daily ECS group showed no significant learning during the assessment period. This indicates that even when the cumulative effect of ECS on learning is controlled for, more frequent ECS is associated with slower learning. Extrapolating to clinical settings, it is suggested that wider spacing of ECT may lessen ECT-induced cognitive morbidity.

In 40 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD, &lt; 65 years), 56 patients with senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT, &gt; or = 65 years) and 45 patients with vascular dementia (VAD), basal cortisol levels were estimated and the dexamethasone test (DST) was performed. The degree of dementia was assessed according to DSM-III-R and the GBS scale was used for quantitative measures of functional impairment. There were no significant differences in basal cortisol levels. Especially in the VAD group, scores on functional impairment correlated significantly with post-DST cortisol levels. The results indicate hypothalamic overactivity in demented patients which can be correlated to the degree of dementia. In VAD, and to a certain extent also in SDAT, there appears to be a disconnection between cortical areas, including the hippocampus and the hypothalamus.
The influence of neurotrophins on GABAergic properties of developing striatal neurons was investigated both in vivo and in vitro. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) specifically elevated cellular GABA content in striatal culture without altering neuronal survival. Neurotrophin-5 produced a similar effect on GABA, but nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3 had no effect. An increase in GABA content in the striatum was also observed following BDNF injections into the cerebroventricle of neonatal rats. The increase of GABA levels in culture mainly resulted from an increase in holoenzyme activity of the GABA synthetic enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and elevation of GABA uptake activity. In BDNF-treated striatal cultures, the newly differentiated neurons extended elaborate neurites and exhibited strong GAD immunoreactivity. These alterations were presumably caused by the upregulation of mRNA encoding GAD67 and the neuronal GABA transporter GAT-1. BDNF treatment also promoted other phenotypic differentiation of striatal neurons: BDNF increased the frequency of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons and calbindin-immunoreactive neurons and neuropeptide content for neuropeptide Y and somatostatin. These observations suggest that neurotrophins may contribute to phenotypic differentiation of GABAergic neurons in the developing striatum.
Low stringency screening of a rat hypothalamic complementary DNA library for additional members of the subtilisin-like prohormone convertase (PC) family identified rat PACE4, which is 90% identical to human PACE4 in amino acid sequence, with much lower similarity to rat PC1, PC2, furin, PC4, or PC6. The rat PACE4 sequence has the Asp-His-Ser catalytic site triad, an Arg-Gly-Asp potential integrin binding site, and three potential sites for N-linked glycosylation. Rat PACE4 has a long COOH-terminal region, which is very rich in Cys residues (15%). The unique signal sequence of rat PACE4 mediates translocation across microsomal membranes during in vitro translation and secretion of PACE4 from stably transfected fibroblast cells. Rat PACE4 has a tissue and cell line distribution unlike any reported PC, including human PACE4, with high expression in the anterior pituitary and readily detectable expression in several brain regions, the atrium, and the ventricle; negligible PACE4 messenger RNA (mRNA) is detected in neurointermediate pituitary and many nonneuroendocrine tissues. PACE4 mRNA is prevalent in Buffalo rat liver and GH3 cells and present at low levels in AtT-20 cells, whereas it is undetectable in several other cell lines. In situ hybridization coupled with immunocytochemistry revealed that PACE4 is produced by somatotropes, mammotropes, and corticotropes, whereas less PACE4 mRNA was detected in thyrotropes. PACE4 mRNA levels in anterior pituitary are strikingly regulated by thyroid status, with more than a 10-fold increase seen from hypothyroid to hyperthyroid animals. The prevalence of PACE4 in anterior pituitary and the striking effect of thyroid status on PACE4 expression suggest a specific role for PACE4 in processing neuroendocrine peptides.
We describe a female presenting with a progressive bulbar palsy, deafness and respiratory failure necessitating long-term ventilation. These clinical features are consistent with the Brown-Vialetto-van Laere syndrome, a rare, sometimes inherited progressive ponto-bulbar neuronopathy with associated deafness. This case provides further evidence of the genetic heterogeneity of the syndrome and we describe a previously unreported form of treatment which had negative results. We suggest that improved recognition of this rare syndrome is essential to provide aetiological clues and we describe the worthwhile symptomatic improvement which can be achieved with simple supportive measures.

We compared the effect of two selective dopamine D1 receptor agonists, SKF 38393 ((+/-)-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-(1H)-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol.HCl) and A68930 ((1R,3S)-1-aminomethyl-5,6-dihydroxy-3-phenylisochroman.HCl), and that of imipramine in the behavioural despair model of depression. The dopamine D1 receptor agonists and imipramine showed an anti-immobility effect. Moreover we found that the 'antidepressant' effect of imipramine in the behavioural despair test was antagonized by SCH 23390, a selective dopamine D1 receptor blocker. The results further support the hypothesis that dopamine D1 receptor stimulation plays an important role in the mechanism of action of antidepressants and suggest that dopamine D1 receptor agonists might be considered as potential antidepressant drugs.
Recently the existence of a neurotensin striatonigral pathway strongly up-regulated by methamphetamine has been demonstrated. The aim of the present study was to investigate, using immunohistochemistry and radioimmunoassay, the modulation of this pathway by dopamine antagonists. Rats were injected either with methamphetamine alone or together with the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, SCH 23390 (R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-be nzapine hydrochloride), or with the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, sulpiride. Both techniques showed that this neurotensin striatonigral pathway is regulated by dopamine D1 receptors, since SCH 23390 totally prevented the methamphetamine-induced increase in neurotensin-like immunoreactivity, both in the striatum and in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Conversely, sulpiride was unable to counteract the effect of methamphetamine in these two areas, suggesting that dopamine D2 receptors are not involved in the regulation of this neurotensin pathway. On the other hand, neurotensin-like immunoreactivity was markedly increased in striatal cell bodies and in the globus pallidus after treatment with sulpiride, indicating that this pathway is mainly regulated by dopamine D2 receptors.
Evidence that tachykinin NK1 receptors selectively modulate activity in the mesolimbic dopamine pathway suggests an antipsychotic potential for tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonists. We investigated the ability of the antagonist CP-99,994 (and the less active enantiomer CP-100,263) to block dopamine receptor agonist-induced behaviour in guinea-pigs. The active dose range for inhibition of [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P-induced behaviour by CP-99,994 was 1-3 mg/kg s.c. The same doses of CP-100,263 were without effect. In contrast, both CP-99,994 (20 or 30 mg/kg) and CP-100,263 (10-30 mg/kg) antagonised behavioural stimulation induced by the dopamine receptor agonists amphetamine (1 mg/kg i.p.) or (+)-PHNO ((+)-4-propyl-9-hydroxy-naphthoxazine hydrochloride; 0.1 mg/kg s.c.). Lower doses of CP-99,994 or CP-100,263 were not active. These findings do not support the proposal that tachykinin NK1 receptors in the terminal projection area of the mesolimbic system can modify dopamine-mediated behaviour.

We have used the laser-induced photochemical thrombosis model in adult rats to evaluate the significance of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (non-NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors in situations of focal spinal cord ischemia. The animals were pretreated with the selective non-NMDA antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(f)-quinoxaline (NBQX) or, for comparison, the NMDA antagonist (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d] cyclohepten-5-10-imine (MK-801). Neurological function was quantified using evaluations of motor score and inclined plane. The MK-801-treated rats had higher motor scores during the 3-week observation period while NBQX-treated rats only performed significantly better at 1 week. Both treatments caused significantly better performance in the inclined plane test. NBQX and MK-801 reduced the volume of necrosis by approximately 47% at 3 weeks postlesion. We conclude that blockade of both NMDA and non-NMDA subtypes of glutamate receptors reduces ischemic necrosis, possibly by preventing excessive stimulation of these receptors by released excitatory amino acids in the lesion area.
Although found as a precursor of Alzheimer amyloid, substantial evidence suggests that beta/A4 protein precursor (APP) is involved in regulation of neuronal growth and survival. Recently, we have obtained evidence that the trophic properties of APP are fully preserved in a 17-amino acid sequence. If APP is neurotrophic, then it would be anticipated that administration of the growth-promoting segment of the APP 17-mer peptide might attenuate the neuronal dysfunction or loss or behavioral deficits associated with neuronal injury, such as that accompanying central nervous system ischemia. We evaluated this 17-mer peptide in a rabbit spinal cord ischemia model and found that this peptide alleviates paraplegia resulting from ischemia/reperfusion. Ischemia of the distal lumbar cord was produced by temporary occlusion of the abdominal aorta. Saline, 17-mer APP peptide, or a control peptide (200, 500, or 1000 nM) was administered intrathecally 20 min prior to ischemia and once daily for 3 days thereafter. The neurologic and morphologic outcomes were evaluated after 4 days. Durations of ischemia encompassing all grades of neurologic function were included. The 500 nM dose of 17-mer APP peptide significantly reduced neurologic damage. The average ischemia duration necessary to produce permanent neurologic damage increased from 27.9 +/- 1.9 min in saline-injected controls and 27.7 +/- 2.0 in scrambled sequence peptide-injected controls to 40.2 +/- 4.0 min in the 500 nM 17-mer APP-injected group. The 200 nM dose produced a nonsignificant trend toward reduced neurologic damage.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous studies have demonstrated that some of the molecular and morphological changes that are characteristic of reactive astrocytes are induced following seizures. This discovery provides the means to experimentally modify the time course and extent of reactive changes in astrocytes following injury and so explore how these reactive changes modulate other events in the injured nervous system. The present study evaluates whether superinduction of a reactive state in astrocytes alters one form of postlesion synaptic reorganization (the sprouting of cholinergic projections in the dentate gyrus after destruction of the entorhinal cortex). Cholinergic sprouting after entorhinal cortex lesions was evaluated in control mice and in mice that experienced electroconvulsive seizures (ECS) from the day of surgery until 12 days postlesion. Animals were prepared for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, and 30+ days postlesion. Quantitative densitometric analyses revealed that the increase in AChE staining that is indicative of cholinergic sprouting was essentially eliminated in the animals that experienced daily ECS. These results indicate that the induction of electroconvulsive seizures during the postinjury period disrupts at least one form of postlesion synaptic reorganization that would otherwise occur. This disruption of synaptic reorganization may be a consequence of the induction of a persistent reactive state in astrocytes.



Mammals have evolved sophisticated behavioral and physiological responses to oppose changes in the osmolality of their extracellular fluid. The behavioral approach consists of regulating the intake of salt and water through changes in sodium appetite and thirst. The physiological approach comprises adjustments of renal excretion of water and sodium which are achieved through changes in the release of antidiuretic and natriuretic hormones. Individually, these osmoregulatory responses are controlled by &quot;osmoreceptors&quot;: groups of specialized nerve cells capable of transducing changes in external osmotic pressure into meaningful electrical signals. Some of these sensors are located in the region of the hepatic portal vein, a strategic site allowing early detection of the osmotic impact of ingested foods and fluids. Changes in systemic osmolality, however, are detected centrally, within regions that include the medial preoptic area, the median preoptic nucleus, the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis (OVLT), the subfornical organ, and the supraoptic nucleus (SON). While studies have indicated that these central and peripheral osmoreceptors participate in the control of osmoregulatory responses, little is known of the mechanisms by which this is achieved. One notable exception, however, consists of the osmotic control of electrical activity in SON neurons which, in the rat, contributes to the regulation of natriuresis and diuresis through effects on the secretion of oxytocin and vasopressin. Previous studies have shown that these cells are respectively excited and inhibited by hypertonic and hypotonic conditions. Experiments in vitro indicate that these responses result from both the endogenous osmosensitivity of these cells and changes in synaptic drive. Patch-clamp analysis has revealed that SON neurons are respectively depolarized and hyperpolarized by increases and decreases in external osmolality and that these intrinsic responses result from changes in the activity of mechanosensitive cationic channels. Moreover, intracellular recordings in hypothalamic explants have shown that changes in electrical activity are associated with proportional changes in the frequency of glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic potentials derived from osmosensitive OVLT neurons. Both of these mechanisms, therefore, may participate in the osmotic regulation of neurohypophysial hormone release in situ.
Levodopa methyl ester (LDME) is a highly water soluble derivative produced by esterification of the carboxilic acid moiety of the L-Dopa molecule that is rapidly hydrolyzed to L-Dopa and can be administered orally in an easily dosable liquid form. In this study the relative efficacy and tolerability of a single dose of an oral solution of 250 mg of LDME was compared to that of placebo in reversing afternoon off period. A controlled double-blind cross-over study versus placebo had previously been carried out in 25 idiopathic parkinsonian patients with predictable fluctuations in motor performances. The study design stipulated the sequential administration of LDME and placebo in group A and placebo and LDME in group B on two consecutive days. All patients turned &quot;on&quot; with LDME and none with placebo solution. The mean latency to &quot;on&quot; was 25.3 +/- 13.5 min for the A group and 27.6 +/- 3.9 min for group B (Fig. 2) and the &quot;on&quot; duration was 147.7 +/- 50.3 min and 163.3 +/- 39.3 min for the A and B groups respectively. Five patients suffering from drug resistant &quot;off&quot; phenomena turned &quot;on&quot; with LDME solution showing a mean latency to &quot;on&quot; of 31.4 +/- 6.2 min.
The question of how the mind and brain are related has interested philosophers and scientists for over 20 centuries. Psychiatry has approached this question indirectly, from the standpoint of trying to correlate mental and physical functioning. Recent neurobiological advances may help to resolve the mind-body dichotomy. In this paper we review one particular neurobiologically based theory, the theory of neuronal group selection as proposed by Gerald Edelman. We describe the applicability of this theory to the clinical issues of attachment, character pathology, and depression to show how biological and psychological hypotheses of behavior can be assimilated into an integrated approach. We also briefly discuss limitations of Edelman's model, as well as alternative concepts in artificial intelligence, cognitive psychology, and quantum theory.
Aplysia californica is a marine gastropod mollusc with bilaterally paired statocysts as gravity-receptor organs. Data from three experiments in which embryonic Aplysia californica were exposed to 2 x g are discussed. The experimental groups were exposed to excess gravity until hatching (9-12 day), whereas control groups were maintained at normal gravity. Body diameter was measured before exposure to 2 x g. Statocyst, statolith and body diameter were each determined for samples of 20 embryos from each group on successive days. Exposure to excess gravity led to an increase in body size. Statocyst size was not affected by exposure to 2 x g. Statolith size decreased with treatment as indicated by smaller statolith-to-body ratios observed in the 2 x g group in all three experiments. Mean statolith diameter was significantly smaller for the 2 x g group in Experiment 1 but not in Experiments 2 and 3. Defective statocysts, characterized by very small or no statoliths, were found in the 2 x g group in Experiments 1 and 2.
Effects of 5-bromo-2-deoxy-uridine (BrdU) and 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) on 60-Co-gamma-ray induced damage were studied in monolayer cultures of glioma (BMG-1) cells, and PHA-stimulated peripheral leukocytes from normal donors. Micronuclei formation was used as an index of cytogenetic damage. BrdU and 2-DG treatments did not induce micronuclei formation in unirradiated cultures. Presence of BrdU (0.8 microM) for more than one cell cycle (24 hr) significantly increased gamma-ray (1-4 Gy) induced micronuclei formation in exponentially growing BMG-1 cells. Incubation of irradiated cells under sub-optimal growth conditions (DMEM with 1% serum) for 3 hr, instead of growth medium, significantly decreased micronuclei formation. Post-irradiation presence of 2-DG (5 mM; 3 hr, in DMEM + 1% serum) significantly increased radiation damage. In BrdU sensitized cells also, 2-DG significantly increased radiation damage further. In PHA-stimulated leukocytes from normal donors, 2-DG (5mM, equimolar with glucose; for 2 hr) did not increase gamma-ray (2-Gy, 42 hr after PHA-stimulation) induced micronuclei formation. Pre-irradiation presence of BrdU (1.6 microM) significantly increased micronuclei. On the contrary, 2-DG treatment reduced radiation induced micronuclei formation in BrdU sensitized leukocyte cultures. These results suggest that (i) radiation induced lesions leading to micronuclei formation in proliferating tumour cells, are, at least, partly repairable; (ii) combination of 2-DG could reduce BrdU doses required for radiosensitization of proliferating tumour cells; and (iii) 2-DG could differentially increase radiation damage in BrdU sensitized proliferating tumour cells, while reducing manifestation of damage in normal proliferating cells.

Neuronal degeneration following exposure to anoxia and nitric oxide (NO) may be modulated by peptide growth factors and the activity of signal transduction systems. Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) are neuroprotective during anoxia and NO toxicity. Signal transduction systems that activate protein kinase C (PKC) can be detrimental to neurons and mediate the toxic effects of anoxia and NO. We therefore examined whether PKC was involved in the protective effects of bFGF and EGF during anoxia. After exposure to anoxia, approximately 20-30% of hippocampal neurons survive. In contrast, chronic down-regulation of PKC activity prior to anoxia increases hippocampal neuronal cell survival to approximately 75%. Yet, this protective effect of inhibition of PKC activity was not present with the application of peptide growth factors during anoxia. Combined inhibition of PKC activity and application of the peptide growth factors bFGF or EGF was detrimental to the hippocampal neurons during anoxia. Neuronal survival during anoxia was 68 +/- 2% with bFGF and 79 +/- 3% with EGF but decreased to 49 +/- 7% (bFGF) and 44 +/- 2% (EGF) with PKC down-regulation. Addition of the growth factors with the agent H-7, an inhibitor of PKC activity, also decreased neuronal survival during anoxia. In addition, the protective effects of the growth factors during anoxia were lessened to a greater degree with the activation of PKC, decreasing hippocampal neuronal survival for bFGF to 23 +/- 2% and for EGF to 31 +/- 3%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The aim of this review is to give highlights about technical imaging aspects with which researchers in the neuro-ophthalmologic fields ought to be familiar. After a short overview of history of anatomy of the visual system, a review of the main anatomic details and their corresponding MRI aspects concerning the visual pathways is proposed. Reference lines suitable for MR imaging of the visual system in normal and in diseased states are proposed to orient the neuroradio-ophthalmologic investigations. Brain, cutaneous, and bony landmarks are given to help multimodality imaging approaches, indispensable for anatomofunctional correlations. The neuro-ocular plane is used as the reference for the screening of the visual pathway in its entirety and retained as the orientation of choice for studying orbital optic nerves and eyes. Two other reference lines primarily devoted to temporal lobe imaging, are proposed for the study of the intracranial optic path: the chiasmatocommissural line and the commissural-obex, brainstem axis reference line. Based on brain commissural landmarks present in all vertebrates, these two lines are also helpful in comparative brain anatomic and physiologic studies in vivo as well as in vitro.
Positron emission tomography (PET) and selective radioligands were used to determine central D1- and D2-dopamine- and 5-HT2-receptor occupancy in clozapine-treated patients with schizophrenia. In 16 patients, the mean D2-receptor occupancy was 47% (range, 20%-67%), which is lower than that previously demonstrated in patients treated with classical neuroleptics (range, 70%-89%). In 11 patients, the mean D1-receptor occupancy was 44% (range, 33%-59%), which is high when compared with that for classical neuroleptics. In a group of 5 patients, including some treated with low doses of clozapine, the mean 5-HT2-receptor occupancy was a high 89% (range, 84%-94%). By comparison to classical neuroleptics, clozapine is atypical with regard to central binding characteristics in the brain of treated patients.
Clozapine has proved effective in alleviating a wide range of psychiatric symptoms in schizophrenia. Its effects on cognitive function in schizophrenia are more variable. Clozapine appears to have a salutary effect on some aspects of attention, response speed, and fluency, whereas it appears to have a mild but adverse effect on visual memory and some executive functions. This profile may be related to the affinity of clozapine for dopaminergic type I and muscarinic receptors and relative lack of affinity for dopaminergic type II receptors.
Self-peptides bound to HLA-DR4 (DRA-DRB1*0405 complex) were eluted from the purified DR4 complex, fractionated on reverse-phase HPLC, and subjected to NH2-terminal sequencing. Seven independent sequences were obtained, and all putative peptides synthesized bound to DRB1*0405 as well as DRB1*0406 complex, which differ only at DR beta residues 37, 57, 74, and 86. Binding assay using analogue peptides of a DR4 binder GSTVFDNLPNPE revealed that FxxLxN is an important anchor motif necessary for binding (where x is any amino acid), which was common to DRB1*0405 and 0406. Determination of the binding affinity of 60 synthetic AAFAALANAA-based analogue peptides showed that substituting F to W or C; L to F, W, or Y; and N to Q or S on AAFAALANAA changed the affinity substantially between DRB1*0405 and DRB1*0406. It is noteworthy that all patients with methimazole-induced insulin autoimmune syndrome are positive for DRB1*0406 and negative for DRB1*0405. Interestingly, the quantitative structural motif identified in this study predicted that 8TSICSLYQLE17 of human insulin alpha chain may bind specifically to DRB1*0406 using its 10IxxLxQ15 motif. Indeed, DRB1*0406 complex bound 8TSICSLYQLE17 with a high affinity, and in striking contrast, DRB1*0405 complex did not. Furthermore, a short-term T cell line specific to human insulin established from a DRB1*0406-bearing individual did show reactivity with a peptide fragment containing the 10IxxLxQ15 motif. Although this fragment probably exists at a very low level under normal physiological conditions due to the disulfide bond between flanking cysteine residues (6Cys-11Cys), a reducing compound such as methimazole may cleave the disulfide bond in vivo and allow DR alpha-DRB1*0406 complex on antigen-presenting cells to bind much of the linear fragment of insulin alpha chain, which may lead to the activation of self-insulin-specific T-helper cells.
Social, psychological and physical consequences of pathological gambling reported by 42 pathological gamblers recruited mainly by advertising were compared with data on 63 pathological gamblers identified by case-finding within districts of probation, in- and out-patient psychiatric care and social welfare authorities. The two studies gave similar results. Financial breakdown, impaired relations with family and friends, and psychological problems occurred in about 50% of the pathological gamblers. Physical consequences were perceived to be of minor significance. Gambling became a solitary behavior as illegal behaviors to finance gambling increased. The pathological gamblers frequently abused alcohol. Despite these signs of social decay the pathological gamblers strove not to be a burden in society.
Dissociated single fibers from the mouse flexor digitorum brevis (FDB) muscle were used in patch clamp experiments to investigate the mechanisms of activation and inactivation of KATP in mammalian skeletal muscle. Spontaneous rundown of channel activity, in many excised patches, occurred gradually over a period of 10-20 min. Application of 1.0 mM free-Ca2+ to the cytoplasmic side of the patch caused irreversible inactivation of KATP within 15 sec. Ca(2+)-induced rundown was not prevented by the presence of 1.0 microM okadaic acid or 2.0 mg ml-1 of an inhibitor of calcium-activated neutral proteases, a result consistent with the conclusion that phosphatases or calcium-activated neutral proteases were not involved in the rundown process. Application of 1.0 mM Mg.ATP to Ca(2+)-inactivated KATP caused inhibition of residual activity but little or no reactivation of the channels upon washout of ATP, even in the presence of the catalytic subunit of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (10 U ml-1). Mg.ATP also failed to reactivate KATP, even after only partial spontaneous rundown, despite the presence of channels that could be activated by the potassium channel opener BRL 38227. Nucleotide diphosphates (500 microM; CDP, UDP, GDP and IDP) caused immediate and reversible opening of Ca(2+)-inactivated KATP. Reactivation of KATP by ADP (100 microM) increased further upon removal of the nucleotide. In contrast to KATP from cardiac and pancreatic cells, there was no evidence for phosphorylation of KATP from the surface sarcolemma of dissociated single fibers from mouse skeletal muscle.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Earlier accounts claim from indirect measurements that the subgenual organ (SGO) in the proximal tibia of the cockroach leg can detect vibrational displacements down to 0.002 nm, two orders of magnitude below the threshold for vertebrate hair cells in the cochlea. The SGO vibration threshold is redetermined here more directly by a new method on a cantilever beam, while controlling for particular acoustic and vibrational artifacts that might have compromised earlier efforts. The threshold is revised upwards to about 0.2 nm in the most sensitive preparation, about the same as the cochlea. Recently, it has been determined that the cockroach SGO also has an auditory response, and the data here on subthreshold summation and response-intensity relationships provide further evidence that sound and contact vibration are both sensed by the same receptor neurons. Direct measurements rule out the prevailing hypothesis that sound is detected indirectly as induced vibration of the ground, and also weigh strongly against any significant involvement of generalized leg resonance in acoustic pick-up. The results fit with a recent proposal that the auditory response is direct, and that acoustic fluctuations inside the tracheae may be the primary response mode in the transduction of both vibration and sound.
The effects of a single and of repeated immobilization stress on the expression of the final enzyme involved in epinephrine biosynthesis, phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT), are described. A single immobilization (whether lasting 5 or 120 min) caused a severalfold increase of the adrenal PNMT mRNA level as measured 2 h after the beginning of the procedure. This elevation was of a transient nature, peaked 3-6 h after the 2-h immobilization, and returned to control values by 12 h after the stress. When the animals were immobilized for 2 h/day for seven consecutive days, an increase in content of PNMT mRNA of a similar magnitude was observed, which persisted for at least 2 days after the seventh immobilization. The immobilization-induced increase was completely abolished in hypophysectomized animals, whereas adrenal denervation failed to prevent it. These data suggest that the immobilization-induced increase in adrenal PNMT mRNA level depends primarily on pituitary-adrenocortical regulation.
There is evidence to suggest that degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease and certain other conditions results from the action of reactive species generated during the oxidation of dopamine. We, therefore, have begun to explore the conditions under which such reactive species are formed. Tissue slices prepared from rat neostriatum were incubated in a standard Krebs bicarbonate buffer for up to 120 min. In the presence of [3H]dopamine (0.01-100 microM), binding of tritium to the acid-insoluble protein fraction was detected. Binding was attenuated by the addition of ascorbate (0.085-0.85 mM) or glutathione (0.01-1.0 mM) to the buffer. Acid hydrolysis of the protein revealed the presence of cysteinyl-dopamine and cysteinyl-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid residues. These results suggest that dopamine oxidizes to form reactive metabolites, presumably quinones, that then bind to nucleophilic sulfhydryl groups on protein cysteinyl residues. The findings further suggest that the extent to which reactive metabolites are formed is determined in part by the balance between the availability of dopamine and the antioxidant environment.
The kinetics and distribution of [3H]tryptamine binding sites in human brain were investigated. Specific [3H]tryptamine binding in frontal cortex was of nanomolar affinity, reversible, saturable, and best fit to a single-site model. A heterogeneous distribution for this binding site was demonstrated, with the highest density observed in hippocampus, thalamus &gt; caudate nucleus, frontal cortex, pons, temporal cortex &gt; globus pallidus/putamen, cerebellum. The similarities in kinetics and distribution of the [3H]tryptamine binding site in human and rat brain indicate that these two binding sites represent homologous structures. However, the present displacement studies using various ligands (indoleamines and other tryptophan metabolites, phenylethylamines, and miscellaneous drugs) and salts (Na+, K+, Ca2+, Mg2+, Cu2+) indicate stereospecific displacement as well as a rank-order potency profile that is different from that reported for the rat [3H]tryptamine binding site. This suggests the presence of distinct species-dependent [3H]tryptamine binding site subtypes. Taken together with the documented electrophysiological and behavioral evidence of tryptamine-mediated effects in the rat and the recent report of a significant loss of these binding sites in human portal systemic encephalopathy, as well as the present demonstration of an effect of guanine nucleotides on [3H]-tryptamine binding affinity, these findings suggest that these binding sites might be functional receptors. The implied role of tryptamine in neuropsychiatric disorders is supported by this demonstration of a receptor for [3H]-tryptamine in human brain.
Spermine and other polyamines both stimulate and inhibit N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor function, probably by interacting with two separate sites. To characterize these two actions, the effect of spermine on the binding kinetics of the channel blocker [3H]dizocilpine was studied in the presence of glutamate and glycine. Low concentrations (10 microM) of spermine increased the association and dissociation rates without modifying equilibrium binding, indicating that spermine increases the accessibility of [3H]dizocilpine to the channel by interacting with a high-affinity, stimulatory site. At higher concentrations (1 mM), spermine markedly decreased equilibrium [3H]dizocilpine binding by decreasing both affinity and Bmax, indicating that spermine allosterically inhibits binding by interacting with a second, low-affinity site. The presumed polyamine antagonists arcaine, diethylenetriamine, and 1,10-diaminodecane completely inhibited equilibrium [3H]dizocilpine binding, probably by interacting with the inhibitory polyamine site or other sites, but not with the stimulatory polyamine site. Low concentrations (10 microM) of ifenprodil completely reversed the increase in association rate produced by spermine, whereas higher concentrations (IC50 = 123 microM) inhibited equilibrium binding, indicating that ifenprodil is both a potent antagonist of the stimulatory site and a low-affinity ligand of the inhibitory site. The polyamine agonists spermine, spermidine, and neomycin interacted with the inhibitory site, but produced only partial inhibition of equilibrium [3H]dizocilpine binding.
In mammalian brain, ischemic injury could be mediated by delayed glutamate neurotoxicity. We have studied the possibility of altered genetic expression of quiescent NMDA receptor subunits in an in vitro model of hypoxia-hypoglycemia, using the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction technique. It was found that mRNA corresponding to the NR2C subunit was present 1 h after a brief hypoxic-hypoglycemic episode in adult rat hippocampus and cortex but absent in control tissue. These findings indicate that the phenotypic characteristics of certain brain cells after an ischemic insult are altered by the expression of genes that are quiescent in those cells under normal physiological conditions.
Two patients with atypical focal necrotising herpes simplex encephalitis are described. They presented with relatively mild clinical disease but despite treatment with acyclovir (10 mg/kg/day for three days in case 1 and 10 days in case 2) they developed dramatic, progressive changes (shown on brain CT) that mimicked space occupying lesions of the temporal lobes. Both patients therefore had a diagnostic and therapeutic temporal lesionectomy followed by further 10 day courses of acyclovir. They subsequently went on to make good clinical and neuropsychological recoveries.
Three patients with left unilateral spatial neglect after predominantly frontal lobe lesions were asked to extend a horizontal line leftwards to double its original length. In this line extension task, they readily executed movements in or towards the contralesional left space. They performed the task in the left and right hemispaces as well as in the midline. The mean extension lengths did not differ significantly among these three spatial conditions. These results suggest that directional hypokinesia takes little part in left unilateral spatial neglect due to frontal lobe lesions. It is considered that the patients could execute leftward movements as the task oriented their attention sufficiently to the left. Two of the three patients, like reported cases with frontal neglect, showed a typical exploratory deficit for the left space in the line cancellation test. Such a deficit found in the traditional tasks, however, does not mean the presence of directional hypokinesia. All three patients showed visual extinction on double simultaneous stimulation. An attentional mechanism seems to play a predominant part in unilateral spatial neglect due to frontal lesions.

1. Previous studies have shown that beta-adrenergic receptor activation has many effects on neuronal function in hippocampal area CA1. However, all of the physiological effects of beta-adrenergic receptor activation in this region reported to date have been attributed to postsynaptic mechanisms. A series of studies was performed to test the hypothesis that beta-adrenergic receptor activation also acts presynaptically to enhance excitatory synaptic transmission. 2. Application of the selective beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol to hippocampal slices induced an increase in the amplitude of evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in CA1 pyramidal cells. This response was potentiated in the presence of a cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor. Isoproterenol also resulted in the appearance of a late inward synaptic current that likely represents polysynaptically evoked EPSCs. Both the increased amplitude of the monosynaptic EPSC and the appearance of polysynaptic EPSCs in response to isoproterenol were blocked by H89, an inhibitor of adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP)-dependent protein kinase. 3. Isoproterenol induced an increase in the frequency of spontaneous miniature EPSCs but did not affect the amplitude of these currents. In addition, isoproterenol had no effect on currents elicited by direct application of the ionotropic glutamate receptor agonist, (R,S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA). 4. These results suggest that activation of presynaptic beta-adrenergic receptors enhances synaptic transmission in area CA1 via activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase.
1. Photoinactivation of dye-filled neurons was used to examine the modulatory role of the paired cerebral giant cells (CGCs) in the Lymnaea feeding system. 2. Both CGCs were filled with fluorescent dyes. Lucifer yellow was used for &quot;soma&quot; kills and injected via intracellular microelectrodes. CGC axons were retrogradely filled with 5 (6)-carboxyfluorescein (5-CF), through the cut ends of the ventro- and lateral buccal nerves, for &quot;axonal&quot; kills. 3. Irradiation of the CGC soma with a blue laser light (0.5 MW/m2) led to a loss of their recorded membrane potentials and the synaptic responses with their postsynaptic cells (feeding motor neurons). CGC coupling and axonal fluorescence were lost after axonal irradiation. 4. The tonic firing rate of CGC axon spikes in peripheral nerve roots following bilateral soma kills was reduced to approximately 15% of preirradiation levels (n = 2; from 52.5 +/- 3.75 spikes/min to 8.2 +/- 0.95 spikes/min; mean +/- SE) but spike activity was not completely eliminated. 5. The fictive feeding rhythm was evoked by depolarizing a modulatory neuron, the slow oscillator (SO), before and after laser irradiation. Thirty minutes after both the CGCs were irradiated (n = 8), the frequency of the SO-driven feeding rhythm was reduced. Mean fictive feeding rates were reduced from 8.3 to 4.5 cycles/min for soma kills (n = 3) and from 16.2 to 9.6 cycles/min for axonal kills (n = 5; P &lt; 0.05). 6. The results suggest that the CGCs play a modulatory role in controlling the frequency of oscillation of the feeding central pattern generator (CPG) in Lymnaea. The SO could still drive a full fictive feeding rhythm after irradiation but at a reduced rate. At least in the soma kills, the residual spike activity retained in the distal branches of the CGCs appeared sufficient to allow the SO to drive this slow rhythm.
1. The role of the paired serotonergic cerebral giant cells (CGCs) in the feeding system of Lymnaea was examined by electrophysiological and pharmacological techniques. 2. The firing characteristics of the CGCs were recorded by fine wires attached to their cell bodies in freely moving intact snails (in vivo recording) and their &quot;physiological&quot; rates of firing determined during feeding and other behaviors. 3. The mean CGC firing rates recorded in vivo varied between 1 and 20 spikes/min but never reached the average rates seen in the isolated CNS (60-120 spikes/min). Maximum rates of firing were seen during bouts of radula biting/rasping movements characteristic of the consummatory phase of feeding (15 +/- 1.69 spikes/min, mean +/- SE, range 7-20 spikes/min), with lower rates seen during locomotion (6.7 +/- 0.75 spikes/min; range 5-9 spikes/min. The cells were rarely active when the animal was quiescent (1.45 +/- 0.91 spikes/min; range 0-2 spikes/min). 4. In vivo recorded CGC firing was phase locked to the feeding movements of the animal, with spikes occurring just before the opening of the mouth, during the protraction phase of the feeding cycle. 5. Evoking firing rates on the CGCs in the isolated preparation similar to those seen in vivo during rasping movements (7-20 spikes/min) did not elicit a fictive feeding pattern in an inactive preparation. Neither did bath application of 10(-9) M serotonin (5-HT; the transmitter of the CGCs). 6. To allow the modulatory role of the CGCs to be examined during patterned activity, the fictive feeding pattern was evoked in the isolated preparation by injecting depolarizing current into a modulatory neuron, the slow oscillator (SO). 7. The tonic firing activity of the CGCs was accurately maintained by current injection in the isolated preparation at rates equivalent to that occurring during feeding, locomotion, and quiescence in the intact snail. This was possible where the CGCs became silent after 1-2 h. Only when the CGCs activity was maintained at a rate (approximately 15 spikes/min) similar to that occurring during rasping, was the SO able to drive a full, high-frequency fictive feeding pattern (15-20 cycles/min). At lower rates of CGC firing, the SO-driven rhythm was either of lower frequency or no rhythm occurred at all (CGCs silent). 8. In many isolated preparations (80%) the CGCs remained active, and it was difficult to maintain specific levels of tonic activity by current injection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Nicotine, a major active component of tobacco smoke, has been shown to modulate the inflammatory response via both peripheral and central nervous system pathways. Recently we found that spinal intrathecal administration of nicotine dose-dependently inhibits bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation (BK-induced PE) in the knee joint of the rat and that the dose-response curve for the inhibition of BK-induced PE by intrathecal nicotine is shifted to the left, by six orders of magnitude, after surgical interventions in the abdominal cavity, which might have interrupted visceral afferents to the neuraxis. Therefore we focused, in this study, on the contribution of the vagal afferents to depression of BK-induced PE by intrathecal nicotine. Furthermore, the effect of acute spinalization at the level C6-C8 was investigated. The hypothesis was that impulse activity in vagal afferents has a pronounced inhibitory effect on the modulation of BK-induced PE by intrathecal nicotine and that spinal pathways are important in mediating this effect. 2. Chronic subdiaphragmatic vagotomy and elimination of vagal afferents, by neonatal capsaicin treatment or by application of kainic acid to the nodose ganglia, enhanced the potency of intrathecal nicotine depression of BK-induced PE, by six to seven orders of magnitude when compared with the control. 3. Acute subdiaphragmatic vagotomy enhanced the potency of intrathecal nicotine-induced depression of BK-induced PE (without changing its maximum effect), by about three to four orders of magnitude when compared with the sham-operated (control) animals (with intact vagus nerves).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We compared the development of enkephalin (Enk) expression in normal rats and rats in which target contact was transiently disrupted with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). During the first 3 postnatal weeks, there was a striking increase in Enk immunoreactivity (-IR) in superior cervical ganglia (SCG) assayed by radioimmunoassay (RIA). This increase was correlated with the appearance of Enk-IR in postganglionic neurons. In the caudal region of the SCG, the proportion of Enk-IR neurons and their immunoreactivity increased until one-third of the neurons possessed Enk-IR between postnatal days (P) 14 and 21. After P21, the number of Enk-IR neurons and their immunofluorescence decreased. By 6 weeks, only occasional neurons possessed moderate Enk-IR. The increases in Enk-IR were correlated with increased ganglionic proenkephalin A mRNA detected by in situ hybridization. The decrease in IR after P21 was not, however, paralleled by a comparable decrease in proenkephalin A mRNA. To determine whether interactions between SCG neurons and their target tissues influence Enk expression, we disrupted them by treating neonatal rats with a single dose of 6-OHDA at P0. This treatment transiently reduced sympathetic fiber density in the submandibular gland, one target of Enk-IR neurons, over 90%. Two weeks later, the fiber density in glands of treated animals was not different from control. Following 6-OHDA, the concentration of Enk-IR in SCG extracts and the number of Enk-IR neurons and their immunofluorescence intensity failed to increase. SCG from treated rats also contained fewer neurons with proenkephalin A mRNA. In contrast, the content of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and the proportion of NPY-IR neurons were not decreased by 6-OHDA treatment. Our results indicate that the developmental history of Enk expression differs from that of other neuropeptides in rat sympathetic ganglia, suggesting that distinct mechanisms regulate the expression of individual neuropeptides. Further, they provide evidence that target contact during a critical period is important for the induction of Enk.
The goal of this study was to establish a structural basis for thalamic and visceral integration. We sought to define neural networks that convey visceral or integrated environmental stimuli to the diffuse thalamocortical relay system and that link periodic changes in forebrain and visceral reflex function. Our experiments were designed to determine whether afferents to the midline-intralaminar thalamic nuclei (MIT) issue collaterals to the general viscerosensory division of the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS). Experiments were performed on anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats. Two tracers, FluoroGold and rhodamine latex microbeads, were stereotaxically centered on the MIT and NTS, respectively, in each animal. Subsets of midline thalamic afferents were identified that issue collaterals to the solitary complex. In the cerebral cortex, dually labeled soma were detected in layer V of the insular and infralimbic areas. In the subcortical forebrain, the lateral septal nucleus, anterolateral area of the bed nuclei of stria terminalis, medial preoptic nucleus, medial and central amygdaloid nuclei, caudal lateral hypothalamic area, supramammillary nucleus, and parvicellular division of the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus constitute other newly identified sources of collateral projection. In the midbrain and pons, collateral projection cells were observed in the periaqueductal gray, dorsal raphe nucleus, mesencephalic reticular formation, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, lateral and medial parabrachial nuclei, and noradrenergic A5 area. In the lateral parabrachial nucleus, dually labeled neurons were detected in the dorsal-lateral division. In the medulla, collaterals are derived from cells in the rostral and caudal ventrolateral reticular formation and parapyramidal area. Dually labeled cells were also found in the cerebellar fastigial nucleus. Collaterals may coordinate changes in visceral reflex excitability and thalamocortical rhythms during phases of sleep-wake cycle and behavioral expression.
Certain glial cells of the hypothalamus have been implicated in the neuroendocrine control of reproductive development. Hypothalamic astrocytes appear to exert this function via a cell-cell interactive mechanism that involves the production of transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha), a polypeptide able to affect both glial and neuronal functions in the CNS. In the hypothalamus, TGF alpha stimulates neuronal secretion of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), the neuropeptide controlling sexual development, via activation of epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFR). Since astrocytes but not LHRH neurons express EGFR, it has been postulated that the stimulatory effect of TGF alpha on LHRH release is not exerted directly on LHRH neurons, but rather via glial intermediacy. The present experiments were undertaken to define whether TGF alpha is able to exert paracrine/autocrine effects on isolated hypothalamic astrocytes, and to determine if estradiol-previously shown to increase TGF alpha mRNA levels in the hypothalamus of immature animals--can act directly on hypothalamic astrocytes to upregulate TGF alpha gene expression. Treatment with either TGF alpha or its structural homolog, epidermal growth factor (EGF), increased TGF alpha mRNA levels within 8 hr of exposure; the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) was similarly effective. Blockade of EGFR with either tyrphostin RG-50864, an inhibitor of tyrosine kinase activity, or a monoclonal antibody that prevents ligand binding abolished the upregulatory effect of TGF alpha on TGF alpha mRNA levels. In contrast to hypothalamic astrocytes, cerebellar astrocytes did not respond to either TGF alpha or EGF with changes in TGF alpha mRNA abundance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Amphetamine is a psychostimulant drug of abuse that can produce long-lived changes in behavior including sensitization and dependence. The neural substrates of these drug effects remain unknown, but based on their prolonged time course, we hypothesize that they involve drug-induced alterations in gene expression. It has recently been demonstrated that amphetamine regulates the expression of several genes, including c-fos, via dopamine D1 receptors in rat striatum. Here we report that amphetamine induces phosphorylation of transcription factor cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) in rat striatum in vivo and that dopamine D1 receptor stimulation induces phosphorylation of CREB within specific complexes bound to cAMP regulatory elements. In addition, we show by antisense injection that CREB is necessary for c-fos induction by amphetamine in vivo. Since CREB has been implicated in the activation of a number of immediate-early genes as well as several neuropeptide genes, CREB phosphorylation may be an important early nuclear event mediating long-term consequences of amphetamine administration.
The effects of voltage-dependent Ca channel (VDCC) antagonists on synaptic transmission were investigated at CA3-CA1 synapses of guinea pig hippocampal slices. After selectively loading presynaptic structures in area CA1 with the calcium indicator fura-2, we simultaneously recorded a presynaptic calcium transient ([Ca]t) and the corresponding field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) evoked by a single stimulus given to the Schaffer collateral-commissural (SCC) pathway. Application of nifedipine did not reduce either the [Ca]t of the fEPSP, suggesting that nifedipine-sensitive Ca channels do not significantly contribute to evoked synaptic transmission at low stimulation frequency. Application of omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTX) or omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-Aga-IVA) dose-dependently blocked both the [Ca]t and the fEPSP. The time course of the block of the [Ca]t was similar to that of the fEPSP. About 40% of the total [Ca]t was omega-CgTX sensitive, and more than 20% was omega-Aga-IVA sensitive. Combined application of these two blockers showed no overlap of the omega-CgTX-sensitive with the omega-Aga-IVA-sensitive [Ca]t. These results suggest that there are at least two types of presynaptic VDCCs at CA3-CA1 synapses of the hippocampus: omega-CgTX-sensitive and omega-Aga-IVA-sensitive Ca channels. Our results also suggest that these two types of Ca channels are colocalized at a single presynaptic terminal. During application of omega-CgTX or omega-Aga-IVA, the initial slope of the fEPSP varied approximately as the fourth power of the amplitude of the [Ca]t, suggesting that omega-CgTX-sensitive and omega-Aga-IVA-sensitive Ca channels have about equal efficacy in triggering transmitter release. These results in combination with similar findings at the squid giant synapse suggest that the nonlinear relationship between transmitter release and the Ca influx is well conserved from the molluscan to the mammalian nervous system.
Application of low concentrations (pM-nM) of NGF to mouse dorsal root ganglion (DRG)-spinal cord explants in long-term organotypic cultures rapidly prolongs the duration of the Ca(2+)-dependent component of the action potential (APD) in a major subset of DRG neurons that were previously shown to have characteristic responsiveness to exogenous opioids. These NGF-elicited excitatory modulating effects are blocked by pretreatment of the DRG neurons with monoclonal antibodies to rodent NGF receptors. NGF-induced APD prolongation is also prevented by the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone and the specific kappa-opioid antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (but not by specific mu- and delta-opioid antagonists). The results suggest that NGF stimulates the release of endogenous opioids (e.g., dynorphin) from DRG neurons and that prolongation of the APD occurs secondarily by activation of excitatory kappa-opioid receptor functions on these same or nearby cells. NGF-induced release of small quantities of opioids by DRG neurons would be expected to prolong the APD in view of the remarkable sensitivity of these neurons to the excitatory effects of extremely low (fM-nM) concentrations of exogenous opioid agonists. NGF-induced APD prolongation is blocked by the same cholera toxin A or B subunit treatments previously shown to block Gs coupling and GM1 ganglioside regulation of excitatory opioid receptors, respectively. These in vitro studies suggest that excitatory opioid receptor-mediated functions may play a role in mediating some types of rapid NGF-induced hyperalgesic and other physiologic effects on the nervous system.
A new approach was developed to determine quantitatively the fraction of current carried by Ca2+ through an ion channel under physiological conditions. This approach entails the simultaneous measurement of membrane current and intracellular Ca2+ for single cells. Whole-cell patch-clamp techniques were used to measure current, and intracellular Ca2+ was monitored with the fluorescent indicator fura-2. To obtain a quantitative measure of the fraction of current carried by Ca2+, a cell-by-cell calibration method was devised to account for differences among cells in such factors as cellular volume and Ca2+ buffering. The method was used to evaluate the Ca2+ flux through muscle and neuronal nicotinic ACh receptors (nAChRs). In a solution containing 2.5 mM Ca2+ at a holding potential of -50 mV, Ca2+ carries 2.0% of the inward current through muscle nAChRs from BC3H1 cells and 4.1% of the inward current through neuronal nAChRs from adrenal chromaffin cells. The Ca2+ flux through neuronal nAChRs of adrenal chromaffin cells is insensitive to alpha-bungarotoxin. The influx of Ca2+ is voltage dependent, and because of the Ca2+ concentration difference across the cellular membrane, there is Ca2+ influx into the cell even when there is a large net outward current. At both muscle and neuronal cholinergic synapses, activity-dependent Ca2+ influx through nicotinic receptors produces intracellular signals that may have important roles in synaptic development, maintenance, and plasticity.
Amyloid beta/A4 protein precursor (APP) is secreted into medium by most cultured cells and can function as an autocrine factor. To study the biological function of secreted forms of APP (sAPP) on neurons, we used a clonal CNS neuronal line, B103, which does not synthesize detectable levels of APP. B103 cells transfected with APP construct developed neurites faster than the parent B103 cells when plated in a serum-free defined medium. Neurite outgrowth of B103 cells was promoted by the conditioned medium of APP-695-over-producing cells or by the bacteria-produced sAPP-695 (named KB75). A series of peptides having sequences between Ala-319 and Met-335 of APP-695 also stimulated neurite outgrowth of B103 cells. The sequence of five amino acids, RERMS (APP 328-332), within this stretch of sequence, was the shortest active peptide, although the concentration required for the neuritotropic activity was higher than that of KB75. Binding assay using 125I-labeled APP 17-mer peptide corresponding to Ala-319 to Met-335 of APP-695 as a ligand demonstrated specific and saturable cell-surface binding sites. The predicted KD value was 20 +/- 5 nM and the Bmax value was 80 +/- 8 fmol/10(6) cells. The binding could be displaced with KB75. A 17-mer peptide with reverse sequence neither induced neurite outgrowth nor competed for the binding. A bacteria-produced sAPP fragment lacking the active 17-mer sequence (named KB75 delta) did not compete with 125I-labeled 17-mer for binding or stimulate neurite extension. A peptide of sequence RMSQ (APP 330-333), which partially overlaps the active sequence RERMS, could block the neuritotropic effects of both KB75 and the 17-mer at higher concentrations. APP 17-mer was also found to induce the accumulation of inositol polyphosphates, suggesting that the APP 17-mer effects involve activation of inositol phospholipid signal transduction systems. These data indicate that sAPP induces neurite extension through cell-surface binding and that the domain containing the RERMS sequence (APP 328-332) represents the active site responsible for this function.
We studied the relationship between the receptive fields of directionally selective retinal ganglion cells and the dendritic arbors of the same cells. The cells were recorded from extracellularly under visual control and then injected with Lucifer yellow. The arbor of Lucifer-filled dendrites could then be directly compared with the properties of the receptive field. A large population of on-off directionally selective cells was injected and drawn. The directionally selective ganglion cells had bistratified receptive fields similar to those previously described by others in the central retina. In the periphery, the dendritic fields became larger, rounder, and sparser than centrally. The diameters of the dendrites were measured in living or lightly fixed retinas; they were found to be somewhat larger than previously estimated by electron microscopy. The local structure of the dendritic arbor bore no obvious relation to the directional properties of the cell. The receptive fields of most cells were centered symmetrically around their dendritic fields. For about 10% of the cells, however, the receptive field was displaced. The displacement was always toward the preferred direction, relative to the dendritic field. The meaning of these shifts is not clear. In both cases, the diameter of the receptive field exceeded the diameter of the dendritic field only slightly; in our sample, the diameters of the receptive fields averaged 6% larger than the dendritic fields. This means that the neurons afferent to the directionally selective ganglion cells must either have narrow dendritic fields or, if they are wide spreading, have dendrites that do not conduct effectively along their length. It also means that the observed spread of neurobiotin between DS ganglion cells (Vaney, 1991) must be due to a very few gap junctions, or to some mechanism other than a gap junction.
In a remarkably brief period of time, NO and CO have been recognized as putative neurotransmitters. These two novel messenger molecules have greatly expanded the criteria for candidacy of a chemical for the status of neurotransmitter and our notions about how synaptic transmission takes place. The involvement of NO and CO in several important aspects of neuronal function suggests that agents affecting the synthesis, transactions, and disposition of these gases are bound to have clinical relevance.
Serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA) are established neurotransmitters in the brain. This study examined whether, in conscious, free-moving rats, increased concentrations of endogenous 5-HT in extracellular fluid of the corpus striatum affect local release of endogenous DA. Administration of the 5-HT reuptake blocker alaproclate via a microdialysis probe increased striatal dialysate levels of DA and its metabolites dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid as well as levels of 5-HT and the 5-HT metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. Whereas DA reuptake blockade with GBR-12909 did not prevent these effects of alaproclate, serotonergic ablation by i.c.v. administration of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine markedly decreased basal levels of 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and abolished the effects of alaproclate on dialysate levels of DA, 5-HT and their metabolites. The results are consistent with a stimulatory action of endogenous 5-HT on striatal DA release in conscious animals.
1. This study evaluated the influence of focal electrical and chemical microstimulation in the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) on the excitability of putative vasopressin and oxytocin neurones recorded in the supraoptic nucleus of urethane- or pentobarbitone-anaesthetized rats. 2. In vasopressin neurones, single 1 Hz stimulation reduced the excitability of 120/139 cells. Trains of repetitive 5-30 Hz stimulation, or microinfusion of glutamate into the MnPO, similarly induced a cessation in spontaneous phasic or continuous firing in 17/18 and 17/20 vasopressin neurones, respectively. In 20/21 cells, locally applied bicuculline (100 microM) attenuated MnPO-evoked depressant responses whereas strychnine (100 microM) and timolol (20 microM) were without effect on 5/5 vasopressin neurones. In three cells, bicuculline applications were associated with marked increases in MnPO-evoked excitations. 3. In oxytocin neurones, single-pulse (1 Hz) electrical stimulation in MnPO evoked an increase in the excitability in 51/59 cells. However, in 6/7 oxytocin cells tested, glutamate microinfusions into MnPO induced prolonged suppression in firing. During trains of stimuli (5-30 Hz), 26/44 cells displayed an initial increase in firing associated with the first few impulses but this was then replaced by suppression of activity; another ten cells displayed excitation alone, and eight cells demonstrated only suppression. The depressant responses evoked during trains of MnPO stimulation were blocked by 100 microM bicuculline (6/6 cells tested) whereas strychnine was ineffective (2/2 cells tested). 4. These results suggest that the MnPO provides a mainly depressant influence on supraoptic vasopressin and oxytocin neurones, perhaps through the activation of postsynaptic GABAA receptors.
To localize the epitopes recognized by monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) specific for the S1 subunit of the murine coronavirus JHMV spike protein, we have expressed S1 proteins with different deletions from the C terminus of S1. S1utt is composed of the entire 769-amino-acid (aa) S1 protein; S1NM, S1N, S1n(330), and S1n(220) are deletion mutants with 594, 453, 330, and 220 aa from the N terminus of the S1 protein. The expressed S1 deletion mutant proteins were examined for reactivities to a panel of MAbs. All MAbs classified in groups A and B, those reactive to most mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) strains and those specific for isolate JHMV, respectively, recognized S1N(330) and the larger S1 deletion mutants but failed to react with S1N(220). MAbs in group C, specific for the larger S protein of JHMV, reacted only with the S1utt protein without any deletion. These results indicated that the domain composed of the N-terminal 330 aa comprised the cluster of conformational epitopes recognized by MAbs in groups A and B. It was also shown that the epitopes of MAbs in group C were not restricted to the region missing in the smaller S protein. These results together with the fact that all MAbs in group B retained high neutralizing activity suggested the possibility that the N-terminal 330 aa are responsible for binding to the MHV-specific receptors. In investigate this possibility, we expressed the receptor protein and examined the binding of each S1 deletion mutant to the receptor. It was demonstrated that the S1N(330) protein as well as other S1 deletion mutants larger than S1N(330) bound to the receptor. These results indicated that a domain composed of 330 aa at the N terminus of the S1 protein is responsible for binding to the MHV-specific receptor.

A new thermal system using constant heating power for continuous measurement of cerebral perfusion is presented. It is designed and implemented for optimal perfusion sensitivity and dynamic response based on heat-transfer analysis of perfused brain tissue with thermistors on the cortical surface. Two matched thermistors are used, one to serve as a perfusion sensor and the other to compensate for the base-line temperature changes. To improve the signal-to-noise ratio of the measurement system, lock-in amplifiers are used to minimise long-term drift and low-frequency noise. Errors in the measurement caused by electrical and thermal fluctuations are tested and analysed. In vitro tests show that the measurement accuracy of temperature change is better than 10(-3) degrees C, and the temperature resolution is even greater. In vivo evaluation confirms that the system is responsive to cerebral perfusion changes associated with sudden changes in mean arterial blood pressure caused by bolus injection of norepinephrine, blood withdrawal and blood infusion. The dynamic response of the system is sufficient to detect the autoregulatory perfusion changes in response to arterial blood pressure alteration and the oscillations of cerebral blood flow.
Light and electron microscopic observation showed two types of neuronal immunostaining for basic fibroblast growth factor in the hippocampal CA2 subfield, where the densest immunoreactive neurons were localized in the brain. One neuronal type showed intense nuclear (eu- and heterochromatin) immunostaining but weak cytoplasmic immunostaining (N-type), and the other showed intense cytoplasmic but no or only faint nuclear immunoreactivity (C-type). The N-type also showed weak immunoreactivity in the perinuclear rough endoplasmic reticulum and contained bFGF mRNA as observed by in situ hybridization histochemistry, showed that this type can produces the bFGF protein. The N-type localized exclusively in the CA2 subfield. The C-type showed strong immunoreactivity on the rER, free ribosomes, and Golgi apparatus, although no clear evidence for bFGF production was observed. The multivesicular bodies, a pathway of endocytosis in hippocampal neurons showed apparent immunoreactivity under EM observation of both of types neurons (Parton et al. J. Cell Biol. 119: 123-137, 1992) suggesting a receptor-mediated type of incorporation of the bFGF.
Quantitative receptor autoradiography was used to measure the densities of binding sites for the &quot;peripheral-type&quot; benzodiazepine receptor ligand 3H-PK11195 in regions of the rat brain 1, 3, 7 and 28 days following portacaval anastomosis (PCA) and in sham-operated control animals. The results demonstrate that densities of 3H-PK11195 binding sites were significantly increased in the cerebral cortex (by 40%, p &lt; 0.05) as early as 24 hours following PCA. In the thalamus significant increases in densities of 3H-PK11195 binding sites were seen 3 days after PCA, whereas in brain regions such as the striatum and cerebellum, significant increases in 3H-PK11195 binding sites were not evident until 7 days following PCA. By 28 days following PCA increased densities of 3H-PK11195 binding sites were well established and widespread throughout the brain. Previous studies demonstrate early increases of brain ammonia following PCA. PTBRs or their endogenous ligands could play an important role in the early astrocytic response (mitochondrial proliferation, swelling) to ammonia following PCA.
5-Fluoromethylornithine (5FMOrn) is a selective inactivator of ornithine aminotransferase. Administration of this compound to rodents causes a prominent increase of tissue ornithine concentrations, and prevents the neurological consequences of acute ammonia intoxication. However, long-term treatment with 5FMOrn of rats with portacaval shunts did not result in decreased circulating ammonia concentrations, nor did it prevent other pathologic manifestations of shunting. The sensitivity to ammonia intoxication of rats with portacaval shunts was also unaffected by pretreatment with 5FMOrn, although liver ornithine concentrations were significantly elevated; specific activities of urea cycle enzymes were slightly higher in portacaval shunted compared to sham-operated controls following 5-FMOrn treatment. Administration of 5FMOrn dramatically elevated urinary excretion of several amino acids in rats with portacaval shunts, but not in sham-operated animals, suggesting that the reabsorption of amino acids from the glomerular filtrate may be impaired in shunted rats. These results suggest that, in contrast to acute hyperammonemic syndromes, 5-FMOrn may be of limited therapeutic value in chronic hyperammonemia syndromes in which there is significant portal-systemic shunting.
Adult male Long-Evans rats were given 6 mg/kg trimethyltin (TMT). Rats were killed 1, 3, 7, 14, 21, 35, or 60 d later. An untreated control group was included. Brain sections were processed using film autoradiography to visualize in the hippocampus either total muscarinic receptor binding ([3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate; [3H]QNB), or M1 receptors ([3H]pirenzepine; [3H]PZ), or M2 receptors ([3H]oxotremorine-M; [3H]OXO-M). A reduction in [3H]QNB binding was found in CA1 and CA3c 7 d after TMT, but not in CA3a, b, or the dentate gyrus. [3H]PZ binding was decreased throughout Ammon's horn by 14 d after treatment. [3H]OXO-M binding decreased 1 d after exposure in CA1 and in all subfields of Ammon's horn by d 3. Neither [3H]PZ or [3H]OXO-M binding decreased in the dentate gyrus of TMT-treated rat at any time point. The temporal patterns of receptor loss may be explicable by reference to timing of fiber and cell body degeneration reported in previous studies and the regional differences may account for discrepancies between reports of either substantial decreases or no loss in hippocampal muscarinic receptors after TMT exposure.
Trimethyltin (TMT) destroys specific subfields of the hippocampus in the rat. TMT also increases choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in CA1 of Ammon's horn and the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. This observation suggests that axonal sprouting occurs in the cholinergic septohippocampal system in response to TMT. However, neither does-response nor time course data are available for the effects of TMT on this enzyme. The effects of three dose levels of TMT on ChAT activity in CA1 and the dentate gyrus were determined in Experiment 1 and ChAT activity in these two areas was measured at six time points following exposure to TMT in Experiment 2. Only the highest dose of TMT (6 mg/kg) significantly increased ChAT activity. ChAT activity in the dentate gyrus increased significantly by 3 d after administration and continued to increase until 21 d after exposure. A significant increase was not observed in CA1 until 7 d after exposure to TMT. Asymptotic levels were still reached at d 21. These results indicate a steep dose-response curve for TMT-induced changes in ChAT activity in the hippocampal formation and that this marker of cholinergic activity is more sensitive to perturbation by TMT in the dentate gyrus than Ammon's horn.
Chronic nicotine exposure in tobacco smokers or experimental animals is known to cause an increase in brain binding sites for nicotine. It has been proposed that this is an adaptive response of neurons to accumulation of chronically desensitized receptors. Acetylcholine receptors of the same (alpha 4)2(beta 2)3 subunit composition as the predominant subtype of brain nicotinic receptors with high affinity for nicotine have been expressed in Xenopus oocytes and in a permanently transfected fibroblast cell line. Chronic exposure of these cells to nicotine or another agonist is shown to result in an increase in receptor amount, indicating that nicotine-induced up-regulation reflects properties of the alpha 4 beta 2 receptor protein, rather than being an adaptive response unique to the neurons in which these receptors are normally expressed. The nicotine concentration dependence, time course, and extent of receptor up-regulation are similar to those reported for receptors in brain. Up-regulation does not appear to require ion flow through the ion channel, because it is also caused by mecamylamine, which blocks the ion channel, and because after prolonged exposure to nicotine most receptors become permanently unable to open their channels in response to nicotine binding. The noncompetitive antagonist mecamylamine blocks open channels more effectively, and so it is more effective at blocking channels in the presence of nicotine. Mecamylamine and nicotine are also synergistic in causing receptor up-regulation. Ligands that cause up-regulation appear to induce a conformation of the receptor that is removed from the surface and degraded more slowly.
It is controversial if early onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD) (onset at &lt; 41 years of age) is Parkinson's disease (PD) occurring at a younger age or a different disease. This controversy is due to some clinical and pathological differences between EOPD and PD. Within EOPD, there appear to be two groups namely: young onset Parkinson's disease (YOPD), with onset between 21 and 40 years, and juvenile parkinsonism (JP), with onset at &lt; 20 years. The two major clinical differences between these groups are a higher familial occurrence of PD and dystonia in JP. In this study, we determine if the two groups have the classical features of PD, namely rest tremors, rigidity, bradykinesia, and postural instability, and have a meaningful response to levodopa. Furthermore, we compare their other clinical features, autonomic and cognitive functions, and levels of CSF monoamine metabolites to determine differences between these groups. We observe that all YOPD (100%) and JP (85%) patients had rest tremors. Most of these patients also had a meaningful response to levodopa (YOPD: 72%; JP: 100%). The prevalence of family history of PD was similar, whereas dystonia was more frequent in JP (43%) compared to YOPD (9%). Autonomic symptoms were twice as common in JP (42%) compared to YOPD (17%). However, bedside autonomic functions were abnormal in similar proportions and, like in PD, suggest involvement of parasympathetic nervous system. Cognitive dysfunction does occur but with no difference in severity between the two groups. The difference in number of patients between YOPD and JP groups makes statistical comparison of the occurrence of clinical features like dystonia and autonomic dysfunction difficult.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Visual acuity depends on the fine-grained neural image set by the foveal cone mosaic. To preserve this spatial detail, cones transmit through non-divergent pathways: cone--&gt;midget bipolar cell--&gt;midget ganglion cell. Adequate gain must be established along each pathway; crosstalk and sources of variation between pathways must be minimized. These requirements raise fundamental questions regarding the synaptic connections: (1) how many synapses from bipolar to ganglion cell transmit a cone signal and with what degree of crosstalk between adjacent pathways; (2) how accurately these connections are reproduced across the mosaic; and (3) whether the midget circuits for middle (M) and long (L) wavelength sensitive cones are the same. We report here that the midget ganglion cell collects without crosstalk either 28 +/- 4 or 47 +/- 3 midget bipolar synapses. Two cone types are defined by this difference; being about equal in number and distributing randomly in small clusters of like type, they are probably M and L.
Rat beta(1-42) peptide (beta/A4) or phosphate buffered saline (PBS) was bilaterally injected into the hippocampus (HIP) or the lateral ventricle (ICV) of 3-month-old Fischer-344 rats. Fifteen months later, the animal's ability to learn a spatial memory task was tested using the Morris water maze. Acquisition of the task was impaired by the bilateral injection of either peptide or PBS into the hippocampus. Hippocampal-injected animals showed an increased average latency to find the platform by approximately 6 s (p &lt; 0.05). However, injection of rat beta-peptide into the hippocampus or lateral ventricles failed to induce behavioral impairment when compared to vehicle injected controls. Retention of this task was not significantly impaired in any group. The spatial acuity test, a trial without the platform, revealed that both groups of animals that received hippocampal injections were impaired, spending 23% less time in the target quadrant compared to ICV-injected animals (p &lt; 0.005). Hippocampal ChAT activity was decreased in beta/A4-injected animals but not significantly (p &lt; 0.06). beta/A4-immunoreactivity was detected at the bottom of the needle track and the adjacent parenchyma of beta/A4 hippocampal-injected animals after 16 months. However, long-term in vivo deposition of beta/A4 in both regions did not result in an upregulation of hippocampal amyloid precursor protein (APP) expression and there was no qualitative neuronal loss in the hippocampus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The distribution of glutamate AMPA receptors in the synaptosomal and microsomal fractions of neonatal and adult rat telencephalon was studied by determining the saturation kinetics at equilibrium of 3H-AMPA and 3H-CNQX binding. At both ages, synaptosomal preparations exhibited two populations of 3H-AMPA binding sites with a small number of high affinity sites and a large number of low affinity sites. 3H-AMPA binding to microsomal preparations from both neonatal and adult rat telencephalon exhibited a much higher proportion of high affinity relative to low affinity sites. 3H-CNQX binding to the same fractions did not parallel 3H-AMPA binding, but was correlated with the low affinity 3H-AMPA binding and with a marker of plasma membranes. The results suggest that nonsynaptic glutamate/AMPA receptors have a high affinity for agonist and become low affinity when inserted into postsynaptic membranes and that 3H-CNQX binds synaptic but not nonsynaptic glutamate/AMPA receptors with high affinity.
Differentiating granule cells develop survival requirements in vitro which can be met by treatment with high K+ or excitatory amino acids. Promotion of cell survival by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or kainate has already been established and here we report that treatment of the cells with alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) or quisqualate (QA) also leads to cell rescue. In comparison with the effect of NMDA, the influence of AMPA/QA is small, resulting in a 20-30% increase in cell survival, with a peak at a very narrow concentration range (0.5-2.0 microM QA and 5-10 microM AMPA). The effect is exclusive to AMPA receptor stimulation, since stimulation of metabotropic glutamate receptors with (1S3R)-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD) has no effect. Furthermore, AMPA/QA rescue of cells is blocked by ionotropic non-NMDA receptor antagonists, 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX) and 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzoquinoxaline (NBQX). In addition, both nifedipine and dizolcipline (MK-801) interfered with the cell survival promoting effect of AMPA, suggesting that the influence of AMPA is mediated via calcium influx involving both depolarization-activated voltage sensitive calcium channels and NMDA receptors stimulated as a result of AMPA-induced release of glutamate. Possible reasons for the small cell survival promoting effect of AMPA/QA compared with the influence of high K+ or NMDA are discussed.
We examined the dose response, time course and reversibility of the effect of methyl 2-tetradecylglycidate (McN-3716, methyl palmoxirate or MEP), an inhibitor of beta-oxidation of fatty acids, on incorporation of radiolabeled palmitic acid ([U-14C]PA) from plasma into brain lipids of awake rats. MEP (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) or vehicle was administered intravenously from 10 min to 72 hr prior to infusion of [U-14C]PA. Two hr pretreatment with MEP (0.1 to 10 mg/kg) increased brain organic radioactivity 1.2 to 1.8 fold and decreased brain aqueous radioactivity by 1.2 to 3.0 fold when compared to control values. At 10 mg/kg, MEP significantly increased brain organic fraction from 40% in controls to 85%, 30 min to 6 hr pretreatment, and resulted in a redistribution of the radiolabeled fatty acid toward triacylglycerol. MEP changed the lipid/aqueous brain ratio of incorporated [U-14C]PA from 0.67 to 5.7. The incorporation rate coefficient, k*, was significantly increased by MEP (10 mg/kg) at 2 hr (31%), 4 hr (59%) and 6 hr (34%). All effects were reversed by 72 hr, consistent with a half-life of approximately 2 days for carnitine palmitoyl transferase I. These results indicate that intravenous MEP may be used with [1-11C]palmitic acid for studying brain lipid metabolism in vivo by positron emission tomography, as it significantly reduces the large unincorporated aqueous fraction that would result in high background radioactivity.
Inhibitory effects of calcium antagonists, efonidipine (NZ-105), nicardipine, nifedipine, nimodipine and flunarizine, on mitochondrial swelling induced by lipid peroxidation or arachidonic acid in the rat brain in vitro were investigated. Mitochondrial swelling and lipid peroxidation induced by FeSO4 and ascorbic acid system showed a close and significant relationship. Mitochondrial swelling and lipid peroxidation induced by FeSO4 and ascorbic acid were inhibited by all of calcium antagonists tested. The order of inhibition was: flunarizine &gt; nicardipine &gt; efonidipine &gt; nimodipine &gt; nifedipine. This result suggests that calcium antagonists tested have anti-peroxidant activities resulting in protection of mitochondrial membrane damage and that each moiety of these structures would play an important role in appearance of anti-peroxidant activities. Furthermore, flunarizine and efonidipine inhibited mitochondrial swelling induced by arachidonic acid, which is not associated with lipid peroxidation. In contrast, nicardipine, nifedipine, and nimodipine did not inhibited this swelling. It is possible that flunarizine and efonidipine could directly interact with mitochondrial membrane. In conclusion, it is capable that calcium antagonists tested may protect from the membrane damage induced by lipid peroxidation and that flunarizine and efonidipine could stabilize the membrane, which is attributed to a direct interaction with the membrane.
Carbamazepine (25 mg/kg body weight) was administered intraperitoneally to adult male Wistar rats for 45 days and norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) levels were simultaneously assayed in discrete brain regions by high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method. Experimental rats displayed no behavioral abnormalities. Body and brain weights were not significantly different from control group of rats. After exposure it was observed that norepinephrine levels were elevated in motor cortex (P &lt; 0.01) and cerebellum (P &lt; 0.05), while dopamine levels were decreased in these two regions (P &lt; 0.001, P &lt; 0.05). However, dopamine levels were increased in hippocampus (P &lt; 0.01). Serotonin levels were significantly decreased in motor cortex (P &lt; 0.001) and hypothalamus (P &lt; 0.001) but increased in striatum-accumbens (P &lt; 0.001) and brainstem (P &lt; 0.001). These results suggest that carbamazepine may mediate its anticonvulsant effect by differential alterations of monoamine levels in discrete brain regions particularly in motor cortex and cerebellum.
The mutation of N-CAM in mice produces a phenotype dominated by an undersized olfactory bulb and accumulation of precursors in the subependymal layer. We demonstrate here that this defect can be duplicated by injection of an enzyme that specifically destroys the polysialic acid (PSA) moiety associated with N-CAM. Studies of BrdU-labeled and pyknotic cells suggest that this defect reflects a decrease in the rostral migration of olfactory precursors and not a change in the proliferation or rate of death of these cells. In addition to their ectopic location, these cells had fewer growth cone-like processes oriented along the migration route. In contrast to tangential movement, radial migration of granule cells in the olfactory bulb was not affected by loss of PSA. These results support the proposed role for PSA in cell translocation, discriminate between different mechanisms of cell migration, and provide insight as to the nature of the N-CAM mutant phenotype.
In the adult avian forebrain, neurons continue to be produced in the subependymal zone (SZ), from which they migrate upon radial fibers. To identify ligands regulating this process, we studied N-cadherin and Ng-CAM/8D9 expression in HVC, a neurogenic region of the canary neostriatum. N-cadherin was relatively restricted to the SZ and was expressed by dividing, [3H]thymidine-labeled precursor cells. However, cellular N-cadherin was down-regulated prior to neuronal migration from the SZ. Addition of anti-N-cadherin Fab hastened neuronal migration from adult SZ explants, without influencing neuronal number. Unlike N-cadherin, Ng-CAM/8D9 was expressed by migrating neurons. Anti-8D9 Fab inhibited neuronal migration upon cultured ependymoglia, which did not express Ng-CAM/8D9. Thus, the departure of new neurons from the adult SZ may require their suppression of N-cadherin, whereas their subsequent migration and survival may depend upon neuronal expression of Ng-CAM/8D9 and its interaction with a heterophilic radial cell receptor.
Changes in intracellular levels of free [Ca2+]i were monitored in cell suspensions and either single cells or cell clusters of the rat pancreatic tumour cell line AR42J grown on cover slips. Increases in free [Ca2+]i were seen when the bathing medium contained cholecystokinin octapeptide sulphated (CCK) or CCKB receptor agonists. Responses to CCK agonists were repeatable and reversed on washout. The responses to cholecystokinin and pentagastrin could be blocked by selective CCKB receptor antagonists but not a CCKA receptor antagonist. Depleting internal Ca2+ stores with thapsigargin blocked the response to pentagastrin suggesting that the response was mediated by Ca2+ release from internal stores. The rapid run down of the pentagastrin response in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ shows that replenishment of internal stores by extracellular Ca2+ is important in maintaining the CCK response.
The occurrence of multiple proteoglycan species is a characteristic of the brain. The structural features of individually characterized proteoglycans in the brain are first introduced in brief, then some examples are shown that suggest a relationship between multiple proteoglycans and the many distinct cell types and neural circuits in the brain. Typical experiments demonstrated the neuronal-activity-dependent expression of neural proteoglycans during the critical developmental period of some functional systems such as the visual and vibrissal barrel systems. In addition, the binding properties of neural proteoglycans to other cell surface molecules are discussed in conjunction with their involvement in cell-cell and cell-substratum interactions. This review also covers other potential functions of proteoglycans not only in the development and maintenance of the brain but also in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Proteoglycans are really coming of age in neuroscience.
The postnatal development of GABAB binding sites in rat brain was studied by quantitative receptor autoradiography using [3H]GABA under selective conditions. Binding levels peak at regionally specific times during the first three weeks of life and then decline to adult levels. GABAB binding peaked in the globus pallidus, vestibular and spinal trigeminal nuclei, and the CA3 region of the hippocampus at postnatal day 3; in the striatum, nucleus accumbens, inferior olive, septum, dentate gyrus and CA1 region of the hippocampus at postnatal day 7; in the neocortex and thalamus at postnatal day 14; and in the medial geniculate at postnatal day 21. Following these regionally specific peaks, binding decreased to postnatal day 28 levels. Further significant decreases in binding were observed in all regions examined between postnatal day 28 and adulthood. Comparisons of binding site pharmacology reveal equipotent displacement of GABAB binding by several competitive agonists and antagonists in postnatal day 7 and adult rat brain, indicating that immature and adult binding sites have similar pharmacological properties with regard to these compounds. The GABAB receptor antagonist CGP 54626A, however, inhibited binding more potently in the postnatal day 7 thalamus and neocortex than in these areas in the adult brain. The guanyl nucleotide analogue guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphasphate) inhibited GABAB binding extensively in both postnatal day 7 and adult brain. The non-competitive antagonist zinc also inhibited GABAB binding at both ages and was more potent in postnatal day 7 brain than in adult brain. Saturation analyses reveal two binding sites with similar affinities in both immature and adult rat brain, indicating that postnatal modulation of GABAB binding reflects changes in binding site density rather than modulation of binding site affinity. While immature GABAB binding sites share most pharmacological characteristics with adult binding sites and appear to be coupled to G-proteins at an early age, their interactions with zinc and CGP 54626A suggest that GABAB binding sites in immature brain may have a distinct pharmacological profile. Our data suggest significant regional and pharmacological changes in GABAB binding during development. The implications of these findings are discussed with regards to a possible role of GABAB receptors in the development of the central nervous system.
Rab3A is a protein associated with the membrane of synaptic vesicles and is involved in the control of the targeting or docking of these vesicles at the presynaptic membrane for the release of neurotransmitters. Here, we have examined the expression and localization of this protein during the development of the rat brain. Relative to total protein, the concentration of rab3A greatly increased during brain development. Both the intracellular localization of the protein and its cerebral distribution showed an age-dependent shift. In contrast to other synaptic vesicle proteins, rab3A was heavily concentrated in cell bodies when immature neurons were migrating and during early differentiation. Later, the protein disappeared from perikarya and had a diffuse distribution in the neuropil, indicating a redistribution to nerve terminals, its exclusive localization in the adult. In the developing somatosensory cortex, rab3A delimited the modular organization of the barrels well after the afferents have arrived but just around the time that mature synaptic activity has been observed. In the hippocampus, rab3A defined a novel &quot;blob-like&quot; organization of the mossy fibre terminals and its appearance in terminal fields closely preceded the known onset of long-term potentiation. The appearance of rab3A in specific terminal fields during the period of increased physiological activity suggests that this small GTP-binding protein may be an important late element in the establishment of the mature characteristics of the presynaptic terminal.
The dose-dependent effects of the anticholinesterases, neostigmine and mycotoxin territrem-B, were determined on: (i) Cl(-)-responses of voltage clamped Achatina fulica neurons to microperfused acetylcholine; (ii) the 4 K(+)-induced outward currents evoked by an electrogenic sodium pump in the same neuron; and (iii) acetylcholinesterase activity of Achatina fulica ganglionic homogenates. Both compounds at low doses potentiated the peak acetylcholine responses. However, they had different effects at higher (&gt; 1 microM) doses in that neostigmine now antagonized acetylcholine responses, while territrem-B still produced a maximal potentiation. At all doses neostigmine produced a dose-dependent inhibition of acetylcholinesterase activity. The cholinolytic effect of high doses of neostigmine was associated with the inhibition of 4 K(+)-induced current in the same neuron, while territrem-B neither altered the K(+)-induced current nor antagonized acetylcholine responses. The cholinolytic effect of neostigmine was completely antagonized by the inhibition of electrogenic sodium pump by ouabain or by perfusion with K(+)-free solution. These results suggest that neostigmine at high concentrations inhibits the electrogenic sodium pump and that the cholinolytic effect of high doses of neostigmine is secondary to this action. Territrem-B, on the other hand, had no effect on the electrogenic sodium pump and had no effect on the neuronal membrane properties other than to inhibit acetylcholinesterase. Thus, territrem-B may be a useful tool for studying the interaction between acetylcholinesterase and acetylcholine receptors.
Amylin is a recently discovered 37 amino acid peptide which is co-secreted from the pancreas with insulin and acts to modulate carbohydrate metabolism. Recently, high-affinity binding sites for [125I]rat amylin have been identified in the rat central nervous system. These sites also have high affinity for the structurally related peptides calcitonin gene-related peptide and salmon calcitonin. In the present study we have used in vitro autoradiography to map the distribution of these [125I]rat amylin binding sites in rat brain. High to moderate levels of binding were present in mid-caudal accumbens nucleus, fundus striati and parts of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and substantia inominata. This binding extended caudally into parts of the amygdalostriatal transition zone and the central and medial amygdaloid nuclei. High to moderate levels of binding also occurred in much of the hypothalamus including the medial preoptic, dorsomedial hypothalamic and medial tuberal nuclei as well as the ventrolateral subnucleus of the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. Other regions of high level binding included the subfornical organ, the vascular organ of the lamina terminalis, area postrema, locus coeruleus, dorsal raphe and caudal parts of the nucleus of the solitary tract. The subfornical organ, vascular organ of the lamina terminalis and area postrema, which display some of the highest binding densities, lack a patent blood-brain barrier and thus could be responsive to blood-borne amylin. In conclusion we have mapped, in detail, the distribution of amylin binding sites in rat brain. The location of binding is consistent with potential roles for these sites in appetite, fluid and electrolyte homeostasis, autonomic function and regulation of mood.
Large dense-cored vesicles are transported centrifugally in the cervical sympathetic trunk and are depleted in a calcium-dependent manner from synaptic boutons of the cat superior cervical ganglion during orthodromic stimulation at 20-40 Hz [P. Weldon et al. (1993) Neuroscience 55, 1045-1054]. In the present study, we tested in awake cats whether the normal tonic firing of the sympathetic preganglionic neuron contributes to the turnover of large dense-cored vesicles in synaptic boutons of the superior cervical ganglion. Tetrodotoxin was applied with a mini-osmotic pump to one cervical sympathetic trunk, while vehicle alone was applied to the contralateral cervical sympathetic trunk, for two, four or seven days. The appearance of Horner syndrome ipsilateral to the tetrodotoxin application demonstrated block of action potential propagation. Both superior cervical ganglia were excised and processed for electron microscopy. The number of large dense-cored vesicles per bouton cross-section was higher in the ganglion with tetrodotoxin-treated input than in the control. The content at four days was higher than at two days; the content at seven days was similar to that at four days. The number of lysosomes per bouton profile also increased in the ganglion with tetrodotoxin-treated input. No changes were observed in size of bouton profiles, number of boutons or of synapses per grid square and length of the presynaptic densities in the ganglion with tetrodotoxin-treated input.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Afterhyperpolarizations that follow action potentials are a prominent mechanism for the control of neuronal excitability. Such afterhyperpolarizations in many neurons are modulated by a variety of second messenger systems. Here, we examined the regulation of afterhyperpolarizations in noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons by the adenylate cyclase system. Although superfusion of the adenylate cyclase activator, forskolin, had no effect on hyperpolarizations following trains of action potentials, both forskolin and a membrane permeable analog of cyclic AMP, 8-bromo-cyclic AMP, attenuated the amplitude of afterhyperpolarizations which followed single action potentials of locus coeruleus neurons recorded intracellularly in brain slices. In contrast, superfusion of 1,9-dideoxyforskolin, the forskolin analog that does not activate adenylate cyclase, had no effect on these single action potential afterhyperpolarizations. Co-application of a protein kinase inhibitor (H8, KT5720, staurosporin or Rp-cAMPS) with either forskolin or 8-bromo-cyclic AMP failed to block the reduction of afterhyperpolarization amplitude, but blocked the cyclic AMP-dependent enhancement of opiate responses in the same locus coeruleus neurons. Furthermore, application of a membrane permeable analog of 5'-AMP, 8-bromo-5'-AMP, the cyclic AMP metabolite that does not activate a protein kinase, potently reduced the amplitudes of single action potential afterhyperpolarizations. The afterhyperpolarization amplitude was also reduced in locus coeruleus neurons taken from chronically morphine-treated rats, a treatment known to increase adenylate cyclase activity. These results indicate that elevation of intracellular cyclic AMP or 5'-AMP reduces the single action potential afterhyperpolarization in locus coeruleus neurons. This action may be mediated through a mechanism independent of protein kinase activation.
Effect of fluoxetine on the desensitization of the inward current mediated by 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptors in rat nodose ganglion neurons was investigated with whole cell patch-clamp recording. 5-Hydroxytryptamine3 current desensitization was best fitted in most experiments by a single exponential function and showed little dependence on membrane potential. Fluoxetine greatly facilitated the rate of 5-hydroxytryptamine3 current desensitization in a dose-dependent manner. The effect of fluoxetine was gradual, long-lasting, voltage-independent and the recovery was incomplete. The IC50 value for the decrease of the desensitization time-constant by fluoxetine was 0.171 microM and the Hill coefficient was 1.1. Fluoxetine also inhibited the peak and steady-state 5-hydroxytryptamine3 current with the latter being more sensitive to fluoxetine. The IC50 value for the effect of fluoxetine on peak current was 1.27 microM and that on steady-state current was 0.172 microM. There is a highly significant correlation between the two effects of fluoxetine on current desensitization and on current amplitudes: r-values for the correlation between the decrease in time-constant and the reduction in peak and steady-state current amplitudes were 0.82 and 0.88, respectively (P &lt; 0.001). This action of fluoxetine on 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptors may be involved in the behavioral effects of fluoxetine.
While the olivary pretectal nucleus has been shown to be central to the pupillary constriction response in rats, it is not at all clear at which level the consensual response is generated. To examine this we have investigated the efferent projections of this nucleus, as well as the effect of unilateral lesions of the olivary pretectal nucleus, on the direct and consensual pupillary light reflexes. The results demonstrate that the olivary pretectal nucleus projects bilaterally to the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, as well as to the nucleus of the posterior commissure, which itself projects bilaterally to the Edinger-Westphal nucleus. The olivary pretectal nucleus also projects to the ipsilateral ventral lateral geniculate nucleus. Unilateral lesions of the olivary pretectal nucleus decrease, but do not abolish, the direct and consensual pupillary light reflexes by as much as 66%. Since some degree of consensual response remains, this is likely to be due to the bilateral projection from the olivary pretectal nucleus, either directly or indirectly through the nucleus of the posterior commissure, to the Edinger-Westphal nucleus. These results show that while the bilateral projection from the olivary pretectal nucleus to the Edinger-Westphal nucleus contributes to the consensual pupillary light reflex, the bilateral retinal projection to the olivary pretectal nucleus is the more determinant component of the pathway. In addition to providing insights into the anatomical substrates of the pupillary response, this work also provides a background to ongoing studies of the retinal graft-mediated pupillary light reflex, as well as serving as a model of a relatively simple reflex system.
The presynaptic fiber at an inhibitory synapse on a pacemaker neuron was forced to generate transients, defined here as spike trains with a trend, unceasingly accelerating or slowing. Experiments were on isolated crayfish stretch receptor organs. Spike train analyses used tools and notions from conventional point processes and from non-linear dynamics. Pre- and postsynaptic discharges contrasted clearly in terms of rates and interspike intervals. The inhibitory train evolved monotonically and smoothly, following tightly the simple prescribed curves; it was uniform, exhibiting throughout a single and simple discharge form (i.e. interval patterning). The inhibited postsynaptic train alternately accelerated and slowed, not following tightly any simple curve; it was heterogeneous, exhibiting in succession several different and often complex discharge forms, and switching abruptly from one to another. The inhibited trains depended on the inhibitory transient's span, range and average slope. Accordingly, transients separated (not cuttingly) into categories with prolonged spans (over 1 s) and slow slopes (around 1/s2) and those with short spans (under 1 s) and fast slopes (around 30/s2). Special transients elicited postsynaptic discharges that reproduced it faithfully, e.g. accelerated with the transient and proportionately; no transient elicited postsynaptic discharges faithful to its mirror image. Crayfish synapses are prototypes, so these findings should be expected in any other junction, as working hypotheses at least. Implications involve the operation of neural networks, including the role of distortions and their compensation, and the underlying mechanisms. Transients have received little attention, most work on synaptic coding concentrating on stationary discharges. Transients are inherent to the changing situations that pervade everyday life, however, and their biological importance is self-evident. The different discharges encountered during a transient had strong similarities to the stationary forms reported for different pacemaker drivings that are called locking, intermittency, erratic and stammering; they were, in fact, trendy versions of these. Such forms appear with several synaptic drivings in the same order along the presynaptic rate scale; they may constitute basic building blocks for synaptic operation. In terms of non-linear science, it is as if the attractors postulated for stationary drivings remained strongly influential during the transients, though affected by the rate of change.
The cellular localization of catechol-O-methyltransferase was analysed in the mesostriatal system of human brain post mortem by means of immunohistochemistry. In the human nigral complex, catechol-O-methyltransferase immunostaining was not detected in melanized dopaminergic neurons, except in the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra pars lateralis, where few neurons displayed intense immunolabelling. In the striatum, catechol-O-methyltransferase immunostaining was found in numerous cell bodies and in the neuropile. Observations at the electron microscope level revealed that catechol-O-methyltransferase immunoreactivity was present in the cell bodies of neurons and their processes, including the dendritic spines. No catechol-O-methyltransferase immunolabelling was observed in striatal nerve terminals in contact with dendritic spines, indicating that dopaminergic nerve terminals do not exhibit catechol-O-methyltransferase immunoreactivity. Catechol-O-methyltransferase-immunoreactive cell bodies and processes of glial cells were also detected in the striatum. The data suggest that catechol-O-methyltransferase is either not expressed or only slightly expressed by the dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons, whereas it is clearly present in striatal neurons and glial cells. Thus, the catabolic degradation of striatal released dopamine by its O-methylation may involve postsynaptic neurons rather than dopaminergic presynaptic neurons. The presence of catechol-O-methyltransferase in some dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra pars lateralis suggests that methylation of dopamine may occur in these neurons, which may consequently be better protected against dopamine auto-oxidation than those of the substantia nigra pars compacta.
Turning in circles is among the behaviors elicited by unilateral cholinergic stimulation of the substantia nigra. Recent studies have shown that microinjection of cholinergic agonists into the substantia nigra pars compacta increases dopamine release and turnover in the striatum of anesthetized rats [Hernndez-Lpez et al. (1992) Brain. Res. 598, 114-120; Blaha and Winn (1993) J. Neurosci, 13, 1035-1044]. In this study, the relationship between circling behavior and striatal dopamine release following cholinergic stimulation of the substantia nigra pars compacta neurons was assessed by brain microdialysis in awake rats. The results indicate that cholinergic stimulation of the substantia nigra pars compacta with the mixed nicotinic-muscarinic cholinergic agonist carbachol modulates striatal dopamine release, and this effect is accompanied by circling behavior and stereotypies. Microinjection of carbachol (109 nmol) in the caudal portions of the substantia nigra pars compacta induced contralateral circling associated with an increase of dopamine release in neostriatum. On the contrary, ipsilateral circling and reduction of striatal dopamine release was elicited when the same dose of the drug was applied in the rostral portions of the substantia nigra pars compacta. The above findings are in accordance with recent electrophysiological studies suggesting the existence of sub-populations of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons, and indicate that the substantia nigra pars compacta is functionally compartmentalized. We conclude that the cholinergic input to the substantia nigra pars compacta could modulate the motor behavior through regulating the firing rate of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons and dopamine release in the neostriatum.
This ultrastructural and light microscopic immunocytochemical study describes the time course of anatomical changes that occur in striatal astrocytes in response to neuronal deafferentation in young adult rats and the coordinate distribution of two astrocytic proteins involved in reactive synaptogenesis, glial fibrillary acidic protein and clusterin. We found that following a unilateral lesion of the cerebral cortex, striatal astrocytes undergo a rapid ultrastructural transformation from a protoplasmic to a reactive type of astroglia and are the primary cells involved in the removal of degenerating axon terminals, but not axons of passage, from the neuropil. In addition, at 10 and 27 days postlesion, processes of reactive astrocytes are also seen to occupy vacant postsynaptic spines after degenerating presynaptic terminals are removed, suggesting that they may also participate in the reinnervation of the deafferented neurons. By immunocytochemistry, reactive astrocytes were characterized by a significant increase in the intensity of glial fibrillary acidic protein staining beginning at three days postlesion and lasting for at least 27 days postlesion. Reactive astrocytes were characterized by cellular hypertrophy and an increase in the density of immunoreactive processes distributed throughout the deafferented striatum. However, our analysis of astrocyte cell number found no evidence of astrocyte proliferation in response to the deafferentation lesion. Although previous in situ hybridization studies have reported elevated clusterin messenger RNA in reactive astrocytes after decortication, clusterin immunoreactivity was not seen in the cell soma of reactive astrocytes but was distributed as punctate deposits, ranging from 1 to 2 microns in diameter, within the neuropil of the deafferented striatum. At 10 days postlesion, the distribution of clusterin staining appeared as large aggregates of immunoreactive deposits adjacent to neurons. However, by 27 days postlesion, the aggregates of clusterin reaction product were replaced by a fine scattering of individual punctate deposits distributed evenly over the dorsal part of the deafferented striatum. These data support the notion that reactive astrocytes serve multiple, time-dependent roles in response to brain injury and are involved in both the removal of degenerative debris from the lesion site as well as in reforming the synaptic circuitry of the damaged brain. Our data suggest that, in response to decortication, reactive astrocytes are the primary cells responsible for removing degenerating axon terminals, but not axons of passage, from the deafferented striatum and that the coordinate increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein may serve to stabilize the extension of reactive astrocytic processes during phagocytosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The cellular immediate early genes are involved in the transcriptional events associated with the dopaminergic regulation of neurotransmitter expression within neurons of the neostriatum. To characterize these events in detail, quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry was used to assess the temporal effects of acute dopamine receptor blockade with eticlopride, a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, on the messenger RNA expression of the immediate early genes and neurotransmitters/receptors in the caudate-putamen and ventral tegmental area/substantia nigra pars compacta of the rat. Groups of rats were injected with a single dose of either isotonic saline or eticlopride (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) and killed at various time intervals ranging from 5 min to 24 h and frozen brain sections processed by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Using computerized image analysis, the changes in messenger RNA expression for c-fos, c-jun, jun B, jun D, nerve growth factor I-A and nerve growth factor I-B and for neurotensin, glutamate decarboxylase, proenkephalin, the dopamine D1 receptor and the short and long isoforms of the D2 receptor were examined in the caudate-putamen. In the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra pars compacta, the messenger RNA expression of the above early response genes and that for neurotensin, tyrosine hydroxylase, cholecystokinin and the D2 receptor isoforms were also examined. In the neostriatum, eticlopride caused a rapid increase in c-fos messenger RNA with significantly increased levels at 10 min (P &lt; 0.01). The levels peaked at 30 min and thereafter declined to control levels. A similar profile was observed for jun B messenger RNA, although levels were still significantly (P &lt; 0.01) elevated at 1 h and declined to basal levels thereafter. No significant changes were observed for c-jun, jun D, nerve growth factor I-A and nerve growth factor I-B messenger RNAs. In the dorsolateral neostriatum, there was an increase in proneurotensin messenger RNA 10 min after eticlopride, this increase becoming significant (P &lt; 0.01) at 60 min. Levels were maximal at 2-6 h and decreased after 12 h to basal levels. There were small increases in proenkephalin messenger RNA, but these were not significant (P &lt; 0.05) until 6 h after the injection. Eticlopride did not have any significant effects on the messenger RNA levels for glutamate decarboxylase, the D1 receptor and the short and long isoforms of the D2 receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Pyrroloquinoline quinone is a ubiquitous redox cofactor and putative essential nutrient in mammals. Pyrroloquinoline quinone has recently been demonstrated to depress N-methyl-D-asparate induced electrical responses and is neuroprotective in vitro. In addition, pyrroloquinoline quinone has been demonstrated to act as a free radical scavenger in mammalian tissues. In this study, we demonstrate a neuroprotective effect of pyrroloquinoline quinone in an in vivo cerebral hypoxia/ischemia model in the rodent. Significant reduction in infarct size resulted from pyrroloquinoline quinone pretreatment and also when pyrroloquinoline quinone was administered following induction of hypoxia/ischemia. The neuroprotective effect was not dependent on change in core or cranial temperatures, as there was no difference between temperature measurements in pyrroloquinoline quinone-treated and vehicle-treated controls. No changes in electroencephalographic activity were observed at neuroprotective doses. These findings suggest that pyrroloquinoline quinone may represent a novel class of quinoid reagents of potential use in the treatment of neurological disorders that involve excitotoxicity. This study demonstrates a protective effect of the novel essential nutrient pyrroloquinoline quinone on brain injury in a rodent model of cerebral hypoxia/ischemia. Pyrroloquinoline quinone was neuroprotective when administered before and even after the insult, and did not appear to have significant neurobehavioral side effects. Pyrroloquinoline quinone represents a new class of agents with potential use in the therapy of stroke.
The aim of the study was to further specify mechanisms of maintenance of hippocampal long-term potentiation. Previous analysis of excitatory postsynaptic potentials showed increases in quantal content (mean number of neurotransmitter quanta released by every testing pulse) with smaller increases in quantal size (effect of one transmitter quantum) following long-term potentiation induction. Here we recorded intracellularly excitatory postsynaptic potentials from CA1 pyramidal neurons of guinea-pig hippocampal slices after minimal paired-pulse stimulation of monosynaptic inputs. Statistical parameters underlying excitatory postsynaptic potential fluctuations were estimated by a deconvolution procedure using a quantal model. The parameters of excitatory postsynaptic potentials following paired-pulse stimulation were studied before and after induction of long-term potentiation. Under both conditions, paired-pulse facilitation was found to be accompanied by increases in quantal content and quantal size. During long-term potentiation, paired-pulse facilitation of amplitude and quantal content was lower. The respective changes in the paired-pulse facilitation ratios correlated with long-term potentiation magnitude. In contrast, the paired-pulse facilitation of quantal size did not change significantly following long-term potentiation induction. The results are compatible with the existence of two separate mechanisms of long-term potentiation maintenance. They support the suggestion that changes in quantal content are mainly due to presynaptic mechanisms which are shared by long-term potentiation and paired-pulse facilitation. The mechanisms underlying changes in quantal size are of a different nature for long-term potentiation and paired-pulse facilitation. For long-term potentiation they might be located postsynaptically.
The effect of endogenous adenosine on frequency-induced long-term potentiation of the responses evoked by stimulation of the Schaffer fibres and recorded in the CA1 area was studied in hippocampal slices of the rat. Long-term potentiation was facilitated in the presence of the selective A1 adenosine receptor antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (10-20 nM), and was reduced in the presence of the adenosine uptake blocker, nitrobenzylthioinosine (5 microM), suggesting that endogenous adenosine exerted a tonic inhibitory role on long-term potentiation, which was mediated through adenosine A1 receptors. We also found that long-term potentiation was increased in the presence of the selective A2 receptor agonist, CGS 21680 (30 nM), suggesting that the activation of adenosine A2 receptors may have excitatory effects on long-term potentiation. We suggest that, endogenous adenosine is able to modulate mechanisms of synaptic plasticity, such as long-term potentiation, in the hippocampus.
Brain cell swelling is a consequence of seizure, ischemia or excitotoxicity. Changes in light reflectance from cortical surface are now used to monitor brain activity but these intrinsic signals are poorly understood. The objectives of this study were first, to show that changes in light transmittance were correlated with cell volume and second, to image increases in light transmittance as they related to neuronal activation. Transverse hippocampal slices from the rat were used for the study. Brief exposure (4-6 min) to hypo-osmotic artificial cerebrospinal fluid (-40 mOsm) elevated light transmittance consistently and reversibly in most regions of the slice and particularly in CA1 dendritic regions. Neither zero-Ca2+ artificial cerebrospinal fluid nor tetrodotoxin altered the transmittance increase and its subsequent reversal, suggesting that it was dependent on osmolality but independent of synaptic transmission and neuronal firing. The amplitude of the CA1 population spike evoked from Schaffer collaterals increased concomitantly with the hypo-osmotic increase in light transmittance, providing evidence that the extracellular tissue resistance increased. Hyper-osmotic artificial cerebrospinal fluid (+40 mOsm) containing impermeant mannitol consistently lowered light transmittance and the amplitude of the population spike. Glycerol (+40 mOsm), which is cell permeant, did not have an affect. Taken together these observations indicate that osmotic challenge alters light transmittance by inducing changes in cell volume. Transmittance increases induced by hypo-osmotic artificial cerebrospinal fluid or 10 microM kainate were small in the CA1 cell body region compared to dendritic regions. Similarly, orthodromic stimulation of axons terminating in stratum oriens or in stratum radiatum evoked transmittance increases only in their respective postsynaptic areas. In contrast, the cell body region and its adjacent proximal-apical dendrites (both sites of action potential initiation) could display dramatic increases in light transmittance upon brief exposure to 20 mM K+. The response, which may represent neuronal damage, was blocked in tetrodotoxin. Antidromic stimulation evoked a weak response in these same proximal areas. We conclude that activity-dependent increases in light transmittance across brain slices primarily reveal glial and neuronal swelling associated with excitatory synaptic input and action potential discharge. The signal can be imaged in real time to reveal neuronal activation, not only among hippocampal areas, but among neuronal regions. Cell swelling is a known consequence of excessive neuronal discharge. Therefore, the imaging of changes in light transmittance across brain slices should prove useful in monitoring epileptiform and excitotoxic states.
Chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla were used to study the release of neurotrophic factors operationally defined by their capacity to promote the in vitro survival of embryonic neurons from the peripheral and central nervous system. Chromaffin cells are closely related to sympathetic neurons in terms of their transmitters and specific proteins and, like sympathetic neurons, receive preganglionic cholinergic, aminergic and peptidergic neuronal inputs. The issue of whether chromaffin cells store and secrete neurotrophic factors is therefore pertinent to the question whether trophic mechanisms may be involved in neuronal interactions and what modes of secretion are employed to liberate neurotrophic factors from neurons. Cell culture media conditioned by purified bovine chromaffin cells supported several neuron populations in vitro. Stimulation of the chromaffin cells with the cholinergic agonist carbachol (10(-4) M) increased in parallel the output of neurotrophic factor activity (assayed on chick ciliary ganglionic neurons) as well as two components specifically located in chromaffin granules, chromogranin A and catecholamines. The release of all three components was partially blocked by the Ca2+ channel blocker verapamil (10(-5) M), suggesting co-storage and -release of neurotrophic factors, chromogranin A and catecholamines in/from chromaffin granules. Neurotrophic factor activity for ciliary ganglionic neurons accumulating in the medium of unstimulated chromaffin cells decreased with time, and so did catecholamines. In contrast, amounts of neurotrophic factors and catecholamines released by challenging cells with carbachol did not significantly decline up to 62 h. The neurotrophic factor activity tested on chick ciliary, sensory and spinal cord neurons as well as on rat hippocampal neurons was heat- and trypsin-labile and could not be blocked by polyclonal antibodies against bovine nerve growth factor and the chromogranin A, B, and C. Defined fragments of chromogranin A and pancreastatin were devoid of neurotrophic activity. Our results suggest the presence of one or several neurotrophic factors in chromaffin granules, which can be released by exocytosis and may be potentially relevant for the maintenance of neurons innervating the adrenal medulla.
We have studied prostaglandin E1-induced mechanical hyperalgesia in the rat hindpaw, by assessing paw-withdrawal thresholds, before and after injecting prostaglandin E1 alone or with other agents, in normal and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. In normal and diabetic rats, prostaglandin E1 (1-1000 ng) produced a dose-dependent decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold. In diabetic rats, prostaglandin E1 was more potent than in normal rats, in producing hyperalgesia, whereas prostaglandin E2 hyperalgesia was not changed in normal and diabetic rats. Prostaglandin E1-induced hyperalgesia was not inhibited by E-type 1 prostaglandin receptor antagonists, SC19220 or SC51089, either in normal or diabetic rats. In fact, in the presence of SC19220, prostaglandin E1 produced enhanced hyperalgesia, in normal rats. Prostaglandin E1 hyperalgesia was not significantly modified by sympathectomy or indomethacin. Unlike prostaglandin E2, prostaglandin E1 hyperalgesia was not blocked by the inhibitor of the stimulatory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein, guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate). It is suggested that prostaglandin E1 decreases primary afferent nociceptive threshold directly, by activating a prostaglandin receptor other than the E-type 1 prostaglandin receptor, and that this receptor is not coupled to a stimulatory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein.
Activity of the synthetic enzyme for acetylcholine, choline acetyltransferase was investigated during development and in adult nerve growth factor-transgenic mice. A conspicuous reduction of choline acetyltransferase activity was observed in the anterior brain of nerve growth factor-transgenic embryos from embryonic days 13 to 16 (E13 to E16). Choline acetyltransferase activity levels subsequently resumed to normal levels, with the exception of a 15% increase in the adult hippocampus. Nerve growth factor contents followed a similar time-course and regional distribution in normal and nerve growth factor-transgenic animals and displayed significantly higher values from E14 to the early postnatal period. Nerve growth factor contents were normal in the adult brain. In vitro experiments confirmed the involvement of nerve growth factor in the decrease of choline acetyltransferase activity levels observed in transgenic neurons during development. These results suggest a role for nerve growth factor in the initial phase of the phenotypic differentiation of cholinergic neurons. They show that nerve growth factor may, under specific development conditions, lead to a paradoxical down-regulation of choline acetyltransferase activity.
Synaptic transmission, metabolism of calcium and ultrastructural changes were investigated at the nerve-electroplaque synapse of Torpedo marmorata during and after a brief tetanic stimulation. Calcium was found to accumulate in stimulated tissue as a function of the number of stimuli; it was subsequently expelled during the recovery period. This period was also accompanied by a marked hydrolysis of energy-rich phosphates (ATP and creatine phosphate). Histochemical localization combined with electron spectroscopic imaging showed calcium deposits in synaptic vesicles and in other substructures. The number of synaptic vesicles containing a calcium deposit transiently increased at the end of activity and declined later during the recovery phase. Rapid cryofixation of the tissue followed by freeze-fracturing revealed membrane openings (pits) in the presynaptic membrane. The density of pits was low in resting tissue; it did not rise during the tetanic stimulation. In contrast, the number of presynaptic pits increased significantly soon after, reaching a maximum value at 1 min after tetanus. These results are discussed in the light of current hypotheses. They suggest that synaptic vesicles play an important role in intraterminal calcium homeostasis. The vesicles might sequester calcium ions in synaptic terminals during activity and expel them afterwards by exocytosis.
Extracellular brain ascorbate fluctuates with neuronal activity. There is previous evidence that the release of ascorbate is triggered by the re-uptake of neuronally released glutamate. This hypothesis predicts that drugs which block the release and re-uptake of glutamate will also block the release of ascorbate. In the present experiments we have used a novel dialysis electrode which allows continuous monitoring of physiologically induced ascorbate release from the striatum in freely moving rats. An infusion of the enzyme ascorbic acid oxidase abolished the increase in oxidation current in response to tail-pinch, which identified it as an ascorbate current. Perfusion with tetrodotoxin reduced the response to 25% and with CdCl2 to 4% of control. Perfusion with the uptake blocker L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-di-carboxylate reduced the response to 24% of control. A neuroprotective function for this coupling of ascorbate and glutamate release is discussed.
The prenatal and postnatal ontogeny of D1A and D2 dopamine receptors was assessed by in situ hybridization of messenger RNAs encoding the receptors and by radioligand binding autoradiography. On gestational day 14, signals for D1A and D2 dopamine receptor messages were observed in selected regions in ventricular and subventricular zones which contain dividing neuroblasts, and in intermediate zones that contain maturing and migrating neurons. Specifically, D1A and D2 dopamine receptor message was observed in the developing caudate-putamen, olfactory tubercle, and frontal, cingulate, parietal and insular cortices. Additionally, D1A dopamine receptor messenger RNA was found in the developing epithalamus, thalamus, hypothalamus, pons, spinal cord and neural retina; D2 dopamine receptor messenger RNA was also observed in the mesencephalic dopaminergic nuclear complex. Gene expression of D1A and D2 dopamine receptor subtypes in specific cells as they differentiate precedes dopamine innervation and implies that receptor expression is an intrinsic property of these neurons. The early expression of dopamine receptor messenger RNA suggests a regulatory role for these receptors in brain development. While the signal for both messages increased in the intermediate zones on gestational day 16, it decreased in the ventricular and subventricular zones, and was no longer apparent in these zones by gestational day 18. By gestational day 18, abundant D1A or D2 dopamine receptor messenger RNA was observed in cell groups similar in location to those observed in the adult brain. On gestational day 18, D1A dopamine receptor message was noted in the neural retina, anterior olfactory nucleus, the insular, prefrontal, frontal, cingulate, parietal and retrosplenial cortices, the olfactory tubercle, caudate-putamen, lateral habenula, dorsolateral geniculate nucleus, ventrolateral and mediolateral thalamic nuclei, and the suprachiasmatic and ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus. D2 dopamine receptor message was observed on gestational day 18 in the insular, prefrontal, frontal and cingulate cortices, the olfactory tubercle, caudate-putamen, ventral tegmental area, substantia nigra, and the intermediate lobe of the pituitary. At birth, expression of messenger RNA for both dopamine receptor subtypes in the striatum approximated that seen in mature rats. In contrast, D1A and D2 receptor binding, measured with [3H]SCH-23390 and [3H]raclopride, respectively, was low at birth and progressively increased to reach adult levels between days 14 and 21. The in situ hybridization data showing early prenatal expression of messenger RNA for the D1A and D2 dopamine receptors are consistent with the hypothesis that these receptors have a regulatory role in neuronal development.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Output of neuronal information from the nucleus accumbens to the ventral pallidum is known to be a critical pathway in the expression of locomotion and incentive-related behaviour. Some signals from this structure are relayed forward through the dorsomedial nucleus of the thalamus to the medial prefrontal cortex, but the other major pathway from this site is a descending innervation to the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. Information carried by these descending neurons has been linked with both the output of locomotor activity and incentive-related information. Previous studies carried out in this laboratory have shown no changes in locomotor activity--either spontaneous or in response to systemic administration of d-amphetamine or apomorphine--in rats with excitotoxic lesions of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. The present experiments compare the effects of ibotenate lesions of this nucleus in tests of locomotor activity or the acquisition of responding with conditioned reinforcement, following injections of d-amphetamine directly into the nucleus accumbens. In general agreement with previous results, ibotenate lesions of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus did not alter locomotion stimulated directly from the nucleus accumbens. However, comparable lesions in a group of trained rats produced an array of deficits in the conditioned reinforcement paradigm. Most notably, these rats directed their attention almost entirely towards pressing the levers (practically ignoring the food-hopper panel), but did not appear to be able to discriminate between them, while controls focused almost all their efforts on pressing the reinforcing lever (virtually ignoring the non-reinforcing lever) and the food-hopper panel. These results indicate that pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus lesions disrupt an element of reward-related responding, but do not affect the production of locomotor activity. This highlights the unlikely existence of specific &quot;locomotion-inducing&quot; centres in the mesencephalon and implicates the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus in the formation of stimulus-reward associations. These data are discussed with respect to a role for the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus in response selection.
The nucleus accumbens has been implicated as an important site for the actions of many drugs that are used recreationally. This study examined the effects of methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), a euphoric and hallucinogenic drug, on glutamate-evoked neuronal firing and on extracellular levels of dopamine and serotonin in the nucleus accumbens of the rat. Microiontophoretic application of MDMA inhibited glutamate-evoked firing of most of the nucleus accumbens cells that were tested (83 of 86), as did microiontophoretic application of dopamine and serotonin. MDMA-induced inhibition of glutamate-evoked firing was partially blocked by the dopamine antagonist SCH39166 and was attenuated by combined pretreatment with inhibitors of both serotonin and catecholamine synthesis, p-chlorophenylalanine and alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine. MDMA applied directly into the nucleus accumbens and adjacent regions of the ventral striatum through a dialysis probe increased extracellular levels of both dopamine and serotonin. These results indicate that MDMA has inhibitory effects on glutamate-evoked neuronal firing in the nucleus accumbens and suggest that the inhibition is mediated by increased extracellular dopamine and serotonin. Furthermore, these results permit MDMA to be added to the extensive list of abused drugs that have been demonstrated to elevate extracellular levels of dopamine and serotonin in the nucleus accumbens.
The temporal pattern of distribution of somatostatin receptor was investigated using the somatostatin analogue [125I]Tyr0-DTrp8-somatostatin14 as a ligand and compared with that of somatostatin immunoreactivity during early developmental stages in the spinal cord and the sensory derivatives in rat fetuses. Qualitative and quantitative analysis showed that somatostatin receptors were detected in a transient manner. In the neural tube, they were clearly associated with immature premigratory cells and with the developing white matter. During the time-period examined (from day 10.5 to 16.5), the disappearance of somatostatin receptors followed a ventro to dorsal gradient probably linked to the regression of the ventricular zone. In sensory derivatives, they were expressed in the forming ganglia and their central and peripheral nerves from embryonic day 12.5 to 16.5 inclusive, with a peak around day 14.5 and low levels observed at day 16.5. Competition experiments performed at embryonic day 14.5 demonstrated that somatostatin1-14, somatostatin1-28, and Octreotide displaced specific binding with nanomolar affinities while CGP 23996 was only active at micromalar doses. Such displacements are compatible with the SSTR2 and/or SSTR4 pharmacology. During the time period examined, some transient somatostatin immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers were detected in the neural tube and in the sensory derivatives. These results demonstrate the existence, in neuronal derivatives, of a complex temporal and anatomical pattern of expression of somatostatin receptors, from the SSTR2/SSTR4 subtype(s), and somatostatin immunoreactivity. It appears that the transient expression of somatostatin receptors and/or somatostatin immunoreactivity characterizes critical episodes in the development of a cohort of neurons; a fact that unequivocally reinforces the notion that somatostatin plays a fundamental role during neurogenesis in vertebrates.
Calcium channels participate in the events linking axon terminal depolarization to neurotransmitter secretion. We wished to evaluate the role of N-type and non-N-type calcium channels in glutamatergic transmission at corticostriatal synapses, since this is a well defined excitatory synapse. In addition, these synapses are subject to a variety of forms of presynaptic modulation, some of which may involve alterations in calcium channel function. Application of the selective N-type channel blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA produced an irreversible depression of excitatory synaptic transmission in rat neostriatal slices shown by a decrease of approximately 50% in the amplitude of the synaptically driven population spike during field potential recording and a similar decrease in the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials during whole-cell recording. The component of transmission which was resistant to omega-conotoxin GVIA was blocked by omega-conotoxin MVIIC. omega-Agatoxin IVA had little effect on transmission. Activation of a presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptor depressed transmission to a similar extent before and after omega-conotoxin GVIA treatment. Likewise, protein kinase C-activating phorbol esters potentiated transmission to the same extent before and after omega-conotoxin GVIA treatment. N-type calcium channels appear to be crucial for a component of excitation-secretion coupling at corticostriatal synapses. A component of transmission involves non-N-, non-L-type high-voltage-activated calcium channels. The effects of presynaptic metabotropic receptors and protein kinase C activation cannot be accounted for solely by alterations in the N-type channel function.
Quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography was used to study the distribution of cholecystokin receptors in the bovine brain. [125I]Bolton-Hunter cholecystokinin octapeptide binding was described in whole hemisphere sagittal and coronal sections using cholecystokinin octapeptide, devazepide and L-365,260 as competitors to identify the subtypes. High levels of cholecystokinin receptors were found in the cortex, where they presented a laminar distribution which varied from area to area. The basal ganglia, the caudate nucleus, nucleus accumbens and putamen presented high to moderate levels of cholecystokinin binding, whereas only very low labelling was found in the globus pallidus. Cholecystokinin binding was present in all portions of the bovine hippocampus; high levels were found in the dentate gyrus, CA1 subfield of Ammon's horn, subiculum and presubiculum. Moderate to high levels were also found in the amygdala, inferior colliculus and olfactory tract, while most of the hypothalamic and thalamic nuclei exhibited very low or no cholecystokinin binding. Low cholecystokinin binding was uniformly distributed across cell layers of the bovine cerebellar cortex. Competition of [125I]Bolton-Hunter cholecystokinin octapeptide binding in the cortex, nucleus accumbens, caudate nucleus, hippocampus, cerebellum and brainstem was much greater in the presence of L-365,260 than devazepide, thereby suggesting that the majority of cholecystokinin receptors in these regions are of the cholecystokinin-B subtype. The results of this study, when compared to distribution profiles in other mammalian species, provide further evidence for species differences in the distribution of cholecystokinin receptors in the brain. The results also support the possible interaction between cholecystokinin and dopaminergic systems in areas of the brain containing dopaminergic terminals, such as the frontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, caudate-putamen and olfactory tubercle.
The highly sialylated isoform of the neural cell adhesion molecule is thought to be expressed predominantly in the developing nervous system, where it is implicated in a variety of dynamic events linked to neural morphogenesis. It has become increasingly evident, however, that this &quot;embryonic&quot; neural cell adhesion molecule isoform continues to be expressed in certain adult neuronal systems, and in particular, in those that can undergo structural plasticity. In the present study, we performed light microscopic immunocytochemistry with an antibody specific for polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule and confirmed our earlier observations [Bonfanti L. et al. (1992) Neuroscience 49, 419-436] showing polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule-immunoreactive cells in the subependymal layer of the lateral ventricle of the adult rat, a region where cell proliferation continues into the postnatal period. In addition, we used an antibody raised against the proliferating cell nuclear antigen and found that proliferating cells continue to be visible in this area, even in the adult. Double immunolabeling showed that many of these newly generated cells displayed high polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity. Cells from a portion of the subependymal layer migrate to the olfactory bulb and contribute to the continual replacement of its granule neurons [Luskin M. B. (1993) Neuron 11, 173-189]. We found polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule-immunoreactive cells all along the pathway purported to be followed by the newly generated cells to their final destination and in neurons corresponding to granular and periglomerular cells in the olfactory bulb. Our present observations thus support the contention that polysialylation is a feature of neurons capable of dynamic change and may contribute to the molecular mechanisms permitting cell proliferation and migration not only during development but also in the adult.
Dopamine D2 receptor stimulation inhibited high-threshold, slowly inactivating (L-type) barium currents of isolated, rat pituitary melanotropes in primary culture. The extent of inhibition depended on the concentration of LY 171555 applied. Current activation in the presence of LY 171555 was described by two time constants, a fast one, also observed under control conditions, and a slow one, induced by LY 171555. The slow time constant did not depend on the concentration of LY 171555. Guanosine-5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (100 microM) induced a similar inhibition of the barium currents. Depolarizing prepulses more positive than -20 mV counteracted the inhibition induced by LY 171555 as well as guanosine-5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate). The voltage dependence and time course of this disinhibition were obtained. The results suggest that the slow time course of activation during current inhibition reflects a voltage-dependent conversion of the channel from the inhibited state to an available state. This voltage dependence is probably an intrinsic property of the calcium channel. The voltage-dependent rate constants of a first-order kinetic model which describes the voltage-dependent inhibition and disinhibition were estimated.
Neuropeptide Y-containing fibers project from the intergeniculate leaflet of the lateral geniculate nucleus to the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Previous studies have indicated that this pathway may be involved in non-photic resetting of the circadian clock. Therefore, we investigated the possibility that neuropeptide Y mediates phase shifts induced by a particular non-photic stimulus, a pulse of running in a novel wheel. Confining hamsters to a small nest box failed to block phase shifts induced by neuropeptide Y given at zeitgeber time 4; this indicates that increased locomotor activity is not necessary for the observed shifts. Antiserum raised against neuropeptide Y or normal serum was administered at circadian time 5 through a cannula aimed at the suprachiasmatic nucleus. The hamsters were then removed from their cages and placed in a novel wheel for 3 h. Hamsters that received normal serum and ran &gt; 5000 revolutions in the novel wheel advanced their rhythms (mean shift 2.55 h +/- 0.22 S.E.M.) by amounts similar to those of unoperated hamsters. Administration of neuropeptide Y antiserum attenuated the shift normally associated with running in a novel wheel (mean shift 0.21 h +/- 0.14 S.E.M.). These studies indicate that the neuropeptide Y input from the lateral geniculate nucleus to the biological clock is involved in the phase shifts seen in response to novelty-induced wheel running. It also provides another example of the ability of antisera to alter behavior. This may be a useful approach in manipulations of neurochemical activity when antagonists are not yet available or poorly defined.
The ring-A-reduced progesterone derivative 5 alpha-pregnan-3 alpha-ol-20-one (tetrahydroprogesterone) is synthesized under normal physiological conditions in the brain and is a potent modulator of the GABA receptor. This neurosteroid has significant sedative and anxiolytic properties. Corticotropin-releasing hormone plays a major role in stress-induced activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis, and sustained hyperactivity of hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone-producing neurons may be causally related to both, increased pituitary-adrenal secretion and behavioural symptoms observed in anxiety and affective disorders. We investigated the effect of tetrahydroprogesterone on corticotropin-releasing hormone-induced anxiety, the basal and methoxamine-stimulated release of corticotropin-releasing hormone from hypothalamic organ explants in vitro, and adrenalectomy-induced up-regulation of the gene expression of corticotropin-releasing hormone in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus in rats. At doses of 5 and 10 micrograms i.c.v., tetrahydroprogesterone counteracted the anxiogenic action of 0.5 microgram of corticotropin-releasing hormone. Tetrahydroprogesterone did not alter the basal release of corticotropin-releasing hormone in vitro, but suppressed the stimulatory effect of the alpha 1-adrenergic agonist methoxamine on this parameter. Measurements of the steady-state levels of mRNA coding for corticotropin-releasing hormone by quantitative in situ-hybridization histochemistry revealed that tetrahydroprogesterone was equipotent with corticosterone in preventing adrenalectomy-induced up-regulation of peptide gene expression. Systemic administration of tetrahydroprogesterone also restrained adrenalectomy-induced thymus enlargement. These results demonstrate that tetrahydroprogesterone has anxiolytic effects that are mediated through interactions with hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone in both, genomic and non-genomic fashions.
In this study we describe the ontogeny of [125I]rat-alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide binding sites in the spinal cord of fetal and postnatal sheep. The density and distribution of binding sites has been compared with the localization of calcitonin gene-related peptide like-immunoreactivity at corresponding stages of development [Nitsos I. and Rees S. (1993) Neuroscience 54, 239-252]. At 68 days of gestation (term = 146 days), the earliest fetal tissue examined, there was no evidence of binding sites in lamina I or the outer regions of lamina II (lamina IIo), although there was a sparse distribution of binding sites in the inner region of lamina II (lamina IIi). By comparison, binding appeared to be more marked in laminae III-V and more concentrated again in laminae VI-X. This distribution essentially remained constant until 124 days, when there appeared to be a marked increase in the density of binding sites throughout the gray matter, particularly in the dorsal horn in the lateral extent of both lamina IIo and IIi as well as in laminae III, V and VI. This increase was also observed in the intermediate zone (lamina VII) and in lamina X. Binding in the ventral horn, which was diffuse until this stage, now became particularly dense in the medial and lateral regions of the horn. From 124 days to one month postnatal, there was no marked change in the density or distribution of binding sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recent studies of autonomic ganglia have shown that specific combinations of neuropeptides and other potential neurotransmitters distinguish different functional types of neurons. In the present paper the patterns of coexistence of neurochemicals in guinea-pig cardiac ganglion cells was examined, using multiple-labelling immunohistochemistry. Many neurons were found to contain somatostatin immunoreactivity with various combinations of immunoreactivity for dynorphin B, substance P, neuropeptide Y and nitric oxide synthase. There were several small populations of neurons without somatostatin immunoreactivity, which contained combinations of immunoreactivity for vasoactive intestinal peptide, neuropeptide Y, dynorphin B, substance P and nitric oxide synthase. Possible synaptic inputs to these populations of ganglion cells were identified using multiple-labelling immunohistochemistry combined with long-term organ culture. These experiments demonstrated that cardiac ganglia contain prominent pericellular baskets of varicose nerve terminals of sympathetic and sensory origin. In addition, populations of intrinsic intraganglionic nerve terminals were identified which were immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal peptide, neuropeptide Y or both peptides. These terminals presumably originate from intrinsic neurons, with the same combinations of neuropeptides, located in other cardiac ganglia. These results have demonstrated that there are diverse populations of cardiac ganglion cells in the guinea-pig and that some of these neurons may act as interneurons within the intrinsic cardiac plexuses. Therefore it is highly likely that vagal transmission in the heart is modified by sympathetic, sensory and intrinsic neurons and that cardiac ganglia are complex integrators of convergent neuronal activity rather than simple relays.
Systemic administration of murine monoclonal acetylcholinesterase antibodies to rats has been shown to cause selective degeneration of sympathetic preganglionic neurons. In the present study rats were subjected to a single i.v. injection of these acetylcholinesterase antibodies, or to normal IgG or saline for control. Exophthalmos, piloerection and eyelid-drooping (ptosis) were observed within 1 h after administration of the antibodies. Rats were killed at different time-points after antibody administration, and the adrenal glands were analysed by means of indirect immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization histochemistry. As soon as 3 h after the antibody treatment, a marked increase in the number of chromaffin cells expressing mRNA encoding, respectively, enkephalin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin, neurotensin and substance P was seen. At 12 h the peptide mRNA levels were still elevated and there was a concomitant increase in the number of peptide-immunoreactive cells. All peptide levels remained high for at least 48 h; however, 77 days after the antibody treatment only enkephalin-immunoreactive cells could be encountered. A disappearance of acetylcholinesterase- and enkephalin-immunoreactive cells could be encountered. A disappearance of acetylcholinesterase- and enkephalin-positive fibers was already seen 3 h after the antibody treatment, and after 24 h no fibers were encountered. In contrast, up until 48 h there was no apparent change in the number or intensity of immunofluorescent fibers expressing calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin, neurotensin or substance P. However, 77 days after the antibody treatment the number of calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-immunoreactive fibers was increased as compared to controls. In addition, reappearance of acetylcholinesterase- and enkephalin-immunoreactive fibers was seen 77 days after antibody administration, although their number was still low as compared to controls. Double-labeling immunohistochemistry revealed that the chromaffin cells expressing peptides after the antibody treatment preferentially were adrenaline storing cells (noradrenaline-negative). The majority of these cells expressed only one peptide. Both surgical transection of the splanchnic nerve as well as treatment with acetylcholine receptor antagonists mimicked the effects seen after the acetylcholinesterase-antibody treatment, although changes were less pronounced. The present results show that interruption of splanchnic transmission induces fast, marked, and selective increases in peptide expression in rat adrenal chromaffin cells.
Intracellular and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from sympathetic preganglionic neurons in rat spinal cord slices. Perfusion of selective ionotropic and metabotropic excitatory amino acid agonists induced depolarizing responses in all neurons. In approximately 20% of neurons the application of these agonists also evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. The application of the ionotropic receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (5-40 microM) blocked the inhibitory postsynaptic potential discharges induced by (S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (0.5-50 microM) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (0.5-50 microM), but failed to block the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials induced by quisqualate (0.5-50 microM) and (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (10-200 microM). Similar inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were seen to occur spontaneously or could be evoked by electrical stimulation of the dorsal horn. The application of tetrodotoxin blocked the spontaneous and evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potential, indicating that they result from activity-dependent release of neurotransmitter. Strychnine antagonized all inhibitory postsynaptic potentials suggesting that they were mediated via glycine receptors. The reversal potential of the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials was -65 mV for intracellular and -55 mV for whole-cell recordings. This latter value is close to the reversal potential for chloride, suggesting that the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were mediated by a chloride conductance. Perfusion of glycine (0.1-1 mM) induced inhibitory hyperpolarizing responses in the majority of neurons. This hyperpolarizing response was associated with a reduction in neuronal input resistance, persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin, was blocked by strychnine and reversed at -55 mV. In some neurons, glycine induced a membrane depolarization and increased the rate of spontaneous action potential firing. This excitatory effect of glycine was blocked by tetrodotoxin, showed voltage dependency and was less sensitive to strychnine than the glycine-induced inhibitory response. We conclude from these data that spinal interneurons which synapse with sympathetic preganglionic neurons can be activated through multiple subtypes of excitatory amino acid receptor, including both ionotropic and metabotropic receptors. These interneurons release glycine to evoke inhibitory postsynaptic potentials which are mediated via a strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor coupled to a chloride conductance.
Coronal slices of midbrain from adult rats, maintained in an interface chamber at 33-35 degrees C, were used to investigate projections from the dorsal raphe nucleus to the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter. Extracellular recordings were made from neurons in the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter. The majority of cells were silent but activity could readily be induced by iontophoretic application of D, L-homocysteic acid from the recording pipette. Neuronal perikarya in the dorsal raphe nucleus were activated either by topical application of 15-100 nl droplets of 1 or 10 mM D,L-homocysteic acid or by iontophoresis into the dorsal raphe nucleus of 0.1 M D,L-homocysteic acid from a five-barrelled glass micropipette. Both forms of stimulation evoked increases or decreases in firing in neurons in the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter. The excitatory responses were evoked only from stimulation sites in the dorsal subnucleus of the dorsal raphe nucleus, whilst inhibitory responses could be evoked by stimulating throughout the nucleus. 5-Hydroxytryptamine was applied by iontophoresis to 55 neurons in the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter. Of these, 89% were inhibited whilst the remaining 11% were excited. No unresponsive cells were found. In a second series of experiments anterograde transport of biocytin was used to study projections from the dorsal raphe nucleus to the periaqueductal gray matter in vitro. Following injections of pellets of biocytin into the dorsal subnucleus of the dorsal raphe nucleus, two types of labelled axons could be distinguished which had either smooth or beaded profiles. Both types of axon could be followed into the region of the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter, from which recordings were made in the electrophysiological experiments. In contrast, following deposits of biocytin into the ventral half of the periaqueductal gray matter, very few labelled axons were found in the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter, although the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray matter was heavily labelled. We conclude that both excitatory and inhibitory projections from the dorsal raphe nucleus to the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter are present in the coronal midbrain slice preparation. Excitatory projections originate from the dorsal subnucleus of the dorsal raphe nucleus and may be mediated by a direct pathway. The inhibitory effects evoked from the ventral half of the dorsal raphe nucleus are probably mediated indirectly, perhaps by activation of inhibitory interneurons in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray matter.
A previously reported depression of glutamate responses by angiotensin II was investigated to define the nature of this neuromodulatory effect. Studies were carried out in an vitro brain slice preparation containing the locus coeruleus, using intracellular recordings, and iontophoretic, micropressure and bath perfusion methods for application of drugs. The angiotensin action was found to be blocked by a non-peptide antagonist specific for the angiotensin type 2 receptor, and not by an antagonist selective for the type 1 receptor. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials mediated primarily by excitatory amino acids were also depressed by angiotensin II. The angiotensin II depressions of glutamate were shown to be strong and highly specific. The low effectiveness of bath-applied compared with iontophoretically or micropressure-applied angiotensin II was found to be at least partly explained by a rapid degradation by peptidases. Ammonium ions and hydrogen ions were also able to depress glutamate responses, but these effects were not specific for locus coeruleus neurons and were mediated independently of the angiotensin actions. Strong depression by angiotensin II of excitatory postsynaptic potentials as well as exogenously applied glutamate strengthens the strong possibility of a physiological role for this neuromodulatory mechanism. The identification of the type 2 angiotensin receptor subtype as the mediator of this effect indicates a novel functional role for this receptor, since previously recognized functions of angiotensin II in the brain, such as vascular and body fluid regulation, have been associated with the type 1 receptor.
The aetiology and pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease are currently poorly understood, but symptomatic disease is associated with amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, neuronal loss and numerous alterations of neurotransmitter systems in the CNS. Monoamine oxidase type B is known to be increased in Alzheimer diseased brains. The distribution and abundance of catalytic sites for monoamine oxidases A and B in post mortem human brains of 11 Alzheimer disease cases and five age-matched controls were investigated by quantitative enzyme radioautography. Using tritiated monoamine oxidase inhibitors (Ro41-1049 and lazabemide)--as high affinity substrates selective for monoamine oxidases A and B, respectively--it was found that monoamine oxidase B activity increased up to three-fold exclusively in temporal, parietal and frontal cortices of Alzheimer disease cases compared with controls. This increase was restricted to discrete patches (approximately 185 microns in diameter) which occupied approximately 12% of the cortical areas examined. In other brain regions (hippocampal formation &gt; caudate-putamen &gt; cerebellum), patches of [3H]lazabemide-enriched binding were less abundant. [3H]Ro41-1049 binding (i.e. monoamine oxidase A) was unchanged in all tissues of diseased versus control brains. The monoamine oxidase B-enriched patches in all cortical regions correlated, in their distribution and frequency, with glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunoreactive clusters of astrocytes. Diffuse and mature beta-amyloid-immunoreactive senile plaques as well as patches of high density binding of [3H]PK-11195--a high-affinity ligand for peripheral-type (mitochondrial) benzodiazepine binding sites in microglia/macrophages--were found throughout Alzheimer diseased cortices. The up-regulation of monoamine oxidase B in plaque-associated astrocytes in Alzheimer's disease--in analogy to its proposed role in neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease--might, indirectly, be a potential source of cytotoxic free radicals. Lazabemide, a selective reversible monoamine oxidase B inhibitor, is currently under clinical evaluation for the treatment of Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. We conclude that enzyme radioautography with [3H]lazabemide is a reliable high resolution assay for plaque-associated astroglioses in Alzheimer's disease. Its clinical diagnostic utility for positron emission tomography or single photon emission computer tomography studies is being investigated.
We have proposed that L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) is a neurotransmitter and/or neuromodulator in the central nervous system [Misu Y. and Goshima Y. (1993) Trends pharmac. Sci. 14, 119-123]. This study aimed to explore whether or not endogenous L-DOPA, as a neurotransmitter candidate of the primary baroreceptor afferents, tonically functions to activate depressor neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarii of anesthetized rats. By parallel microdialysis in bilateral nucleus tractus solitarii areas, the basal L-DOPA release was in part inhibited by tetrodotoxin perfusion (1 microM) or Ca2+ deprivation, and was markedly reduced by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (200 mg/kg, i.p.), a tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor. Forty to 100 mM K+ concentration-dependently released L-DOPA. Fifty millimoles K+ repetitively and constantly released L-DOPA. This release was Ca(2+)-dependent. Stimulation of the left aortic nerve (100 Hz, 8 V) repetitively and constantly released L-DOPA and this release was tetrodotoxin-sensitive. Phenylephrine i.v. infused produced L-DOPA release and reflex bradycardia, temporally associated with a rise and subsequent recovery of blood pressure. This release and bradycardia were abolished by denervation of the bilateral carotid sinus and aortic nerves. In addition, L-DOPA methyl ester, a competitive L-DOPA antagonist, when microinjected into depressor sites of the left nucleus tractus solitarii, antagonized depressor responses to mild stimulation (20 Hz, 3 V) of the ipsilateral aortic nerve. This antagonist alone, microinjected bilaterally, elicited a dose-dependent hypertension, which was abolished by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine. Furthermore, by immunocytochemical analysis seven days after denervation of the left aortic nerve, tyrosine hydroxylase- and L-DOPA-, but not dopamine- and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-immunoreactivities decreased in the ipsilateral nucleus tractus solitarii and dorsal motor vagus nucleus complex area. In the left ganglion nodosum, denervation decreased staining and number of L-DOPA-immunoreactive cells and staining of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells, but no modification of dopamine-immunoreactive cells was seen. Taken together with previous findings that L-DOPA itself is stereoselectively responsible for cardiovascular control in this nucleus, it is probable that L-DOPA is a neurotransmitter of the primary baroreceptor afferents terminating directly in depressor neurons and/or indirectly in some neurons within a microcircuit, including depressor neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarii. Endogenously released L-DOPA itself tonically functions to activate depressor neurons for regulation of blood pressure in the rat nucleus tractus solitarii.
Supraspinal afferents to the pontine micturition center, Barrington's nucleus, were investigated in the rat by visualization of the retrograde tracer, cholera-toxin subunit B, in neurons following iontophoretic injection into Barrington's nucleus. Tissue sections from five rats with injections primarily localized in Barrington's nucleus revealed numerous retrogradely labeled neurons throughout all rostrocaudal levels of the periaqueductal gray (particularly its ventrolateral division), in the lateral hypothalamic area (particularly medial to the fornix), and in the medial preoptic nucleus. Retrogradely labeled neurons were also consistently found in the nucleus of the solitary tract, in the vicinity of the lateral reticular nucleus, nucleus paragigantocellularis, parabrachial nucleus, Klliker-Fuse nucleus, cuneiform nucleus, raphe nucleus and zona incerta. In the hypothalamus, in addition to the perifornical region, retrogradely labeled neurons were found in all cases in the tuberomammillary nucleus, premammillary nucleus, dorsal hypothalamic area, ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, and the paraventricular nucleus. At more rostral levels, in addition to the medial preoptic area, retrogradely labeled neurons were seen in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and in a region just lateral to the supraoptic nucleus near the medial amygdaloid nucleus. Retrogradely labeled neurons were also observed in the motor, insular, and infralimbic cortices. Injections of anterograde tracers (cholera-toxin subunit B or Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin) into the Klliker-Fuse nucleus, the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray, lateral hypothalamic area, or medial preoptic area, resulted in fiber labeling within Barrington's nucleus, confirming the retrograde tracing studies. As previously reported, numerous neurons in Barrington's nucleus were immunoreactive for corticotropin-releasing hormone. Double-labeling studies revealed afferent fibers from the periaqueductal gray and lateral hypothalamic area overlapping the corticotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive neurons of Barrington's nucleus, and in some cases anterogradely labeled fibers with varcosities appeared to target these neurons. The present results suggest that Barrington's nucleus in the rat receives neuronal inputs from brainstem nuclei as well as from forebrain limbic structures including hypothalamic nuclei, the medial preoptic nucleus, and cortical areas involved in fluid balance or blood pressure regulation. In light of the role of Barrington's nucleus in micturition, the integration of these various inputs may be important for co-ordinating urinary function with fluid and cardiovascular homeostasis. Additionally, as neurons in Barrington's nucleus are immunoreactive for the stress-related neurohormone, corticotropin-releasing hormone, these diverse inputs may regulate stress-related functions of this nucleus.
Extracellular single activity was recorded from pericruciate neurons in anaesthetized, paralysed, artificially ventilated cats. A total of 455 neurons were classified antidromically according to their sites of termination along the corticospinal tract and whether they sent collateral branches to the ipsilateral red nucleus and/or to the contralateral nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis. It was found that the majority of the branching fibres that reached the most caudal segments of the cord were fast conducting, while the slower branching axons tended to terminate at more rostral levels of the corticospinal tract. Most of the branching fibres terminated at bulbar and cervical levels (153/182: 84%), and the remaining ended at thoracic (21/182: 11.5%) and at lumbar (8/182: 4.4%) segments of the cord. The non-corticospinal, pyramidal tract fibres branched more (56%) than the corticospinal fibres (26.6%). Within the corticospinal neurons, the degree of branching decreased with distance along the spinal cord. While 57.5% of the pericruciate fibres that projected only as far as the pyramidal tract were slow conducting, the majority of the corticospinal neurons were fast conducting (74.6%). Both pyramidal tract and corticospinal neurons that sent branches to one or to the two sites tested were significantly faster conducting than the neurons which did not branch. A total of 101 corticorubral and corticobulbar neurons which did not respond to pyramidal tract stimulation was also recorded. The data can be of significance in the understanding of co-ordination of different muscles in order to couple movement and posture into a common act. The results are discussed from this point of view.
The cortices of neonatally enucleated rats were explored for somatosensory responses with special reference to an extension into the occipital cortex. Monocular enucleation was performed on rats at birth. The animals were raised and from the age of three months the activity evoked by either electric stimulation of the vibrissa pad or bending of the vibrissae was tested in the contralateral cortex by electric recording and autoradiography. It was found that early enucleation caused an expansion of the somatosensory responses, among others into the visual area. Neurons responsive to visual and somatosensory stimuli were demonstrated in the anterior part of the primary and secondary visual areas, contralateral to the enucleation. Electrophysiological and autoradiographic studies unambiguously proved that early enucleation exerted a significant cross-modal effect on the somatosensory responsive area.
The distribution of immunoreactivity for the neurofilament triplet class of intermediate filament proteins was examined in the hippocampus of young, adult and elderly control cases and compared to that of Alzheimer's disease cases. In a similar fashion to non-human mammalian species, pyramidal neurons in the CA1 region showed a very low degree of neurofilament triplet immunoreactivity in the three younger control cases examined. However, in the other control cases of 49 years of age and older, many CA1 pyramidal neurons showed elevated neurofilament immunoreactivity. In the Alzheimer's disease cases, most of the surviving CA1 neurons showed intense labeling for the neurofilament triplet proteins, with many of these neurons giving off abnormal &quot;sprouting&quot; processes. Double labeling demonstrated that many of these neurons contained tangle-like or granular material that was immunoreactive for abnormal forms of tau and stained with thioflavine S, indicating that these neurons are in a transitional degenerative stage. An antibody to phosphorylated neurofilament proteins labeled a subset of neurofibrillary tangles in the Alzheimer's disease cases. However, following formic acid pre-treatment, the number of neurofibrillary tangles showing phosphorylated neurofilament protein immunoreactivity increased, with double labeling confirming that all of the tau-immunoreactive neurofibrillary tangles were also immunoreactive for phosphorylated neurofilament proteins. Immunoblotting demonstrated that there was a proportionately greater amount of the neurofilament triplet subunit proteins in hippocampal tissue from Alzheimer's disease cases as compared to controls. These results indicate that there are changes in the cytoskeleton of CA1 neurons associated with age which are likely to involve an increase in the level of neurofilament proteins and may be a predisposing factor contributing towards their high degree of vulnerability in degenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease. The cellular factors affecting hippocampal neurons during aging may be potentiated in Alzheimer's disease to result in even higher levels of intracellular neurofilament proteins and the progressive alterations of neurofilaments and other cytoskeletal proteins that finally results in neurofibrillary tangle formation and cellular degeneration.
Melatonin modulates a variety of rhythmic processes in vertebrates, and is synthesized in both the retina and pineal gland. We have shown previously that retinal melatonin is deacetylated generating 5-methoxytryptamine, which is then deaminated by monoamine oxidase, producing 5-methoxyindoleacetic acid and 5-methoxytryptophol. This process occurs within the eyes of a variety of vertebrates including the iguanid lizard Anolis carolinensis. To determine whether melatonin deacetylase activity also occurs in the pineal organ or in other parts of the lizard brain, pineals and brains of Anolis carolinensis and Sceloporus jarrovi were cultured in the presence of [3H-methoxy]-melatonin. High-performance liquid chromatography of the resulting culture media and tissues revealed the generation of radiolabeled 5-methoxytryptamine and 5-methoxyindoleacetic acid. These two methoxyindoles were the only radiolabeled metabolites detectable, and together accounted for all melatonin lost. Both the loss of melatonin and the production of melatonin metabolites were inhibited by inclusion of 100 microM eserine, an inhibitor of the melatonin deacetylase. Pargyline, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, reduced the production of 5-methoxyindoleacetic acid and increased the production of 5-methoxytryptamine relative to control incubations. Similar effects of eserine and pargyline were seen in eyecup, brain and pineal gland, but the specific activity of melatonin deacetylation in cultured pineal glands was much greater than in either brains or eyecups. These results indicate that pineal glands of both Anolis carolinensis and Sceloporus jarrovi can rapidly catabolize melatonin by a mechanism very similar to that in the eye, that the melatonin deacetylation pathway exists elsewhere in the iguanid brain, and also extend our previous observations of ocular melatonin deacetylation to an additional species.
The immunosuppressant drugs cyclosporin A and FK506 bind to small, predominantly soluble proteins cyclophilin and FK506 binding protein, respectively, to mediate their pharmacological actions. The immunosuppressant actions of these drugs occur through binding of cyclophilin-cyclosporin A and FK506 binding protein-FK506 complexes to the calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, calcineurin, inhibiting phosphatase activity. Utilizing immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization and autoradiography, we have localized protein and messenger RNA for FK506 binding protein, cyclophilin and calcineurin. All three proteins and/or messages exhibit a heterogenous distribution through the brain and spinal cord, with the majority of the localizations being neuronal. We observe a striking co-localization of FK506 binding protein and calcineurin in most brain regions and a close similarity between calcineurin and cyclophilin. FK506 binding protein and cyclophilin localizations largely correspond to those of calcineurin, although cyclophilin is enriched in some brain areas that lack calcineurin. The dramatic similarities in localization of FK506 binding proteins and cyclophilins with calcineurin suggest related functions.
The isolectin B4 from Griffonia simplicifolia I binds to a subpopulation of rat small-diameter dorsal root ganglion neurons, and to fibres and presumed terminals in laminae I-II of the spinal cord dorsal horn. In the present study we investigated B4 and B4 conjugated to horseradish peroxidase as potential transganglionic tracers of somatic primary afferent neurons after injection into a peripheral nerve. We also tried to identify the specific subpopulation of dorsal root ganglion neurons that bind and ganglion neurons that bind and transport B4. Following injection of B4 or B4-horseradish peroxidase into the sciatic nerve, labelled presumed terminals that reached peak labelling at two days were found exclusively in regions of the spinal cord gray matter known to receive unmyelinated primary afferent fibres. Almost all dorsal root ganglion cells that transported B4-horseradish peroxidase also bound B4. Cell counts showed that 51% of the dorsal root ganglion neurons were B4-positive and cell area measurements that these were all in the small size range. An extensive overlap was found between B4 and fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase (85%), and between B4 and calcitonin gene-related peptide (59%). Seventeen per cent of the B4-positive cells were substance P-immunoreactive and 9% were immunoreactive to somatostatin. Minimal overlap was seen between B4-positive cells and cells positive for RT97 (3%), a selective marker of primary afferent neurons with myelinated axons. All somatostatin-immunoreactive cells and almost all (95%) of the fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase-positive cells were contained within the B4-positive population. This comprised also 58% of the cells immunoreactive to calcitonin gene-related peptide and 42% of those immunoreactive to substance P. The results obtained show that B4 binds to a subpopulation of unmyelinated primary afferent neurons, and that B4 and B4-horseradish peroxidase can be used as selective transganglionic tracers of this specific cell subpopulation.
