Resting glucose metabolism in the association neocortices, measured with positron emission tomography (PET), is disturbed early and throughout the course of Alzheimer's disease (AD), whereas resting metabolism in the primary sensory and motor neocortices is relatively spared. Neocortical metabolic asymmetries precede and predict appropriate deficits in neocortically-mediated cognitive functions in the initial course of disease, indicating that PET can be used for the early diagnosis and characterization of AD. Metabolic abnormalities of the neocortices in late-stage AD correlate with regional densities of neurofibrillary tangles but not of senile plaques post mortem, suggesting that tangle formation is important in disease pathogenesis. Despite demonstrating reduced resting glucose metabolism, visual association areas demonstrate equivalent (as percent baseline) blood flow responses in mildly-moderately demented AD patients and controls who are performing a face matching task. Thus, viability and integrity of this cortical circuitry is retained into the intermediate stages of the disease, and glucose delivery to the AD brain can be increased.






Recently, several electrophysical studies have shown that extraocular sensory afferents projected onto subcortical nuclei and cortical area as well. In a recent study of the projection fields of the primary afferent fibers from extraocular muscles, it has been shown that the intermediate layers of the cervical dorsal horn of the spinal cord was one of the recipient zone.

Whilst this conference presented no new or exciting breakthroughs in our understanding of the psychosocial or neuropsychological aspects of HIV disease, there were some useful contributions to our knowledge in these areas. Previous work suggesting that HIV seropositive individuals with HIV are no more likely to suffer poor psychosocial adjustment than matched HIV-controls. However, where psychiatric disorders are seen, the most common are adjustment disorders followed by drug and alcohol abuse. Mania, whilst quite rare, may be more commonly seen with HIV than should be expected. People with asymptomatic HIV infection appear to be no more likely to show a cognitive deficit than matched HIV-individuals and this appears to be equally true for gay men, intra-venous drug users and people with haemophilia. However, as the disease progresses, neuropsychological impairment, or even dementia, may be seen and when this occurs the pattern of decline appears to be precipitous rather than insidious.

The effect of ethanol (etOH) on dopamine (DA) metabolism in the caudate nucleus (CN), olfactory tubercle (OT) and medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) was compared in 2 selectively bred lines of rats, one etOH-preferring (sP) and the other -non preferring (sNP). EtOH (2 g/kg per os), administered 60 min before killing, caused a significant increase in concentrations of the DA metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA), and reduced DA levels in CN and OT in sNP rats. On the other hand in sP rats, etOH increased the content of DA metabolites in all the 3 areas analyzed. These changes induced by etOH in DA metabolism were significantly greater in sP than in sNP rats. The above data indicate that sP rats have a genetic high sensitivity to etOH effect on DA metabolism probably linked to etOH preference.
Comparisons of analog and pulsatile coding strategies for multichannel cochlear prostheses are reviewed. The results are related to design considerations for pediatric implants, including efficacy, safety, ease of fitting, and access to future improvements.
Quantification of synaptophysinlike immunoreactivity is a valuable method for studying the presynaptic terminals in the normal and damaged nervous system. The present report shows that in the control brain, the predominant pattern of synaptic immunostaining in the neocortex was that of an evenly distributed densely granular immunolabeling of the neuropil, while in the paleocortex and in subcortical areas of the brain most of the presynaptic terminals were distributed along the dendritic arborizations or around the neuronal somata. The immunochemical and the immunohistochemical analysis of the Alzheimer's disease tissue showed that the frontal and parietal cortex presented the most severe and widespread loss, with a 45% loss in synaptophysin immunoreactivity. These areas showed an average 35% loss of large neurons. The visual cortex, hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, nucleus basalis of Meynert, and locus ceruleus displayed some degree of loss, but to a lesser extent. In addition to this loss, the basic patterns of organization of the presynaptic terminals were altered, with the presence of abundant, enlarged synaptophysin-labeled terminals. This study further supports the role of synaptic pathology in Alzheimer's disease.
Two experiments examined the role of the sympathetic nerves in estradiol-induced fat pad weight losses in ovariectomized (OVX) rats. Rats were OVX, and the retroperitoneal white adipose tissue (RWAT) was unilaterally denervated 4 wk later. After 14 days of treatment with estradiol benzoate (EB, 2 micrograms/day), the intact pads lost 23% more weight than the denervated pads. There was no effect of denervation on fat pad weight or on cytosol estrogen receptor concentration in RWAT in the animals treated with sesame oil vehicle. These data suggest that the sympathetic nerves play a role in estrogen-induced reductions in fat pad weight but not via changes in adipose tissue cytosol estrogen receptors. A second experiment examined whether estradiol-induced fat pad weight losses are accompanied by increased norepinephrine (NE) turnover, an index of sympathetic activity, in adipose tissue. Rats were OVX and treated with EB or sesame oil vehicle. NE turnover was assessed by measuring the decline of tissue NE over time after injection of alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, an inhibitor of tyrosine hydroxylase activity and thus NE biosynthesis. NE turnover in RWAT, but not heart, was significantly greater in animals treated with EB, suggesting that estradiol decreases fat pad weight in part by increasing sympathetic nervous system activity. It is possible that estradiol acts in the brain to regulate the activity of the sympathetic nerves to white adipose tissue and peripherally to alter adipose tissue responsiveness to catecholamines.
The effects of pregnancy and ovarian steroids on the in vivo distribution of newly synthesized fatty acids (incorporation of tritium from 3H2O into fatty acid) in Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) were examined. During late, but not early, gestation hamsters had reduced levels of newly synthesized fatty acids in heart, liver, uterus, and white adipose tissues (parametrial and inguinal fat pads). Treatment of ovariectomized hamsters with estradiol + progesterone significantly decreased fatty acid synthesis-uptake in heart, liver, and inguinal white adipose tissue. Treatment with either estradiol or progesterone alone was without significant effect in any tissue. Pretreatment of hamsters with Triton WR-1339 (tyloxapol), an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase activity and tissue triglyceride uptake, abolished the effects of estradiol + progesterone in white adipose tissue and heart but not in liver. Thus hamsters lose body fat during pregnancy in part because of decreased de novo lipogenesis. The effect of pregnancy on lipogenesis is mimicked by treatment with estradiol + progesterone but not by either hormone alone. Furthermore, it appears that the liver is the principal site of estradiol + progesterone action on lipogenesis in Syrian hamsters.



The immunoreactivity in OZ42, a neural cell specific antibody that recognizes premigratory cerebellar granule cells, was examined in early postnatal wild-type and weaver mouse cerebella. We find that the OZ42-positive staining in the external granular layer (EGL) is first seen at postnatal day 1 in the most posterior and ventral aspect of midline cerebellum in the wild-type and heterozygous weaver mouse. By postnatal day 4 strong immunoreactivity is observed in the EGL of all cerebellar lobules. This staining is localized to a band of immunoreactive cells present at the interface of the EGL and the molecular layer (ML). In the homozygous weaver cerebellum, OZ42-positive staining is not seen until postnatal day 3. In the postnatal day 4 weaver cerebellum, immunoreactivity is considerably ligther than in littermate control cerebella, and found throughout the width of the EGL (i.e., not localized to the EGL-ML interface). This study demonstrates that the expression of a specific marker of granule cell development is abnormal in the granule cell population of the homozygous weaver mouse, a population of cells known to be intrinsically affected by the action of this mutant gene. In the light of previous studies, which have shown that the weaver phenotype is identifiable as early as the day of birth, and that the OZ42-antigen may be involved with the development process of axonal growth, it is reasonable to suggest that the weaver mutation results in an abnormality in the ability of granule cells to produce and/or stabilize axons.
A fetuin-like glycoprotein (FLG) has been shown to be present in early cortical plate cells in the developing brain of the tammar wallaby (Macropus eugenii). The developmental sequence of the occurrence of glycoprotein-positive fibres and cells in the dorsolateral telencephalic wall from newborn to day 40 is described. The level of FLG in CSF (cerebrospinal fluid) and plasma of the tammar wallaby has also been measured during pouch life. The presence of FLG in early postnatal fibre systems and in some cells in the primordial plexiform layer, as well as in early cortical plate cells of the tammar is similar to that of fetuin in fetal brain in sheep, pig and cow, and alpha 2HS glycoprotein in human fetal brain. The sequence of appearance of FLG-positive cells during neocortical development in the tammar is strikingly similar to that of a transient population of early cortical plate cells previously described in fetal cat and sheep cortex. During postnatal development, levels of FLG in tammar plasma and CSF follow a pattern different from that of other species. The developmental expression of all three related glycoproteins in their respective species is discussed.
Control of an active above-knee prosthesis has been simulated for a selected gait activity using a hierarchical closed-loop method. An extension of finite-state control, referred to as artificial reflex control, was adopted at the strategic level of control. At the actuator level of control an optimal tracking method, based on dynamic programming, is applied. This deals mainly with the actuator level of control, but considers the interaction of the leg dynamics and the switching effects of artificial reflex control. Optimal tracking at the actuator level of the above-knee prosthesis reduces the on-off effects of finite-state methods, such as artificial reflex control. The proposed method can also be used for the design of prosthetic elements. Specific attention is paid to the limited torque and power in the prosthetic joint actuator, which are imposed by the principle of self-containment in the artificial leg. The hierarchical structure, integrating artificial reflex control and optimal tracking, can be used in real time, as estimated from the number of computer operations required for the suggested method.
Implanted wire electrodes are increasingly being used for the functional electrical stimulation of muscles in partially paralysed patients, yet many of their basic characteristics are poorly understood. In this study we investigated the selectivity, recruitment characteristics and range of control of several types of electrode in triceps surae and plantaris muscles of anaesthetized cats. We found that nerve cuffs are more efficient and selective (i.e., cause less stimulus spread to surrounding muscles) than intramuscular electrodes. Bipolar intramuscular stimulation was more efficient and selective than monopolar stimulation, but only if the nerve entry point was between the electrodes. Monopolar electrodes are efficient and selective if located close to the nerve entry point, but their performance declines with distance from it. Nonetheless, for a variety of reasons monopolar stimulation provides the best compromise in many current applications. Short duration pulses offer the best efficiency (least charge per pulse to elicit force) but high peak currents, increasing the risk of electrode corrosion and tissue damage. Electrode size has little effect on recruitment and should therefore be maximised because this minimises current density.
Wiener-like orthogonal functional expansions may be constructed with respect to test ensembles that are non-Gaussian, nonwhite, or both. Although the original Wiener expansion has particularly advantageous analytical properties, orthogonal expansions constructed with respect to other ensembles have practical advantages for laboratory implementation. We show how functional expansions based on two classes of input ensembles--white but non-Gaussian discrete noises and the sum of sinusoids--converge to the standard Wiener kernels. For discrete noises, the disparity between the standard and nonstandard kernels of a linear-static nonlinear transducer is proportional to the kurtosis of the input signal and inversely proportional to the ratio of the integration time of the linear filter to the time discretization. For the sum of sinusoids, the disparity is inversely proportional to the effective number of sinusoids passed by the initial linear stage.
A comprehensive diagnostic evaluation was administered to 162 closed head-injured patients within 1 to 21 days (mean, 7.5 days) after injury. Each evaluation consisted of (1) power spectral analyses of electroencephalogram (EEG) recorded from 19 scalp locations referenced to age-matched norms, (2) brainstem auditory evoked potentials, (3) computed tomography (CT)-scan, and (4) Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) at time of admission (GCS-A) and at time of EEG test (GCS-T). Functional outcome at one year following injury was assessed using the Rappaport Disability Rating Scale (DRS), which measures the level of disability in the six diagnostic categories of (1) eye opening, (2) best verbal response, (3) best motor response, (4) self-care ability for feeding, grooming, and toileting, (5) level of cognitive functioning, and (6) employability. The ability of the different diagnostic measures to predict outcome at one year following injury was assessed using stepwise discriminant analyses to identify patients in the extreme outcome categories of complete recovery versus death and multivariate regression analyses to predict patients with intermediate outcome scores. The best combination of predictor variables was EEG and GCS-T, which accounted for 74.6% of the variance in the multivariate regression analysis of intermediate outcome scores and 95.8% discriminant accuracy between good outcome and death. The best single predictors of outcome in both the discriminant analyses and the regression analyses were EEG coherence and phase. A gradient of prognostic strength of diagnostic measures was EEG phase greater than EEG coherence greater than GCS-T greater than CT-scan greater than EEG relative power. The value of EEG coherence and phase in the assessment of diffuse axonal injury was discussed.


In contrast to the abortive regrowth that occurs when axons are interrupted in the adult mammalian CNS, exposure of injured CNS axons to the nonneuronal milieu of a peripheral nerve can lead to extensive axonal elongation. With the application of this experimental approach to the retinocollicular pathway in adult rodents, it has been possible to investigate the influences of neuron-glia and other interactions on the capacity of axotomized CNS neurons to survive injury, to elongate the distances necessary to reach specific targets, and to form connections in the CNS in adult rodents. The results of these investigations indicate that the changed glial environment provided by peripheral nerve grafts permits the guided regeneration of RGC axons to their CNS targets. Back in the CNS glial environment, regenerated axons penetrate their targets for short distances and re-form normal appearing synapses that can excite or inhibit postsynaptic neurons. Further studies will require a better understanding of intrinsic neuronal properties and of the interactions of these neurons with other neurons and with the cellular and noncellular components of the extraneural milieu.



A novel compound designated HP 128, which manifests adrenergic and cholinergic properties, was administered for 10 days to patients with Alzheimer's disease in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. All patients who entered the trial had previously failed to respond to a structurally related cholinesterase inhibitor without adrenergic properties (HP 029). The primary purpose of the study was to assess the safety and tolerance of HP 128. Efficacy measures were obtained to generate hypotheses for possible future studies. In the dosage range examined, HP 128 was safe and well tolerated. Effects on clinical measures of dementia severity were equivocal.
HP 029 (1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-9-aminoacridin-1-ol-maleate) is a cholinesterase inhibitor and one of a series of compounds synthesized at Hoechst-Roussel Pharmaceuticals Inc. (HRPI) as a potential therapeutic agent for senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT). An ongoing clinical development program for HP 029 (velnacrine maleate) reflects a rational, traditional progression from therapeutic concept through clinical evaluation. Prior to the initiation of outpatient studies, sufficient data had been obtained from normal volunteers and hospitalized patients to support the following conclusions: the pharmacokinetic profile of HP 029 in young and elderly normal men is predictable; tolerance and safety data for HP 029 using normal volunteers poorly correlates with experience in patients with SDAT; patients with SDAT exhibit marked intersubject variability in tolerance within a suspected therapeutic dose range; mandatory endpoints for drug discontinuation for outpatients can be reliably established in an inpatient environment. Subsequently, Protocol 201 was initiated as a multicenter, multistage investigation of HP 029 in patients with probable SDAT (NINCDS-ADRDA criteria). A dose-ranging component determined patient eligibility for a subsequent dose-replication phase based upon explicit safety and efficacy criteria defined within protocol. One a priori specified interim analysis was conducted by the sponsor (HRPI) for administrative purposes after completing approximately 50% of the planned sample (September 1989). Results suggested that (1) beneficial effects of HP 029 existed on key and secondary measures for the approximately 30% of enrolled patients; (2) interim results would provide an accurate reflection of the results at the conclusion of the study (1991); (3) HP 029-induced hepatocellular injury appeared to be a reversible, predominantly dose-related event; and (4) cholinergically mediated adverse events are infrequent and clinically inconsequential at dosages less than or equal to 225 mg/day. Post hoc hypotheses based on the interim dataset suggest that: (1) carry-over effects of HP 029 exist within a dose-ranging/dose-replication paradigm that militate against the utility of an &quot;enriched population&quot; design; (2) beneficial effects are more robust on initial exposure to HP 029 with effects discerned on both memory and arousal; (3) patient characteristics associated with toxicity or response are not identified; (4) dosage reduction in subsequent efficacy trials may reduce hepatocellular injury and yield clinically unimportant differences in overall efficacy results.
Olfactory deficits and degenerative changes in central olfactory pathways are prominent in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We hypothesized that peripheral olfactory neurons that reside in the nasal epithelium would show degenerative changes similar to the characteristic pathologic features of AD brain. Immunohistochemical studies of nasal tissue taken at autopsy reveal extensive degeneration in the sensory epithelium as well as abnormal neurites that share immunoreactive epitopes with dystrophic neurites and neurofibrillary tangles of the AD brain. The neuritic masses are stained with well-characterized monoclonal antibodies that do not normally stain olfactory neurons but which are very reactive with dystrophic neuritic structures and neurofibrillary tangles in AD brain. These include antibodies to phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated neurofilament subunits, tau, and also ALZ50, which is characteristically reactive with AD but not with normal brains. Such changes are present in 81% of AD patients. Similar accumulations of ectopic neurites are found in the olfactory epithelium of about 22% of non-demented patients. Preliminary statistical analysis fails to reveal any age-linked association. It has been proposed that the aged monkey is a good model for AD inasmuch as amyloid accumulations similar to those of humans are found in monkey brain. We examined a series of 13 rhesus monkeys, including aged animals with behavioral deficits. Although the olfactory epithelium was very similar to that of humans, no abnormal olfactory structures were observed. Aged rhesus monkeys do not appear to be a good model for the neuritic abnormalities of AD.



Immunologic and biochemical studies demonstrate that beta 1-class integrin heterodimers mediate attachment and neurite outgrowth by primary neurons and neuronal cell lines in response to neurite-promoting ECM molecules. Individual cells are likely to express several alpha beta 1 integrins, each possessing unique ligand specificities. In some cases, a cell may express two beta 1 integrins that recognize different binding domains in a single ECM ligand, as appears to be the case for the alpha 3 beta 1 and alpha 1 beta 1 integrins on PC12 cells. Thus, the responses of a neuron to even a single ligand may be regulated by the combined action of several receptors. Finally, preliminary studies suggest that neurons can regulate the ligand specificity of individual integrin heterodimers (e.g., alpha 1 beta 1). Given the tremendous diversity in the extracellular matrix surrounding them, it is not surprising that neurons possess intrinsic factors that dictate if and how they respond to a particular ECM component.

SP is involved in sensory transmission as a mediator of excitation at target tissues following its release from the terminals of certain primary afferent fibers. In view of the pronounced SP effects on the perikarya of sensory neurons, it seems reasonable to suggest that its actions may extend to autoreceptors and to the enhancement of the excitabilities of sensory neurons that do not synthesize the peptide. This hypothesis would be strengthened by the demonstration of nonsynaptic release of SP within sensory ganglia, which would provide another site for interaction of SP with the various component cells of the sensory system.


No single technology in isolation can provide a full view of the anatomoclinical principles evident in the clinical populations we study. The dynamic nature of quantitative electrophysiology makes it an ideal complement to anatomic and metabolic imaging. The statistical conundrum it has presented may be resolved by the approach incorporated in CART. The intent of this study was to examine QEEG and CART in the evaluation of the neurologic bases of a well-defined behavioral disorder like aphasia. The combined power of QEEG and CART yielded objective electrophysiologic methods to predict aphasia that rival the reliability of the language examination. Such success is unprecedented. This success allows us to incorporate QEEG and CART into our technological armamentarium and to return to the evaluation of less well-understood disorders with confidence in both our findings and anatomoclinical principles we derive from them.


Clinical studies of cognitive effects of ACTH fragments carried out so far with ACTH (1-10) and (4-9) (Org. 2766) brought about inconsistent and partly disappointing results. Efficacy could not be demonstrated in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). A possible reason for these results is the low metabolic stability and low lipophilicity of these compounds. HOE 427 has a considerably prolonged metabolic stability, has a high lipophilicity, and is much more potent than are existing compounds in pharmacologic models of memory and learning. It also was proven to have significant effects on ACh metabolism. Single dose studies in groups of mildly cognitively impaired elderly subjects and in patients with AD showed slight but significant effects on attention and mood. The effects were less consistent in patients than in healthy subjects.



Monoclonal antibodies (designated XIF1 and IIIG5) recognizing distinct epitopes of the human truncated nerve growth factor receptor (NGF-Rt) were used in a two-site radiometric immunosorbent assay to monitor levels of NGF-Rt in human urine as a function of age. Urine samples were collected from 70 neurologically normal subjects ranging in age from 1 month to 68 years. By using this sensitive two-site radiometric immunosorbent assay, NGF-Rt levels were found to be highest in urine from 1-month old subjects. By 2.5 months, NGF-Rt values were half of those seen at 1 month and decreased more gradually between 0.5 and 15 years. Between 15 and 68 years, urine NGF-Rt levels were relatively constant at 5% of 1-month values. No evidence for diurnal variation of adult NGF-Rt was apparent. Pregnant women in their third trimester showed significantly elevated urine NGF-Rt values compared with age-matched normals. Affinity labeling of NGF-Rt with 125I-NGF followed by immunoprecipitation with ME20.4-IgG and gel autoradiography indicated that neonatal urine contained high amounts of truncated receptor (Mr = 50 kd); decreasingly lower amounts of NGF-Rt were observed on gel autoradiograms with development, indicating that the two-site radiometric immunosorbent assay correlated well with the affinity labeling technique for measuring NGF-Rt. NGF-Rt in urines from 1-month-old and 36-year-old subjects showed no differences in affinities for NGF or for the monoclonal antibody IIIG5. These data show that NGF-Rt is developmentally regulated in human urine, and are discussed in relation to the development and maturation of the peripheral nervous system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The central nervous system was examined in 135 adult AIDS patients who died between August 1982 and December 1990. Twenty two brains showed non-diagnostic changes including microglial nodules, discrete myelin pallor with reactive astrocytosis, mineralization of blood vessels and granular ependymitis. In 105 brains with specific changes, toxoplasmosis was the most frequent finding (55 cases) manifested by multifocal necrotic lesions or diffuse pseudo-encephalitic process. Other opportunists included cytomegalovirus (21 case), progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (1 cases), cryptococcosis (6 cases), mycobacterium avium intracellulaire (2 cases), varicella-zoster virus (2 cases), aspergillosis (1 case) and multiple bacterial microabscesses (1 case). Multinucleated giant cells were found in 52 cases. In 40 cases, they were widely disseminated throughout the brain and in 39 cases, they were associated with diffuse or multifocal white matter changes. Fifteen cases had a cerebral lymphoma, 9 hepatic encephalopathy, 1 centropontine myelinolysis and 1 focal pontine leukoencephalopathy. Three cases had a cerebral haemorrhage due to disseminated intravascular coagulation, antithrombin therapy and amyloid angiopathy. Spinal changes in 13 cases included vacuolar myelopathy (7 cases), HIV myelitis (1 case) and ganglio-radiculitis (1 cases), cytomegalovirus myelo-radiculitis (1 case) secondary spread from a lymphoma (1 case) and spinal infarcts due to disseminated intravascular coagulation (1 case). These lesions were frequently atypical and various combinations of all these pathologies were encountered in the same brain, sometimes in the same area and occasionally in the same cell. Chronological variations in the incidence of some complications could be related to changes in treatment.



In keeping with our promise earlier in this review, we summarize here the process by which we believe spatial cues are used for localizing a sound source in a free-field listening situation. We believe it entails two parallel processes: 1. The azimuth of the source is determined using differences in interaural time or interaural intensity, whichever is present. Wightman and colleagues (1989) believe the low-frequency temporal information is dominant if both are present. 2. The elevation of the source is determined from spectral shape cues. The received sound spectrum, as modified by the pinna, is in effect compared with a stored set of directional transfer functions. These are actually the spectra of a nearly flat source heard at various elevations. The elevation that corresponds to the best-matching transfer function is selected as the locus of the sound. Pinnae are similar enough between people that certain general rules (e.g. Blauert's boosted bands or Butler's covert peaks) can describe this process. Head motion is probably not a critical part of the localization process, except in cases where time permits a very detailed assessment of location, in which case one tries to localize the source by turning the head toward the putative location. Sound localization is only moderately more precise when the listener points directly toward the source. The process is not analogous to localizing a visual source on the fovea of the retina. Thus, head motion provides only a moderate increase in localization accuracy. Finally, current evidence does not support the view that auditory motion perception is anything more than detection of changes in static location over time.
Norrie disease is an X-linked recessive disorder characterized by congenital blindness and, in many cases, mental retardation. Some Norrie disease cases have been shown to be associated with a submicroscopic deletion in chromosomal region Xp11.3. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was collected from four male patients with an X-chromosomal deletion associated with Norrie disease. CSF proteins were resolved using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and then analyzed by computer using the Elsie V program. Our analysis revealed a protein that appears to be altered in patients with Norrie disease deletion.
Different factors influencing two-dimensional gel electrophoresis of red cell membrane proteins were studied: membrane preparation and sample solubilization with a special regard to proteolytic artifacts, urea addition, slab gel acrylamide concentrations and silver staining methods. Spot patterns were analyzed both visually and by means of computer-assisted densitometry. A resolution of around 450 spots was achieved on 10% acrylamide slab gels. The reproducibility of the whole two-dimensional gel electrophoresis procedure was assessed by analysis of computer generated spot densities on gels which were run simultaneously with the same sample. It was shown that the standard red cell membrane preparation method does not lead to proteolysis, contamination by cytosolic proteins, or proteins from other cell types. In comparison with previous studies the relatively high resolution seemed to be due to a high solubilization efficiency combined with the use of a sensitive silver staining method.
The binding of [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate to a cockroach brain preparation was investigated. Specific binding was saturable with a Kd of 0.25 nM and Scatchard analysis indicated a Bmax of 604 pmol/mg protein. Kinetic analysis indicated that the ligand is binding in a complex fashion while dissociation followed a simple kinetic process. The pharmacology of the site was typical of muscarinic receptors but the site cannot be characterized in terms of vertebrate muscarinic-receptor subtypes. Affinity of the receptor for agonists was modulated by Mg2+ and guanylylimidodiphosphate but not by pertussis toxin indicating the involvement of a pertussis-toxin insensitive G-protein. Carbamylcholine did not inhibit basal or forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. The binding site was localized autoradiographically and was restricted to the median and lateral calyces of the brain.
Epithelial and neural mechanisms underlying trigeminal chemoreception were investigated by recording lingual nerve responses to chemical stimulation of the tongue. The chloride salts, NaCl, KCl, NH4Cl, and CaCl2, each elicited distinctly different, integrated whole-nerve responses (thresholds, 0.5-2.0 M). Incubation of the tongue with lanthanum (2.5 mM), which reduces the permeability of epithelial tight junctions, reversibly attenuated these salts responses. It did not affect neural responses to mechanical and thermal stimuli. Incubation with other established transport inhibitors--amiloride, tetra-ethyl ammonium or tetrodotoxin, had no effect on the salt responses. Acetic and hydrochloric acids (thresholds, 0.1-1.0 M), and MgCl2 and BaCl2 (greater than or equal to 0.5 M), also elicited distinctive responses. Other salts, MgSO4, Na isethionate and LaCl3 (greater than or equal to 1.0 M), and also ethanol (4 M), capsaicin (100 mM), nicotine (29.6 mM) and dextrose (0.5-2.5 M), did not elicit responses. These results indicate that ions of selected salts can diffuse through the tight junctions of the lingual epithelium to activate the trigeminal nerve, and suggest that both the cation and the anion may be important in determining if the nerves are activated and the wave-form of the responses.
Changing the interaural time difference (ITD) of a continuous binaural noise causes a shift in the perceived lateralization of the noise and evokes a late auditory evoked potential with negative peak at 130 ms and a positive peak at 220 ms. The response is mainly evoked by stimulus frequencies below 2,000 Hz and is mediated through the middle and apical regions of the cochlea. The threshold for perceiving the lateralization reversal and for eliciting a clear evoked potential is approximately 15 dB higher than the intensity required to perceive the onset of the noise. Increasing the ITD up to 1.0 ms increases the amplitude of the evoked potential and the perceived lateralization of the noise. Further increases in the ITD decrease the amplitude of the evoked potential and make the perception of the sound less 'compact'. Decreasing the intensity of the sound in one ear decreases the response to a change in ITD, but recognizable responses occur with interaural intensity differences up to 30 dB.
The aim of this study was to quantify the movements of the wood mouse Apodemus sylvaticus in its home range. The movements were recorded using a new tracking method: it consisted of tracking a visually tagged wood mouse by a telescope from an observation tower and automatically recording the successive positions of this telescope (corresponding to the successive positions of the wood mouse in the field). Statistical analysis of 51 recorded movements, involving 10 wood mice, was carried out. The characteristics of the general movement patterns fitted a first order correlated random walk model. Furthermore, the detailed structure of paths was quantified. An analysis of variance showed that an individual factor was involved in metric and temporal movement characteristics but not in the statistical structure of the paths. Lastly, examination of all the movements of 6 wood mice, with for which at least 4 different paths were recorded, revealed their space use patterns within their home ranges.
Drugs such as phencyclidine (PCP) that interact with PCP and sigma binding sites can produce psychotomimetic effects that resemble some symptoms of schizophrenia. Therefore, it has been suggested that PCP and sigma receptors may be important in the clinical manifestations of schizophrenia. Assays of these two binding sites in human postmortem brains showed consistent significant reductions in the density of sigma, but not PCP sites, in schizophrenics as compared with age-matched and postmortem interval-matched normal and suicide controls. Reductions in the density of sigma binding sites in schizophrenia were most prominent in temporal cerebral cortex, and were accompanied by a small increase in affinity for the ligand [3H]haloperidol. These data provide the first evidence for alterations in sigma binding sites in schizophrenia, and suggest that selective sigma ligands may be useful in the treatment of the disorder.
Coupling between beta cells through gap junctions has been postulated as a principal mechanism of electrical synchronization of glucose-induced activity throughout the islet of Langerhans. We characterized junctional conductance between isolated pairs of mouse pancreatic beta cells by whole-cell recording with two independent patch-clamp circuits. Most pairs were coupled (67%, n = 155), although the mean junctional conductance (gj) (215 +/- 110 pS) was lower than reported in other tissues. Coupling could be recorded for long periods, up to 40 min. Voltage imposed across the junctional or nonjunctional membranes had no effect on gj. Up to several hours of treatment to increase intracellular cAMP levels did not affect gj. Electrically coupled pairs did not show transfer of the dye Lucifer yellow. Octanol (2 mM) reversibly decreased gj. Lower concentrations of octanol (0.5 mM) and heptanol (0.5 mM) than required to uncouple beta cells decreased voltage-dependent K+ and Ca2+ currents in nonjunctional membranes. Although gj recorded in these experiments would be expected to be provided by current flowing through only a few channels of the unitary conductance previously reported for other gap junctions, no unitary junctional currents were observed even during reversible suppression of gj by octanol. This result suggests either that the single channel conductance of gap junction channels between beta cells is smaller than in other tissues (less than 20 pS) or that the small mean conductance is due to transitions between open and closed states that are too rapid or too slow to be resolved.
The application of principles of biorheology, hemorheology and perihemorheology on problems of the nervous system in health and disease was suggested by Alfred L. Copley (1982, 1987). Late in 1988 Copley and Sourander considered neurobiorheology to be an appropriate term for a new branch of biorheology bridging the gap between biorheology and neurobiology. Neurobiorheology can be defined as a research field concerned with deformation behaviour of matter including flow and transportation in context with the structure and function of the nervous system at macroscopic, cellular, subcellular and molecular levels. It may be considered a basic life science with important clinical applications. Its &quot;raison d'tre&quot; should be to apply various ways of thinking, calculations and techniques used in biorheology to treat and if possible to solve neurobiological problems. Many regionally different chemical, structural and functional properties characterize the developing and adult nervous system and those parts of the circulatory system (&quot;vessel-blood organ&quot;) which penetrate the nervous system at all levels. Considering the close metabolic and functional relations between neurons and surrounding non-neuronal ectodermal cells, neuroglial and Schwann cells deriving from common precursor cells in the wall of the neural tube and neural crest respectively, the term neuroectodermal organ appears suitable. The almost parallel ontogenetic evolution of vessel-blood organ and neuroectodermal organ and their interaction during the entire individual life cycle constitutes a challenging stimulus for integrated research. The main purpose of this review is to give some examples of importance concerning still insufficiently elucidated neurobiological problems suitable for biorheological approaches. Particular attention will be paid to the microenvironment at central and peripheral levels of the neuroectodermal organ.
An enzyme sensor is developed using carbon fiber to measure acetylcholine concentration. The mechanism is based on the detection of H2O2 which is a product of the sequential enzyme reactions of acetylcholinesterase and choline oxidase. The fabrication of the electrode is described. The sensor is polarized at 1.2 V. Enzymes are co-immobilized in polyvinyl alcohol containing styryl pyrydinium (photo-crosslinkable polymer). A fast response time of 0.8 min is obtained. A linear correlation is observed between 0.2 and 1.0 mM. Other optimal operational conditions with respect to pH, temperature and stability are discussed. The use of carbon fiber containing co-immobilized enzymes could offer several novel advantages especially in neuroscience research. In conclusion, the aims of the present work are centered on carbon fiber electrode fabrication, immobilization and electrochemical measurements.


Non-traumatic 'spontaneous' CSF fistulae are uncommon. The clinical features of 23 patients treated for non-traumatic CSF fistulae are presented. Twenty of these patients had normal CSF pressure and six developed meningitis. Surgical repair of these fistulae is recommended in order to reduce the risk of meningitis. For this their localization is essential.
The effect of therapy on aphasic syndromes in patients with brain tumours is poorly documented. A case in which resection of a metastatic lesion led to resolution of a fluent dysphasia that had not responded to corticosteroid therapy is presented. As well as surgical and neurolinguistic interest this case demonstrates that CT diagnosis of malignant glioma can be erroneous and may lead to sub-optimal treatment.
The Mauthner neurons have become synonymous with the C start evasive response of fishes. C starts are a two-part movement pattern. First, the fish bends its body so that it has a C-like profile (stage 1) when viewed from above. Second, the fish rapidly accelerates away from its starting position (stage 2). Until recently, it has been possible to determine the contribution of Mauthner cell activity to the expression of this behavior. In this paper we focus on three of our recent papers that address this issue. Our work combines high-speed digital image analysis of the C start with chronic Mauthner cell and electromyographic recordings, lesions of the Mauthner cells, and stimulation of single Mauthner axons in swimming fishes. This work shows that the firing of the Mauthner cell results in a short-latency body contraction that orients the initial stage of the C start away from the direction of the threatening stimulus. The direction of the escape trajectory, however, is more finely tuned to stimulus angle than can be explained by the firing of just the Mauthner cell and its post-synaptic followers. Precise control of trajectory must, therefore, require participation of other neurons. These neurons together with the Mauthner cell form a system that we term the brain stem escape network. We have identified candidate neurons of this network which can now be studied at the single-cell level. Because of both its accessibility for neurophysiological study and its neuroanatomical simplicity, we assert that the brain stem escape network is a useful preparation for understanding fundamental processes of sensorimotor integration in the brain stem.
Ludwig Mauthner was only 19 years old when he published his discovery of the colossal fibers in the spinal cord of fishes which now bear his name. Based on Mauthner's works, archival material, and contemporary sources we provide a summary of his life and work as neuroanatomist and ophthalmologist in imperial Austria. In the years 1859-1863 Mauthner published four papers on the structure of the central nervous system in vertebrates. His first report on fishes contains the original description of a 'colossal myelinated nerve fiber' on each side of the central canal, extending through the entire spinal cord. Another, more general, treatise on 'the morphological elements of the nervous system' (published in 1863) summarizes his neurohistological studies of various vertebrates. It includes a classification of nerve cells based on their (histochemical) reaction to carmine. The main findings were soon shown to be artefactual; the paper had a long-range impact, however, because it provoked fruitful controversy among contemporary neuroanatomists. Mauthner published several monographs and numerous articles in ophthalmology, a newly developing branch of medicine that he chose for his later career. After abruptly resigning from a professorship at Innsbruck University, he opened a private practice in Vienna and continued lecturing in his field. He became a noted eye-surgeon, was elected Assistant Director of the Vienna 'Allgemeine Poliklinik', and in 1894 became Professor and Chair of Ophthalmology at the University of Vienna. Mauthner unexpectedly died on the night following the formal announcement of his appointment.
The telencephalon of mammals is characterized by the presence of a hexalaminated structure on its external surface, with specific auditory, visual, somatosensory and motor regions. Due to its seeming unique presence in mammals, it is frequently designated as the neocortex. The evolutionary origins of the so-called neocortex have long puzzled comparative neuroanatomists, in view of the seeming absence of a neocortical-like anlage in nonmammalian amniotes. The resolution of this puzzle requires analysis of both adult and embryonic brains. Experimental neuroanatomical, physiological and behavioral methods applied to adult avian and reptilian brains have finally clarified several fundamental questions regarding the origins of 'neocortex' and have indicated that these origins can be viewed as consequent to two separate events: (1) The elaboration of constituent neuronal populations and their associated connections that are common to the telencephalae of both nonmammalian and mammalian amniotes. In mammals these populations are found within the so-called neocortex. In birds and reptiles, most of these neurons are found within the dorsal and dorsolateral ventricular ridges (DVR and DLVR). (2) In mammals, the components of the DVR and DLVR are incorporated into the thin overlying pallium to form a laminated 'neocortex'. Analysis of development in domestic chicks suggests that the DVR is one of several prosencephalic neuromeres ('Prosomeres') that contribute to the ontogeny of comparable structures in birds. Perhaps in mammals, as well, cortical development is consequent to incorporation of these several prosomeres into proliferative ependyma of the pallial mantle.
Iontophoretic injections of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into either the preoptic area or ventral hypothalamus of the green treefrog, (Hyla cinerea), demonstrated inputs from thalamic and midbrain auditory nuclei. In a pattern similar to that seen in Rana catesbeiana and Rana pipiens, the central thalamic and secondary isthmal nuclei were found to provide heavy input to the ventral hypothalamus. Additionally, a lighter input from the anterior thalamic nucleus was seen. In contrast, the preoptic area receives a major input from the anterior thalamic and secondary isthmal nuclei, and possibly a sparse input from the central thalamic nucleus. These results suggest that in treefrogs multimodal and auditory information may reach the preoptic area and ventral hypothalamus, two regions involved in endocrine regulation and the control of reproductive behavior, via largely separate major pathways from the thalamus combined with a common midbrain input. Furthermore, the ventral hypothalamus receives heavy input from the preoptic area, lateral amygdala, suprachiasmatic nucleus, anterior entopeduncular nucleus, and a lighter input from the striatum. Nonauditory afferents to the preoptic area originate in the medial and lateral septal nuclei, medial pallium, and the dorsal-, lateral-, and ventral hypothalamus. The preoptic area and ventral hypothalamus are reciprocally connected.
Although most biologists agree that homology must be defined in terms of common ancestry, the details of this definition remain controversial. We review briefly the disagreements concerning the formal definition of homology and the methodology used to establish specific cases of homology. Our principal focus, however, is a third area of disagreement: whether morphological characters can be homologous even if their developmental and genetic bases are not homologous, and whether behavioral characters can be homologous even if their morphological substrates are not homologous. We contend that attempts to reduce behavioral homology to morphological homologies, and morphological homology to genetic and developmental homologies, are misguided and based on a failure to recognize the hierarchical nature of biological organization. Genes, developmental processes, morphological structures, physiological functions and behaviors all constitute different levels of biological organization. These levels are causally interrelated, but there is no one-to-one correspondence between characters at different levels. Furthermore, the causal relationships between characters at different levels may change during the course of evolution. As a result, higher level characters may be homologous, even though some of their constituent lower level characters are not homologous. In support of this assertion, we provide several examples of homologous morphological characters that are based on non-homologous developmental precursors and processes, and of homologous behavioral characters that are based on non-homologous morphological structures. In allowing one to recognize homologies at any level of organization, independently of homologies at other levels, the hierarchical concept of homology also allows one to ask important questions about how evolutionary changes at the various levels of organization are related to one another.
AY-9944 and other cationic amphiphilic drugs (CADs) have been reported to cause a reduction of acid sphingomyelinase activity in fibroblasts and various tissues in the rat, and DMSO has been known to correct a partial deficiency of acid sphingomyelinase activity in Niemann-Pick type C (NPC) fibroblasts. Furthermore, in the present study we demonstrated that AY-9944 and other CADs caused a marked reduction of cholesterol esterification in control fibroblasts and an excessive intracellular accumulation of unesterified cholesterol as in NPC cells, and that this reduction could partially be corrected by the addition of 2% DMSO to the medium. These characteristics of the drug-treated cells mimic the phenomena seen in NPC fibroblasts. Therefore, fibroblasts treated with CADs may be used as a model of drug-induced lipidosis of NPC. The effect of DMSO suggests the possibility of its usefulness in the treatment of NPC patients.

Nerve growth factor (NGF), its messenger RNA (mRNA) and its receptor protein and mRNA are found in several brain regions. Little attention has been given to the possibility that the hypothalamus, which controls the endocrine system, may produce NGF and/or express NGF receptors. This would indicate the existence in this brain area of neuronal populations which are either target for NGF-responsive cells or sensitive to NGF, respectively. Blot hybridization of polyadenylated (poly(A)+) RNA to a mouse NGF cRNA probe revealed the presence of NGF mRNA in both the suprachiasmatic region (henceforth, called preoptic area [POA]) and medial basal hypothalamus (MBH) of developing female rats. The mRNA was already detectable on fetal day 18 and reached maximal levels around postnatal day 3 (MBH) and 12 (POA), declining thereafter. This pattern was temporally different than that of areas known to produce NGF, i.e., the neocortex (Cc) and hippocampus (Hc). In agreement with previous reports, NGF mRNA levels in these areas were negligible before birth, became maximal between the second and third week of postnatal life and decreased moderately thereafter. The concentration of NGF protein, measured by a two-site enzyme immunoassay, was 3 times higher in the POA than in the MBH at an infantile age (day 12), increasing 2-fold in the POA of juvenile animals (day 28) but not in the MBH. This developmental pattern was similar to that seen in the Hc, though the NGF concentrations were significantly lower in the POA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Cajal-Retzius cells, which are present transiently in the first layer of the mammalian neocortex, have been revealed in the mouse by DiI. This lipophilic fluorescent dye, locally applied over the cortex after formaldehyde fixation, allowed the global view of cortical cells. During ontogenesis, Cajal-Retzius cells retained their initial characteristic bipolar shape and orientation parallel to the meningeal surface. The bright fluorescent light emitted by this dye allowed visualization of the labelled cells by &quot;microtomoscopy&quot; using a confocal scanning laser microscope and analysis of the detailed aspect of these neurons and of their connections.
In adult rats whose cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs) remain polyinnervated by olivary climbing fibres (CFs) after postnatal irradiation, topographical maps of responsive PCs to mechanical stimulation of the third row of contralateral vibrissae show that these cells are more numerous and more diffusely distributed than in the normal rat. PCs responding with the &quot;best responses&quot; are distributed evenly from the midline to 400 microns lateral in the contralateral hemivermis of lobule VII, and not in a parasagittal microzone centred on the plane 200 microns as in the normal rat. Thus it seems likely that synaptic elimination should contribute to microzone formation during postnatal development of the normal cerebellum.
The distribution of spectral energy of a visual stimulus can be subject to Fourier analysis. In this perspective, we have built a device which produces periodic variations in energy (square waves) over the visible spectrum (400-700 nm), and where the amplitude, phase and frequency of the stimuli can be independently controlled. From the non-modulated spectrum, supplying a white spot, for a given frequency and phase, there is a minimal amplitude modulation (contrast threshold) for which the spot becomes chromatic. As an illustrative example we present here a curve of optimal sensitivity values (inverse of contrast) as a function of frequency (from 0.5 to 3.6 cycles/300 nm) for a normal subject.
The coordination between equilibrium control and the ability to maintain the position of given segments (head, trunk) was studied in standing subjects, instructed to raise one leg laterally at an angle of 45 degrees in response to a light. Two sources of light placed at eye level indicated the side on which the movement was to be performed. Two populations were compared: naive subjects and dancers. Two control strategies were identified. An &quot;inclination&quot; strategy was used by the naive subjects. This consisted of an external rotation of the body around the antero-posterior ankle joint axis; a counter-rotation of the head with respect to the trunk was observed, which ensured some stabilization in the horizontal plane of the interorbital line. A &quot;translation&quot; strategy was used by the dancers. Here the external rotation of the leg around the ankle joint was associated with a feed-forward counter-rotation of the trunk around the coxofemoral joint so that the horizontality of the interorbital line and the verticality of the trunk axis were maintained. This new coordination results from a long-term training and indicates that a new motor program has been elaborated.
The discrimination threshold at 510 and 640 nm has been measured before and after the bilateral lesion with kanic acid of two main thalamic structures: the nucleus rotundus (Rt) and the nucleus geniculatus lateralis ventralis (GLv). When the lesion destroys the GLv and the lower part of the Rt, thresholds increase followed by a progressive recuperation. In contrast, when the Rt lesion is complete, and whether the GLv is touched or not, the threshold increase is both higher and does not come down to the pre-operatory levels even after 15 post-operatory sessions.
In a group of 44 cats overtrained on a task where they had to reach for a moving target, paw performance and paw preference were investigated. More than half of the cats (n = 23) were strongly lateralized in that they used one of their paws to perform more than 90% of the reaching attempts. Among these lateralized cats, left-pawed ones (n = 17) significantly exceeded right pawed-animals (n = 6). Investigating both the accuracy and speed scores, the comparison between lateralized and non-lateralized cats (using a criterion of 90% lateralization) showed that although the accuracy scores did not differ, lateralized cats were significantly quicker to trigger their movement. No difference was found concerning the movement time. For the whole group of 44 cats the comparison between the performance levels obtained with their two forepaws showed that the more frequently used paw was significantly more accurate and faster to trigger and to execute the movement than the less used paw. This study shows that, in pointing towards a moving target, cats display an asymmetry in paw preference that is associated with a performance asymmetry.
The relative affinity of six anticancer amino acid drugs for the neutral amino acid carrier of the blood-brain barrier was examined in rats using an in situ brain perfusion technique. Affinity was evaluated from the concentration-dependent inhibition of L-[14C]-leucine uptake into rat brain during perfusion at tracer leucine concentrations and in the absence of competing amino acids. Of the six drugs tested, five, including melphalan, azaserine, acivicin, 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine, and buthionine sulfoximine, exhibited only low affinity for the carrier, displaying transport inhibition constants (Ki, concentrations producing 50% inhibition) ranging from 0.09 to 4.7 mM. However, one agent - D,L-2-amino-7-bis[(2-chloroethyl)amino]- 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-2-naphthoic acid (D,L-NAM) - demonstrated remarkably high affinity for the carrier, showing a Ki value of approximately 0.2 microM. The relative affinity (1/Ki) of D,L-NAM was greater than 100-fold that of the other drugs and greater than 10-fold that of any compound previously tested. As the blood-brain barrier penetrability of most endogenous neutral amino acids is related to their carrier affinity, the results suggest that D,L-NAM may be a promising agent which may show enhanced uptake and distribution to brain tumors.
Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-mediated signal transduction was evaluated in synaptosomes prepared from rat brain cortex. Adenylate cyclase was responsive to known adenylate cyclase stimulators including peptides (CRH and VIP), catecholamines (norepinephrine and isoproterenol) and ligands that directly stimulate adenylate cyclase (forskolin). Cyclic AMP accumulation also increased approximately 2 to 3-fold, but none of the agonists was able significantly to activate cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (A-kinase) in cortical synaptosomes. However, in parallel studies with slices prepared from rat brain cortex, adenylate cyclase activity, cAMP accumulation and A-kinase activity were all stimulated by CRH, VIP, norepinephrine, isoproterenol and forskolin. These data suggest that, in intact synaptosomes, either the cellular machinery which facilitates binding of cAMP to the regulatory subunit of A-kinase is missing or the cAMP produced by adenylate cyclase is not accessible to A-kinase.
PET studies of brain metabolism and blood flow in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients lead to the following conclusions: (a) Reductions in &quot;resting state&quot; regional brain metabolism are roughly proportional to dementia severity. (b) These reductions are greater in association than in primary sensory and motor neocortical regions, and correlate with the distribution of neuropathology and cell loss postmortem. (c) Demented but not nondemented Down syndrome adults also have worse metabolic reductions in the association than primary neocortices, suggesting an equivalent pathological process in demented Down syndrome and AD patients. (d) Brain metabolic patterns in AD patients are heterogeneous, belonging to at least four distinct metabolic groups that correspond to different patterns of cognitive and behavioral abnormalities; the metabolic patterns have not been shown to be related to disease etiology. (e) Abnormal right-left metabolic asymmetries in mildly demented AD patients can retain their initial directions for as long as 48 months; these asymmetries precede and predict the cognitive &quot;discrepancies&quot; that later appear, such that moderately demented patients with disproportionate visuospatial compared with language deficits, or disproportionate visual recall compared with verbal recall, have a greater metabolic reduction in the right than left hemisphere, and vice versa. (f) Parietal association/frontal association metabolic ratios also retain their direction over time; in moderately demented patients, relative hypometabolism in the prefrontal association cortex is related to deficits in verbal fluency and attention to simple sets, whereas relative hypometabolism in the parietal association cortex correlates with failure in arithmetic, verbal comprehension, drawing, and immediate memory for visuospatial location. (g) Although metabolically spared compared with the association cortices, the primary sensory cortices, basal ganglia, thalamus, and cerebellar hemispheres show metabolic declines in AD using high-resolution PET scanners, possibly due to their connections with more pathologically affected regions. (h) Early metabolic deficits in AD are hypothesized to arise from synaptic failure in association cortical areas; such failure in the occipitotemporal visual cortex can be reversed in mildly to moderately demented AD patients who are capable of performing a face-matching task.
Effects of serotonin on the levels of inositol phosphate and cyclic AMP in certain brain regions of the rat were studied. When brain slices were treated with serotonin (10(-4) or 10(-5) M), it caused significant increases in inositol phosphate levels in cerebral cortex, hippocampus, midbrain and brain stem, but not in cerebellum. Serotonin itself did not have a significant effect on the basal levels of cAMP in most of these regions, except in midbrain in which it had stimulatory effect. However, serotonin also had significant inhibitory effect on forskolin-induced cAMP formation in cerebral cortex, hippocampus and brain stem but not in midbrain in which an increase instead. Effects of serotonin on both biochemical events were in dose-dependent manner, and their maximal responses were at doses between 10(-4) and 10(-3) M. The rank order of the maximal response to serotonin on inositol phosphate production in these regions was cerebral cortex greater than hippocampus greater than midbrain greater than brain stem greater than cerebellum. On the other hand, the rank order of the maximal response to serotonin on inhibiting forskolin-induced cAMP formation was cerebral cortex = brain stem greater than hippocampus. Our data revealed that there is a regional difference in serotonin-induced inositol phosphate and cAMP responses. This difference is likely due to a differential distribution of serotonergic receptor subtypes and densities in different regions of rat brain.
The biochemical events which are coupled to the subtypes of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in rat salivary glands were studied. The subtype property of this receptor system was characterized by the use of 3H-QNB binding to glandular membrane homogenates. The Kd and Bmax values of this binding were found to be 0.2 nM and 210 fmole/mg protein respectively. In the drug-displacement study on the 3H-QNB binding the following potency order was obtained (based on the IC50 values calculated from each individual dose-response curve): Atropine greater than 4-DAMP greater than HHSiD greater than Pirenzepine greater than AF-DX 116. This order is a typical M3 muscarinic subtype, according to the recent consensus. Carbachol (0.1 mM) caused a 4.4-fold increased in IP3 production over the basal level, when tissue fragments were prelabeled with 3H-inositol. The above mentioned cholinergic antagonists could block this event in a similar potency order. Carbachol (0.1 mM) did not have a significant effect on the basal level of cAMP formation of these tissue homogenates. On the other hand, it had a 33% reduction of isoproterenol (10 microM)-enhancing cAMP formation. The reduction effect of carbachol on cAMP formation could also be blocked by the above mentioned cholinergic antagonists in a similar order. Our results indicated that rat salivary glands have M3 muscarinic receptors and the activation of these receptors causes changes in both phosphatidylinositol turnover and cAMP formation.
The recent introduction of non-invasive tools for the quantitative mapping of cerebral function in humans (e.g. cerebral blood flow measurement and positron emission tomography) in conjunction with detailed in vivo tomographic morphology (computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging) has led to a fruitful interaction between clinicians and fundamental neuroscientists. This has led to the development of a productive, scientifically sound human neuroscience whose aim is to explore brain function directly in the human subject. With respect to the physiological state, this research has resulted in major findings especially in the fields of visual function, attention, anticipatory anxiety, language, motion and somaesthesia. The study of disease states has resulted in less impressive findings. The investigation of patients with focal brain lesions has revealed time-dependent alterations of cerebral blood flow and energy metabolism in widespread grey matter structures, as a result of disconnection; however, these functional alterations apparently reflect a variety of processes, from Wallerian or retrograde degeneration to reversible or irreversible transsynaptic or transneuronal effects, which makes their interpretation uncertain. Likewise the cellular and neurochemical basis for the recovery of energy metabolism in deafferented brain areas remains speculative. Although several types of metabolic effects due to disconnection are correlated to well-defined neuropsychological/behavioural impairment (and recovery therefrom) unexplained discrepancies exist and their role in individual patients remains obscure. The study of the brain's 'functional reserve' by activation paradigms would presumably shed more light on the clinical/functional brain relationships in disease but such investigations are hampered by unresolved methodological issues such as the choice criteria for the control population (?healthy controls, ?asymptomatic brain-lesioned patients) and task (?pseudo-impaired). There are also complex statistical issues because of the requirement to study single cases as a result of the inter-subject variability in lesion topography, size or duration, as well as in the pattern and degree of behavioural impairment. The design of controlled experimental paradigms in non-human primates, involving controlled lesions and sequential behavioural and PET assessment, may help to resolve some of these issues.
This paper describes a thought experiment. The experiment supposes that the technique of positron emission tomography (PET), as we known it today, was available in 1920 and had been applied then to a study of the visual cortex of man. The 'results' of the experiment show that such an approach would have generated new concepts about the functioning of the visual cortex, and that PET can therefore be considered to be an hypothesis-generating technique.
We have developed an in vitro system for studying molecular events regulating neurogenesis in the mouse olfactory epithelium (OE). Our observations suggest that two types of neuronal precursor may be involved: (1) a transiently existing, immediate neuronal precursor (INP), which generates two postmitotic daughter neurons; and (2) a neuroepithelial stem cell, which may be the basal cell (or some subclass of basal cell) of the OE, and is presumed to be the progenitor of the INP. Using antibody markers that distinguish basal cells and postmitotic receptor neurons in vitro and in vivo, we have shown that neurogenesis occurs early on in OE cultures, but then ceases because INPs divide only once to generate postmitotic neurons and no new INPs are produced by basal cells. To determine whether the basal cell-to-INP transition, or proliferation and neuronal differentiation of the INP, are regulated by crucial growth factors or cellular interactions, we are testing various polypeptide growth factors and extracellular matrix proteins for their effects on OE neurogenesis in vitro. We have also generated immortalized OE cell lines by using retroviruses to transduce oncogenes into cultured OE cells. One such cell line (derived from a primary OE basal cell culture) develops branching processes when transplanted into neonatal mouse brain--a condition in which cells from freshly isolated OE can undergo apparent morphological differentiation into neurons.
Positron emitting dl-erythro-9,10[18F]difluoropalmitate, [18F]DFPA, was synthesized for the in vivo imaging of brain tumors in rats. Male Fischer 344 rats were intracerebrally implanted with Walker 256 carcinosarcoma tumor cells (1 x 10(6) in 5 microliters tissue culture media) and 7 days later were infused with [18F]DFPA (500-1000 mCi/mmol) i.v. for 5 min. Rats were killed after 20 min. Brains were removed and either prepared for autoradiography, or brain and tumor were separated and their radioactivity quantified by gamma spectroscopy. Brain tumors were well demarcated from surrounding and normal brain in autoradiographs, and closely paralleled tumor growth in histological sections. The mean optical density of tumor was significantly greater, by 318 +/- 68 per cent (P less than 0.025, n = 3), than normal brain in autoradiographs, and that of edematous brain surrounding a large tumor was intermediately increased. [18F]DFPA proved of value to image and circumscribe intracerebral tumors in awake rats, and studies are continuing to facilitate its clinical application in brain tumor patients.
1. Sarcomere lengths and fine structure were examined in three histochemical fiber types of antennal muscles of the rock lobster. 2. Sarcomere lengths are distributed over a continuum of values from 6.5 to 19 microns. 3. Although a correlation between ATPase activity and sarcomere length is demonstrated, fibers with high ATPase activity do not have the sarcomere length typical of fast contracting fibers. 4. These fibers deviated from the typical fast structure in having long sarcomeres (greater than 6.5 microns) and in having some unusual ultrastructural characteristics (absence of the H-band, presence of Z-tubules, high thin to thick ratio, 5:1) associated with other more classical features. 5. This finding demonstrates that sarcomere length measurements do not always accurately predict the physiological performance of a single muscle fiber. 6. The fiber type composition of two antagonistic antennal muscles is compared and the functional significance of the results is discussed with respect to their role in behavior.
A neurotoxin (JSTX) was isolated from the venom of spider (Nephila clavata). JSTX blocked both the excitatory postsynaptic (EPSPs) and glutamate-induced potentials in lobster neuromuscular synapse and squid giant synapse. In mammalian central nervous system, JSTX blocked the EPSPs in CA1 pyramidal neurons resulting from stimulation of Schaffer collateral/commissure input. Pharmacological investigation showed that JSTX preferentially suppressed quisqualate/kainate receptor subtypes but was much less effective on NMDA receptor. Using synthesized spider toxins we studied the structure-activity relationship and found that the 2,4 dihydroxyphenylacetyl asparagine in the toxin structure was responsible for suppressive action, while the remaining part containing a polyamine was related to the agonist binding site with the polycationic part enhancing the toxic activity. Labeling of synthesized JSTX was used for histochemical as well as biochemical studies. Using autoradiography, 125I-JSTX-3 was found to bind at the lobster neuromuscular synapse. Histochemical study utilizing the interaction of biotinylated JSTX-3 with avidin showed specific binding of the toxin in rat cerebellum and hippocampus. JSTX-3-binding protein was purified from rat brain by affinity chromatography. SDS-PAGE of the affinity purified protein showed at least 4 bands ranging from 40 to 70 kDa.


The progress of the neurophysiological research in Japan during the past 45 years is related. Modern Japanese neurophysiology started immediately after the end of World War 2. The introduction of microelectrode techniques contributed greatly to most fields of Japanese neurophysiology. These techniques were used to study most neurophysiological phenomena: sensory physiology including vision, audition, chemical sensitivity, and other modalities; learning and memory. These techniques plus lesions, transplants, and behavioral physiology were used to study circadian rhythm, posture and motor control, and sex. These and other techniques were used to study neural plasticity, immunity, membrane excitability, pain and other psychophysiological functions. The disciplines advanced quickly into multidiscipline approaches into not only electrophysiological, but biophysical, biochemical and immunological research fields. From the past research results our neurophysiologists can be expected to advance rapidly toward further development in the future of Japanese neurophysiology.
We have developed a program for the Macintosh computer to control a Panasonic Optical Memory Disk Recorder (OMDR) in order to generate time-lapse video recordings of growing neurons. The software, in addition to regulating the timing of a recording in a flexible way, can also digitize and pre-process images before writing them out to the optical disk. NeuroVideo includes a complete set of functions to enhance images, and provides both an easy-to-use graphical interface and a simple but powerful text-based scripting language.





Directly following transfer to in vitro conditions, lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) from triiodothyronine (T3)-treated premetamorphic tadpoles showed an approximately three fold increase in incorporation of bath-applied radiolabeled amino acid relative to DRG from vehicle-treated tadpoles. By contrast, at 1 h after transfer, no increased incorporation was detected. At this time, examination of in-vitro-synthesized [35S]proteins by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis revealed a selective enhancement of a slightly acidic 25-kilodalton (kD) polypeptide. Addition of 1 M glycerol to the incubation medium prevented the enhanced synthesis of the low-molecular-weight polypeptide and preserved the T3 response. When DRG were exposed in situ, the T3 response - monitored following intraganglionic injection of [35S]methionine-was detected after 2 h, but not after 4 h. Four hours were also the earliest time at which an elevated level of the 25-kD polypeptide was observed. The correlation between loss of hormonal responsiveness and appearance of a putative stress protein is of general importance as a cautionary note for in vitro studies of endocrine effects on developing tissues.
During the first day of embryogenesis in the zebrafish, a precise and relatively simple network of neurons develops, pioneering axonal pathways and apparently functioning to mediate reflexive motor responses to touch stimuli. We have begun to use zygotic lethal mutations to analyze the assembly of this 'primary' embryonic nervous system. Here we focus on spinal primary motoneurons, their inputs from hindbrain Mauthner neurons, and their outputs to segmental body wall muscle. The mutation nic-1 blocks synaptic transmission between nerve and muscle, yet embryonic primary motoneurons appear normal, suggesting that functional interactions with their targets are not involved in regulating their development. The mutation spt-1 directly disrupts development of this muscle, and the mutation cyc-1 appears to directly block specification of the floor plate. Both spt-1 and cyc-1 affect aspects of primary neuronal development, and they probably do so indirectly. The nonautonomous actions of these mutations are local and they produce variable neuronal phenotypes. The observations can be interpreted to mean that some cellular interactions that specify the neurons and their axonal paths occur at close range and involve multiple, possibly combinatorial, transmitter-independent pathways.
To learn how neurons find their appropriate targets, we have studied two populations of motoneurons in the embryonic zebrafish: primary motoneurons, individually identified cells whose growth cones pioneer the first nerve pathways in the muscle, and secondary motoneurons, cells which develop later and whose growth cones apparently extend along the axons of the primary motoneurons. Transplantation studies of single, identified primary motoneurons suggest that commitment of these cells to innervate their cell-specific muscle territories may be a multistep process in which they are first committed to be motoneurons and are later committed to extend axons along specific pathways. Ablation studies suggest that interactions among the primary motoneurons are unlikely to be necessary for proper pathfinding or commitment. However, interactions with the primary motoneurons may be important for proper development of the secondary motoneurons.
Pharmacologic investigations into the transmission processes underlying fictive swallowing in the rat have disclosed the potential diversity of chemical signals used in central deglutitive pathways. Monoaminergic mechanisms appear to serve as links between subcortical structures and the medullary pattern generator of swallowing (PGS), and may play a critical role in maintaining internal facilitatory drive, required by the PGS for optimal responsivity to peripheral sensory input. Cholinergic bulbar interneurons form an integral component of the PGS subnetwork controlling esophageal peristalsis. Local GABA neurons exert a tonic inhibition of the buccopharyngeal stage, may regulate buccopharyngeal-esophageal coupling, and may contribute to peristaltic rhythmic generation at both the premotoneuronal and motoneuronal level. Receptor subtypes for excitatory amino acids (glutamate, aspartate) are differentially associated with deglutitive premotoneurons for both the buccopharyngeal and esophageal stage, as well as with ambiguus motoneurons. Preliminary evidence suggests the existence of excitatory peptidergic mechanisms involving thyrotropin-releasing hormone, vasopressin, oxytocin, and somatostatin, a probable candidate for excitatory transmitter in the solitarioambigual internuncial projection to motoneurons innervating esophageal striated musculature. Further validation of this experimental model may ultimately help to establish a framework for the clinical recognition, management, and exploitation of drug actions on central deglutitive neuroeffectors.

Deep peroneal nerve mononeuropathy is rarely observed in clinical practice. We describe a case in which the syndrome was caused by a clinically not detectable ganglion within the anterior compartment of the leg. Electrophysiological data allowed us to localize the site of the lesion for a correct planning of CT scan. CT scan showed a low density tissue occupying the anterior compartment of the leg and its relationships to muscles, septa, bones and vessels. Electrophysiological data and CT scan utilities are discussed.

The effect of DN-1417, a thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analogue, on photosensitivity and cortically kindled seizures was examined in seven Senegalese baboons (Papio papio). Intravenous (i.v.) administration of 2 mg/kg had no effect on either photosensitivity or cortically kindled seizures. When this agent was administered intracisternally, both the photomyoclonic response and cortically kindled seizures were suppressed for 4-5 days. A study of the transcallosal response also showed a long-lasting attenuation of the early positive wave (P1) amplitude (peak latency, 5-10 ms) elicited by a single stimulus after cisternal injection of DN-1417. These findings are consistent with the assumption that endogenous TRH is involved in suppression of epileptic seizures.
Effects of mild microwave treatment (1 hr, 37 degrees C) on the in vitro development of rat mechanically dissociated dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were investigated to establish whether microwave irradiation effects exist on nervous tissue other than heat induced tissue fixation. Phase contrast microscopy and immunocytochemical neurofilament stainings did not reveal significant differences between irradiated (2 hr after isolation) and control cultures, maintained up till 21 days. The electrophysiological properties of microwave exposed and non-exposed DRG neurons were compared using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Control neurons, in culture for 0-12 days, were excitable. In cultured cells (1-12 days), microwaved 2 hr after isolation, the action potentials were similar to or slightly different from those of the control cells. No acute microwave effects were found on neurons irradiated after 1 day of culture. These results suggest that mild microwave irradiation has neither significant acute nor strong long-term effects on DRG culture development and DRG neuron membrane properties, consistent with the notion that microwave effects essentially are temperature effects.
Some properties of primary sensory neurons change when they reinnervate new peripheral targets (McMahon et al., Neuroscience, 33, 67 - 75, 1989). We ask here if such influences can extend to the central connectivity of sensory neurons. In adult rats the nerve to the gastrocnemius muscle (GN) and the cutaneous sural nerve (SN) were self- and cross-anastomosed on left- and right-hand sides, respectively, so that they regenerated to either appropriate or inappropriate targets. Ten to 14 weeks later, the distribution and strength of spinal connections of the SN and GN were determined. The unmyelinated afferents in the GN innervating skin increased their connectivity to 286% of that seen for the GN innervating muscle (P &lt; 0.005), and came to resemble normal cutaneous afferents. However, for the SN there was no significant difference between appropriately and inappropriately regenerated nerves by this measure. The ability of myelinated fibres to produce inhibitions and facilitations in dorsal horn cells was also assessed. The intact or self-anastomosed SN produced predominantly inhibitory effects, whilst the GN produced predominantly facilitatory effects. After the SN had regenerated to muscle its central effects became predominantly facilitatory, whilst those of the GN innervating skin became inhibitory. These changes were statistically significant. In conclusion, we have found that major changes in the physiology of central connections in the dorsal horn may occur following peripheral reinnervation of foreign targets. The changes that were seen were appropriate to the new target, and could not easily be explained by non-specific changes due to axotomy, or changes in A-fibre-mediated inhibitions. We suggest that these effects might arise because of trophic influences arising in and specific to different peripheral targets.
To investigate the expression of nerve cell-specific transgene products in neural transplants, we implanted into the hippocampus of immunosuppressed adult Sprague - Dawley rats cell suspensions obtained from the septal region of the fetal brain of mice that carry the human neurofilament-light (hNF-L) gene. In grafts examined between 3 weeks and 7 months after transplantation, axons and nerve cell somata immunoreacted to antibodies specific to the human NF-L subunit. Thus, the hNF-L protein appears to be a suitable marker of these grafted neurons. Transgenic mice bearing the hNF-L gene may be a convenient source of donor tissue or be used as hosts for neural transplantation studies. Furthermore, the hNF-L promoter/enhancer elements in this transgene may help direct neuronal expression of heterologous genes that could influence nerve cell responses in either the transplant or host tissues.
Survival and development of fetal serotonin (5-HT) neurons grafted to various brain areas in adult mammals have been suggested to be under host influences. The aim of this study was to determine whether the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus (SCN), a region receiving a 5-HT input which is one of the densest and the most heavily synaptic in the brain, can actually support the development of transplanted 5-HT neurons. The time course and extent of 5-HT reinnervation were therefore investigated with 5-HT immunocytochemistry in adult rats subjected to intraventricular injection of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine and subsequent grafting of fetal cell suspension of mesencephalic raphe neurons. The ultrastructural features of the newly formed 5-HT terminal plexa were also examined. Serotonin reinnervation of the SCN remained partial up to 4 months post-transplantation, with no apparent predilection of the reinnervating fibres for any particular portion of the nucleus, thus differing from the normal 5-HT innervation of the SCN both quantitatively and qualitatively. This was in sharp contrast to the 5-HT hyperinnervation observed in neighbouring areas such as the supraoptic nucleus, a structure normally provided with only few 5-HT fibres, and the ventral wall of the third ventricle. The graft-derived 5-HT axons, however, displayed ultrastructural features that did not appear different from those of their normal counterparts; in particular they re-established defined synaptic contacts with the host population. These results may indicate that the mature SCN specifically lacks a trophic factor necessary for the ingrowth of graft-derived 5-HT fibres, or that it represents an inhibitory environment for such an ingrowth. The limited ability of regrowing 5-HT axons to restore a normal density of 5-HT innervation could also be related to the fact that these neurons normally establish a relatively high number of synaptic contacts in the target region.
An in vitro preparation of the crayfish nervous system has been utilized to study an interjoint reflex pathway and its variability during rhythmic locomotor activity. The coxo-basal chordotonal organ (CBCO) is a joint stretch receptor spanning the second joint of walking legs in crayfish, where it encodes joint movements and position. Mechanical stimulation (stretch and release) of the CBCO and electrical stimulation of the CBCO nerve elicits reflex responses in promotor and remotor motor neurons innervating muscles moving the basal thoraco-coxal (TC) leg joint. Promotor and remotor motor neurons receive monosynaptic excitatory inputs from at least four CBCO afferents, including both stretch- and release-sensitive CBCO afferents. In a tonic preparation, in which there is no tendency to produce alternating bursts of activity in antagonistic motor neurons, the reflex responses were evoked during each cycle of imposed movement. However, when the preparation became rhythmic and produced bouts of fictive locomotion, the reflex responses were unstable and their gain was phasically modulated. Paired recordings indicate that such a modulation of the monosynaptic interjoint reflex could be due to both a phasic change in the excitability of the motor neurons and presynaptic inhibition that reduces the excitatory input from CBCO primary afferents.
GABAergic presynaptic inhibition has been investigated in primary afferents using an in vitro preparation of the crayfish, Procambarus clarkii. Presynaptic terminals of a leg proprioceptor, the coxo-basal (CB) chordotonal organ, were impaled in the neuorpil of the 5th thoracic ganglion. Pressure ejection of small volumes of the GABAA or GABAB receptor agonists, muscimol and 3-aminopropylphosphinic acid (3-APA), both induce depolarizing responses in the impaled CB sensory terminal. These depolarizations are not blocked by the specific GABAA and GABAB receptor antagonists, SR-95531 and phaclofen, but they are abolished by picrotoxin. Both muscimol- and 3-APA-induced depolarizations are carried by an increase in conductance to Cl-. The presynaptic increase in conductance to Cl- by GABA receptor activation leads to a depression of sensory synaptic transmission through a shunting of the incoming spikes. Monosynaptic EPSPs elicited in motor neurons by CB sensory nerve stimulation are depressed by muscimol and 3-APA. GABA-mediated presynaptic modulation occurs in crayfish primary afferents which can adjust the gain of reflexes. These results show that GABA-activated Cl- channels can induce a modulation of synaptic transmission, but also that the distinction between GABAA and GABAB receptors, as in vertebrates, is not applicable to the crustacean primary afferents.
The effects of alpha-adrenergic drugs on neocortical high voltage spike and wave spindles (HVS), reflecting thalamic oscillation, was investigated in freely moving rats. HVS occurred spontaneously in the awake but immobile animal. Peripheral administration of the alpha-1 antagonist, prazosin and alpha-2 agonists, xylazine and clonidine increased the incidence and duration of HVS in a dose-dependent manner. The alpha-2 antagonist, yohimbine and the tricyclic antidepressants, desipramine and amitriptyline, significantly decreased the incidence of the neocortical HVS. Bilateral microinjections of the alpha-2 agonists into the nucleus ventralis lateralis area of the thalamus, but not into the hippocampus or corpus callosum, was as effective as peripheral injection of these drugs. Xylazine was most effective in Fischer 344 rats that display high spontaneous rate of HVS and less effective in the Sprague - Dawley and Buffalo strains. The HVS-promoting effect of clonidine was antagonized by prior intrathalamic injection of the alpha-2 antagonist, yohimbine. The amplitude of the HVS was increased by picomole amounts of unilaterally-injected clonidine. Neurotoxic destruction of the thalamopetal noradrenergic afferents by intracisternal or intrathalamic injection of 6-hydroxydopamine, but not by peripheral administration of DSP-4, increased the incidence of HVS. Importantly, intrathalamic administration of xylazine continued to induce HVS after destroying the thalamic noradrenergic terminals. Following downregulation of the alpha-2 adrenoceptors by chronic administration (3 weeks) of amitriptylene the incidence of HVS decreased and the effectiveness of intrathalamic xylazine on the induction of HVS was significantly reduced. Based on these findings, we suggest that a major action of alpha-2 adrenergic drugs on thalamic oscillation may be mediated by postsynaptic alpha-2 adrenoceptors located on the thalamocortical neurons. We hypothesize that noradrenaline in the thalamus has a dual effect on the relay cells: blocking and promoting thalamic oscillation via alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptors, respectively. The final physiological effect is assumed to be a function of the relative density and affinity of these adrenergic receptor subtypes.
We studied the afferent and efferent connections of the caudal temporal cortex in rat using the tracer wheat germ agglutinin - horseradish peroxidase (WGA - HRP). This area is reciprocally connected with primary and secondary visual and auditory areas of cortex. The connections with primary visual cortex are restricted to the ventral and caudal parts of the caudal temporal area. Caudal temporal cortex has reciprocal connections with the perirhinal cortex and projects to the caudate - putamen and lateral and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala. It also has reciprocal connections with the nucleus lateralis posterior, the dorsal and medial divisions of the medial geniculate nucleus and the caudal part of the posterior nucleus of the thalamus. It projects to the deep layers of the superior colliculus, the pericentral nucleus of the inferior colliculus and to the ventral nucleus of the basilar pons. Our results suggest that the rat caudal temporal cortex forms part of a pathway that connects visual and auditory cortex with the limbic system, by the way of the amygdala and perirhinal cortex.
Potassium currents of cultured bovine chromaffin cells in the presence of CdCl2 (0.5 mM) or CoCl2 (2 - 4 mM) may be described as a component that follows an n4 kinetics over the first 100 ms. However, during prolonged voltage clamp steps (5 - 20 s) this current reaches a peak and then declines to a non-zero steady-state level. In the absence of potassium accumulation, slow decay has been attributed to slow inactivation of the K+ conductance. Slow inactivation of calcium-independent potassium currents responds to the following: (i) the inactivation has a time course that may be fitted by a sum of two exponentials; (ii) inactivation is use-dependent (increasing frequency or duration of depolarizing pulses increases the extent of inactivation). Use-dependent inactivation does not appear when short (100 ms) hyperpolarizing prepulses are applied; (iii) at a membrane potential of - 60 mV, approximately 20% of the channels are inactivated; (iv) recovery from inactivation is very slow. At a holding potential of - 70 mV it takes about 20 s to reach the original value. The rate of inactivation recovery is voltage-dependent. The more hyperpolarized the membrane potential, the faster the recovery. The presence of use-dependent inactivation with slow recovery could be relevant for the stimulus - secretion coupling modulation in chromaffin cells.
This study examines the axonal projections of so-called inverted pyramids and other neurons with their major dendritic shaft oriented in the direction of the white matter ('inverted cells') in the adult rabbit cortex. Single injections of horseradish peroxidase wheat germ agglutinin were made into cortical or subcortical sites. The resulting retrograde labelling in the cortex was analysed and the distribution across areas and layers of inverted cells contributing to each of these projections was estimated. In addition, the radial distribution of inverted cells was independently determined from rapid Golgi-impregnated and Nissl-stained material. All three procedures revealed that inverted cells lay overwhelmingly in infragranular layers, but congregated at the border between layers 5 and 6. Inverted cells, identified by retrograde labelling, seldom furnished non-telencephalic centres; in contrast, these cells constituted a major source for the projections to the ipsi- or the contralateral cortex, the claustrum or the nucleus caudatus. In general, each set of inverted cells (when defined by its specific destination as a group) was located below the typically oriented cells whose axons were aimed at the same target. Thus, the inverted cells of the rabbit cortex are characterized not only by their unique morphology and their corticocortical, corticoclaustral and corticostriatal projections, but also by their distinctive radial locations. These findings suggest that inverted cells, even though possibly composed of different cell types, are a specific class of projection neurons.
Posterior tibial somatosensory evoked potentials were obtained in a group of cystic fibrosis patients and age-matched controls. A small but significant delay of the lumbar potential and larger delays of the early scalp potentials were observed. These findings are consistent with earlier pathological studies demonstrating involvement of the somatosensory system in cystic fibrosis.
Two patients with simple partial epileptic seizures were able to abate their attacks by vigorous somatosensory stimulation of the body part initially involved by the seizure. In both patients, the seizure symptoms progressed in a marching fashion which suggests a gradual spread of the epileptic discharge from its initial locus to adjacent areas.

Fourteen human subjects performed in a modified Sternberg memory-scanning task. First, they made a series of 2-6 movements in different directions from a central point towards peripheral lights on a planar working surface (&quot;list trials&quot;). Then, after a warning signal, one of the previous list stimuli, except the last, was presented again (&quot;test trial&quot;). Subjects were instructed to move in the direction of the stimulus which was presented next in sequence in the list. The mean reaction time (RT) in the test trials increased as a linear function of the number of movements, S, in the list: Mean RT (ms) = 105 + 205.8S (2 less than or equal to S less than or equal to 6). This finding suggests that the task involves memory scanning of visuomotor list items.
The effects of an external constant force bias on the information transmitted (Ti) by the direction of isometric force exerted in 2-dimensional (2-D) space by human subjects were studied using an isometric manipulandum and random dot stereograms generated in a color display (Massey et al. 1988, Massey et al. 1990). Subjects exerted force on the manipulandum such that a visual force-feedback cursor would move in the direction of a visually defined stimulus in the stereo display. The time course of force development and the gain of directional information during increasing force intensity were also studied. We found the following. (a) When no bias force was applied, the force exerted by the subject increased from near zero to greater than 200 gram-force at the end of a trial and was close to the visually defined direction. When a constant bias force of 110 gram-force was applied in various directions in blocks of trials, the force exerted by the subject increased in time, as above; however, its direction also changed in time so that the instantaneous vector sum of the bias force and the force exerted by the subject pointed close to the visually defined direction. The Ti and the reaction time (RT) did not differ significantly in the two experimental conditions. These results suggest that the directional control of isometric forces is very efficient, especially in relation to visuomotor coordination. (b) The Ti was calculated at various levels of force intensity, as the latter increased from approximately 50 gram-force to 200 gram-force.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Spatial-frequency dependence of directional tuning and directional bias was compared, for both eyes, in four previously established discrete classes of binocular feline striate cortical neurones. Two classes (respectively direction-selective or bidirectional at optimal spatial frequency) were directionality invariant at all spatial frequencies. In the remaining two classes, both direction-biased at optimal spatial frequency, directional bias either altered or reversed with change in spatial frequency. In all four classes, the directional tuning of a majority of neurones sharpened at high spatial frequency through either eye, although the bandpass characteristics were sometimes dissimilar for the two eyes. All neurones were of the same type through either eye. Amongst the two classes of direction-biased neurones, the strength of bias was commonly different through the two eyes. Where reversal of bias occurred, that reversal took place at different spatial frequencies for each eye. Thus, the direction and orientation preferences of cortical neurones are fixed at optimal spatial frequency, but their envelope of tuning to a gamut of spatial frequencies is not. These differences are potentially related to binocular coding of visual perspective, including dynamic object rotation in visual space.
Anatomical and electrophysiological data have shown that, in the guinea pig as well as in the cat, the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi gives rise to a disynaptic ascending projection to the superior colliculus via the peri-parabigeminal area in the mesencephalon. The functional role of this indirect pathway in the generation of eye movements has been studied by pharmacologically interfering at the mesencephalic level and by examining the induced effects on two differently elicited saccades in the alert guinea pig. A small iontophoretic injection of kainic acid induces a transient increase of the spontaneous saccadic activity in the contraversive direction leading to a pseudo-nystagmus. Both the amplitude and the mean velocity of the contraversive saccades are greater than before the injection. A similar enhancement also affects the parameters of the contraversive saccades induced by trunk rotations. These results suggest that peri-parabigeminal neurones exert an excitatory influence on their target cells in the ipsilateral superior colliculus which is responsible for contraversive rapid eye movements.
1. In the chloralose anesthetized cat, conditioning stimulation of group I flexor afferents depresses the monosynaptic potentials generated by Ia afferents in single spinal motoneurons or in populations of motoneurons without affecting the monosynaptic potentials produced by stimulation of descending fibers in the ipsilateral ventromedial fasciculus (VMF). 2. Heterosynaptic facilitation of monosynaptic reflexes was used to test changes in the presynaptic effectiveness of excitatory inputs with direct connections with motoneurons. We found that the heterosynaptic facilitation of Ia origin was reduced by conditioning stimulation of group I afferents from flexors, without affecting the heterosynaptic facilitation produced by stimulation of the VMF. 3. These results confirm and expand previous observations showing that the synaptic effectiveness of descending fibers synapsing with motoneurons is not subjected to a presynaptic control mechanism of the type acting on Ia fiber terminals, and provide further basis for the use of changes in heterosynaptic facilitation of monosynaptic reflexes of Ia origin as an estimate of changes in presynaptic inhibition of Ia fibers (Hultborn et al. 1987a).
1. In cats anesthetized with alpha-chloralose, population synaptic responses of motoneurons produced by stimulation of group I afferents were recorded from ventral roots with a sucrose gap or extracellularly from the motor pool. These responses were depressed, and often abolished, following the intravenous injection of 1-3 mg/kg of (-)-baclofen, a presumed GABAb agonist. 2. The monosynaptic population responses of motoneurons produced by stimulation of the ipsilateral ventromedial funiculus (VMF), the bulbar reticular formation or the vestibular nucleus, were also depressed following the administration of (-)-baclofen, but to a lesser degree than responses produced by stimulation of group I fibers. 3. Depression of the synaptic actions of Ia and of descending fibers following the administration of (-)-baclofen occurred without significant changes in the presynaptic volley recorded from the cord dorsum. However, in 3/4 experiments the intraspinally recorded Ia terminal potential was reduced following the injection of (-)-baclofen. The VMF terminal potentials were also depressed, but to a lesser degree. 4. Intracellular recordings from spinal motoneurons indicate that the (-)-baclofen-induced depression of the monosynaptic Ia- and VMF-EPSPs occurred without important changes in the time course of EPSP decay. This suggests that with the amounts used, postsynaptic changes were not contributing significantly to the EPSP depression. 5. It is suggested that (-)-baclofen depresses synaptic transmission probably by activation of GABAb receptors located at the intraspinal terminations of Ia and descending fibers. The lower sensitivity of VMF actions to (-)-baclofen would be accounted for by a relatively low density of baclofen receptors in descending fiber terminals.
The receptive field centre of cells in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus were mapped as iso-sensitivity contours. 94% of the cells were found to have elliptical centres, and analysis of the major axis orientation showed that 29% and 59% of units had their major axis oriented within +/- 20 degrees of the radial and horizontal directions, respectively. The data for Y-cells showed a greater dispersion in their orientation biases (R = 0.57) compared with X-cells (R = 0.79). Nevertheless, a horizontal orientation bias was found in both classes of cells: 47% of Y-cells and 73% of X-cells. In addition, an examination of the major axis orientations was undertaken for cells with receptive field centres located along the radial direction of 35 degrees below the horizontal meridian. In this 35 degree Radial Group a horizontal bias was also confirmed. Analysis of the dispersion of major axis orientations with eccentricity from the area centralis showed a statistically significant decrease in scatter and, hence, indicated an increase in the horizontal bias with eccentricity.
1. We studied the latencies and amplitudes of saccades to moving targets in normal human subjects. Targets underwent ramp or step-ramp motions. The goal was to determine how the saccadic system uses information about target velocity. 2. For simple ramp motion saccadic latency decreased as target speed increased. A threshold distance model, which assumes that the target has to move a minimum distance before saccadic processing starts, provided a good fit to the responses of all four subjects and explains discrepancies between previously published findings. 3. A double step experiment showed that target position may have some effect on saccadic amplitude when sampled approximately 70 ms before saccade onset, but it must be sampled at least 140 ms before onset for an accurate saccade to occur. 4. Saccades to simple ramp targets approximated the target position 55 ms before saccade onset. Based on our double step results, this is more compensation than possible by a simple position estimate and implies extrapolation of target motion by the saccadic system. The lack of complete compensation may be due to an underestimate of the target speed and/or of the saccadic latency. 5. A delayed-saccade paradigm resulted in saccades with a longer, constant latency and allowed longer viewing of target motion. These saccades accounted for all but approximately 20 ms of target motion, suggesting that with more processing time of target motion a better extrapolation may be generated. 6. In a step-ramp paradigm the target stepped in one direction, then moved smoothly in the opposite direction. Saccades in this paradigm could be made in either the direction of the step or in the direction of target motion: the direction and latency were determined solely by the time at which the target crossed the fixation point. This time must be calculated from target speed and position, implying that the saccadic system must use speed information to adjust latency or to cancel unnecessary saccades.
Anatomical texts describe the neck musculature without measurements of muscle locations or quantitative estimates of pulling actions (torques). This study is based on measurements in stereotaxic coordinates of cat neck muscle origins and insertions, and neck intervertebral rotation axes. Torque vectors in three dimensions were calculated for 14 pairs of dorsal and ventral muscles that insert on the skull or first cervical vertebra. Predicted torque vectors were in general agreement with qualitative statements in the literature. Biventer cervicis and the rectus capitis major, medius, and minor muscles act mainly to raise the head, and longus capitis acts almost exclusively to lower the head. Longissimus capitis, sternomastoid, and cleidomastoid act mainly to roll the head. Complexus acts about equally to raise the head and rool it. Splenius and occipitoscapularis have torque in all three coordinate directions. Torques were altered by changing the pitch of the head with respect to the neck. The calculated neck muscle torques did not correspond to previously reported directions of neck muscle excitation during the vestibulocollic reflex. The neck musculature appears to be a complex, multidimensional system that presents interesting problems in motor control.
Extracellular single unit discharges of cerebellar Purkinje cells (P-cells) were recorded from the cerebellar hemispheres of two Japanese monkeys (Macaca fuscata) during spontaneous and visually guided eye movements. We found that saccade-related P-cells, whose simple-spike (SS) discharge rates were modulated in close correlation with saccadic eye movements, were localized in fairly restricted areas in the hemisphere, mostly in Crus IIa with some in the deep folia of Crus I. P-cells located in simple lobules, superficial folia of Crus I or in Crus IIp did not change their discharge rate during voluntary eye movements. Fifty-five saccade-related P-cells recorded from Crus I and II showed modulation of SS discharge rate related to both spontaneous and visually triggered saccades, with the modulation closely time-locked to the saccades. Two thirds (37/55) of saccade-related P-cells began to change their SS discharge rate 20-100 ms prior to the onset of saccades. The remaining one third (18/55) changed their activity approximately at the same time as the saccade onset. These saccade-related P-cells did not show changes in activity during smooth pursuit eye movements, and we did not find any P-cells in the cerebellar hemisphere which showed changes of activity preferentially during smooth pursuit eye movements. In about half (26/55) of the saccade-related P-cells, the pattern of modulation prior to and during saccades was biphasic: increase-decrease or decrease-increase. The other half (29/55) showed monophasic increases or decreases. For a given P-cell, the discharge pattern during saccades was similar for saccades of all directions, though there was a preferred direction in the amount of discharge rate modulation. The present findings suggest that the cerebellar hemisphere (Crus I and IIa) plays an important role in the control of voluntary saccadic eye movements, in addition to other cerebellar cortical areas (flocculus and posterior vermis) which are known to participate in the control of saccades.
In decorticate, unanaesthetized and curarized rabbit preparations displaying spontaneous fictive locomotor sequences, the firing pattern of neurones was recorded extracellularly in the L6-S1 spinal cord. These neurones, located in the intermediate part of the cord, were not invaded by antidromic stimulation of the hindlimb muscle nerves and thus were considered as interneurones (or propriospinal or tract cells ascending to the brain). When compared to the output from the ipsilateral muscle nerves, these neurones were classified as flexor (F INs) or extensor (E INs) according to the phase of the locomotor cycle when they displayed their maximal firing rate. Among 69 F INs, 33 maintained tonic firing during the periods between episodes of locomotor activity. Their maximal firing rate was in phase with the flexor efferent bursts of the locomotor sequence; during the extensor phase, they maintained an instantaneous frequency (i.f.) that was clearly above the resting i.f. Of these neurones, six became completely silent during the initial flexorextensor coactivation that opened the sequence (F1 neurones) whereas the 27 others increased their firing rate at that time (F2 neurones). The other neurones (36 F3) were silent between the locomotor episodes. Although most of them had a rhythmic activity limited to the flexor bursts, some fired throughout locomotor sequence with a maximal rate during flexor bursts. All the 123 E neurones completely stopped firing during the flexor phase. As was the case for F3 neurone firing, E3 neurone firing (34 neurones) occurred only during periods of locomotor activity. Among the neurones that displayed tonic activity between locomotor episodes, the E2 neurones (24 from 123) remained at this resting value during the extensor phase whereas the E1 neurones (65 neurones) showed an increased i.f. for all or part of this phase. These data, which suggest an asymmetrical genesis of the flexor and extensor activities in locomotion, need to be supported by further analysis.
The information transmitted (Ti) by the direction of two-dimensional (2-D) isometric forces at different stereoscopic depths was studied in 50 naive human subjects using an isometric manipulandum and random dot stereograms generated in a color display (Massey et al. 1988). Subjects viewed the display through appropriate color filters and perceived the image of a disk rotated about a horizontal axis on the frontal plane; the top of the disk was rotated around that axis by 15, 45, 60 and 80 degrees away from the subject. Each of these disks involved a different amount of stereoscopic depth perception which was lowest for the 15 degrees and highest for the 80 degrees tilt. Subjects were instructed to exert force in the direction of a visual target presented on the disk in a reaction time task. The instantaneous force exerted by the subjects on the manipulandum was shown on the disk in the form of a feedback cursor. Information transmitted, reaction time (RT) and systematic directional deviations were calculated. We found the following. (a) Ti increased with input information but at a lower rate; at the highest level of input information studied (5.91 bits), Ti was 4.1 bits at the 15 degrees tilt. This high value of Ti suggests that directional information for isometric force is processed very efficiently. However, this Ti was consistently lower than that transmitted by the direction of movement (Georgopoulos and Massay, 1988). (b) Ti did not differ significantly among the 15-60 degrees tilt but was 0.19 bits less for the 80 degrees tilt. RT did not differ among the 15-80 degrees tilts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Extracellular single unit recordings were obtained from antidromically identified nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons in anesthetized rats to determine the effects of dorsal raph stimulation on the somatodendritic excitability of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons. Stimulation of the dorsal raph with a brief train of pulses delivered 7-2 ms prior to the neostriatal-evoked antidromic response significantly reduced the proportion of neostriatal-evoked antidromic responses that consisted of both initial segment and somatodendritic components without significantly altering the neostriatal-evoked post-stimulus inhibitory period. Raph stimulation alone facilitated post-stimulus neuronal firing in almost half of the cells examined. The raph-induced decrease in somatodendritic excitability was blocked by the serotonin antagonist, metergoline (0.5-2.0 mg/kg, i.v.), without significantly affecting the rate or pattern of spontaneous activity. The tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor, parachlorophenylalanine (400 mg/kg, i.p. for three consecutive days), abolished the decrease in somatodendritic excitability following raph stimulation which could be re-instated by intravenous administration of 5-HTP. The dopamine antagonists haloperidol (25-100 micrograms/kg, i.v.) and sulpiride (10-30 mg/kg, i.v.) also blocked the effects of dorsal raph stimulation on somatodendritic invasion. These data suggest that in vivo, serotonin liberated from raph-nigral terminals facilitates the release of dopamine from nigrostriatal dendrites resulting in a local, autoreceptor-mediated reduction in somatodendritic excitability without affecting the spontaneous firing rate and excitability of the neuron as a whole.
Small, rapid stretches were applied to the soleus muscle during the stance phase of walking by lifting the forefoot with a pneumatic device. Stretch responses were induced in the soleus muscle by the disturbance. The amplitude and time course of the responses from the soleus muscle were a function of both the kinematics of the disturbance and the time in the step cycle when the disturbance was applied. The step cycle was divided into 16 equal time parts, and data obtained within each of these parts were averaged together. The electromyographic (EMG) response of the soleus muscle showed a time course that was similar to the time course of the angular velocity induced by the disturbance at the ankle. Three linear equations were used to predict the EMG response from the soleus muscle as a function of the angular kinematics of the disturbance: 1) velocity, 2) velocity and displacement, 3) velocity, displacement and acceleration. Introduction of a pure delay between the EMG and the kinematics substantially improved the predictions. Most of the variance (70%) in the EMG response could be accounted for by the velocity of the disturbance alone with an optimal delay (average 38 ms). Inclusion of a displacement term significantly increased the variance accounted for (85%), but further addition of an acceleration term did not. Since the velocity of the disturbance accounted for most of the variance, the reflex gain was estimated from the velocity coefficient. This coefficient increased in a ramp-like fashion through the early part of the stance phase, qualitatively similar to the increase in the H-reflex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Sensitivity to binocular positional mismatch was evaluated in cat striate cortical neurones, for paired, dichoptically presented, moving sine-wave gratings whose interocular positional phase relationship was varied. Spatial frequency, orientation and velocity were optimized for each neurone. Binocular responses for each spatial phase were compared with monocular stimulation of either eye. Binocular responses ranged from facilitation, through complete or partial summation, to partial or binocular occlusion. Counter to previous reports, all functional classes of neurones (simple neurones; special, intermediate and standard complex neurones) were represented in phase-specific and phase-insensitive groups. Most simple neurones, together with a small minority of standard complex neurones, exhibited near-total phase-sensitive modulation, the most significant new finding being that a minority of simple neurones were relatively insensitive to binocular mismatch. The majority of complex neurones, of all types, showed shallower modulation depths (typically around 30%), distributed in a continuum, with no indication of bimodality. It is concluded that the property of positional sensitivity is not attributable solely to simple neurones; and that positional insensitivity is not seen only in complex neurones. At least some neurones of all functional categories evince either kind of behaviour. These results are interpreted as a two-stage mechanism for convergence and matching of inputs from the two eyes.
Two rhesus monkeys were trained to move a handle on a two-dimensional (2-D) working surface either towards a visual stimulus (&quot;direct&quot; task) or in a direction orthogonal and counterclockwise (CCW) from the stimulus (&quot;transformation&quot; task), depending on whether the stimulus appeared dim or bright, respectively. Thus the direction of the stimulus (S, in polar coordinates) and the direction of the movement (M) were the same in the direct task but differed in the transformation task, such that M = S + 90 degrees CCW. The task (i.e. brightness) condition (k = 2, i.e. direct or transformation) and the direction of the stimulus (m = 8, i.e. 8 equally spaced directions on a circle) resulted in 16 combinations (k x m = 16 &quot;classes&quot;) that were varied from trial to trial in a randomized block design. In 8 of these combinations the direction of the stimulus was the same for both tasks, whereas the direction of the movement was the same in the remaining 8 cases. The electrical signs of cell activity (N = 394 cells) in the arm area of the motor cortex (contralateral to the performing arm) were recorded extracellularly. The neural activity was analyzed at the single cell and neuronal population levels, and a modeling of the time course of single activity during the transformation task was carried out. We found the following. (a) Individual cells were active in both tasks; no cells were found that were active exclusively in only one of the two tasks. The patterns of single cell activity in the transformation task frequently differed from those observed in the direct task when the stimulus or the movement were the same. More specifically, cells could not be consistently classified as &quot;movement&quot;-or &quot;stimulus&quot;-related for frequently the activity of a particular cell would seem &quot;movement-related&quot; for a particular stimulus-movement combination, &quot;stimulus-related&quot; for another combination, or unrelated to either movement or stimulus for still another combination. Thus no real insight could be gained from such an analysis of single cell activity. (e) In a different analysis, we explored the idea that a changing directional signal could be detected in the time course of single cell activity during the reaction time. For that purpose we modeled the time course of single activity observed in the transformation task as a linear, weighted combination of influences from the direct task, taking the time patterns of cell activity during the stimulus, intermediate and movement directions in the direct task as estimates of the postulated directional influences.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We used a double-step paradigm to examine saccadic responses occurring at short intervals (50-150 ms) after the presentation of a 2-8 degrees step. Saccades occurring 60-110 ms after the second step had amplitudes independent of the step size. The amplitudes scaled to step size for intervals greater than 110 ms. These findings suggest that there is an early period of saccadic goal processing during which only information about the hemispheric location, but not the amplitude, of the target motion is available.
Several functions have been proposed for the avian GLv (color vision, pupillary reflex, optomotor mechanisms). In the present paper we have examined the role of the GLv in optomotor responses. For this purpose, horizontal and vertical optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) were quantified in response to different stimulation velocities, before and after chemical (kainic acid) lesions. Unilateral lesion of the GLv produced a marked increase of the horizontal OKN gain when the eye contralateral to the lesion was stimulated in the temporonasal (T-N) direction and, to a lesser extent, when the ipsilateral eye was stimulated in the naso-temporal (N-T) direction. Biocular integration was reduced after the lesion, since the biocular stimulation corresponding to these two monocular stimulations (ipsiversive to the lesion) produced only a moderate gain increase. When stimulations were delivered in the opposite direction (contraversive to the lesion), the horizontal OKN gain was slightly increased for the N-T monocular stimulation of the eye contralateral to the lesion, but was unchanged for other stimulations. A bilateral lesion of the GLv provoked only a slight increase of the horizontal OKN gain. The vertical OKN was not affected by the GLv lesions. Thus, the GLv system is probably involved in the modulation of optomotor responses and could mediate visuo-optokinetic interactions, each nucleus (and its associated system) exerting an inhibitory (or disfacilitatory) effect on the horizontal OKN in one direction.
Rabbits received ibotenic acid lesions of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD), or sham lesions. These animals were compared on acquisition and reversal of a Pavlovian conditioned discrimination task in which tones were the conditioned stimuli and paraorbital electric shock was the unconditioned stimulus. Eyeblink and heart rate conditioned responses were assessed. Lesions of MD impaired the reversal, but not original acquisition, of the eyeblink discrimination. Heart rate discrimination was somewhat impaired during both acquisition and reversal. There were no differences between lesion and sham animals on control measures assessing general activity, somatomotor shock thresholds, or heart rate unconditioned responses.
After WGA-HRP injections in the pontine grey involving the dorsolateral pontine nucleus, a great number of labeled cells were found in the superficial layers of the ipsilateral superior colliculus. The majority of these cells were located in the stratum griseum superficiale (SGS). Few labeled cells were found in the stratum opticum, and the stratum zonale (SZ) showed no labeled cells. Labeled cells in the SGS formed a rather homogeneous population as most of them had fusiform somata with an upper dendritic process which runs vertically to reach the SZ. These cells were mainly located in the middle third of the SGS, forming a sublamina in this layer. These results demonstrate the participation of the superficial tectal layers in the ipsilateral descending pathway of the superior colliculus, allowing visual information to reach precerebellar stations at the dorsolateral pontine nucleus.
Systemic administration of the noradrenergic neurotoxin N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4) to adult rats causes widespread degeneration of locus coeruleus (LC) axon terminals. The present study was conducted to determine the effects of DSP-4-induced LC axon lesions on LC cell bodies. Six months after DSP-4 treatment, quantitative analysis of Nissl-stained sections revealed a profound loss of LC perikarya, ranging from 20 to 73% of control. The remaining LC neurons appeared shrunken, but stained strongly with dopamine beta-hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. These findings support the conclusion that DSP-4-induced LC axon lesions cause retrograde degeneration of LC neurons. DSP-4 may serve as a useful tool in studies of the mechanisms of LC neuron degeneration.
Retina is particularly susceptible to ischaemic damage following exposure to anoxia or hypoglycaemia. In animal models the neuronal damage following ischaemia resembles that caused by exposure to glutamate or other excitotoxic agents which act on excitatory amino acid receptors. There are a number of pharmacological approaches designed to limit neuronal damage following ischaemia. These include free radical scavenging agents, calcium channel blockers, kappa opiate agonists and excitatory amino acid antagonists. Recent studies with antagonists acting at both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors for glutamate show that such compounds can protect against ischaemic damage, and are effective even when administered several hours after the ischaemic insult.
Genetic modification of primary skin fibroblasts offers a new approach to the focal delivery of deficient transmitter-specific enzymes (e.g., TH) or trophic substances (e.g., NGF) to the damaged or diseased CNS. Although fibroblasts are unable to provide anatomical corrections to defective neural connectivity, they can serve as biological pumps for the enzymes and growth factors in vivo. The capability of genetically engineered cells to ameliorate disease phenotypes in animal models of CNS disorders may ultimately results in the restoration of function. At this time, primary skin fibroblasts appear to be a convenient cellular population for the application of gene transfer and intracerebral grafting for the animal model of Parkinson's disease. It is now important for future investigations to provide data concerning the long-term stable expression of the transgene product (e.g., TH) following intracerebral implantation, as well as determining optimal conditions for the survival of primary cells grafted into the nervous system.
Amongst the first students enrolled at the Faculty of Medicine of Geneva in the last decades of the 19th century were many women, mostly originating from Eastern Europe. After graduation, only few remained in Geneva. The life of three early graduates illustrates the difficulties encountered by women doctors at the turn of the century in Geneva and some of the ways to overcome the resistance encountered. Henriette de Joudra (1856-1928) married a Swiss physician and practised in town; the Socit mdicale de Genve however never granted her membership. Marguerite Champendal (1870-1928), one of the first Swiss nationals to graduate, created a school for nurses that she directed until her untimely death. Lina Stern (1878-1968), of Russian origin, turned after graduation to laboratory research and to university teaching: she performed original research in biochemistry and in the neurosciences. From 1918 onwards she was the first woman having professional rank at the University of Geneva. After 1925 she pursued a brilliant academic career in the Soviet Union.
Components of the extracellular matrix (ECM) have been implicated in the regulation of neuronal migration, axonal growth, and synaptogenesis. We have examined cultures of glial cells, Schwann cells, and schwannomas for the expression of two components of the ECM, laminin and s-laminin, using immunohistochemical and Western blot techniques. Laminin is a potent promotor of neurite outgrowth in cultures of both central and peripheral neurons, and is present in all ECMs. In contrast, s-laminin (for synaptic laminin), a recently described homolog of laminin, is highly localized at the neuromuscular synaptic cleft (Sanes and Chiu, Cold Spring Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol. 1983;48:667-678; Chiu and Sanes, Dev. Biol. 1984;103:456-467) and shows selective adhesivity for motor neurons (Hunter et al. Cell 1989;59:905-913). While the distribution of these ECM components have been well documented in situ, the sources of these extracellular molecules are unclear. We report that astrocytes cultured in serum-free medium maintain an organized ECM that only bears laminin immunoreactivity; s-laminin appears to be sequestered intracellularly. However, both molecules are found in the astrocyte conditioned medium. Thus, under these growth conditions, astrocytes produce and release laminin and s-laminin, but only incorporate the former into an ECM. In contrast, neither molecule is present in comparable cultures of oligodendrocytes. Although no established ECM is seen in cultures of Schwann cells or schwannomas, laminin and s-laminin immunoreactivity are present within cells and in the conditioned media. These results indicate that certain populations of non-neuronal support cells and cell lines can produce and release both synaptic and extrasynaptic components of the ECM. The assembly of these different molecules into an organized basal lamina may require the presence of additional factors or interaction with neurons.
Fura-2 and indo-1 fluorescence measurements were used to examine intracellular Ca++ concentration ([Ca++]i) and its modulation by voltage-activated influx in murine cortical astrocytes in primary cell culture. Extracellular K+ was increased from 5 to 50 mM to depolarize cells to determine if Ca++ influx through voltage activated Ca++ channels could alter [Ca++]i. In confluent 4 to 6 weeks in vitro astrocyte cultures 50 mM K+ increased [Ca++]i 3-4-fold (from 150 nM up to 550 nM); this increase was blocked by nifedipine and enhanced by BayK 8644 indicating that influx was through L-type channels. However, in 1 to 2 weeks in vitro astrocyte cultures, high K+ reduced [Ca++]i. L-type channels were apparently present in these cells because high K+ in combination with BayK 8644 increased [Ca++]i. Following pretreatment of 1 to 2 weeks in vitro astrocytes with dibutyryl cAMP (dbcAMP) high K+ increased [Ca++]i in the absence of BayK 8644 indicating enhanced activity of Ca++ channels in agreement with previous voltage-clamp studies. Ca++ influx through voltage-activated channels in cultured cortical astrocytes can substantially increase [Ca++]i and these channels can be dynamically modulated by dihydropyridines. Immature astrocytes may express 'silent' or inactive Ca++ channels or have a much lower number of channels.
We previously reported that a protein which has immunological cross-reactivity with and a molecular weight similar to dystrophin, the Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) gene product, is expressed on the muscle cell membrane (Tanaka et al. 1989b). To examine if this is the translation product of the autosomal transcript with homology to dystrophin mRNA identified by Love et al. (1989), we raised an antibody (PDRP) against a synthetic peptide corresponding to the putative protein (DRP) and examined its expression and cellular localization in human and murine skeletal muscle samples. In immunoblotting, PDRP stained a band with a similar molecular weight to dystrophin in samples from DMD and Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) patients and control (non-DMD/BMD) human. PDRP was expected not to cross-react with dystrophin because the antigenic peptide was not homologous to dystrophin. In fact, PDRP did not cross-react with dystrophin present in a BMD patient. Immunohistochemically, PDRP stained the muscle cell membrane in samples from DMB and BMD patients and from mdx mice. Only a slight staining was observed in muscles from control human and wild type mice. Our results confirm the presence of DRP in human and murine skeletal muscles, and further demonstrate that it is localized on the cell membrane. The abundance of DRP in dystrophin deficient muscles might be related to some compensatory mechanisms.
Multisite, passive microprobes have been developed to allow simultaneous recording of action potential activity from multiple neurons at different locations in the brain. The microprobes were fabricated using standard integrated circuit techniques. The probe is a planar structure that consists of gold electrodes sandwiched between two polyimide dielectric layers and bonded to a molybdenum structural support. Windows in the top dielectric layer expose the electrode sites and bonding pads. In two distinct versions of the probe four or six recordings sites, respectively, of approximately 25 microns 2 are arranged on a dagger-shaped structure which can penetrate the pia. The bonding pads and interconnect wires at the probe head are entirely encapsulated in a tubular fixture that is packed with silicone RTV and sealed with epoxy to protect the interconnections from contact with body fluids. The site impedances at 1 kHz are typically between 2 and 4 M omega. Probe lifetimes for continuous immersion in physiological saline solution, as measured by impedance, have exceeded 750 h. The failure mechanism is believed to be due to moisture and ion absorption in the top dielectric layer. In acute neurophysiological experiments using the four site probes, action potential activity was recorded from physiologically identified neurons in the dorsal column nuclei of anesthetized rat.
The value of Visual Evoked Potentials (VEP) in the management of indirect optic nerve injury was prospectively studied in 78 patients. The initial VEPs were normal in 10, abnormal in 29 and absent in 39 patients. All 10 patients with normal VEP showed visual recovery. Amongst 29 patients with abnormal VEP, 26 (86.6%) showed improvement. In 39 patients initial VEPs showed no wave, however, subsequent VEP recordings demonstrated wave formation. Thus in 31 patients repeated VEP recordings failed to demonstrate wave formation, and none of them improved. This study, thus brings out the high predictive value of both positive and negative VEPs.

1. A Suc-APA-MCA hydrolytic activity was significantly decreased in murine erythroleukemia cells during DMSO-induced differentiation, but not in DMSO-resistant cells. 2. The Suc-APA-MCA hydrolytic enzyme was purified by ion exchange, adsorption, gel filtration and affinity chromotographies. The results of the chromatographies showed that only one enzyme hydrolyzed Suc-APA-MCA in MEL cells. 3. This enzyme is more sensitive to hydrolysis by Suc-GPLGP-MCA than Suc-APA-MCA at slightly acidic pH, and its activity is stimulated by 2-mercaptoethanol. 4. A cysteine proteinase inhibitor did not affect the activity, but a specific inhibitor of prolyl endopeptidase, Z-thioprothiazolidine, completely inhibited it. These results suggest that the Suc-APA-MCA hydrolytic enzyme is identical to a prolyl endopeptidase.
1. Incubation of C6 glioma cultures with insulin resulted in a time and dose-dependent stimulation of 2-deoxy-D-glucose uptake. The maximal stimulation (160% of the control) was observed with 1 nM insulin and 0.05 nM caused half-maximum effect. 2. Incubation of NG 108-15 (neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid) and N2 neuroblastoma cells with 160 nM insulin did not result in a significant stimulation of this glucose uptake. 3. The basal level and stimulatory effect by insulin on this glucose uptake observed in C6 glioma cells were dependent on the presence of calcium in the medium. 4. Such an increase in glucose uptake in C6 glioma cells was also observed in the presence of diacylglycerol (DG) generating agents, such as carbachol (1 mM) and phospholipase C (0.05 unit/ml) or of DG analogs, such as sn-1,2-dioctanoyl glycerol (250 microM) and phorbol myristate acetate (1 microM). 5. Our results indicated that both calcium ion and DG levels play important roles in the regulation of glucose uptake in the glial cells, but not in neuronal cells from the brain.
The effects of prenatal ethanol exposure on the synaptic formation in the field CA3 of the hippocampus of fetal rats have been investigated on gestational day 21. Significantly decreased number of synaptic junctions was observed in the fetus showing decreasing cerebral weight either with or without decreasing body weight. The administration of 0.01% zinc with ethanol or 0.02% alpha-tocopherol acetate with ethanol during pregnancy resulted in an increased cerebral weight, but did not result in an increased synaptic formation compared to ethanol alone. This result indicates that one of the most vulnerable factors in rat fetus exposed to ethanol in utero is the synaptic formation in the hippocampus. In conclusion, ethanol exposure in utero during a period of brain development roughly equivalent to the first and second human trimesters can produce consistent dysforming effect of synapses and may be associated with the functional impairement of the central nervous system in the fetal alcohol effects.
The postnatal development of the afferent and efferent connections of the feline insular cortex was investigated using wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase method. The overall pattern of connections was found to be substantially the same as that observed in adults. In the cortex, anterograde and retrograde labeling was found in the presylvian sulcus, cingulate gyrus, cruciate sulcus, medial prefrontal area, lateral suprasylvian cortex, and posterior rhinal sulcus. Subcortical regions containing label included the lateralis medialis-suprageniculate nuclear complex, ventral medial thalamic nucleus, claustrum, lateral amygdaloid nucleus, hypothalamus, and raphe nuclei. In addition, axonal labeling was seen in the striatum, superior colliculus, and pontine nuclei. In contrast, the insular associational projections in kittens differed markedly from those found in adults. In the early postnatal period (1-14 days), dense terminal labeling was found in the cortical layers I, V and VI as well as in the underlying white matter, whereas only moderate to sparse labeling was observed in layers II, III and IV. By four-weeks, an adult-like distribution of terminals was present in each cortical areas: labeling was found mainly in layers I, II, III and IV, with less in layers V and VI. The present results suggest that the basic framework of the insular connections is formed prenatally and that the fine tuning of the axonal terminals and the formation of synapses occurs mainly during the first four postnatal weeks.
In view of the likelihood that the heparin-binding growth factors of fibroblast growth factors are neurotrophic for the neurones of the chick ciliary ganglion a study has been made of the retrograde axonal transport of the acidic and basic fibroblast growth factors by these neurones. No high capacity retrograde axonal transport of these molecules was seen. The amount of transport was equivalent to the low level seen with many proteins such as horse radish peroxidase or bovine serum albumin rather than the convincing transport seen for nerve growth factor in the sympathetic system. The iodinated proteins retained their ability to bind to neuronal receptors. Thus, if the fibroblast growth factors are neurotrophic in the ciliary ganglion, they may exert their action by mechanisms other than the retrograde axonal transport of the factor itself.

This paper examines the need for and role of occupational therapy in the organization and functioning of a community day care centre for psychiatric patients in a developing country. It highlights the debilitating effects of institutionalization associated with a previously established system of institutional care and explores the role of occupational therapy in facilitating the move away from that approach towards community-based day care centres for such patients. The paper describes the community care programme; the patients attending the programme; the methods used by occupational therapists to evaluate patients; and the effectiveness of the various individual, group and family focused methods of treatment deployed.
The ventricular area at the level of the foramen of Monro was measured from axial x-ray computed tomography (CT) scans obtained prior to and 6 months after the initiation of continuous infusion of zidovudine (ZDV) in eight children with human immunodeficiency virus-induced encephalopathy. Evidence of moderate to severe central atrophy was present on initial CT scans (p less than 0.05). Ventricular area and ventricular brain area ratio (VBR) decreased after ZDV therapy in seven of eight children (mean decrease of 21.5 and 20%, respectively, p less than 0.05). The degree of decrease in VBR correlated with reductions in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) protein concentration (r = 0.93, p less than 0.01), but not lymphocyte T4 or T8 counts. Intelligence quotients (IQs) improved in all seven children tested (mean improvement of 17.7%, p less than 0.01) and correlated significantly with reductions in CSF protein concentration (r = -0.85, p = 0.003). The magnitude of IQ changes was not significantly correlated with the magnitude of changes in ventricular area. We conclude that the cognitive improvement of HIV encephalopathy seen after 6 months of continuous infusion of ZDV is accompanied by reduction in brain atrophy and decreased CSF protein, suggesting an ameliorating effect of ZDV on the pathogenesis of AIDS encephalopathy in children.
A multi-center study on seasonal affective disorder (SAD) was conducted from the autumn of 1988 to the spring of 1989 with the cooperation of 16 facilities in Japan. Forty-six SAD patients were identified among 1104 respondents to our advertisements in mass media, or patients seen at the outpatient clinics. Essentially similar findings to other previous reports were obtained in terms of onset age of the first episode, duration of episode, high proportion of depression in first-degree relatives and atypical vegetative symptoms. However, a nearly equal sex ratio, together with a high proportion of unipolar depression, is characteristic of the present study. Increased appetite and carbohydrate craving were predominant only in female patients, whereas hypersomnia was prominent in both sexes. Effective response to light therapy was found in 17 SAD patients. However, a controlled study on a large number of patients is required to allow final conclusions on the efficacy of light therapy in Japanese SAD patients.
These studies using both in situ and in vitro preparations were designed to determine the time of onset of a functional sympathetic innervation to the dilator muscle of the rat iris during postnatal development. The preganglionic nerve trunk to the superior cervical ganglion was stimulated and measurements made of pupil diameter. Alternatively, intracellular recordings were made from the dilator muscle cells and the response to stimulation of the intramural nerves was measured. During the second postnatal week, a decrease in the resting pupil diameter under low lighting conditions was observed, reflecting the normal developmental increase in size of the iris. On account of the small size of the iris in rats up to 10 days postnatal, the in vivo experiments were a reliable test of a functional innervation only in older animals. In all cases, stimulation of the preganglionic nerve trunk in situ caused dilatation of the pupil. Stimulation of the sympathetic nerves in vitro, in preparations of iris taken from rats of various ages, evoked a slow depolarisation mediated via alpha adrenoceptors. Such responses could be recorded in irides from rats as young as 3 days postnatal. Spontaneous activity was recorded in irides towards the end of the second postnatal week just prior to the time of normal eye opening, and may reflect the onset of photomechanical coupling. We conclude that the sympathetic nerves within the iris are capable of evoking membrane potential changes in the dilator muscle cells in the early postnatal period, well before the nerve plexus in the iris is fully differentiated.
To confirm directly the role of Thr-286 as the autophosphorylation site responsible for the appearance of Ca2(+)-independent activity of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II alpha subunit, we constructed two mutated cDNAs of Thr-286 to Pro or Ala using site-directed mutagenesis and introduced into Chinese hamster ovary cells. The mutant enzymes expressed in stable cell lines were partially purified and their catalytic properties were confirmed to be similar to those of wild-type kinase, except that the mutant kinase which were deprived of Thr-286 as an autophosphorylation site could not be converted to Ca2(+)-independent forms upon autophosphorylation. Other autophosphorylation sites of the mutants were essentially unchanged from those of the wild-type kinase and phosphorylation of such sites did not convert them to Ca2(+)-independent forms. The results indicate that Thr-286 is the only indispensable autophosphorylation site for the appearance of Ca2(+)-independent activity of calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II alpha subunit.
Our group is creating a database of x-, y-, z- coordinates of central nervous system structures from serial cross-sections. We produce 3D computer images of the brain and its components and record them on videodisc. Useful animations include combining objects from different databases to correct anatomical scale, rendering a surface translucent to reveal underlying components, slicing and paging brain slabs with and without protruding individual objects, and dissecting functional pathways. We are beginning to use videodisc animations of the nervous system in computer-based interactive tutorials.
The ability of kinesin to interact with microtubules in a nucleotide-dependent manner and mediate microtubule-based motility has received the greatest amount of attention to date. Several lines of experimentation are now beginning to examine the interaction with membrane-bounded organelles. Immunochemical, biochemical and morphological approaches have shown that kinesin is associated with some, but not all, classes of membrane-bounded organelles found in cells. Similarly, evidence suggests that the distal portion of the rod and the tail portions of the kinesin heavy chain as well as the kinesin light chains may be important for the interaction with membrane surfaces. As a substantial amount of information about the molecular structure and biochemistry of kinesin has become available, the functional implications of interactions with membrane structures in vivo are being addressed.
The usefulness for assessing the peak latency of the P3 component of the cognitive event-related potential by means of global field power (GFP) measurements was investigated in 25 normal individuals. An initial test of the program utilizing the visual evoked potential elicited by checkerboard pattern reversals reproduced the findings originally reported by Lehmann and Skrandies demonstrating that the method is technically sound. Grand averages of the cognitive event-related potential showed on GFP determinations two peaks representing the N1 and P3 components, respectively. Correlation of P3 GFP latency with conventional peak determination showed that it was somewhat more closely related to the peak as seen on average reference recordings than when the linked ears were used as reference. Filtering the data to eliminate the intrusion of frequencies above 7 Hz shifted the curves somewhat to the right and correlation coefficients between GFP and conventional peak determinations decreased. GFP can aid in establishing the P3 peak latency, especially when two peaks are present in conventional recordings, e.g., at PZ and CZ with somewhat different latencies, but they cannot be substituted for conventional peak determinations, since the P3 may either show up only as a notch or not at all on the GFP curve, and the major GFP peak may not be related to the P3 component. The large standard deviation for the P3 component on conventional tracings is not reduced by GFP determinations.
In Manduca sexta larvae, sensory neurons innervating planta hairs on the tips of the prolegs make monosynaptic excitatory connections with motoneurons innervating proleg retractor muscles. Tactile stimulation of the hairs evokes reflex retraction of the proleg. In this study we examined activity-dependent changes in the amplitude of the excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked in a proleg motoneuron by stimulation of individual planta hair sensory neurons. Deflection of a planta hair caused a phasic-tonic response in the sensory neuron, with a mean peak instantaneous firing frequency of greater than 300 Hz, and a tonic firing rate of 10-20 Hz. Direct electrical stimulation was used to activate individual sensory neurons to fire at a range of frequencies including those observed during natural stimulation of the hair. At relatively low firing rates (e.g., 1 Hz), EPSP amplitude was stable indefinitely. At higher instantaneous firing frequencies (greater than 10 Hz), EPSPs were initially facilitated, but continuous stimulation led rapidly to synaptic depression. High-frequency activation of a sensory neuron could also produce post-tetanic potentiation, in which EPSP amplitude remained elevated for several min following a stimulus train. Facilitation, depression, and post-tetanic potentiation all appeared to be presynaptic phenomena. These activity-dependent changes in sensory transmission may contribute to the behavioral plasticity of the proleg withdrawal reflex observed in intact insects.
1. Pressure-sensitive mechanosensory (P) neurones of the leech Hirudo medicinalis produce two responses to serotonin (5-HT): activation of a Cl- conductance and of a non-selective monovalent cation conductance. The effects of channel blockers, the receptor pharmacology and the second-messenger dependence of these responses were studied in voltage-clamped P cells in culture. Antagonists were applied by superfusion and agonists by pressure ejection. 2. Zn2+ (100 mumol l-1) and H+ (pH 6.5 and lower) reversibly reduced the Cl- conductance activated by 5-HT. The cation conductance was impermeant to calcium ions and was reduced by micromolar concentrations of the Na+ channel inhibitors amiloride and 3,4-dichlorobenzamil. 3. High concentrations of antagonists or agonists of 5-HT1 receptors and an antagonist of 5-HT3 receptors had no effect on either response of P cells to 5-HT. Micromolar concentrations of ketanserin or cyproheptadine, which selectively antagonize 5-HT2 receptors, reduced the cation but not the Cl- conductance. From these results, the receptor underlying the cation conductance appears to be of the 5-HT2 subtype, whereas the receptor activating the Cl- conductance does not fit within the mammalian classification scheme. 4. Brief (less than 500 ms) application of membrane-permeant agonists of the second messenger cyclic AMP elicited a Cl- conductance, whereas antagonists of cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase A reversibly suppressed the Cl- conductance elicited by 5-HT and by cyclic AMP agonists. Compounds affecting other second messenger pathways were without effect on the Cl- conductance. It therefore appears that the Cl- conductance is activated by cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase A. 5. Cyclic nucleotide agonists and antagonists were without effect on the cation conductance. However, brief application of phorbol esters, which activate protein kinase C, elicited an amiloride-sensitive cation current. An inhibitor of protein kinase C reduced the cation conductance activated by 5-HT and by phorbol esters. Therefore, the cation conductance appears to depend on activation of protein kinase C. 6. We conclude that 5-HT activates two types of receptor coupled to separate ionic channels via different second messenger pathways in P cells. A receptor that is distinct from the mammalian subtypes activates Cl- channels via cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase A. 5-HT2 receptors appear to activate cation channels by means of protein kinase C.
The preceding article described anti-idiotypic antibodies to conjugated dopamine (AIDA); results were consistent with the hypothesis that these antibodies contained the internal image of conjugated dopamine (DA-G-BSA) and binded to dopamine (DA) receptors. We further tested these anti-idiotypic antibodies to conjugated dopamine by examining the functional changes produced by unilateral injection of AIDA (or DA-G-BSA) into the nucleus accumbens or into the medio-dorsal caudate in mice. Our results showed that unilateral injection of AIDA (or DA-G-BSA) into the nucleus accumbens or into the medio-dorsal caudate produced an ipsilateral locomotor asymmetry in amphetamine-treated animals which was similar to the one produced by unilateral intra-caudate injection of haloperidol (a non-specific DA antagonist). The asymmetry was site specific: injection of AIDA around the nucleus accumbens or into the anterior caudate was not effective. The asymmetry was also shown not to depend on the peripheral injection of amphetamine. Taken together, the present results and those in the preceding article suggest that the AIDA contains the internal image of DA-G-BSA and that these two substances bind to DA receptors to produce behavioral changes.
Mice administered morphine as a s.c. pellet implant exhibit a marked and sustained thymic hypoplasia as well as suppression of T lymphocyte functions. In the present study, the effects of morphine on thymocyte differentiation were characterized. Morphine produced a significant decrease in both the number and proportion of CD4+/CD8+ double positive (DP) cells. The percentage of the CD4+/CD8-, CD4-/CD8+, and CD4-/CD8- double negative subsets in these mice was proportionally increased. Morphine also increased the proportion of cells expressing either the epsilon-chain of the CD3 complex or the IL-2R. The initial reduction in the proportion of DP thymocytes appeared fully recovered by 10 days post-implantation, although the number of DP thymocytes gradually returned to normal over a 3-wk period. Morphine administration resulted in a marked increase in serum corticosterone levels, and a single injection of dexamethasone mimicked the effects of morphine on thymus differentiation. Furthermore, adrenalectomy abolished the morphine-induced decrease in CD4+/CD8+ thymocytes relative to a sham-operated group. The present findings are consistent with the hypothesis that morphine-induced thymic hypoplasia may be mediated by an increase in the circulating levels of corticosterone.

The nucleus accumbens septi (NAS) receives afferent input from the amygdala via the stria terminalis and from the hippocampus via the fimbria. Extracellular recordings from 196 NAS neurons in halothane-anesthetized rats revealed heterogeneous response patterns following stimulation of the amygdala. The observation that 30% of anterior NAS units but only 16% of posterior NAS units were responsive to amygdala stimulation suggested a topographical arrangement of amygdala efferents. Comparing the effects of amygdala and fimbria stimulation revealed that the two afferent pathways converge onto individual NAS neurons, but that the two sites of stimulation can differentially influence other neurons. The present results clarify the topographical distribution of amygdala input to the NAS, confirm that inputs from two limbic structures are integrated within the NAS, and further illustrate the electrophysiological heterogeneity of NAS neurons.
B-HT 920, a selective DA autoreceptor agonist, reduced motor activity in rats. Chronic, but not acute, treatment with imipramine (IMI) reversed this effect. The mechanism by which chronic IMI reverses the B-HT 920 effect is discussed.


Significant differences were demonstrated between the long-sleep (LS) and short-sleep (SS) selected mouse lines in the abilities of barbiturates and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) to inhibit t-[35S]butylbicyclophosphorothionate [( 35S]TBPS) binding to well-washed cerebral cortical membranes. Thus, using phenobarbital to initiate the dissociation of [35S]TBPS, the extent of inhibition was significantly greater in LS mice (but not SS mice) than would be predicted using equilibrium conditions. Pentobarbital had the opposite effect, causing [35S]TBPS to dissociate to a greater extent in SS than LS membranes. [35S]TBPS binding was dissociated from LS and SS membranes by GABA to a greater and lesser extent, respectively, than would be predicted from equilibrium studies. Because no line differences in the potencies of these drugs to inhibit [35S]TBPS binding were found using equilibrium conditions, these results indicate that the association rates of barbiturates and GABA may be different between these lines. These findings are consistent with neurochemical studies indicating differences in the benzodiazepine/GABA receptor-chloride channel complex in these selected lines and may explain their differential sensitivities to certain agents acting through this supramolecular complex.
Brain incorporation of [1-14C]arachidonate ([14C]AA; 170 microCi/kg), [1-14C]docosahexaenoate ([14C]DA; 100 microCi/kg), or [9,10-3H]palmitate ([3H]PA; 6.4 mCi/kg) infused intravenously for 5 min was examined in the awake rat following systemic administration of the cholinomimetic arecoline (15 mg/kg i.p.). The rat was killed 15 min after infusion, and the brain was removed, frozen, and prepared for biochemical analysis and autoradiography. Brain radioactivity, normalized for plasma exposure, was increased by 41 and 45% in arecoline-treated rats given [14C]AA and [14C]DA, respectively. Pretreatment with atropine prevented the increase in fatty acid incorporation. Arecoline treatment had no effect on brain incorporation of [3H]PA. Quantitative autoradiography indicated regionally selective increases in brain [14C]AA and [14C]DA incorporation in response to arecoline. The results suggest that intravenously administered radiolabeled fatty acids can be used to study neurotransmitter-stimulated brain lipid metabolism in vivo.
Recent studies have identified protein tyrosine phosphorylation as a major intracellular signaling pathway. However, little is known about regulation of this signaling pathway in neuronal systems. To help identify changes in levels of protein tyrosine phosphorylation in brain, we have utilized specific anti-phosphotyrosine antibodies to detect phosphotyrosine-containing proteins by immunoblotting techniques. We have found that electroconvulsive treatment induces a selective increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of a soluble 40-kDa protein. The rise is rapid and transient, reaching maximal levels at 1-2 min and returning to basal levels by 8 min. The phosphotyrosine-containing 40-kDa protein is most prominent in hippocampus, smaller in neocortex, and not detected in brainstem or cerebellum. A phosphotyrosine-containing 42-kDa protein present in several cell types has recently been identified as a serine/threonine phosphotransferase, referred to as microtubule-associated protein 2 kinase. Comparison of the levels of tyrosine phosphorylation of the 40-kDa protein and microtubule-associated protein 2 kinase activity during column chromatography of hippocampal extracts demonstrates that the phosphotyrosine-containing 40-kDa protein and microtubule-associated protein 2 co-purify. Moreover, the tyrosine phosphorylation of the 40-kDa protein and microtubule-associated protein 2 kinase activity are increased to a similar extent following electroconvulsive treatment. These findings suggest that the phosphotyrosine-containing 40-kDa protein identified in brain is closely related to microtubule-associated protein 2 kinase.
In the Drosophila compound eye, the photoreceptor cells are organized in highly precise units, the ommatidia. In each photoreceptor cell, the primary photopigment, opsin, is contained in the rhabdomere, an ordered array of densely packed microvilli. A genetic and phenotypic analysis of a new X-linked. P element-induced mutation, fur, (fused rhabdomeres) is presented. Light and electron microscope studies show that mutations at the fur locus result in the fusion of the adjacent rhabdomeres in the developing eye and the fusion takes place during the pupal stage of eye development. Electrophysiological experiments indicate that the fur mutant photoreceptors have reduced sensitivity to light and lack a PDA (prolonged depolarizing afterpotential), a response characteristic of normal photoreceptor cells. Recombination and deficiency mapping localize fur to the proximal region of the X chromosome. Reversion analysis indicates the fur mutant is the result of a P element insertion. These studies suggest that the fur locus encodes a gene that has specific roles in rhabdomere morphogenesis and retinal function.
Movement disorders, including Parkinsonism, are prominent features of neurological Wilson's disease (WD). This suggests there may be dysfunction of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway. To explore this possibility, five patients were studied using positron emission tomography (PET) with 18F-6-fluorodopa (6FD), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We calculated striatal 6FD uptake rate constants by a graphical method and compared the results with those of 18 normal subjects. It was found that four patients with symptoms all had abnormally low 6FD uptake, and the one asymptomatic patient had normal uptake. PET evidence for nigrostriatal dopaminergic dysfunction was present even after many years of penicillamine treatment. It is concluded that the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway is involved in neurological WD.
We adapted to the neocortex of waking monkeys a method for multiple microelectrode recording devised by Reitboeck. A sliding platform allows micropositioning of 7 electrodes independently, in 2 microns steps. Microelectrodes are quartz glass filaments (80 microns o.d.) with central metal cores (30 microns) of tungsten-platinum alloy. Filaments are drawn in a high temperature chamber, and ground to the desired form and tip size. The microdrive is held over the region to be explored, and the microelectrodes passed through 300 microns o.d. guide tubes fixed in implant thimbles of chosen size an and x - y arrangement of tubes, sealed by an O-ring into a small craniotomy opening. A microprocessor controlled recording system provides gain, noise and wave-shape filtering, impedance testing, and differential amplitude discrimination for each channel. Electrode movement is obtained via the microprocessor which displays and updates on the console terminal the electrode depth, impedance, and the channel assignment of each electrode. A second microprocessor based system is used to collect, buffer, and encode in real time all event data, which are transferred whenever convenient to a minicomputer that controls the experiment. Exploratory recordings were made in the posterior parietal, somatic sensory, and motor cortical areas. The system has now been used successfully in a number of investigations.
Thyroid hormone deficiency in the developing brain leads to disorders of neuronal process growth. This is evidenced by reduced axonal and dendritic size and complexity (Garza et al.: Developmental Brain Research 43:287-297, 1988; Ruiz-Marcos: Iodine and the Brain. New York: Plenum Press, pp 91-102, 1989). These findings may be related to alterations in the neuronal cytoskeleton in hypothyroidism, such as reduced or abnormal microtubular number and density (Faivre et al.: Developmental Brain Research 8: 21-30, 1983), and altered assembly, stabilization, and composition of microtubule protein in the hypothyroid brain. Neurofilaments also contribute to axonal caliber and process stability. Similar to microtubules, certain properties of neurofilaments are altered in developing hypothyroid axons (Marc and Rabie: International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience 3: 353-358, 1985; Faivre et al.: Developmental Brain Research 8:21-30, 1983) that may affect axonal caliber and process stability. Normal process growth is predicted on formation of appropriate numbers of microtubules and on the normal synthesis and axonal transport of cytoskeletal components [tubulin, microtubule associated proteins (MAPs), and neurofilament proteins]. Hypothyroidism might alter the neuronal cytoskeleton and neuronal growth either by affecting the developmental programs for expression of specific isoforms of cytoskeletal proteins or by changing the delivery of cytoskeletal proteins via slow axonal transport, particularly slow component a (SCa). Previous studies had demonstrated changes in the amount of specific microtubule protein isoforms and mRNAs (Stein et al.: Iodine and the Brain. New York: Plenum Press, pp 59-78, 1989a). To further elucidate the molecular basis for process growth abnormalities in the hypothyroid brain, we investigated slow axonal transport in the mouse to determine the effects of thyroid hormone deficiency on the rate and composition of SCa. Comparisons of SCa in the optic nerve of hyt/hyt hypothyroid mouse and euthyroid hyt/+ littermates and euthyroid progenitor strain, BALB/cBY +/+ mice, indicated that the velocity of SCa was significantly reduced in hyt/hyt optic nerve relative to hyt/+ and +/+. The axonal transport rate for tubulin, which is carried in SCa, was 0.118 mm/day in the hyt/hyt optic nerves. This rate was significantly different for the tubulin rates for the hyt/+ optic nerves (0.127 mm/day) and for the +/+ optic nerves (0.138 mm/day). Neurofilament proteins, as measured by the 140,000 daltons component, NFM, also appeared to be reduced in velocity in the hyt/hyt versus the hyt/+ and +/+ optic nerves.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have studied the interaction between several growth factors to promote parasympathetic neuronal survival. Neither insulin nor insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) had any effect on the survival of embryonic day 8 chick ciliary neurons in culture. Similarly, the protein kinase C activator phorbol dibutyrate (PdBu) had only a minor survival-promoting activity. In combination with PdBu, however, IGF-I or insulin, at concentrations sufficient to act through the IGF-I receptor, were highly synergistic. In a similar fashion, acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF)-induced neuronal survival was greatly enhanced by PdBu, as well as by insulin or IGF-I. When added alone, aFGF-induced cell survival required the presence of 1% serum. However, addition of aFGF, IGF-I, or insulin with PdBu under serum-free conditions replaced the serum requirement. That is, these agonist combinations could apparently induce the second messenger requirement for ciliary neuronal survival. Therefore, IGF-I must now be included in the list of candidate molecules responsible for directing parasympathetic nerve formation. The synergy between agonists observed in these experiments highlights the possibility that combinations of growth factors, rather than sole molecules, may dictate parasympathetic nervous system development in vivo.
The mechanisms associated with the neurotoxic response caused by kainate (KA) were examined in cerebellar granule cell cultures. Under the conditions studied, millimolar concentrations of quisqualate, (RS)-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid, glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate did not cause significant cytolysis. In contrast, KA induced complete cell death, which was antagonized by 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, quisqualate, (RS)-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid and glutamate. This neurotoxic effect was dependent on the dose of KA and the age of the cultures. Two separate components of KA-induced neurotoxicity were observed and differentiated according to morphological changes, time of onset and ionic dependence. For acute neurotoxicity, release of lactate dehydrogenase measured after 30 min of KA exposure, became apparent between 8 and 11 days in culture and was dependent on both Cl- and Na+. However, vulnerability to acute toxicity did not correlate with [3H]KA receptor expression with receptor-mediated Cl- influx. On the other hand, delayed toxicity, as determined by lactate dehydrogenase release 24 hr after KA exposure, was dependent on Cl-. This delayed neurotoxicity induced by KA shares time course features with N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated toxicity. Yet in contrast to studies reported for N-methyl-D-aspartate, glutamate was ineffective as an agonist, measured by its ability to elicit a neurotoxic response, and the KA delayed response did not appear to be dependent upon the presence of extracellular Ca++, during the exposure to KA.

In human, it has been shown that interactions between locomotor and respiratory patterns may lead to locomotor-respiratory couplings termed entrainment. In order to prove that this coupling is really an entrainment, we tried to show that it obeys one of the expected rules, i.e. that it evolves and is not present for all imposed locomotor frequencies. For that purpose, seventeen healthy volunteers were asked to run on a treadmill at 14 different locomotor rates (instead of 2 or 3 in previous works) for 40 s. All the subjects did not exhibit the same coupling and different relationships could be obtained: the most commonly observed was 2:1 (2 locomotor activities for a respiratory one) but other forms could appear (4:1 and even 5:2 or 3:2). When the coupling evolution was followed in the same subject, it did not appear for all locomotor frequencies but only for locomotor periods close to harmonics of respiratory ones (absolute coordination). On both sides of these values, it progressively evolved to relative coordination and to the lack of coordination. When two forms of absolute coordination were observed in a same subject, the phase relationships followed the rules of the entrainment. Compared to data obtained in quadrupeds, these results suggest that the entrainment of breathing frequency by the locomotor activity is due to central interactions between the respiratory and locomotor pattern generators and does not depend on a chemical regulation avoided here by short locomotor sequences.
The responses to light of retinal ganglion cells with regenerated axons can be recorded from axons teased from peripheral nerve grafts replacing the optic nerve of the adult rat or hamster. These responses resemble those of normal retinal ganglion cells but can no longer be observed several months after grafting, concomitant with ongoing loss of the population of axotomized retinal ganglion cells. Synapses formed with neurons in the superior colliculus by retinal ganglion cell axons regenerated through peripheral nerve grafts mediate both excitatory and inhibitory responses. These experiments demonstrate that when provided with an appropriate milieu for elongation, neurons indigenous to the adult mammalian central nervous system can make functional reconnections with distant targets within the nervous system.
Synaptic vesicles participate in a cycle of fusion with the plasma membrane and reformation by endocytosis. Endocytosis of membrane proteins by the well studied clathrin-coated vesicle pathway has been shown to involve specific sequences within the cytoplasmic tail domain. Proteins taken up by clathrin-coated vesicles are directed to early endosomes from which they may return to plasma membrane. Recent evidence suggests that the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin is targeted to early endosomes in transfected fibroblasts and in neuroendocrine cells. To begin to test whether sequences within the COOH-cytoplasmic domain are required for internalization we have expressed a synaptophysin molecule lacking this domain in 3T3 cells and measured its rate of internalization. While a full length synaptophysin was internalized efficiently, we could not detect internalization of the mutant construct. These data are consistent with a model in which the COOH-terminal tail is required for coated-pit localization and hence targeting of synaptophysin to early endosomes.
1. Central pattern generators (CPGs) underlie a wide variety of rhythmic behaviours such as locomotion and respiration in most multi-cellular organisms. 2. The CPG's are capable of generating a patterned output without phasic sensory input. 3. The organization of the CPG is due to both intrinsic properties of the individual neurons and their network interactions. 4. To gain an understanding of the mechanisms which underlie rhythmicity a CPG has been reconstructed in culture. This will allow investigators to test directly the mechanisms underlying the generation of rhythmic output and will allow the direct testing of the mechanisms by which various modulators affect the CPG.
Central noradrenergic neurons from the locus coeruleus express unique plastic properties. The aim of this study was to identify factors that specifically regulate the development and the survival of the noradrenergic cells. Primary dissociated cultures of embryonic locus coeruleus (LC) neurons were established. Norepinephrine (NE) uptake was used as an index of maturation of the noradrenergic neurons. The noradrenergic cells were identified and quantified following immunocytochemical staining for tyrosine hydroxylase antibody. We have examined the effect of hippocampal target tissue and of cyclic-AMP (cAMP) on the development of these cells. Coculturing LC cells with a low density of hippocampal target cells, resulted in a significant increase in NE uptake. However, when the amount of hippocampal target cells was doubled an enormous decrease in NE uptake occurred. The target stimulatory effect was mediated by both neurons and glia, whereas the inhibitory effect was mediated by direct contact between target glia and LC neurons and detected only in the presence of serum. In addition to target effect, we also tested the effect of elevated intracellular cAMP level on NE uptake versus GABA uptake. GABA uptake served as a developmental index of the non noradrenergic cells. Increasing the intracellular cAMP level, by application of the membrane permeable analog dibutyryl cyclic AMP (DbcAMP), resulted in a selective stimulation of NE uptake, due to enhanced survival of noradrenergic neurons. GABA uptake and the number of non-noradrenergic cells were not changed in the presence of DbcAMP. DbcAMP could maintain the survival of LC neurons in the absence of glial cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Buspirone is a novel anxiolytic which does not share the muscle relaxant, anticonvulsant and sedative properties of classical anxiolytics such as the benzodiazepines. Its effects in different animal models of anxiety are also variable. The present experiments investigated the effects of buspirone on a fixed interval 60 s schedule of reinforcement (FI). In experiment 1, four doses of buspirone (10, 3.3, 1.1 and 0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) and two doses of chlordiazepoxide (5 and 20 mg/kg, i.p.) were administered to separate groups of rats throughout acquisition of the FI task. In experiment 2, four doses of buspirone (1.1, 0.3, 0.1 and 0.03 mg/kg, i.p.) and a single dose of chlordiazepoxide (5 mg/kg, i.p.) were used. Chlordiazepoxide generally released responding. At higher doses (1.1 mg/kg and above) buspirone suppressed responding in the later parts of the FI interval. The effects of lower doses were variable but included some response release in the later parts of the FI interval. At no dose did buspirone release responding at the beginning of the FI interval. The experiments show that buspirone differs qualitatively as well as quantitatively from chlordiazepoxide and that current animal models based on behavioural inhibition may need to be used with considerable care if detection of novel anxiolytics is to be ensured.
The effects of two doses of scopolamine (0.6 and 1.2 mg p.o.) on retrieval from semantic memory in normal young volunteers were examined using tests of verbal fluency and categorization latency. A visual contrast sensitivity test, which has previously shown a scopolamine-induced impairment at these doses (Broks et al., 1988), was also administered. In agreement with the work of Dunne (1990) and others, no evidence for a scopolamine deficit in semantic retrieval was found; in fact scopolamine improved letter fluency. However, scopolamine did produce the expected decrease in visual contrast sensitivity. The doses of scopolamine used here have also been shown to impair learning and attention (Broks et al., 1988). It is possible that earlier studies which found a scopolamine deficit on semantic retrieval, did so because they used elderly subjects and/or large drug doses.
Two studies were undertaken to investigate the effects of acute (Study 1) or repeated (Study 2) administration of the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor enalapril on the cognitive deficits produced by scopolamine administration in volunteers. Enalapril at doses between 2.5 and 10.0 mg p.o. produced virtually complete blockade of plasma ACE activity. However, it did not influence the effects of scopolamine on a variety of cognitive tasks, including tests of memory, attention and sedation.
The effects of buspirone were tested on rearing in an open field. Six different doses of buspirone (10, 3.3, 1.1, 0.3, 0.1 and 0.04 mg/kg) and a single dose of chlordiazepoxide (5 mg/kg) were administered i.p. to separate groups of rats. Buspirone produced a dose-dependent decrease in rearing in the range 0.04-10 mg/kg, whereas only the higher doses (10 and 3.3 mg/kg) decreased ambulation significantly. Chlordiazepoxide reduced rearing to an extent equivalent to 1 mg/kg of buspirone. Together with data in the literature, the results suggest that 5-HT1A agonists affect rearing at lower doses than ambulation; that the effects of buspirone in the open field are similar to classical anxiolytics; and that changes in rearing may be more closely related to anxiolytic than muscle relaxant, anti-convulsant and other GABA-mediated effects of the classical anxiolytics.

Although U.S. and Canadian surveys conducted over the past two decades have found little evidence of major changes in drinking levels or drinking problems among women in general, change may be occurring within certain subgroups of women, for example, based on age, ethnicity, employment, or marital status. Women's drinking behavior shows significant linkages to aspects of women's social environments, including gender of co-workers and drinking behavior of significant others. The greater complexity of recent findings reflects the increasing maturation of epidemiological research on women's drinking.


The short-term effects of fluphenazine on plasma HVA concentrations were compared with the effects of fluphenazine and concurrent administration of debrisoquin, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor which does not cross the blood brain barrier and is used to enhance the CNS contribution to circulating plasma HVA concentrations. Fluphenazine significantly increased plasma HVA with or without debrisoquin 24 hours following the initiation of treatment. Domperidone, a butyrophenone dopamine antagonist which acts only in the peripheral nervous system, failed to alter plasma HVA concentrations. These data suggest that the acute effects of neuroleptic drugs on plasma HVA concentrations are dependent upon interaction with CNS dopaminergic systems and provide additional support for the use of plasma HVA as a reflection of CNS dopamine system activity in clinical studies.
A single systemic administration of acromelic acid A (ACRO), a novel kainate analogue (kainoid), induces a series of characteristic behavioral changes in association with selective damage of interneurons in the caudal spinal cord in adult rats. When ACRO (5 mg/kg) was systemically administered, rats displayed forced extension of hindlimbs followed by frequent cramps and generalized convulsion. Most rats died during the convulsions without neuropathological change. Two rats developed long-lasting spastic paraparesis which persisted at least 3 months. Neuropathological changes were observed only in the rats with persistent paraparesis, in which neuron damage was identified selectively in small interneurons in the lumbosacral cord. The regional difference between kainate- and ACRO-induced neuron damage suggests the existence of plural kinds of kainate receptor subtypes.
Both acute and chronic restraint stress modulated mitogen-induced increases in cytoplasmic free-calcium concentrations ([Ca2+]i) in mouse spleen cells. Dual-color analysis of lymphocyte subpopulations demonstrated that acute (2 hour) restraint stress suppressed mitogen-stimulated increases in [Ca2+]i in CD4+ T cells, but enhanced [Ca2+]i in CD8+ T cells. Chronic restraint stress (2 hours daily for up to 21 days) resulted in a significant suppression of mitogen-stimulated increases in [Ca2+]i in CD4+ T cells at 3 and 7 days, but not at 21 days. CD8+ T cells were unaffected by chronic stress. Chronic stress (for 7 days) had a modest suppressive effect on mitogen-induced Ca2+ responses in B cells. Within T lymphocyte subpopulations, both acute and chronic stress predominantly affected CD4+ T cells, which may induce a functional reversal of the CD4/CD8 ratios in vivo. Such a reversal could result in suppression of a variety of immune responses such as lymphocyte proliferation and antigen-specific antibody production. These findings indicate that the inhibitory effects of stress on calcium mobilization in lymphocytes may be an early event mediating stress-induced immunosuppression.
In primates, treatment with scopolamine impairs performance of a spatial delayed response task in a way which mimics deficits seen spontaneously in aged primates and demented patients. Despite their efficacy in reversing scopolamine induced disruption, the effects of cholinergic agonists on cognition in aged primates and dements are unimpressive, suggesting that other neurotransmitter systems are also involved in this type of deficit. We have induced a scopolamine-like impairment of spatial delayed response performance in rhesus monkeys using phencyclidine (0.1-0.2 mg/kg i.m.), lorazepam (0.4-0.6 mg/kg s.c.) or tetrahydrocannabinol (1-4 mg/kg p.o.), but not amphetamine (0.1-0.4 mg/kg i.m.), yohimbine (0.1-1.0 mg/kg i.m.) or morphine (2-4 mg/kg i.m.). Our findings suggest that disruption of specific neurotransmitter systems other than acetylcholine may contribute importantly to cognitive decline in aging and dementia.
We tested the effect of a single unilateral injection of a specific D1 agonist into the nucleus accumbens on the behavioral response to a subsequent unilateral intra-accumbens injection of a selective D2 agonist ten days later. The effect of the inverse order of presentation (D2 agonist followed ten days later by a D1 agonist) was also tested. No significant differences between the locomotor effects of the intra-accumbens injection of either SKF-38393 (3.5 micrograms) or LY-171555 (10 micrograms) were observed during the first test. Ten days later, during the second test, intra-accumbens injection of either the LY-171555 and SKF-38393 increased the percentage of contralateral rotations relative to the first test while LY-171555 also increased the total number of rotations. Control injections showed that these effects of LY-171555 and SKF-38393 were not due to a conditioning process. Rather, the results suggested that the locomotor changes observed during the second test were the result of behavioral sensitization due to the initial acute injection of the agonists.
Administration of diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP), an organophosphorus (OP) compound, irreversibly inhibits acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and results in cholinergic hyperactivity. This study investigated muscarinic and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor changes in visual cortex of cats following an acute exposure to DFP. A single acute administration of DFP (4 mg/kg) decreased the number of muscarinic receptors at 2, 10, and 20 hours after treatment. GABA receptors were elevated at 2 and 10 hours but returned to within control levels at 20 hours. No significant alteration in muscarinic or GABA receptor affinity was noted. In all cases cortical AChE activity was inhibited 60-90%. These findings show a down regulation of muscarinic receptors after DFP associated with low AChE activity. GABA receptors also are altered, and may be part of a compensatory mechanism to counteract excess cholinergic stimulation.
Diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) is a 9-kD polypeptide that was first isolated in 1983 from rat brain by monitoring its ability to displace diazepam from the benzodiazepine (BZD) recognition site located on the extracellular domain of the type A receptor for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA receptor) and from the mitochondrial BZD receptor (MBR) located on the outer mitochondrial membrane. In brain, DBI and its two major processing products [DBI 33-50, or octadecaneuropeptide (ODN) and DBI 17-50, or triakontatetraneuropeptide (TTN)] are unevenly distributed in neurons, with the highest concentrations of DBI (10 to 50 microMs) being present in the hypothalamus, amygdala, cerebellum, and discrete areas of the thalamus, hippocampus, and cortex. DBI is also present in specialized glial cells (astroglia and Bergmann glia) and in peripheral tissues. In the periphery, the highest concentration of DBI occurs in cells of the zona glomerulosa and fasciculata of the adrenal cortex and in Leydig cells of the testis; interestingly, these are the same cell types in which MBRs are highly concentrated. Stimulation of MBRs by appropriate ligands (including DBI and TTN) facilitates cholesterol influx into mitochondria and the subsequent formation of pregnenolone, the parent molecule for endogenous steroid production; this facilitation occurs not only in peripheral steroidogenic tissues, but also in glial cells, the steroidogenic cells of the brain. Some of the steroids (pregnenolone sulfate, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, 3 alpha-hydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20-one, and 3 alpha, 21-dihydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20-one) produced in brain (neurosteroids) function as potent (with effects in the nanomolar concentration range) positive or negative allosteric modulators of GABAA receptor function. Thus, accumulating evidence suggests that the various neurobiological actions of DBI and its processing products may be attributable to the ability of these peptides either to bind to BZD recognition sites associated with GABAA receptors or to bind to glial cell MBRs and modulate the rate and quality of neurosteroidogenesis. The neurobiological effects of DBI and its processing products in physiological and pathological conditions (hepatic encephlopaty, depression, panic) concentrations may therefore be explained by interactions with different types of BZD recognition site. In addition, recent reports that DBI and some of its fragments inhibit (in nanomolar concentrations) glucose-induced insulin release from pancreatic islets and bind acyl-coenzyme A with high affinity support the hypothesis that DBI isa precursor of biologically active peptides with multiple actions in the brain and in peripheral tissues.
Data emerging from a number of different systems indicate that protein phosphatases are highly regulated and potentially responsive to changes in the levels of intracellular second messengers produced by extracellular stimulation. They may therefore be involved in the regulation of many cell functions. The protein phosphatases in the nervous system have not been well studied. However, a number of neuronal-specific regulators (such as DARPP-32 and G-substrate) exist, and brain protein phosphatases appear to have particularly low specific activity, suggesting that neuronal protein phosphatases possess considerable and unique potential for regulation. Several early events following depolarization or receptor activation appear to involve specific dephosphorylations, indicating that regulation of protein phosphatase activity is important for the control of many neuronal functions. This article reviews the current literature concerning the identification, regulation, and function of serine/threonine protein phosphatases in the brain, with particular emphasis on the regulation of the major protein phosphatases, PP1 and PP2A, and their potential roles in modulating neurotransmitter release and postsynaptic responses.
A unique feature of neuronal calcium/calmodulin-stimulated protein kinase II (CaM-PK II) is its autophosphorylation. A number of sites are involved and, depending on the in vitro conditions used, three serine and six threonine residues have been tentatively identified as autophosphorylation sites in the alpha subunit. These sites fall into three categories. Primary sites are phosphorylated in the presence of calcium and calmodulin, but under limiting conditions of temperature, ATP, Mg2+, or time. Secondary sites are phosphorylated in the presence of calcium and calmodulin under nonlimiting conditions. Autonomous sites are phosphorylated in the absence of calcium and calmodulin after initial phosphorylation of Thr-286. Mechanisms that lead to a decrease in CaM-PK II autophosphorylation include the thermolability of the enzyme and the activity of protein phosphatases. A range of in vitro inhibitors of CaM-PK II autophosphorylation have recently been identified. Autophosphorylation of CaM-PK II leads to a number of consequences in vitro, including generation of autonomous activity and subcellular redistribution, as well as alterations in conformation, activity, calmodulin binding, substrate specificity, and susceptibility to proteolysis. It is established that CaM-PK II is autophos-phorylated in neuronal cells under basal conditions. Depolarization and/or activation of receptors that lead to an increase in intracellular calcium induces a marked rise in the autophosphorylation of CaM-PK II in situ. The incorporation of phosphate is mainly found on Thr-286, but other sites are also phosphorylated at a slower rate. One consequence of the increase in CaM-PK II autophosphorylation in situ is an increase in the level of autonomous kinase activity. It is proposed that the formation of an autonomous enzyme is only one of the consequences of CaM-PK II autophosphorylation in situ and that some of the other consequences observed in vitro will also be seen. CaM-PK II is involved in the control of neuronal plasticity, including neurotransmitter release and long-term modulation of postreceptor events. In order to understand the function of CaM-PK II, it will be essential to ascertain more fully the mechanisms of its autophosphorylation in situ, including especially the sites involved, the consequences of this autophosphorylation for the kinase activity, and the relationships between the state of CaM-PK II autophosphorylation and the physiological events within neurons.
The purpose of this study was to determine if patients with focal hand dystonia have any significant psychopathology. We studied 20 patients with hand cramps who were participating in a therapeutic trial of botulinum toxin injections. Patients were interviewed and administered the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI). Beck Depression Inventory, Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Scale, a finger tapping test, and a choice serial reaction time test. Behavioral ratings were also obtained. Group statistics indicated that all personality scale scores and performances on motor tasks were within normal limits. Four out of 20 patients demonstrated mild depression. Trait anxiety scores were higher than state anxiety scores, suggesting that receiving medical treatment had a beneficial effect on mood. The number of depressive symptoms endorsed on the MMPI was correlated with reaction time speed but not finger dexterity. None of the 20 patients reported a remarkable psychiatric history. These results indicate that hand cramps are not associated with serious psychopathology.

This article has been written by pupil of A.A. Ukhtomsky, well-known professor of Moscow State University M.V. Kirzon. The article discovers the personal qualities of outstanding biologist A.A. Ukhtomsky, who has founded one of the famed physiological scientific schools in the Soviet Union.
A region of possible location of potassium-conducting synapses responsible for generation of &quot;slow&quot;, or &quot;long-term&quot; IPSPs has been determined in computer experiments with the use of neuroscience-oriented software program CRONA on the basis of data of measurement of reversal potential of such IPSPs under natural experiments. Such geometrical parameters as dimensions of neuronal dendritic branches and intracellular potassium concentration have been studied for their effect on determination of the above-mentioned region using the results of natural experimental studies of interaction of long-term IPSPs with polarizing currents. It is shown that synaptic inputs under investigation have non-somatic location and the region of their location on apical dendrites is between 110 and 460 microns from the soma.
It has been observed in the chick myelin that a protein with a molecular weight of 19.5K, in addition to the major species of myelin basic protein (MBP) (MBP(1), mol. wt 18.5K), reacts with anti-MBP serum directed against MBP(1). The larger MBP (MBP(2) mol. wt 19.5K), which seemingly does not correspond to any of the MBP species from other animal sources, is detected at high level in chick myelin from the initial stage of myelination. MBP(1) is easily extracted from the fluffy layer of Folch's upper layer, while MBP(2) is extracted by sonication of the acidified fluffy layer. Both extracted MBPs can be purified by using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with a reverse phased column after Sephadex G-100 and CM cellulose column chromatographies. The amino acid compositions of both MBPs are similar to each other. Further, both MBPs are phosphorylated using protein kinase C with 5.3 and 3.6 mol of incorporated phosphates to 1 mol of MBP(1) and MBP(2), respectively. One dimensional peptide mapping of both MBPs with Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease, carboxypeptidase Y and 2-(2-nitrophenylsulfenyl)-3-methyl-3?-bromoindolenine reveals different degradation patterns. This difference is also demonstrated by cyanogen bromide fragmentation. The MBP(2) cleavage has a low degradation rate in contrast to the complete cleavage of MBP(1). The two fragments (mol. wt 8 and 9K) from MBP(1) and one fragment (mol. wt 7K) from MBP(2), which are purified by HPLC, can be sequenced from the N-terminus. It is suggested that the methionine site is different in both MBP(1) and MBP(2), and there are a small number of amino acid substitutions between both MBPs.
The aim of this study was to characterize the biochemical and pharmacological properties of bradykinin receptors in the guinea pig central and peripheral tissues using radioligand binding techniques. Specific [(3)H]bradykinin ([(3)H]BK) receptor binding to homogenates of guinea pig cerebral cortex, hippocampus, spinal cord, ileum, kidney, heart, vas deferens and uterus was of high affinity, saturable and reversible. Scatchard analysis of saturation (0.005-1 nM) data revealed the presence of a single population of non-interacting nanomolar affinity (generally 0.14-0.38 nM) binding sites in all these tissues, with the ileum having the highest affinity (K(D) = 0.02 nM) and the greatest density of sites (B(max) = 5.8 +/- 1.8 pmol/g tissue). The rank order of tissue enrichment in terms of [(3)H]BK binding sites was: ileum &gt; uterus &gt; kidney &gt; heart &gt; vas deferens &gt; spinal cord &gt; cerebral cortex &gt; hippocampus. Unlabelled BK and its analogs inhibited [(3)H]BK binding in the above tissues in a concentration-dependent manner and with the same rank order of potency: BK &gt; Lys-BK &gt; Met-Lys-BK &gt; [ d -Arg (0)-Hyp (3)- d -Phe (7)]BK ? [ d -Arg (0)-Hyp (3)-Thi (5,8)- d -Phe (7)]BK ? Des-Arg (9)-BK . A similar rank order of potency of agonists was observed for their ability to contract guinea pig uterine and ileal smooth muscle strips. The pharmacological profile of [(3)H]BK receptor binding, using BK agonists and antagonists, and that of functional responses was consistent with the identification of BK receptors of the B(2)-type in the guinea pig central nervous system and peripheral tissues.
The autoradiographic technique is the most relevant approach for the visualization at the light microscope level of the different classes (5-HT(1A), 5-HT(1B), 5-HT(1C), 5-HT(1D), 5-HT(2) and 5-HT(3)) of receptors for the monoamine neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT) in the central nervous system of mammals, including man. The only exception is the 5-HT(4) subtype for which no satisfactory radioligand has been developed to date. Quantitative estimates of receptor labelling can be achieved by measurements of optical density on autoradiographic films of brain sections incubated with specific radioligands. This review summarizes the most significant contributions of quantitative autoradiography to the current knowledge of the respective regional distributions and differential regulations of the various classes of central 5-HT receptors.
Current therapeutic protocols for medulloblastoma combining, with surgery, radiation therapy and chemotherapy allow 5-year survival rates of over 50%. However these therapies induce mainly in children long-term adverse effects, which produce a therapeutic dilemma emphasizing the need for reliable prognostic factors in order to adapt the treatment modalities to the degree of the tumor's aggressiveness. Contradictory results have been reported concerning the conventional clinical and histological prognostic factors in medulloblastoma. Recent development and simplification of cell biology technologies could now help in the resolution of this issue. The aim of this review is to present some new prognostic factors available from these advances, and to discuss their potential usefulness in the field of medulloblastoma: The measurement of the proliferative potential of tumors using thymidine analogues such as bromodeoxyuridine (BUdR), or the monoclonal antibody Ki-67 is promising. The flow cytometric determination of D.N.A. content in medulloblastomas appears to show a correlation of diploidy with a worse prognosis than aneuploidy. Modern cytogenetic and molecular biology techniques are permitting the current assessment of amplification and overexpression of oncogenes, or the presence of deletions, as prognostic factors in medulloblastoma. The study of the cellular phenotype and particularly the search for differentiation markers has not yet led to clear-cut results from a prognostic viewpoint, but further advances are to be expected in this field, thanks to the development of more specific monoclonal antibodies. The investigation of the tumoral stroma and metabolism is very promising too. These novel approaches to prognostic factors in medulloblastoma should allow a better classification and management of these tumors in the near future.
Substance P-like immunoreactive nerve fibers have been found in the pars distalis of the adenohypophysis in the monkey, dog, and rat. Calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive nerve fibers have also been identified in the dog and rat. The peptidergic fibers are closely related to the glandular cells with synaptic contacts demonstrated between them. It is suggested that neural factors may be directly involved in the regulation of the activities of the anterior pituitary.
Thirty cases including 20 definite and 10 probable cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) seen in India between 1971 and 1990 are reported. Demographic analysis has shown similarities to the previously published reports from other parts of the world. Though 21 (70%) of cases were from two centers--Bombay and Bangalore-, suggesting clustering, this seems to be more apparent than real. One subject worked in the medical field, where possibility of iatrogenic transmission could not be ruled out. None of the cases had positive family history of CJD. There is no epidemiological data of CJD from India so far and hence this report is one such pilot study.

We describe a term newborn with tuberous sclerosis who presented with a neonatal brain tumor, diagnosed as a subependymal giant cell astrocytoma. We compare the various imaging modalities used in the diagnosis of this tumor.
Dystrophin Related Protein is the recently identified protein product of a large autosomal transcript, showing significant similarity to dystrophin at the carboxyl terminus. Dystrophin related protein and dystrophin share a similar abundance and molecular weight, however, they differ both in their tissue distribution and expression in Duchenne/Becker muscular dystrophy. Here we define the immunolocalization of dystrophin related protein to neuromuscular and myotendinous junctions, along with peripheral nerves and vasculature of skeletal muscle. Groups of regenerating muscle fibres as well as embryonic and neonatal muscle express far greater amounts of dystrophin related protein compared with adult mdx mice. These findings may explain the paradoxical labelling seen using dystrophin antibodies in Duchenne patients and dystrophin deficient mdx mice. Finally, no abnormalities of dystrophin related protein expression were detected in three patients with Duchenne-like autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy.
Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ) content was measured in isolated muscle mitochondria from 25 patients with mitochondrial encephalomyopathies (MEM), most of whom had mitochondrial DNA mutations. The CoQ level was significantly lower in MEM patients than in controls. CoQ levels varied widely from patient to patient, especially in those with chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia including Kearns-Sayre syndrome, which may explain, at least in part, the variable response of patients to CoQ administration.
Soleus muscles in young female rats were destroyed by the local injection of the crude venom of the Australian tiger snake, Notechis scutatus and allowed to regenerate. The regenerated muscles consisted almost exclusively of type I muscle fibres, and histograms of fibre cross-sectional area were unimodal. In contrast the normal contralateral muscles consisted of a mixture of type I and IIa fibres, and histograms of fibre cross-sectional area were bimodal. There was no change in the ability of the regenerated muscles to generate tension in response to indirect stimulation, and muscle fibre number and motor unit index were similar to controls. The regenerated muscles often contained split muscle fibres, but if re-innervation of the regenerated muscles was delayed, splitting did not occur. The principal features of the regenerated muscles (fibre type homogeneity, unimodal histograms of muscle fibre area, normal numbers of muscle fibres and normal motor unit index) were reproduced in soleus muscles that were simply denervated by nerve crush and allowed to re-innervate. We conclude that the phenotypic homogeneity of the regenerated muscles is a consequence of the temporary disconnection of muscle from nerve, rather than of the cycle of degeneration/regeneration, and suggest that this disconnection results in the reprogramming of the soleus motor neurones.

An index-middle finger (double) tapping task was used to examine hemispheric differences in the planning and execution of skilled finger movements. In two experiments, subjects responded to a simple cue presented tachistoscopically in the left or right visual field, by performing a predetermined number of double taps, (between one and eight inclusive), with either the left or right hand. Reaction times (RT) increased linearly as a function of increasing number of taps, when response sequences were controlled by the left hemisphere. In contrast, an inverse quadratic trend was obtained with right hemisphere control. When both hemispheres were involved in the stimulus-response sequence, the latency function incorporated elements of both trends, suggesting interaction between the hemispheres. The RT trends reflect differences in motor planning between the hemispheres. The conditions engaging only the right or left hemispheres did not differ in motor execution, as measured by tapping duration, variability or errors. However, when both hemispheres were involved there was evidence of interaction, which was evident as interference when the right visual field or left hemisphere was cued but the motor response was under the control of the right hemisphere (left hand). Overall, the results indicate that hand differences in fine motor skill may be determined by hemispheric differences associated with motor preparation rather than response execution.
The recent development of noninvasive methods for measuring local rates of energy metabolism or blood flow in the brain has made it possible to investigate functional neuroanatomy in healthy human subjects. The best of these methods, high resolution measurement of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) with positron emission tomography (PET), provides a precision of anatomical localization that far exceeds that attainable with human brain lesion studies. Moreover, the study of healthy subjects avoids possible confounding effects of brain lesions, such as compensatory reorganization of brain function. PET-rCBF studies have already identified several cortical areas involved in higher-order visual processing, indicating that functional neuroimaging may yield a map of human visual cortex analogous to maps that have been developed by vision research in nonhuman primates. PET-rCBF studies of imagery and language demonstrate the potential of functional neuroimaging to map regions of human cortex that perform functions that cannot be studied so easily in nonhuman primates or perform functions that humans do not share with other species.
From a study on 4 to 6 year-old children, Hatta (Hatta, Neuropyschologia 28, 1053-1062, 1990) concludes that (a) a left visual-field advantage develops at age 4 to 5 years in visuo-spatial stimulus recognition, and (b) since both the right visual-field advantage for verbal and the left visual-field advantage for visuo-spatial material develop at the same age, there is no support for the claim that the left and right hemispheres develop differentially. We contest these conclusions on the basis of our own infant studies which have shown a right visual-field advantage in 4 to 9 month-old infants for individual face recognition and more recently, for some aspects of visual patterns.
The hemispheric representation of auditory functions mediating the perception of harmony in music was investigated in two split-brain patients using a musical chord priming task. Previous experiments in normal subjects had demonstrated that the harmonic context established by a prime chord influences the accuracy of target chord intonation judgements. Only the right hemisphere of each callosotomy patient manifested the normal interaction between harmonic relatedness and intonation. The results raise the possibility that associative auditory functions which generate expectancies for harmonic progression in music are lateralized within the right hemisphere.

Forty-seven patients with probable dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and 30 healthy age-matched controls were scanned using [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose on a Scanditronix PC 1024-7B tomograph (inplane resolution = 6 mm, axial resolution = 10 mm). Patients and controls were scanned in the resting state with their eyes patched and ears occluded. The regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) in most major neocortical and subcortical gray matter regions, and certain metabolic ratios (rCMRglc/ calcarine rCMRglc), quantitatively discriminated even the mildly demented patients from healthy controls. The association neocortices showed metabolic abnormalities that were more severe than those in the sensorimotor and calcarine regions. All demented groups showed significant neuropsychological disturbances when compared to healthy controls. These data demonstrated widespread metabolic disturbances, particularly in the association areas, relatively early in Alzheimer's disease, and more profound involvement with disease progression.
Gamma-Aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) receptors are heterooligomeric proteins with an apparent high degree of variability in the specific assembly of their component subunits. Although the precise nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of many of the various GABAA receptor subunits are known, the exact quaternary structures of the native receptors are unknown. Recombinant expression of receptors with different combinations of subunits produces a variety of structurally different receptors with varying Cl- channel function and sensitivities to modulation by drugs such as benzodiazepines. Differences in the regional distribution of GABAA receptor subtypes in brain, coupled with the observed differences in the relative affinities of various anxiolytic and hypnotic drugs among these receptor subtypes, suggests a new strategy for drug development that is the targeting of drugs to specific subpopulations of GABAA receptors. This is a review of the recent striking progress in understanding the heterogeneity of the GABAA receptors and its possible significance.
To assess the utility of gadolinium-DTPA (Gd) and of MR imaging in the evaluation of spinal cord tumors, ten consecutive patients were prospectively evaluated. T1-proton density-, and T2-weighted images were obtained in sagittal or axial planes. T1-weighted images were obtained before and after intravenous administration. Five tumors were within the cervical spinal cord; 3 neoplasms were within the thoracic cord; 1 neoplasm extended from the cervical to the thoracic cord and 1 neoplasm extended from the cervical cord to the conus medullaris. Four tumors were ependymomas; 3 were astrocytomas; 1 was an hemangioblastoma, and 1 was a metastatic malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor. The remaining patient died prior to spinal surgery and no autopsy was obtained. Of the precontrast sequences, tumors were best evaluated using T1-weighted images. Abnormal findings included cord widening, presence of a tumor mass, intratumoral or other associated cyst(s), and hemorrhage. Nevertheless, T1-weighted images obtained following the administration of GD were superior relative to all other pre- and post-contrast sequences for defining tumor margins, characterizing cyst(s) and delineating tumor masses. Based primarily on their appearance on post-contrast T1-weighted images, tumor-associated cysts could be subcategorized into 3 types: intratumoral cysts (found within the contrast-enhancing soft tissue mass); nonenhancing extratumoral cysts (found eitherrostral or caudal to the enhancing tumor mass); and enhancing extratumoral cysts (having an enhancing wall or containing an enhancing nodule).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We studied the effects of intra-arterial chemotherapy (IAC) with a new nitrosourea (hydroxyethyl-chloroethyl nitrosourea: HeCNU) on the visual system of 68 patients with malignant gliomas. The intra-arterial chemotherapy was given as a complementary treatment of glioma after surgery (19 patients), after tumor recurrence (28 patients) and as the preliminary treatment before radiotherapy (21 patients). Eleven patients (16%) suffered a visual complication after two or more courses of chemotherapy. The main visual symptoms included mild to major decrease of visual acuity and in some cases ocular pain, palpebral edema and conjunctival injection. The delay in onset of ocular symptoms from the last course of IAC varied from 1 week to 9 months. From ophthalmoscopic findings, visual field testing and fluorescein angiography, the visual symptoms presented by our patients could be related to ischemic optic neuropathy or retinal vasculopathy. None of the patients had hypertension, diabetes, cardiopathy or hematological disease. Statistical analysis failed to demonstrate a relationship between the occurrence of visual toxicity and patient age, number of courses of HeCNU, the vascular axis treated, total systemic dose or dose by carotid artery, suggesting a possible specific sensitivity of some patients to chemotherapy. The pathophysiology and the therapeutic implications of this visual toxicity are discussed.
The last decade has seen several major technological advances in vascular neuroradiology, the most clinically significant of which have been the facility to image the brain and the extracranial carotid bifurcation noninvasively with accuracy and safety. Another major advance has been unequivocal evidence from formal statistical overviews that antiplatelet therapy, particularly aspirin, reduces the risk of serious vascular events by about 25%. These advances have changed clinical practice such that most patients presenting with symptoms suggestive of cerebral ischaemia should now have cranial CT to exclude intracerebral hemorrhage, not only because the causes and prognosis of cerebral ischaemia differ from those of intracerebral hemorrhage, but because many patients with cerebral ischaemia should be considered for antiplatelet therapy. Besides the use of long term antiplatelet therapy and control of vascular risk factors, other acute treatment options are limited with the possible exception of anticoagulation, thrombolysis, cytoprotective agents and carotid endarterectomy. If, as seems likely, the current clinical trials show that carotid endarterectomy plus medical therapy improve upon the stroke-free survival of patients treated medically, at least in symptomatic patients with severe stenosis, the number of carotid endarterectomies performed will increase considerably because carotid bifurcation disease is the most common cause of cerebral and ocular ischemic events. It will then be even more important to be able to obtain accurate anatomical and physiological information about the extracranial and intracranial circulations with utmost safety. Duplex ultrasound is currently the noninvasive screening method of choice for carotid bifurcation disease because it is available, relatively cheap, and reasonably accurate. It not only images the vessel lumen and degree of stenosis, but also the morphology of the vessel wall and associated plaque, the relevance of which is still uncertain in the pathogenesis of cerebral and ocular ischaemia. A major limitation of duplex sonography is that it cannot reliably distinguish tight stenosis from occlusion and it does not image the proximal or distal carotid circulation. The aim of newer techniques will be to distinguish tight extracranial carotid stenosis from occlusion and to provide anatomical, physiological and pathological information about the intracranial circulation and ischemic lesions (in view of potential for thrombolytic therapy of major intracranial vessel occlusion) with safety and reproducible accuracy.

Forelimb crossed extension reflexes were examined in 22 thalamic cats. These reflexes were elicited either by backward passive movement or by repetitive electrical stimulation of cutaneous and joint afferent nerves in the contralateral forelimb. Single stimulation of the superficial radial nerve evoked two types of reflex responses--early (ER) and late (LR)--from the triceps brachii muscle on the contralateral side. The latencies were about 7 and 16-25 ms, corresponding to the propriospinal (PSR) and spino-bulbo-spinal (SBS) reflexes of the ipsilateral flexor, respectively. Repetitive stimulation of the superficial radial nerve evoked the LR but not the ER. The crossed extension reflex and LR were abolished by lesions of the dorsolateral funiculus of the cervical cord on the side opposite to the recording. The tonic EMG activity, crossed extension reflex and LR in the extensor on the side of lesions were abolished by lesions of the ventrolateral funiculus of the cervical cord. During forelimb stepping, the amplitudes of both ER and LR fluctuated depending on the phase of the step cycle. The ER appeared during a narrow period in the early phase of the stance, whereas the LR was observed during a wide period from the middle of the swing to the middle of the stance. Both responses were absent from the middle of the stance to the middle of the swing. These observations suggest that forelimb crossed extension reflexes involve both spinal and supraspinal (SBS) loop mechanisms, and that these are utilized during stepping, with the latter mechanism in particular playing an important part in the extension phase of the forelimb forward movement.


The localization and distribution of quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase, the degradative enzyme of the endogenous excitotoxin quinolinic acid, were studied in the post mortem human neostriatum by immunohistochemistry. In eight neurologically normal human brains, quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase immunoreactivity was detected in both glial cells and neurons. Typically, glial cells containing quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase immunoreactivity had numerous processes radiating from the cell bodies. In Nissl-counterstained sections, most quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase-immunoreactive glial cells showed round, large and pale nuclei. These morphological features indicate that they are probably astrocytes. Neurons containing quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase immunoreactivity had different sizes and shapes and were tentatively classified into three subpopulations. Most were medium-sized cells with ovoid or elongated perikarya. Small quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons, often spheroid in shape, were particularly noted in a zone of the caudate nucleus adjacent to the lateral ventricle. A few large quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase-positive neurons were also present in both the caudate and putamen. The somatic and dendritic morphology of quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons closely resembles that of aspiny neurons seen in Golgi preparations. The localization of the specific quinolinic acid-catabolizing enzyme in distinct populations of neostriatal cells suggests specific functional correlates. It remains to be examined how the anatomical organization of quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase immunoreactivity relates to the degradation of quinolinic acid in the striatum, and if the morphological characteristics and distribution of quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase-immunoreactive cells are of relevance for the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative basal ganglia disorders.
The radioligands [3H]SCH 23390 and [3H]spiroperidol were used to label dopamine D1 and D2 receptors, respectively, in rat brain slices. Striatal sections were incubated in one of various concentrations of radioligand in the presence or absence of (+)-butaclamol and the resulting labeling was determined by liquid scintillation spectrometry. Scatchard analyses of the data revealed KD values of 1.18 nM for D1 receptors and 0.33 nM for D2 receptors. Tissue sections taken from the entire rostrocaudal extent of the nucleus accumbens, as well as other brain regions, were then processed for autoradiographic analysis of D1 and D2 receptors using a radioligand concentration equal to 1.5 X KD. After apposing the slices to 3H-sensitive film, topographical differences among brain areas were analysed using a quantitative densitometry system which determined the absolute amount of ligand binding relative to calibrated optical density standards. The nucleus accumbens exhibited a rostral-to-caudal density gradient for both D1 and D2 receptors. For D1 receptors, the density was similar across most of the nucleus accumbens, although the most caudal portion examined had a lower density than rostral portions. In contrast, the density of D2 receptors exhibited a more gradual gradient across the entire rostrocaudal extent of the nucleus accumbens. There was no significant rostrocaudal density gradient of either D1 or D2 receptors in either the olfactory tubercle or caudate-putamen in the same tissue sections. A lateral-to-medial gradient of D2 receptors was also present in the nucleus accumbens. That is, while there was no difference in the density of D1 receptors between the lateral core and medial shell subdivisions, the shell had a lower density of D2 receptors than did the core. The density of D1 and D2 receptors in the mesolimbic and nigrostriatal systems was compared in groups of animals raised from 30 to 60 days of age in an impoverished condition, a group-caged condition or an enriched condition. While the brain weight of enriched condition animals was higher than impoverished condition animals, there were no significant differences in the density of D1 or D2 receptors among the different groups. Apparently, the densities of D1 and D2 receptors in the brain are resistant to differential rearing conditions.
The morphological maturation of cell suspension grafts of fetal striatal tissue (obtained from 14-15-day-old rat fetuses) was followed from two days to eight weeks after implantation into intact and ibotenic acid-lesioned striata of adult rats. The development of host afferent innervation of the grafts from the substantia nigra (tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive), mesencephalic raphe (serotonin immunoreactive), and the frontal cortex (anterogradely labelled with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin) were revealed by immunohistochemistry. During the first weeks post-grafting, the striatal implants consisted of a mixture of mature- and immature-looking cell clusters. Grafts implanted into ibotenic acid-lesioned striatum grew rapidly (about five-fold) in volume over the first week. The areas of immature (probably proliferating) cells gradually disappeared, and by six to eight weeks the grafts had a fully mature appearance with patches of neurons which stained densely for DARPP-32 (i.e. were striatum-like) embedded within areas of essentially DARPP-32-negative (i.e. non-striatum-like) tissue. Peripheral clusters of grafted cells gradually intermingled with nearby areas of the surrounding lesioned host, and already by two to four days after implantation, coarse and densely immunoreactive host fibres from the substantia nigra, mesencephalic raphe and frontal cortex were present within the grafts. By four to five days the first DARPP-32-immunoreactive neurons appeared in patches within the mature portions of the grafts, and one to two days later the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibres began to sprout thin axons selectively within the DARPP-32-positive patches. Similarly, the serotonergic and cortical fibres in the grafts increased in number over the next two weeks, but they showed no preference for the DARPP-32-positive regions. Rich terminal networks were established by two to three weeks post-grafting, and by six to eight weeks the nigral, raphe and cortical afferents had reached terminal densities similar to those seen previously in long-term surviving grafts. Grafts implanted into dopamine-denervated hosts showed a normal morphological maturation of both DARPP-32-positive and -negative areas, although no tyrosine hydroxylase-positive innervation appeared within the grafts. Grafts implanted into non-lesioned striata did not grow beyond their initial size. The implanted cells showed less intermingling with the surrounding host striatum, thus resulting in sharply delineated graft-host borders. DARPP-32-positive patches developed, but they were smaller in size and generally present only in the most peripheral graft portions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We studied the morphology and distribution of substance P-like immunoreactive elements in normal and Alzheimer's disease brain with a monoclonal anti-substance P antibody. Bands of prominent terminal-like staining were found in the dentate gyrus of normal brain. Multipolar substance P-immunoreactive neurons were seen in dentate polymorphic layer and CA4 and prominent fiber staining was present in the CA fields of the hippocampus and adjacent allocortex. Reactive perikarya, concentrated in deep cortex and infracortical white matter, were found in all isocortical regions. Greatest density was in frontal and parietal association cortex; lowest in visual cortex. Fiber density was generally greatest in layers I and II. In Alzheimer's disease, staining intensity was reduced in the dentate gyrus. Hilar neurons were unaffected but other CA field neurons were distorted with pruned dendritic trees. Isocortical perikarya and fibers were significantly depleted and distorted in all regions. Globular deposits consisting of distorted neurites or dissolving perikarya were frequently seen. Double staining methods showed that the vast majority of isocortical, but not hippocampal, substance P-like immunoreactive neurons are nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase-positive. Despite the modest quantitative depletion of substance P in Alzheimer's disease cortex as measured by radioimmunoassay compared to somatostatin, there is a significant depletion of substance P-like immunoreactive perikarya. This disparity may be due to persistence of afferent projections which make a major contribution to substance P concentrations in cerebral cortex or to the high substance P content of dystrophic fibers in Alzheimer's disease cortex.
The possible physiological role of cytosolic pH changes in adrenal medullary chromaffin cell secretion was examined by investigating the effects of catecholamine secretagogues on cytosolic pH, which was monitored using the intracellular fluorescent indicator 2',7'-bis-(2-carboxyethyl)-5(6)-carboxyfluorescein (BCECF). Anti-fluorescein antibodies were used to reduce background fluorescence from extracellular 2',7'-bis-(2-carboxyethyl)-5(6)-carboxyfluorescein (BCECF). Stimulation with both cholinergic agonists (acetylcholine, nicotine) and a depolarizing agent (high K+) transiently acidified the cytosol of the chromaffin cell. This acidification was antagonized by reducing extracellular Ca2+ concentration and by Ca2+ antagonists (Co2+, verapamil), indicating that it occurred secondarily to Ca2+ influx, possibly as a result of exchange of Ca2+ ions for protons across organelle membranes. Taken together with previously published data [Kuijpers G.A. J. et al. (1989) J. biol. Chem. 264, 698-705] showing no effect of cytosolic acidification on nicotine-induced catecholamine secretion, these results indicate that secretagogue-induced cytosolic pH changes do not represent a causal step in stimulus-secretion coupling of the chromaffin cell. The cytosolic pH recovery to pre-stimulatory cytosolic pH levels was delayed by amiloride and by 5-(N,N-dimethyl)amiloride, at concentrations that otherwise substantially inhibited cytosolic pH recovery from the rebound acidification induced by a 40-fold sudden dilution of NH4Cl. This latter type of recovery results from activation of an Na+/H+ exchange mechanism. Therefore, the data suggest that Na+/H+ exchange is actively involved in the dissipation of the small acid loads generated by secretagogues.
An autoradiographic method has been developed for the regional assessment of cerebral tracer levels after the acute intravenous injection of [3-14C]beta-hydroxybutyrate in developing rats. The animals were studied at five postnatal stages, i.e. postnatal day 10 (P10), P14, P17, P21 and P35. Tracer levels were high from P10 to P17, reaching peak values at P14, which were two- to threefold higher than those at P10. At P17, tracer concentrations were about twice as low as at P14. Between P17 and P21, regional 14C concentrations were again reduced by about twofold in all areas studied and decreased further by about 50% after weaning reaching quite low levels by P35. The distribution of 14C inside sections appeared to be rather homogeneous throughout the brain at all stages studied, never exceeding a ratio higher than 2 at any stage studied. These results are in good agreement with previous data on the rate of uptake and utilization of beta-hydroxybutyrate by the immature rat brain.
The posthatch developmental profiles of parvalbumin and calbindin-D28K immunoreactivity were compared for the auditory nucleus mesencephalicus lateralis pars caudalis in the midbrain, n. ovoidalis in the thalamus, and telencephalic field L, as well as for the telencephalic vocal motor nuclei hyperstriatum ventrale pars caudalis and n. robustus archistriatalis. The two calcium-binding proteins showed specific temporal patterns of expression in each nucleus, without following an ascending or descending sequence. Calbindin-D28K immunoreactivity usually preceded parvalbumin immunoreactivity. Onset of expression, especially of parvalbumin-immunostaining, was earlier in auditory nuclei than in vocal motor nuclei. The developmental order of appearance of immunoreactivity in somata, dendrites and axons was different in various brain regions. In some structures parvalbumin or calbindin-D28K immunoreactivity occurred only transiently. The two antibodies bound to separate but spatially complementary groups of cells in the nucleus mesencephalicus lateralis pars dorsalis and n. ovoidalis, as has previously been described in visual nuclei. This pattern was maintained into adulthood. These hitherto unknown subcompartments may reflect internal functional organization in these nuclei. A transitory neostriatal zone containing parvalbumin-positive neurons and fibres was observed between the immature field L and the emerging hyperstriatum ventrale pars caudalis. Some comparative aspects are discussed as to the way in which neurons distinguished by the two Ca-binding proteins may differ in energy metabolism, activity pattern and other functional mechanisms.
The successful application of a physiological model of the musculoskeletal system capable of accounting for nonequilibrium dynamic loading and predicting individual muscle forces in the knee is presented. The model incorporates rigid-body mechanics and musculoskeletal physiology. Unknown muscle and joint contact forces outnumber the equilibrium equations resulting in an indeterminant problem. Mathematical optimization is utilized to resolve the indeterminacy. The model is used to estimate individual muscle forces during isokinetic exercise. Five subjects were tested at speeds of 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s. A newly proposed optimal criterion, minimizing muscular activation, results in muscle force predictions which have significantly higher correlations with myoelectric activity than other linear and nonlinear optimal criteria. The results demonstrate that properly constrained linear programming methods do not limit the number of active muscles and allow for uniform recruitment of the active muscles.
A physiological model for predicting muscle forces is described. Rigid-body mechanics and musculoskeletal physiology are used to describe the dynamics of the segment model and muscle model. Unknown muscle and joint contact forces outnumber the equilibrium equations resulting in an indeterminate problem. Mathematical optimization is utilized to resolve the indeterminacy. The modeling procedure relies entirely on established physiological principles. Data describing the muscle anatomy and body structures are included. A model defining the force-length-velocity-activation relationship of a muscle is adopted. The force a muscle produces is assumed to be proportional to its maximum stress, physiological cross-sectional area, activation, and its functional configurations including the muscle architecture, muscle length, contracting velocity, and passive tension. These factors are incorporated into inequality equations which limit the force for each muscle. Minimal muscular activation is forwarded as the optimization criterion for muscle force determination.
The efferent connections of the rostral parvocellular reticular formation to pontine and medullary nuclei in the rat were studied with anterogradely transported Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. Dense innervations from the rostral parvocellular reticular formation were found in the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus, the supratrigeminal area, the motor trigeminal nucleus, the motor trigeminal nucleus, the facial, hypoglossal and parabrachial nuclei and specific parts of the caudal parvocellular reticular formation, including nucleus linearis and the dorsal reticular nucleus of the medulla. The raphe nuclei, nucleus of the solitary tract, inferior olive, dorsal principal sensory, spinal trigeminal nuclei and gigantocellular reticular nucleus and the ventral reticular nucleus of the medulla received moderate projections. In general, the projections from the rostral parvocellular reticular formation were bilateral with an ipsilateral dominance. The dorsal motor vagus and the ambiguus nuclei were not labeled. It is concluded that the rostral parvocellular reticular formation participates in regulation of orofacial motor control and in neural networks for limbic control of metabolic homeostasis.
The morphology and distribution of NADPH diaphorase reactive neurons was studied in the normal human hypothalamus. Reactive neurons were divided into three categories on the basis of perikaryal size. Small neurons (8-20 microns) were oval or fusiform, and pale staining. Intermediate neurons (20-30 microns) were fusiform, triangular or pyramidal with a wide range of staining intensity. Large neurons (greater than 30 microns) were triangular or pyramidal with moderate to dark staining. Reactive neurons were found in four major regions: medial preoptic, ventromedial, lateral, and perifornical. Scattered positive neurons were found in several other hypothalamic areas. Reactive fibers were present in the supraoptic decussation, medial forebrain bundle, and stria medullaris thalami. The localization of NADPH diaphorase neurons in hypothalamic nuclei affected by Alzheimer's disease and other degenerative disorders suggests that further studies of this neuronal subset are warranted.
To assess the nature and extent of ultrastructural damage due to low unilateral intracerebroventricular doses of kainic acid, treated rats were killed at survival times from 8 h to 14 weeks. Degenerative changes in field CA1 of the hippocampus included dark profiles (often presynaptic), lucent areas enveloping axonic or dendritic elements, damaged myelin sheaths, and enlarged glial profiles. The effect of kainic acid ipsilaterally was maximal at three days but also apparent up to 14 weeks. Contralateral CA1 showed similar though less extensive abnormalities. These observations suggest that, despite rapid synaptic replacement (Nadler et al., Brain Res. 191, 387-403, 1980), long-term electrophysiological abnormalities (Cornish and Wheal, Neuroscience 28, 563-571, 1989) may stem not only from inappropriate reactive synaptogenesis but also from a continuing state of neuronal degeneration.
A widespread distribution of dopamine D1 receptors in the neocortex is well recognized. However, the presence of dopamine D2 receptors in this structure has only recently been established [Martres et al. (1985) Eur. J. Pharmac. 118, 211-219; Lidow et al. (1989) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 86, 6412-6416]. In the present paper, a highly specific antagonist, [3H]raclopride, was used for autoradiographic determination of the distribution of D2 receptors in 12 cytoarchitectonic areas of the frontal, parietal, and occipital lobes of the rhesus monkey. A low density of D2-specific [3H]raclopride binding (1.5-4.0 fmol/mg tissue) was detected in all layers of all cortical areas studied. Throughout the entire cortex, the highest density of binding was consistently found in layer V. This is a unique distribution not observed so far for any other neurotransmitter receptor subtype in monkey cerebral cortex, including D1 receptor. In addition, a comparison was made of the distribution of [3H]raclopride and [3H]spiperone, which has been commonly used in previous attempts to label cortical D2 receptors. We found marked differences in the distribution of these two radioligands. In the prefrontal cortex, the pattern of [3H]spiperone binding in the presence of ketanserin resembled the combined distribution of 5-HT1C serotoninergic and alpha 2-adrenergic sites as well as D2 receptors. Thus, [3H]raclopride provides a better estimation of the D2 receptor distribution than does [3H]spiperone. The distribution of D2-specific binding of [3H]raclopride was also compared with the D1-specific binding of [3H]SCH23390 in the presence of mianserin to block labeling to 5-HT2 and 5-HT1C sites. The density of D1-specific [3H]SCH23390 binding was 10-20 times higher than that of D2-specific [3H]raclopride binding throughout the cortex. The densities of both [3H]raclopride and [3H]SCH23390 binding sites display a rostral-caudal gradient with the highest concentrations in prefrontal and the lowest concentrations in the occipital cortex. However, the binding sites of these two ligands had different laminar distributions in all areas examined. In contrast to preferential [3H]raclopride binding in layer V, a bilaminar pattern of [3H]SCH23390 labeling was observed in most cytoarchitectonic areas, with the highest concentrations in supragranular layers I, II and IIIa and infragranular layers V and VI. Whereas [3H]raclopride binding was similar in all cytoarchitectonic areas, [3H]SCH23390 exhibited some region-specific variations in the primary visual and motor cortex. The different regional and laminar distributions of D1 and D2 dopaminergic receptors indicates that they may subserve different aspects of dopamine function in the cerebral cortex.
As originally named for the ostensibly contradictory appearance of rapid eye movements and low voltage fast cortical activity during behavioral sleep, paradoxical sleep or rapid eye movement sleep, represents a distinct third state, in addition to waking and slow wave sleep, in mammals and birds. It is an internally generated state of intense tonic and phasic central activation that is contemporaneous with the inhibition of sensory input and motor output. In early studies, it was established that the state of paradoxical sleep was generated within the brainstem, and particularly within the pons. Pharmacological studies indicated an important role for acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter in the generation of this state. Local injections of cholinergic agonists into the pontine tegmentum triggered a state of paradoxical sleep marked by phasic ponto-geniculo-occipital spikes in association with cortical activation and neck muscle atonia. Following the immunohistochemical identification of choline acetyl transferase-containing neurons and their localization to the dorsolateral ponto-mesencephalic tegmentum, neurotoxic lesions of this major cholinergic cell group could be performed to assess its importance in paradoxical sleep. Destruction of the majority of the cholinergic cells, which are concentrated within the laterodorsal tegmental and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei but extend also into the locus coeruleus and parabrachial nuclei in the cat, resulted in a loss or diminishment of the state of paradoxical sleep, ponto-geniculo-occipital spiking and neck muscle atonia. These deficits were correlated with the loss of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons in the region, so as to corroborate results of pharmacological studies and single unit recording studies indicating an active role of these cholinergic cells in the generation of paradoxical sleep and its components. These cells provide a cholinergic innervation to the entire brainstem reticular formation that may be critical in the generation of the state which involves recruitment of massive populations of reticular neurons. Major ascending projections into the thalamus, including the lateral geniculate, may provide the means by which phasic (including ponto-geniculo-occipital spikes) and tonic activation is communicated in part to the cerebral cortex. Descending projections through the caudal dorsolateral pontine tegmentum and into the medial medullary reticular formation may be involved in the initiation of sensorimotor inhibition. Although it appears that the pontomesencephalic cholinergic neurons play an important, active role in the generation of paradoxical sleep, this role may be conditional upon the simultaneous inactivity of noradrenaline and serotonin neurons, evidence for which derives from both pharmacological and recording studies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The efferent projections of the core and shell areas of the nucleus accumbens were studied with a combination of anterograde and retrograde tract-tracing methods, including Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin, horseradish peroxidase and fluorescent tracers. Both the core and shell regions project to pallidal areas, i.e. ventral pallidum and entopeduncular nucleus, with a distinct topography in the sense that the core projection is located in the dorsolateral part of ventral pallidum, whereas the shell projects to the medial part of the subcommissural ventral pallidum. Both regions of the accumbens also project to mesencephalon with a bias for the core projection to innervate the substantia nigra-lateral mesencephalic tegmentum, and for the shell projection to reach primarily the ventral tegmental-paramedian tegmentum area. The most pronounced differences between core and shell projections exist in regard to the hypothalamus and extended amygdala. Whereas the core projects primarily to the entopeduncular nucleus including a part that invades the lateral hypothalamus, the shell, in addition, projects diffusely throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the lateral hypothalamus as well as to the extended amygdala, especially its sublenticular part. Both the core and shell of the accumbens have unmistakable striatal characteristics both histologically and in their connectional patterns. The shell, however, has additional features that are reminiscent of the recently described extended amygdala [Alheid G.F. and Heimer L. (1988) Neuroscience 27, 1-39; de Olmos J.S. et al. (1985) In The Rat Nervous System, pp. 223-334]; in fact, the possibility exists that the shell represents a transitional zone that seems to characterize most of the fringes of the striatal complex, where it adjoins the extended amygdala.
The normal neuromuscular junction shows two classes of spontaneous miniature endplate potentials. These classes are based on a discontinuity in the profile of miniature endplate potential amplitude distributions. The amplitude of one class of miniature endplate potentials from a bell-shaped amplitude distribution and the remaining miniature endplate potentials compose a population which forms a left-hand skew distribution with a mode 1/7 to 1/10 that of the bell-miniature endplate potentials [Kriebel M. E. and Gross C. E. (1974) J. gen. Physiol, 64, 85-103]. Some skew-miniature endplate potentials have a slow time-to-peak and show breaks on the rising phase. Most treatments that alter the miniature endplate potential frequency change the ratio of skew-miniature endplate potentials/bell-miniature endplate potentials [Kriebel M. E. et al. (1976) J. Physiol. 262, 553-581]. The time characteristics of miniature endplate currents were readily altered in the isolated frog and mouse neuromuscular junctions with several agents known to increase the percentage of slow-miniature endplate potentials (heat, botulinum toxin, 4-aminoquinoline and increases in bath osmolarity). The slow-miniature endplate potential amplitudes were a continuum of amplitudes from skew- to giant miniature endplate potentials. The rising phases of miniature endplate potentials were a continuum from smooth to many with breaks and offsets. In a series of sequentially recorded slow-miniature endplate currents, many had congruent rising phases of constant slope regardless of amplitude or of time-to-peak. The rising phases of congruent slow-miniature endplate currents which showed a change in slope deviated at similar amplitudes. The least value of the slope of a slow-miniature endplate current was that of the sub-miniature endplate current; and, miniature endplate currents with overall lower slope values showed a wave pattern and/or irregular breaks which suggests summation of sequentially delayed sub-miniature endplate currents. Plots of the amplitude vs time-to-peak of miniature endplate currents from identified junctions demonstrated that the normal percentage of slow-miniature endplate currents was greatly increased with the treatments used here and that the time-to-peak of giant miniature endplate currents usually was longer than that of normally occurring bell-miniature endplate currents. Giant miniature endplate currents with short time-to-peak values are probably from two miniature endplate currents occurring, by chance, almost simultaneously. During and/or after treatments, miniature endplate currents formed clusters of similar size miniature endplate currents, not randomly distributed in time, which graded from distinct miniature endplate currents to giant miniature endplate currents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The nucleus basalis of Meynert was examined in six patients with Alzheimer's disease and five age-matched controls. A cytoarchitectonic study was followed by quantitative analysis of the population of neurons and by the determination of their nuclear area. Confirming previous neuropathological observations in Alzheimer's disease, a neuronal loss of 43% in the anterior, 25% in the intermediate and 30.5% in the posterior subdivisions of the nucleus basalis of Meynert was observed. Numerous surviving cells showed neurofibrillary tangles. In addition, we found that the nuclear area of the remaining nucleus basalis of Meynert neurons was significantly increased in all three subdivisions by at least 16%. The combined observation of cell loss and nuclear hypertrophy suggests that both regenerative and degenerative changes co-exist in the nucleus basalis in Alzheimer's disease.
A monoclonal antibody was raised against dissected Mauthner cells of goldfish, Carassius auratus. The immunoglobulin (mAb 222C2) recognized in this neuron a determinant that was localized on the soma of the Mauthner cell in front of the axon hillock and on the dorsomedial portion of the initial third of its ventral dendrite. When observed with electron microscopy, the staining was associated with polyribosomes and with the reticulum, close to the Golgi cisternae. The antibody also labelled other large neurons (10-40 microns) of the nuclei reticularis superior, medialis and inferior. In these cells, patchy immunolabelled elements could be detected, dispersed within cytoplasm. They did not exhibit the characteristic topological distribution observed in the Mauthner cell. On the basis of their size and location, this group of neurons may send axons to the spinal cord. No staining was observed in other areas of the brainstem, or in other structures such as the cerebellum or the optic tectum. The expression of this antigenic molecule in Mauthner and reticular cells suggests that these two sets of neurons are functionally and/or ontogenetically related. Although the molecular and functional characteristics of the antigenic molecule have not been determined, this antibody should be a useful marker for further developmental studies.
The cholinergic innervation of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus, which is thought to originate primarily in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus and the substantia innominata, was studied by acetylcholinesterase histochemistry and immunohistochemistry with a polyclonal antiserum against human choline acetyltransferase on autopsy tissue from eight control subjects, five patients with progressive supranuclear palsy and four patients with senile dementia of Alzheimer type. In controls, cholinergic innervation of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus was distributed heterogeneously in densely labelled patches surrounded by less heavily stained matrix. In patients with progressive supranuclear palsy, the density of choline acetyltransferase-positive varicosities decreased by 75% in the matrix and 60% in the patches. The number of choline acetyltransferase-positive cell bodies decreased by 84% in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, but more moderately (-33%) in the substantia innominata. In patients with senile dementia of Alzheimer type, choline acetyltransferase-positive varicosities decreased by 34% in the matrix, but 46% in the patches. Choline acetyltransferase-labelled cell bodies were spared in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, whereas severe loss (-80%) was observed in the substantia innominata. These results suggest that cholinergic innervation of mediodorsal nucleus matrix derives mainly from the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus and mediodorsal nucleus patches from the substantia innominata. Differential loss of innervation to the matrix and patches in progressive supranuclear palsy and senile dementia of Alzheimer type may in turn differentially affect mediodorsal nucleus innervation of the frontal cortex, resulting in dissimilar symptomatologies.
The effect of platelet-activating factor on the intracellular cytosolic level of free calcium ([Ca2+]i) was studied in neurohybrid NCB-20 cells. In fura-2-loaded NCB-20 cells, platelet-activating factor induced an immediate and concentration-dependent increase in [Ca2+]i with a maximum increase of 334 +/- 27 nM above a basal value of 147 +/- 6 nM (n = 40). Platelet-activating factor-induced [Ca2+]i mobilization was inhibited by the platelet-activating factor antagonists BN 50739, WEB 2086, SRI 63-441 and BN 52021 in a dose-dependent manner with IC50 values of 12, 38, 897 and 45000 nM, respectively. The calcium-channel blockers nifedipine (10 microM) and diltiazem (10 microM) had no effect on the platelet-activating factor-induced increase in [Ca2+]i; however, extracellular Ca(2+)-depletion caused a 63.6 +/- 4.7% reduction of platelet-activating factor-induced increase in [Ca2+]i (n = 5, P less than 0.001). The remaining 36% contributed from intracellular sources was completely inhibited by 10 microM of 8-(N,N-diethylamine)octyl 3,4,5-trimethoxytenzoate hydrochloride (TMB-8). NCB-20 cells exhibited homologous desensitization to sequential addition of platelet-activating factor, but no heterologous desensitization between platelet-activating factor and bradykinin or ATP was observed. These data suggest that activation of the neuronal platelet-activating factor receptor results in an increase in [Ca2+]i primarily via a receptor-operated rather than a voltage-dependent calcium-channel and to a lesser extent from intracellular Ca2+ release. Our findings may contribute to an understanding of the mechanism of platelet-activating factor actions on neuronal cells.
Developmental changes in ganglioside levels and patterns were investigated in neuronal cells dissociated from 17-day-old fetal rat hemispheres for up to 7 days of culture. Increases in ganglioside contents and the onset of GM3 synthesis, which is associated with proliferation of glial cells, were observed as the neuronal network was established in cell cultures. The distribution of gangliosides in developing neurons was monitored by the indirect immunofluorescent technique using three anti-ganglioside antibodies. Anti-GM1 antibody showed immunofluorescence only on the cell soma 1 and 3 days after plating and additional binding between cell aggregates by 7 days in culture. GD3 ganglioside, the predominant species in embryonic neurons, was not detected on the neuronal cell surface, whereas the number of positively stained non-neuronal cells was increased at 7 days. Monoclonal A2B5 antibody suggested that polysialogangliosides play a role in neuronal network formation. In 1-day-old culture, however, all antibodies bound poorly to cell surface antigens and strongly to cells, the membranes of which were permeabilized with acetone. These results suggest that a substantial amount of gangliosides are retained, transformed within the cell to more complex gangliosides, and translocated to the cell surface following neurite outgrowth and morphological changes.
Fractal dimension can be used as a quantitative measure of morphological complexity. Separate, enriched populations of oligodendrocytes or type 2 astrocytes derived from neonatal rat optic nerves were allowed to differentiate in vitro. Fractal dimensions of differentiating glial cells were measured over time. The fractal dimension correlated with perceived complexity and increased in value as the glial cells matured. Analysis of the changes in fractal dimension with time revealed unique rates of growth and differentiation for each glial phenotype.
Octapeptide FLFQPQRFamide (FMRFamide-like peptide; morphine-modulating peptide), isolated from bovine brain, has some opiate analgesia modulating effects. Octapeptide FLFQPQRFamide-like immunoreactivity is found in high concentrations in the posterior pituitary, hypothalamus, pons-medulla, and dorsal spinal cord. Octapeptide FLFQPQRFamide-immunoreactive neurons of the brain are localized in the medial hypothalamus and in the nucleus of the solitary tract. High densities of octapeptide FLFQPQRFamide-immunoreactive nerve terminals are found in the median eminence, lateral parabrachial nucleus, and nucleus of the solitary tract. By using the retrograde tract tracing method combined with immunohistochemistry, we studied the central pathways interconnecting the octapeptide FLFQPQRFamide-immunoreactive structures. The octapeptide FLFQPQRFamide-immunoreactive neurons of the hypothalamus sent projections bilaterally to the nucleus of the solitary tract. The octapeptide FLFQPQRFamide-immunoreactive neurons of the nucleus of the solitary tract projected to the contralateral side of the same nucleus, to the lateral parabrachial nuclei bilaterally, and to the ipsilateral periambigual region. The results give neuroanatomical evidence of interacerebral pathways containing recently identified FLFQPQRFamide-like peptides, which may belong to a larger family of peptides. These neuroanatomical findings support the previous pharmacological studies, suggesting that the mammalian FMRFamide-like peptides may, in addition to modulatory effects on nociceptive mechanisms, participate in the regulation of blood pressure, feeding behaviour and endocrine functions.
This study examines the effect of applied d.c. electric fields on nerve regeneration following injury to the rat sciatic nerve using the circularly vibrating probe and electron microscopy. The transected and treated nerve which received a d.c. electrical stimulator (0.6 mu A) was compared with untreated transected and crushed nerves. At one week postoperative, the probe was used to measure in vivo the current density along the nerve length. All nerves studied had a proximal peak at the lesion site and a second peak at varying distal locations: crushed/untreated (13.3 mm), transected/untreated (9.7 mm) and transected/treated (16.3 mm). A significant difference (69%) between the distal peak distances in the two transection groups suggests that the electrical treatment enhanced the progress of nerve regeneration. There were no significant differences between the mean peak amplitudes (1.6-2.2 mu A/cm2). Applied verapamil reduced the peaks, suggesting they are associated in part with a calcium-dependent current. Electron microscopy at selected nerve regions indicated that the peaks correspond to regenerating axonal growth cones. The results suggest the potential clinical application of d.c. electric fields in the treatment of nerve injuries.
The bovine octapeptide Phe-Leu-Phe-Gln-Pro-Gln-Arg-Phe-NH2 (FLFQPQRFamide), originally detected by antisera raised against the invertebrate peptide, Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-NH2, is a neuropeptide which antagonizes the actions of endogenous and exogenous opiates. Using a sensitive radioreceptor assay, we show that rat spinal cord extracts were able to inhibit binding of FLFQPQRFamide, suggesting that a biologically active FLFQPQRFamide-like material exists in the rat spinal cord. We also raised antibodies against the peptide and used them, together with radioimmunological and immunohistochemical methods, to characterize this material further and analyse its cellular and subcellular localization in this area of the central nervous system. Radioimmunoassay showed that extracts from cervical and thoracolumbar levels contained measurable amounts of FLFQPQRFamide-immunoreactive material (about 3 ng/g tissue), present essentially in the dorsal horn. Analytical reverse-phase chromatography revealed that this material existed in several molecular forms. One of these fractions (about 20% of the total immunoreactivity) had the elution characteristics of synthetic FLFQPQRFamide. Light microscopic immunohistochemistry showed FLFQPQRFamide immunoreactivity at all spinal levels, localized mainly in a dense plexus of fibers in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn. Immunoreactive profiles were also seen in the lateral funiculi and around the central canal at all levels and in the intermediolateral columns; some rare immunoreactive fibers were also noted in the ventral horn at cervical and thoracic levels. FLFQPQRFamide-positive cell bodies were never detected in any of our sections. Electron microscopy of ultrathin sections of the dorsal horn and central gray treated with our antisera and a post-embedding immunogold procedure revealed that the immunoreactivity, at least within these areas, was restricted to dense-cored vesicles (90-120 nm in diameter) in axonal and terminal profiles. As seen by radioimmunoassay and immunohistochemistry, unilateral rhizotomy of all dorsal roots between segments C4 and T2 did not change the levels of FLFQPQRFamide immunoreactivity in the ipsilateral C6-C8 segments. Taken together with our recent data showing the existence of specific FLFQPQRFamide receptors at the spinal cord level, our present observations suggest that the dorsal horn of the rat spinal cord may be a site where vertebrate Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-like peptides, and in particular, FLFQPQRFamide, may exert opiate modulating activities.
The localization of gastrin releasing peptide-immunoreactive neurons within the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus was investigated with the indirect peroxidase-antiperoxidase and avidin-biotin techniques. Gastrin releasing peptide-immunoreactive perikarya were found in the ventral part of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, which suggests a direct afferent innervation from the retina or the lateral geniculate, placing the gastrin releasing peptide neurons centrally in the regulation of circadian rhythmicity. Gastrin releasing peptide neurons gave rise to fibers and terminals within the suprachiasmatic nucleus, especially in the ventral part among the immunoreactive and non-immunoreactive neurons. The largest number of gastrin releasing peptide-immunoreactive axons leaving the suprachiasmatic nucleus could be followed in a caudodorsal direction to the subparaventricular zone and the dorsal hypothalamic area. Moreover, minor projections could be traced from the suprachiasmatic nucleus rostrally along the dorsal surface of the optic chiasm to the prechiasmatic area, rostrodorsally into the periventricular area and laterally along the dorsal surface of the optic chiasm and tract. Gel filtration and high performance liquid chromatography profiles of the tissue extracts from the suprachiasmatic area revealed the presence of two GRP-immunoreactive peptides, co-eluting with synthetic gastrin releasing peptide18-27 and gastrin releasing peptide1-27 in almost equivalent concentrations. Gastrin releasing peptide18-27 or gastrin releasing peptide1-27 might therefore play a role in regulation of circadian rhythms in hypothalamic nuclei generated by the suprachiasmatic nucleus.
We have previously shown that central administration of beta-endorphin results in a reduction of ornithine decarboxylase activity. Ornithine decarboxylase catalyses the rate-limiting step in the biosynthesis of the polyamines putrescine, spermidine and spermine, thought to modulate nucleic acid synthesis. The present study examines the effects of intracisternal injection of beta-endorphin on brain and liver DNA synthesis in preweanling rats. In six-day-old rats, beta-endorphin (0.75 micrograms/g brain wt) produced approximately a 70% inhibition in brain and liver DNA synthesis 1 h after injection, and values were still subnormal in both tissues 10 h later. Subcutaneous administration of beta-endorphin did not alter liver DNA synthesis. Thus, it is most likely that the suppressed liver DNA synthesis observed in animals given beta-endorphin intracisternally is mediated by central mechanisms. Co-administration of naloxone plus beta-endorphin intracisternally prevented the response, indicating an opioid receptor-mediated phenomenon. Naloxone alone caused small but significant increases in brain and liver DNA synthesis, suggesting a tonic influence on tissue DNA by endogenous opioids in the CNS. Acute inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase activity by alpha-difluoromethylornithine did not alter DNA synthesis, indicating that the decreases in DNA synthesis induced by beta-endorphin are unrelated to the ornithine decarboxylase/polyamine system. The effect appears to be restricted to early development as no significant changes in DNA synthesis were obtained in 20-day-old animals. The results from these studies indicate that CNS beta-endorphin has the ability to influence DNA synthesis in central as well as in peripheral tissues.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We examined whether forelimb and hindlimb phasic afferent input is a prerequisite for the production of avian locomotor patterns. We eliminated phasic afferent feedback through paralysis of a decerebrate animal. The term &quot;fictive&quot; has been used to describe the neural activity associated with spontaneous or evoked motor output during neuromuscular paralysis. We observed that a paralysed decerebrate bird is capable of producing similar locomotor activity patterns as an unparalysed preparation, regardless of whether the &quot;fictive&quot; locomotion is generated spontaneously, or in response to focal electrical and/or neurochemical stimulation of discrete brainstem locomotor regions. Not all aspects of &quot;fictive&quot; locomotor patterns were identical to the locomotion elicited prior to paralysis. The stimulus current threshold necessary to evoke hindlimb locomotion increased from 69 +/- 22 mu A (mean +/- S.D.) prior to paralysis to 185 +/- 87 mu A for &quot;fictive&quot; stepping. For wing activity, the threshold increased from 84 +/- 46 mu A during wing flapping to 228 +/- 148 mu A for &quot;fictive&quot; flight. In addition, the frequency of &quot;fictive&quot; efferent locomotor activity from the leg nerve (1.04 +/- 0.44 Hz) decreased relative to the frequency of leg activity prior to paralysis (1.55 +/- 0.70 Hz). Similarly, the frequency of wing activity decreased from 2.73 +/- 0.73 Hz before paralysis to 1.8 +/- 0.69 Hz after paralysis. Finally flexor burst duration remained constant during treadmill and &quot;fictive&quot; walking while the extensor burst duration was markedly increased during &quot;fictive&quot; walking. Thus, the relative contributions of leg flexor activity to the overall step cycle (burst proportion = burst duration/cycle duration) decreased during evoked &quot;fictive&quot; stepping, while the burst proportion of the leg extensor increased. Afferent feedback therefore appears to modulate leg extensor burst duration more than leg flexor duration. For the wings, the burst proportion of the major wing depressors remained constant before and after paralysis.
Systematic quantitative analysis of changes in the spinal scratching generator motor activity evoked by tonic and phasic peripheral afferent signals during &quot;fictitious&quot; scratching was carried out in the cat. Correlations between the kinematics of hindlimb scratching movement, sensory inflow, and primary afferent depolarization were investigated. Reliable correlations between the parameters of generator motor activity during fictitious scratching were revealed: they depended on tonic peripheral afferent inflow. The functional role of these dependencies consists of providing stability for aiming the hindlimb to the itch site. It was shown that scratching generator reaction to a phasic sensory signal depended significantly on afferent input, signal intensity, and its arrival phase in the cycle of motor activity. Phase correction of &quot;scratching&quot; rhythm was performed by inhibition of the current stage of &quot;scratching&quot; cycle, the inhibition magnitude depending on the intensity of a sensory signal run along high threshold afferent fibers. The moments in the scratching cycle, in which the afferent signal caused no rearrangement in scratching generator activity, were discovered for all investigated afferent inputs. These moments corresponded to the transitions from one scratching cycle phase to another. Integral afferent activity was distributed unevenly in the cycle during real scratching. The main part of it was observed just in that scratching cycle part which included the above mentioned no rearrangement phase points. The data obtained allowed us to conclude that the scratching generator should be considered as a working program for the motor optimal control system containing the intrinsic model of the controlled object dynamics (e.g. hindlimb scratching movement dynamics), which produces an inner analog of peripheral flow. This inner flow interacts with peripheral afferent inflow just as one of the latter components. Centrally originated modulation of primary afferent depolarization is a result of affecting the depolarization generating system by this inner &quot;sensory&quot; activity. It is the model, with the aid of which the generator can work after deafferentation. The functional organization of a central pattern generator is considered.
The effects of centrifugal afferents on single unit discharge in the main olfactory bulb were studied in anaesthetized rats. Recording with extracellular micropipettes revealed spontaneous firing in all bulb layers. Units were located to different laminae using evoked field-potential profiles and histological verification. Output neurons were identified by antidromic response to stimulation of the lateral olfactory tract. Single- or brief multiple-pulse stimulation in the nucleus of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band, but not in adjacent regions, facilitated 17 out of 27 mitral cells with no effect on 10, but inhibited 21 out of 33 granule cell layer units with no effect on 12. Of 13 presumed tufted cells, six were facilitated and the rest unaffected. In contrast, stimulation of olfactory cortex inhibited mitral cells and facilitated most granule layer cells. The results are consistent with an inhibition of tonic granule cell discharge by the horizontal diagonal band nucleus, with resultant disinhibition of mitral cells via the dendrodendritic synapses of granule cells on mitral cell secondary dendrites.
This study compared the pharmacology of adrenergic agents that influence plasma extravasation in normal animals with those agents that influence tissue injury in an inflammatory disease model. Specifically we studied the effects of beta 2- and alpha 2-adrenergic receptor agonists and antagonists on bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation in normal Sprague-Dawley rats and on joint injury in rats with experimental arthritis. Plasma extravasation induced by infusion of bradykinin in the rat knee joint was attenuated by the beta 2-agonist salbutamol or by the alpha 2-antagonist yohimbine, and was enhanced by the beta 2-antagonist, ICI-118,551, or by the alpha 2-agonist, clonidine. In rats that had undergone chemical symphathectomy, bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation was markedly reduced, and there was no enhancement of bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation by either ICI-118,551 or clonidine. Although ICI-118,551 and clonidine enhanced bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation, these drugs significantly reduced joint injury in rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis. Neither salbutamol nor yohimbine, however, significantly increased joint injury in the arthritic rats, presumably because arthritis severity is already high in these animals. Consistent with this hypothesis, both salbutamol and yohimbine did significantly increase the joint injury associated with experimental arthritis in Wistar-Kyoto rats, a strain which develops a mild adjuvant arthritis. The fact that increased plasma extravasation is associated with decreased arthritis severity suggests that plasma extravasation, a major sign of acute inflammation, contributes to tissue reparative processes.
In order to establish the nature of the muscarinic cholinergic receptors present in the rat caudate-putamen and olfactory tubercle, we have combined in situ hybridization histochemistry with oligonucleotide probes and receptor autoradiography with N-[3H]methyl scopolamine and several subtype-selective antagonists: hexahydro-sila-difenidol, p-fluoro-hexahydro-sila-difenidol, 4-diphenyl-acetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methbromide, AF-DX 116, pirenzepine and methoctramine. In both brain regions, transcripts for the m4 muscarinic receptor subtype were the most abundant, followed by transcripts for the m1 subtype. m2 and m3 transcripts were much less abundant, whereas m5 mRNA was not detected under the present conditions. The binding profiles obtained in these areas were clearly distinct from those obtained in the CA1 layer of the hippocampus and in the pontine nuclei, regions enriched in M1 and M2 sites, respectively. In contrast, they were good agreement with the characteristics of atypical muscarinic receptors present in cell lines such as NG108-15, which contains mRNA for the m4 subtype, and PC12. The profiles displayed by some of the compounds used in the present study for cloned m4 receptors expressed in mammalian cells also agree with our results in rat caudate-putamen and olfactory tubercule. Taken together, these facts support the existence, in rat caudate-putamen and olfactory tubercle, of a major population of muscarinic cholinergic receptors belonging to the M4 type.
1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) selectively destroys dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta in humans and other primates, producing a parkinsonian condition. MPTP is metabolized to the toxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine (MPP+) which is taken up by dopamine terminals. The subsequent events culminating in cell death in the substantia nigra pars compacta are not understood. To examine these events we first produced a chronic hemiparkinsonian condition in monkeys by administering a toxic dose of MPTP via the right carotid artery. One year later, these monkeys were given a trace dose of [14C]MPTP intravenously and allowed to survive 1, 3, or 10 days. In two acute conditions, monkeys were either given the radiolabeled trace dose intravenously immediately following the toxic intracarotid dose, or were given a single toxic intracarotid radiolabeled dose, and allowed to survive 1, 3, or 10 days. We show by histology and autoradiography that the chronic hemiparkinsonian condition is characterized by selective unilateral loss of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons and absence of MPP+ retention in the caudate-putamen. In the acute conditions, MPP+ is accumulated and selectively retained in high concentrations in the caudate-putamen bilaterally and throughout the nigrostriatal pathway only on the side receiving the toxic dose. In the substantia nigra pars compacta. MPP+ is accumulated in very low concentrations in the dopamine cell bodies and is not selectively retained there. At 10 days survival, the caudate-putamen on the side receiving the toxic dose loses its ability to retain MPP+. The apparent degeneration of the dopamine axon terminals in the caudate-putamen and the development of Parkinson-like behavioral signs seen at 10 days survival were observed to precede the loss of cell bodies in the substantia nigra, which appeared normal by the criteria of Nissl staining and neuromelanin content at all time points in the acute conditions. Other areas of dense MPP+ retention in all cases include noradrenergic and serotonergic cell groups and noradrenergic pathways. MPP+ in the locus coeruleus and other caudal catecholaminergic cell groups is apparently retrogradely transported there after uptake in terminal regions, and although it is retained in high concentrations, no cell loss occurs. These findings suggest that experimentally induced Parkinsonism results from molecular events initiated in the neostriatum and selectively elaborated in the nigrostriatal pathway, ultimately resulting in the death of substantia nigra pars compacta dopamine neurons. They do not support a significant role for neuromelanin binding in the toxicity of MPP+.
Acetylcholine and acetyl-beta-methacholine were applied iontophoretically to single cells in the feline striate cortex. The directional bias of the visual response to an optimally oriented stimulus was assessed quantitatively, before and during drug application. For the great majority of the cells that were affected by the drugs, selectivity was either unchanged (28/60, 47%) or increased (21/60, 35%). In particular, directional bias increased for 36% (12/33) of the cells that were facilitated by acetylcholine or acetyl-beta-methacholine and 43% (nine out of 21) of those that were inhibited, as compared with 9% (three out of 33) and 24% (five out of 21) for which the bias decreased. Six additional cells, of which three showed a reduced selectivity, were apparently excited by the drugs, in that the background discharge level was greatly increased with a concomitant decrease in signal-to-noise ratio. It is known that cholinergic input has the potential to enhance cortical function, by facilitating both the excitatory and the inhibitory components of the neuronal circuit. Our data show that this combination of effects can precipitate an enhancement of selectivity as well as of response magnitude.
Both spontaneous and evoked extracellular electrophysiological activity of neurons within fetal mesencephalon suspension grafts to the dopamine-depleted striatum of rats were examined. In some cases, extracellular recording was combined with intracellular labeling to identify recorded neurons. Grafted rats displaying a complete cessation of ipsilateral rotations following amphetamine administration were examined at post-implantation time intervals of two, four, five, eight and nine months. Four separate classes of neurons were distinguished within the transplanted striatum based on electrophysiological properties. The first of these groups, the type I cells, appeared to be non-grafted striatal neurons. When spontaneously active, these striatal-like cells fired bursts of action potentials separated by periods of decreased activity. Evoked responses in these cells were characteristic of striatal cells. Type I cells which were intracellularly labeled were found outside the grafts and displayed the characteristic morphology of the medium spiny neuron of the neostriatum. The other three cell classes displayed electrophysiological properties similar to neurons recorded in situ within the reticular formation, substantia nigra pars compacta and substantia nigra pars reticulata. Neurons from these three groups which were labeled with an intracellular marker were found to lie within the suspension grafts. The spontaneous activity of the pars compacta dopaminergic-like neurons was predominantly irregular, with some cells also firing in a regular or pacemaker-like pattern. Infrequently, irregular firing dopaminergic-like neurons displayed episodes of doublet bursting. Many of the grafted neurons responded to electrical stimulation of prefrontal cortex and striatum, indicating that the graft was receiving functional inputs from host neurons. Comparison of the firing rate and pattern of grafted neurons to in situ mesencephalic neurons as a function of time following grafting suggested that the grafted neurons and/or the neuronal circuitry is slowly developing within the host environment. A prolonged time-course for the maturation of the graft may be reflected in the time required to achieve improvements in some behavioral deficits following transplantation. However, the relatively rapid recovery of drug-induced rotational asymmetry following grafting suggests that this form of recovery may not require mature functioning of the grafted neurons.
We have investigated the effect of iontophoretically applying the inhibitory transmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) through four pipettes, each located at a horizontal distance of some 500-600 microns from the recording site, on the orientation tuning of cells in areas 17 and 18 of the cat visual cortex for moving the stationary flash-presented bar stimuli. Forty-five of 74 cells tested in area 18 (61%) showed a significant (greater than 25%) increase in orientation tuning width (at half the maximum response) during GABA application, which reflected an increase in response to non-optimal orientations. The mean orientation tuning width of these cells increased by 79%, and the ratio of responses to the orientation orthogonal to the optimum and to the optimum increased from 0.16 to 0.46. The results were similar to those from area 17, in which 36 of 54 cells (66%) showed significant broadening of orientation tuning during GABA application, with a 90% increase in mean tuning width and an increase in the relative response to the orientation orthogonal to the optimum from 0.17 to 0.42. The distributions of cells in areas 17 and 18 with respect to the magnitude of GABA-induced effects on orientation tuning width were not significantly different (mean increase in tuning width: area 17, 102%; area 18, 87%). Although most cells were tested only with moving bars, comparable effects of remote GABA application on orientation tuning were observed when stationary flash-presented bars were used. Of 11 cells thus tested in area 18, seven showed significantly broader tuning during GABA application, with a 132% increase in mean tuning width. In some 25% of cells in each area which showed a significant effect of GABA application on orientation tuning the response to at least one non-optimal orientation exceeded, during GABA application, the response to the previous optimum. There was essentially no correlation between the changes in orientation tuning and changes in the level of spontaneous activity or in the response to the optimum orientation during GABA application. Thus, an increase in the general excitability of recorded cells or the loss of an unspecific inhibitory input cannot account for the effects of GABA application on orientation tuning. Remote GABA application presumably inactivated cells with different preferred orientations from that of the recorded cell. It is thus argued that the observed broadening of orientation tuning during GABA application reflected the loss of an inhibitory input tuned to non-optimal orientations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Cytoplasmic architecture of axon terminals in rat central nervous tissue was examined by quick-freeze deep-etch method to determine how synaptic vesicles and their associated cytoplasmic environment are organized in the terminal and to know how these structures participate in the mechanism for neurotransmitter release. The axoplasm is divisible into two domains: one occupied by mitochondria in the middle of the terminal, called the mitochondrial domain, the other situated in the periphery and exclusively filled with spherical synaptic vesicles, 50-60 nm in diameter, the synaptic vesicle domain. The most characteristic feature of the mitochondrial domain was the appearance of many microtubules connected with mitochondria by filamentous strands. Large vesicles, 80-100 nm in diameter, were preferentially associated with the mitochondrial domain, and linked with microtubules wherever they appeared. The cytoplasmic matrix of the synaptic vesicle domain showed a more fibrillar texture than that of the mitochondrial domain because of the distribution of filamentous strands associated with synaptic vesicles. These strands were significantly thicker and longer (mean 11.7 nm thick and 42.7 nm long) than those linking membrane-bound organelles to microtubules (mean 8.3 nm thick and 23.0 nm long), and connected vesicles to one another or to the plasma membrane, making a complicated network around the vesicles. Further, both strands were significantly different in dimension from actin filaments (mean 9.9 nm thick and 73.5 nm long) showing 5-nm axial periodicity. These strands, especially synaptic vesicle-associated ones including their network, were readily broken down in the most part by detergent treatment or chemical fixation, indicating that they are very delicate in nature. Granular materials, which are spherical and vary in size (6-20 nm in diameter), are also more conspicuous in the synaptic vesicle domain than in the mitochondrial domain. More fibrillar and granular cytoplasmic structure of the synaptic vesicle domain may be crucial for synaptic vesicles to perform an essential role in releasing the transmitter.
[3H]MK-801 binding in rat brain was characterized using a quantitative autoradiographic binding assay. [3H]MK-801 binding (5 nM) reached equilibrium by 120 min at 23 degrees C. [3H]MK-801 appeared to label a single high affinity site with an affinity constant of approximately 11 nM. [3H]MK-801 binding was heterogeneously distributed throughout the brain with the following order of binding densities: hippocampal formation greater than cortical areas greater than striatum greater than thalamus. Competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, DL-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid, 3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid, and cis-4-phosphonomethyl-2-piperidine carboxylic acid, inhibited [3H]MK-801 binding. Glycine antagonists, 7-chlorokynurenic acid and kynurenic acid, also inhibited [3H]MK-801 binding. Furthermore, the inhibition of [3H]MK-801 binding by the quinoxalinedione compounds 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione was reversed by glycine. [3H]MK-801 binding was also inhibited by zinc ions [3H]MK-801 binding was enhanced by glycine or N-methyl-D-aspartate. These results demonstrate that [3H]MK-801 can be used in a quantitative autoradiographic assay as a functional probe for the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex.
The effect of capsaicin on voltage-activated calcium currents was investigated in voltage-clamped somata of cultured adult rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. About half the neurons studied were sensitive to capsaicin, which induced an inward current at negative membrane potentials accompanied by an increase in membrane conductance. In the sensitive neurons capsaicin inhibited voltage-activated calcium current to an extent that depended on the size and duration of the capsaicin-induced inward current. Calcium channels were protected from the long-lasting inhibitory action of capsaicin by substituting extracellular Ca with Mg or Ba when capsaicin was applied, which suggests that the inhibition was dependent on the presence of extracellular Ca. Substituting Ca with Co did not prevent the prolonged block of calcium channels. It is concluded that the inhibition of voltage-activated calcium currents by capsaicin is secondary to increased intracellular Ca levels due to calcium entry through capsaicin-activated cation-specific ion channels in the plasma membrane. Long-lasting inhibition of voltage-activated calcium channels may contribute to the mechanism of the analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects of capsaicin through inhibition of neurotransmitter release from central and peripheral terminals of primary afferent nociceptive neurons.
Interleukin-6 (human recombinant) supported the survival of cultured mesencephalic, catecholaminergic and septal cholinergic neurons from postnatal, two-week-old (P13-P15) rats. Significantly, more catecholaminergic neurons, stained by monoclonal anti-tyrosine hydroxylase antibody, were found in cultures supplemented with interleukin-6 at a concentration of 5 ng/ml than in cultures not treated with interleukin-6. The optimal dose used was 50 ng/ml. The survival effect of interleukin-6 on postnatal rat, tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons was observed both in cultures using serum-containing and serum-free medium. Contents of dopamine and noradrenaline in cultures with interleukin-6 were also larger than in control cultures. Interleukin-6 also increased the survival of cultured embryonic (E17) rat midbrain tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. The effect on these neurons was, however, smaller, and the optimal dose of interleukin-6 was nearly 5 ng/ml. Interleukin-6 also supported the survival of cultured postnatal (P13) rat septal cholinergic neurons, visualized by acetylcholinesterase staining. The concomitant addition of mouse nerve growth factor (100 ng/ml) and interleukin-6 (50 ng/ml) had a synergetic effect on the survival of acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons in culture. Our data suggest that the survival of cultured tyrosine hydroxylase-positive, mesencephalic, and acetylcholinesterase-positive, septal neurons from postnatal two-week-old rats was supported by interleukin-6, just as there was a different dose dependency of interleukin-6 on the cultured postnatal neurons compared with embryonic neurons.
The sources of fibers with immunoreactivity to calcitonin gene-related peptide in the caudal portion of the caudate-putamen were investigated in animals treated by a knife cut, a tracer injection, or an electrolytic lesion of regions ventral and medial to the medial geniculate nucleus. Hemitransection of the brain just caudal to the caudate-putamen decreased ipsilaterally calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity in the caudal portion of the caudate-putamen, suggesting that calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive fibers in the caudate-putamen originated from neurons in the area caudal to the caudate-putamen. Some calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive neurons in the regions ventral and medial to the medial geniculate nucleus, including the peripeduncular, posterior intralaminar and suprageniculate nuclei, were labeled ipsilaterally with a retrograde tracer after an injection into the caudal portion of the caudate-putamen. In addition, an electrolytic lesion of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive neurons in the regions ventral and medial to the medial geniculate nucleus decreased the number of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive fibers in the ipsilateral caudal portion of the caudate-putamen. These results suggest that some cells containing calcitonin gene-related peptide in several posterior thalamic nuclei project to the caudal caudate-putamen.
Electron microscopic immunocytochemistry, was combined with acute anterograde axon degeneration, following transection of the fimbria-fornix, to describe the innervation of somatospiny neurons by vasopressin-immunoreactive and degenerated hippocamposeptal axon terminals in the rat lateral septal area. Vasopressin-immunopositive boutons characterized by symmetric synaptic membrane specializations, and the degenerated hippocamposeptal axon terminals which form asymmetric synaptic contacts, frequently terminate on the same dendritic and somatic profiles, and particularly on the somata of somatospiny neurons. Although hippocamposeptal fibers predominantly form axospinous synapses in the lateral septal area, they terminate mainly on the dendritic shafts and soma of the vasopressin-receptive neurons. Of 720 vasopressin-immunoreactive terminals in the mediolateral part of the lateral septal area, 80% form synaptic contacts with dendritic shafts; 50% on small (distal) dendritic profiles and 30% on large (proximal) dendrites. Synaptic contacts between vasopressin-immunoreactive terminals and dendritic spines were not observed. The remaining 20% of immunoreactive boutons formed axosomatic synaptic contacts with a total of 58 neurons; 31% of these neurons exhibited somatic spines in the plane of the section analysed. Previous studies have demonstrated that in the lateral septal area vasopressin modulates the action of the excitatory amino acid-containing hypocamposeptal fibers, and also plays a role in the maintenance of long term potentiation evoked by fimbria-fornix stimulation. The convergent vasopressinergic and hippocampal input onto the same somatospiny neurons of the lateral septal area suggests that these neurons are targets of these physiological actions.
Cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis of Meynert project to numerous regions of the cerebral cortex. However, little is known about the regional and laminar distributions of cholinergic axons in monkey frontal cortex. In this study, immunohistochemical techniques were used to identify axons that were immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase, the enzyme that catalyses the synthesis of acetylcholine, in the frontal cortex of cynomolgus monkeys. Motor cortex contained the greatest density of labeled fibers: the density of labeled fibers was lower in premotor and anterior cingulate cortices and lower still in the association regions of prefrontal cortex. On a laminar basis, choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive axons were most dense in layer I to superficial layer III. Layer V also contained a distinct band of labeled fibers that was particularly prominent in the agranular regions of frontal cortex. The density of labeled fibers was much lower in the deep portion of layer III to layer IV and in layer VI. These findings demonstrate a specific and regionally distinctive cholinergic innervation of monkey frontal cortex that may reveal the anatomical basis for the influence of acetylcholine on the diverse functions of primate frontal cortex.
Glial fibrillary acidic immunoreactivity in brain was examined in normal animals and in rats subjected to chronic hypoxia. Animals were exposed to a chronic normobaric adaptive hypoxia with decreasing amounts of oxygen (finally 6%) for a period of 59 and 114 days, respectively. In paraffin-embedded sections the glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity in normal and hypoxic animals was examined at three coronal levels. A mild glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity in the perivascular glial layer, external glial limitans membrane and periventricular astrocytes, as well as in some areas of hippocampus and cerebellum, was noted in normal animals. Chronic hypoxia for 114 days resulted in a marked increase of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity in dentate gyrus of hippocampus, Bergmann glia of the cerebellum, internal capsule and pyramidal tract. On the other hand, the glial fibrillary acidic protein activity following 59 days hypoxic exposure was almost the same as controls. These results show that systemic deep chronic hypoxia (depending on the intensity and the duration) activates the endogenous expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein in astrocytes of specific brain regions. The probable significance of this finding is discussed.
In order to investigate the cellular basis of human astrogliosis, we have selected the cerebellar cortex because it provides a relatively simple and geometrical organization of both neuronal and glial populations. A pathological system with severe and progressive loss of granule cells was studied: the ataxic form of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, where the tissue geometry is minimally disturbed. The quantitative study revealed a drastic reduction in the numerical density of granule cells in the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease cerebellum, and a significant increase in the numerical density of astrocytes. Karyometric analysis showed that the nuclear area was significantly greater in reactive astroglial cells than in normal astroglia. Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunocytochemistry revealed astroglial hypertrophy, but the geometry and spatial domains of astroglial subtypes were strictly preserved. Vimentin expression was detected in Bergmann glia and in certain astrocytes of the granular layer. Ultrastructural analysis showed that reactive astroglia had large nuclei, with expanded interchromatinic regions which contained clusters of interchromatin granules and nuclear bodies, and prominent reticulate nucleoli. In the cytoplasm, hypertrophied bundles of intermediate filaments were observed, some of them associated with the nuclear envelope. Numerous adhering and gap junctions were also found among reactive astroglial cells. Perivascular glial processes showed a terminal web of intermediate filaments and a conspicuous plasmalemmal undercoat. Interendothelial tight junctions were preserved. Our results suggest that the severe loss of granule cells induces a highly ordered astroglial response which tends to preserve the geometry of the astroglial scaffold, the domains of each astroglial subtype, the neuronal microenvironmental conditions and the efficiency of the blood brain barrier, in order to promote neuron survival.
Although the etiology and pathogenesis of the cholinergic degeneration in Alzheimer's disease are not known, several reports implicate immunological mechanisms. Recently we have shown that sera of Alzheimer's disease patients contain antibodies which bind specifically to the heavy molecular weight neurofilament protein of Torpedo cholinergic neurons. In the present study we investigated the possibility that such antibodies play a role in neuronal degeneration by examining the behavioral and cellular effects of immunizing rats with the heavy neurofilament protein of Torpedo cholinergic neurons. The immunized rats developed antibodies which were specific to the heavy neurofilament protein of Torpedo cholinergic neurons and which cross-reacted with rat brain neurofilaments. Immunohistochemical studies revealed the accumulation of antibodies in the perikarya and neurites of neurons in the septum and hippocampus of the cholinergic neurofilament immunized rats and in white matter tracts in their forebrains. No such staining was seen in adjuvant immunized control rats. Behavioral tests revealed that rats immunized with the heavy cholinergic neurofilament protein performed significantly worse than controls in a T-maze alternation test and that their performance deteriorated profoundly after the introduction of a 20-s delay in the paradigm, indicating a deficit in short term memory. In contrast, both groups performed similarly in a T-maze discrimination test, indicating that long term reference memory was not affected by immunization with the heavy cholinergic neurofilament protein. Further experiments revealed that the rats immunized with the heavy cholinergic neurofilament protein were also deficient in a reversal of choice paradigm in a position discrimination test.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
GABA immunoreactivity was studied in the optic tectum of the frog, Rana esculenta, by postembedding immunohistochemical methods at the light and electron microscopic levels. Nearly one-third of the total population of tectal cells appeared to be GABA-immunoreactive. The proportion of stained neurons was highest in layer 9 (61%), and they occurred less frequently in layers 7 (21%) and 6 (27%). Stained perikarya represented a population of small neurons with a diameter of 8-10 microns. Large cell bodies in layer 7 or at the top of layer 6, and cells of origin of the mesencephalic trigeminal tract in layer 2, were devoid of labelling. Axon terminals and dendrites displaying immunoreactivity for GABA were observed in all of the plexiform layers. On the basis of ultrastructural characteristics two types of GABA-positive axon terminals and two variations of GABA-immunoreactive dendrites were distinguished. Synaptic relations of GABA-immunoreactive and GABA-negative axons as well as dendrites were also studied. Besides a wide variety of axodendritic synapses, dendrodendritic synaptic appositions were also revealed. The results suggest that various inhibitory mechanisms are involved in tectal circuits, which have to be incorporated into future neuronal models concerning visual information processing in the optic tectum of the frog.
Corticotropin-releasing factor-like immunoreactive nerve fibers and varicosities are present in the pituitary stalk and median eminence 6 weeks after bilateral lesioning of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. The total immunoreactivity may reach 10% of the control density. The origin of these fibers was investigated 3 days after hypothalamic transections in paraventricular-lesioned (6 weeks postoperatively) rats. Accumulations of corticotropin-releasing factor immunostaining were observed in the proximal portions of the transected axons and in neuronal perikarya. Fibers with retrograde labeling were seen lateral and dorsolateral from the sagittally oriented knife cuts which transected the retrochiasmatic area and cells were found in the supraoptic nucleus and in the perifornical nucleus (dorsal-dorsolateral to the fornix), ipsilateral to the lesion. No corticotropin-releasing factor immunostained cells were seen in other hypothalamic or preoptic nuclei which project to the median eminence or the posterior pituitary. Corticotropin-releasing factor containing cells in the supraoptic and perifornical nuclei may have an importance in stress response in rats with long-term paraventricular lesions.
Calbindin-D-28k and parvalbumin are calcium-binding proteins. The laminar distribution and morphological features of calbindin-D-28k-like immunoreactive structures were studied in 60-microns-thick sections of the human olfactory bulb. Except for the olfactory nerve layer, immunoreactive neurons were present in all layers of the olfactory bulb. They reached highest densities in the external plexiform layer and internal granule cell layer. Considerable numbers of calbindin-like nerve cells were also found in the olfactory tract and in distal portions of the anterior olfactory nucleus. When comparing the distribution of calbindin-positive structures to that of parvalbumin-positive ones a partially complementary distribution pattern was found. Calbindin-like immunoreactive portions of the anterior olfactory nucleus and olfactory tract were mirrored by immunonegative areas in adjacent sections stained for parvalbumin. Using the combined pigment-Nissl procedure we observed the presence of lipofuscin deposits in nearly 80% of all the calbindin-immunoreactive neurons analysed. Moreover, analysis of their lipofuscin deposits rendered the further differentiation of morphologically similar neuronal subpopulations possible. In contrast, all parvalbumin-like immunoreactive neurons remained free of lipofuscin granules.
Expression of preprocholecystokinin mRNA was studied in regions of post mortem human brain using RNA blot analysis (Northern blot) and in situ hybridization. Northern blot analysis using a cDNA probe showed high levels of an approximately 0.8 kb preprocholecystokinin mRNA in all regions of neocortex examined. Lower levels of preprocholecystokinin mRNA were detected in amygdaloid body and thalamus. In situ hybridization analysis using the same cDNA probe revealed numerous weakly labelled neurons in different areas of human neocortex and less numerous neurons in hippocampus and amygdaloid body. High-performance liquid-chromatography and gel-chromatography combined with radioimmunoassay of cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity from human cerebral cortex and caudate nucleus revealed two major forms, one coeluting with sulphated cholecystokinin-8 and the other coeluting with sulphated cholecystokinin-58. Two minor components coeluting with cholecystokinin-4 and cholecystokinin-5 were also detected. The finding of cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity corresponding to cholecystokinin-8 and cholecystokinin-58 in caudate nucleus where no preprocholecystokinin mRNA was found, indicates the presence of these peptides in afferent nerve terminals.
Serotonin (5-HT) immunocytochemistry was used at the electron microscopic level to examine 5-HT neurons reinnervating and hyperinnervating the hippocampus of adult rat, three to four months after a total 5-HT denervation and subsequent graft of embryonic raphe cells. The study focused on immunostained nerve cell bodies, dendrites and axon terminals (varicosities) in the core of grafts, and on a large single section sampling of axon terminals from a CA3 and a dentate gyrus sector of the outgrowth, which were systematically compared to the endogenous 5-HT innervation of the same regions described in a companion paper. The shape, size and synaptic investment of the grafted 5-HT somata and their dendrites resembled those of in situ 5-HT neurons. Clusters of small, clear vesicles were sometimes seen along these 5-HT dendrites. 5-HT axonal varicosities were fairly numerous in the core. A few were directly apposed to, or made asymmetrical synaptic contact with the immunostained dendrites and perikarya, but the vast majority showed no indication of junctional specialization (synaptic incidence of 19%, as stereologically extrapolated for whole varicosities). Occasional myelinated 5-HT axons were also present in the core of grafts. In the two outgrowth sectors, the graft-borne 5-HT varicosities were similar in size, content, frequency of synaptic contact and identity of junctional and appositional elements, irrespective of their laminar location. Moreover, none of these parameters were significantly different from those of the endogenous innervation. Notably, in spite of their excessive number, the synaptic incidence of the outgrowth 5-HT varicosities remained inferior to 20%. The similarity between the respective microenvironments of the supernumerary, graft-borne 5-HT terminals and of their normal counterparts could only be explained by a random intratissular distribution of these varicosities in both the normal and the grafted hippocampus. Thus, in spite of their transplantation and growth into an abnormal milieu, and the fact that they hyperinnervated the host tissue, the grafted embryonic 5-HT neurons appeared committed to express a particular set of intrinsic and relational morphological features corresponding to their normal adult characteristics.
This study was aimed at characterizing the fine-structural features of the normal serotonin (5-HT) innervation in adult rat hippocampus, by means of electron microscopic immunocytochemistry with a polyclonal antiserum against 5-HT-glutaraldehyde-protein conjugate (donated by Michel Geffard, Bordeaux). Two hippocampal sectors were examined, at mid-level along the septo-temporal axis: CA3-a of Ammon's horn and crest of the dentate gyrus (DG-c). A large number of axonal varicosities (terminals) were sampled in single ultrathin sections, to achieve a statistically significant comparison of their size and of their relative frequency of synaptic specialization, junctional targets and juxtaposed elements, between the oriens and the radiatum layer of CA3-a, and the molecular and the polymorph layer of DG-c. In both CA3-a layers, the microenvironment of the immunostained terminals was also compared to that of a population of unlabeled varicosities randomly selected from the same micrographs. Moreover, 57 varicosities from the oriens and the radiatum layer of CA3-a were visualized in a long series of thin sections, allowing for their examination from end to end in 43 instances. As measured in single sections, hippocampal 5-HT varicosities were of comparable diameter (0.57 microns on the average) in the two anatomical sectors and four neuropil layers examined. As extrapolated stereologically to whole varicosities, the proportion making a synaptic membrane specialization (synaptic incidence) ranged from 18 to 33% (average of 24%), without statistically significant differences between the two sectors and four layers. The synaptic incidence determined directly from serial sections of CA3-a (18%) was nearly identical to that extrapolated from single sections (18.1% in the oriens and 19.5% in the radiatum layer). In both CA3-a and DG-c, the 5-HT varicosities showing a junctional complex were slightly larger than their non-junctional counterparts. In CA3-a, only dendritic shafts were targeted by synaptic 5-HT varicosities, whereas in DG-c there were also a few axo-spinous synapses. The microenvironment of CA3-a 5-HT varicosities differed markedly from that of randomly selected unlabeled varicosities, due to its much lower frequency of synaptic targets and higher frequency of juxtaposed axonal varicosities, at least in the radiatum layer. In all four layers examined, other axonal varicosities were indeed the most frequently encountered neuronal element in the immediate vicinity of immunostained 5-HT varicosities. Neurites and dendritic shafts were also common, but dendritic spines (4%) were relatively infrequent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The studies described have sought to determine what, if any, relationship exists between axons and the senile plaque, a hallmark histopathological feature of Alzheimer's disease. A double stain was performed on both early and late Alzheimer frontal cortex tissues in order to examine the interaction between axons stained with antibodies against the 200,000 mol. wt neurofilament subunit (NFP-200) of the axon cytoskeleton and Thioflavin-S, a fluorescent dye that stains plaques. Serial photomicrographs of plaques were taken and axon and plaque profiles were three-dimensionally reconstructed. Analysis of computer-processed images revealed that there were fewer axons within plaques than in regions lying one and two plaque distances away. When axons were observed passing through plaques, swelling and disruption of normal morphology was frequently present. Statistical analyses of axon counts within and around placques showed a gradient of axon density, with increased numbers occurring at progressive distances from the placque. Similar patterns were seen for early and late stages of the disease. The results of this study indicate that disruption of the axonal cytoskeleton may occur within the regions occupied by plaques.
To determine whether intraventricular administration of nerve growth factor alters presynaptic cholinergic function in the intact hippocampus or following partial lesions of the fimbria, we investigated the effects of recombinant human nerve growth factor treatment on [3H]acetylcholine synthesis and release by hippocampal slices following various treatment regimens. For chronic nerve growth factor treatment, 1 microgram of recombinant human nerve growth factor was injected intraventricularly every second day. Lesions reduced [3H]acetylcholine synthesis (by 48%) and spontaneous and evoked [3H]acetylcholine release by 35 and 61%, respectively. Chronic nerve growth factor treatment over three weeks elevated [3H]acetylcholine synthesis (by 39%) and spontaneous and evoked [3H]acetylcholine release by 27 and 64%, respectively, over values in lesioned hippocampi of animals treated with a control protein (cytochrome c). The nerve growth factor-induced enhancement of presynaptic cholinergic function persisted for three weeks following the termination of nerve growth factor administration. Furthermore, chronic (nine-week) treatment with nerve growth factor increased [3H]acetylcholine by 118% over values in lesioned hippocampi of animals treated with cytochrome c. These findings indicate that chronic treatment with recombinant human nerve growth factor increases the capacity of hippocampal cholinergic neurons surviving a partial fimbrial transection to synthesize, store and release acetylcholine. Application of recombinant human nerve growth factor during the initial weeks after lesioning was necessary to product significant elevations in acetylcholine synthesis, since chronic recombinant human nerve growth factor treatment after delays of three or more weeks were ineffective. Furthermore, chronic nerve growth factor treatment failed to stimulate acetylcholine synthesis and release in intact hippocampal cholinergic systems. Single intraventricular injections of recombinant human nerve growth factor at the time of lesioning resulted in a small decrease in acetylcholine synthesis which, however, was not accompanied by a change in the rate of evoked acetylcholine release from cholinergic neurons surviving the lesion. The study indicates that chronic or repeated administration of nerve growth factor during the onset of degenerative events is necessary for the stimulation of presynaptic cholinergic function in the hippocampus of adult rats with partial fimbrial transections.
The non-peptide angiotensin II receptor compounds DuP 753 and WL 19 were utilized to detect subtypes of [125I]Sar1-Ile8-angiotensin II binding to angiotensin II receptors in the rat brain. In rat forebrain homogenates, DuP 753 and WL 19 produced a partial displacement of [125I]Sar1-Ile8-angiotensin II binding with DuP 753 displacing approximately 65% of the binding and WL 19 displacing approximately 35% of the binding. Using the techniques of quantitative receptor autoradiography, a distinct regional distribution of the subtypes of angiotensin II antagonist bind was detected. The angiotensin II-1 binding site (the receptor subtype preferentially displaced by DuP 753) appeared to predominate in the dipsogenic, cardiovascular and endocrine areas, including the subfornical organ, paraventricular and periventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus, anterior pituitary, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, nucleus of the solitary tract and the area postrema. Additional areas that contained predominantly the angiotensin II-1 receptor subtype were the ventral hippocampus, substantia gelatinosa of the trigeminal nucleus, nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract, piriform cortex and median preoptic nucleus. The angiotensin II-2 binding site (displaced by WL 19) was the predominant subtype in the thalamus, inferior olive, lateral septum, subthalamic nucleus, locus coeruleus, medial geniculate and medial amygdala. Several areas of the brain appeared to contain both receptor subtypes, including the superior and inferior colliculi, and the olfactory bulb. The angiotensin II-1 binding site was concentrated in areas of the brain involved in mediating angiotensin II effects on drinking, endocrine status and blood pressure. Localization of angiotensin II-2 sites in the thalamus and areas of the brain which process sensory information suggests a novel modulatory role for angiotensin II at this receptor subtype. These results indicate that DuP 753 and WL 19 are highly selective for angiotensin II binding site subtypes in the brain and that, in general these subtypes are compartmentalized in distinct brain regions. The non-peptide compounds used in these studies should provide excellent tools to discern the functional role of angiotensin II receptor subtypes in the brain.
Monoamine oxidase activity was revealed in a population of neurons, glial cells and some vessels in the post mortem human hypothalamus with monoamine oxidase histochemistry. The monoamine oxidase-containing neurons were observed in the caudal two-thirds of the basal hypothalamus, including the lateral hypothalamic area, tuberomammillary and posterior hypothalamic nucleus. The positive neurons were multipolar or fusiform in shape. The neuronal somata were medium to large in size, although the majority of the positive neurons were of a large type. The topographic localization of the monoamine oxidase-containing neurons in the human hypothalamus has been found to be more widespread than in the rat and cat hypothalamus, suggesting that the hypothalamic monoamine oxidase cell group is phylogenetically more highly organized in man compared with in the lower mammals.
Enkephalin immunoreactivity is used to divide the feline substantia innominata into circumscript subregions, i.e. the &quot;striatopallidal system&quot; and the &quot;extended amygdala&quot;. In addition, enkephalin immunoreactivity is used to subdivide the striatopallidal system into two distinct areas, i.e. the subcommissural part of the globus pallidus displaying high enkephalin immunoreactivity and the ventral pallidum displaying moderate enkephalin immunoreactivity. The anterograde axonal transport of Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin is used to study the efferents of these areas innervating the caudate nucleus and the nucleus accumbens. It is found that the enkephalin-immunoreactive subcommissural part of the globus pallidus as well as the dorsal enkephalin-immunoreactive regions of the extended amygdala project topographically along a rostrocaudal and mediolateral dimension to the nucleus accumbens. The far rostral parts of the caudate nucleus are found to be innervated by the subcommissural part of the globus pallidus whereas the extended amygdala has no such connection. This pathway is also found to be topographically organized along a mediolateral dimension. The non-enkephalin-immunoreactive area ventral and lateral to the subcommissural part of the globus pallidus is found to have no projections to the nucleus accumbens and caudate nucleus. This region rather innervates the olfactory tubercle. In contrast to the striatopallidal system the sublenticular part of the extended amygdala preferentially projects to the adjoining part of the extended amygdala, i.e. the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. However, the ventral regions preferentially innervate the medial division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis whereas the dorsal regions preferentially innervate the lateral division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. These data indicate that the differential forebrain systems represented in the feline substantia innominata, i.e. the striatopallidal system and extended amygdala have differential output stations. The results are discussed in view of the role of the subcommissural part of the globus pallidus and the nucleus accumbens in orofacial dyskinesia and schizophrenia, respectively.
Striatal neurochemistry and motor activity were assessed in cats treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and killed either when symptomatic for a Parkinson-like motor disorder or six weeks later, when showing significant motor recovery. The results of striatal neurochemical analyses showed distinct regional differences in susceptibility to MPTP-induced damage, with dorsal striatal regions generally more severely affected than ventral striatal regions. Symptomatic animals had more severe dopamine loss in all striatal regions than did recovered animals. The dorsal lateral caudate, the cat's sensorimotor striatum, had the largest dopamine depletion in the symptomatic animals (99%) and the least recovery in recovered animals (94% depletion). In contrast, the nucleus accumbens had a 94% dopamine depletion in symptomatic animals and only a 34% depletion in recovered animals. In addition to increases in dopamine levels and dopamine utilization in the striatum in recovered animals, significant increases in serotonin levels and serotonin utilization were also observed. Therefore, motor recovery may have been due to either or both of these neurochemical changes. The fact that the cat develops Parkinson-like motor symptoms but that they are not persistent may make this an interesting model in which to study the role of dopamine in motor function and to study compensatory mechanisms of the damaged dopamine system.
A microtubule-associated protein, tau, promotes microtubule assembly, forms characteristic short cross-bridges (less than 20 nm) between microtubules, and switches isoforms from juvenile to adult at the end of the first postnatal week in the rat brain. The developmental expression of tau was studied in rat central nervous system, mainly the cerebrum and cerebellum, by in situ hybridization. Tau mRNAs were localized in a wide variety of neural cells. The expression of tau mRNAs in the spinal cord appeared to precede that in the brain, and the expression in the brainstem appeared to precede that in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum. On neural cells throughout the cortical plate of the cerebral cortex, tau mRNAs were expressed in large amounts during the first postnatal week, but by the third postnatal week the expression had become reduced. In the cerebellum, tau mRNAs were enriched in granule cells. The expression in the internal granular layer peaked during the second and third postnatal weeks, and the relatively high level of expression persisted to young adulthood. Thin section transmission electron microscopic study revealed that the proportion of neighboring microtubules in parallel fiber axons of cerebellar granule cells with the distance less than 20 nm was as low as 10% at the end of the first postnatal week, but this proportion increased to as high as 35% at the end of the second postnatal week. Northern blot analysis showed that tau mRNAs were congruent to 6 kb as was reported previously, and those detected in the first postnatal week were three- to five-fold more abundant and approximately 0.2 kb smaller than those detected in the second or third postnatal weeks. The data suggest that (a) tau mRNAs are abundantly expressed in a wide variety of neurons in the central nervous system at the stage of neurite formation, and (b) tau mRNAs are expressed in more basal levels at later stages, but may be important in the formation and maintenance of characteristic microtubule bundles typically found in parallel fiber axons and in other axons.
These experiments explore the possible value of the myenteric plexus as a source of donor cells for autografting into the central nervous system. Neurons and glia from 10-12-day postnatal rat myenteric plexus survive for at least one month after transplantation into cholinergically denervated syngeneic adult rat hippocampus. A population of donor cholinergic neurons has acetylcholinesterase-positive processes, but these appear not to innervate host tissue. Host gliosis in response to these implants seems to be less than that seen with other peripheral ganglia, and unlike Schwann cells, the enteric glia form end-feet on brain capillaries.
The effect of systemic administration of domoic acid, a potent structural analogue of kainic acid, on the mouse hippocampus has been studied using light and electron microscopic techniques. Intraperitoneal injections of either domoic acid (4 mg/kg) or kainic acid (32 mg/kg) produced a series of behavioural changes including sedation, rigidity, stereotypy (scratching, head nodding), balance loss, and discrete or generalized convulsions. Both qualitative and quantitative histological analysis revealed similar but not identical patterns of neuronal damage in the hippocampal formation of domoic acid- and kainic acid-treated mice. With both toxins the most extensive damage was always observed in the CA3 region of the hippocampus, with lesser degrees of damage observed in other hippocampal regions (CA4 greater than CA1 greater than CA2 greater than dentate granule cells). In general, neuronal damage was more widespread following administration of kainic acid than domoic acid. In the CA3 region, however, the percentage of cells exhibiting damage was greater following domoic acid (82.1%) than kainic acid (58.8%) following systemic administration. No damage was found in the hippocampi of vehicle control-treated mice. Electron microscopy of the CA3 region following domoic acid revealed two subpopulations of damaged neurons: (1) swollen cells that exhibited vacuolization of their cytoplasm and (2) shrunken irregularly shaped electron-dense cells. Swollen processes of astroglial origin were observed surrounding electron-dense cells, and electron-dense processes were often found extending into the neuropil. These results suggest that although domoic acid and kainic acid produce similar changes in both open field behaviour and hippocampal neuropathology, responses to these toxins are not identical at equitoxic doses. Lesions in the domoic acid-treated mice are more selective for the CA3 hippocampal region than are those produced by kainic acid following systemic administration. Domoic acid may, therefore, be a better tool for studying certain aspects of excitatory amino acid neurotoxicity.
Inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometry analysis was applied to determine ischemia-induced changes of Mg2+ and Ca2+ in vulnerable regions of rat brain. This method can provide an accurate quantification and lower detection limits, as compared to atomic absorption spectrophotometry or several other methods. In the hippocampus, Mg2+ content significantly increases 24 h following 20 min of ischemia, followed by a gradual decrease between 48 and 72 h. Ca2+ accumulation was found at 48 and 72 h. At the cell membrane, Mg2+ plays a role as an endogenous calcium channel blocker of both the receptor-operated and voltage-dependent gates and, in the mitochondria, Mg2+ inhibits Ca2+ uptake processes. We propose that the mobilization of Mg2+ after 24 h reperfusion may counteract the process of ischemia-induced neuronal damage and that decreases of Mg2+ may be correlated with the degree of brain injury. However, in the natural concentration of Mg2+, the counteraction may not be sufficient for a neuroprotective effect. Therefore, after 24 h reperfusion, an artificial enhancement of Mg2+ is necessary for neuroprotection. In order to test the above hypothesis, MgCl2, (50 mM) was administered directly to the CA1 sector of the rat hippocampus before and at various intervals following 20 min of ischemia. Pyramidal cells were evaluated seven days later and neuronal density was determined. Consistent with the hypothesis, a neuroprotective effect was observed, even when MgCl2 was administered 24 h, but not 48 h, after the ischemic episode.
The cortical representation of the contralateral visual field in area 17 of the agouti's brain was studied by multiunit recording. The borders of area 17 were determined by electrophysiological, cytoarchitectonic and myeloarchitectonic criteria. The results were plotted in flat, bidimensional representations of the cerebral cortex to minimize perspective distortions. The V1 map, a first order topological transformation of the visual field, shows a magnified representation of the horizontal meridian that corresponds to a retinal specialization, the visual streak. The visual field representation has asymmetries that are not directly related to the topography of the retinal ganglion cell density. Whereas the ganglion cell density shows a plateau along the visual streak, the areal cortical magnification factor is higher in the region that corresponds to the intersection of the horizontal and vertical meridians. This suggests functional specializations that are not obvious when one considers the distribution of the whole ganglion cell population but which might be related to the distribution of specific ganglion cell classes.
A hybrid system in which an olivary neuron was interconnected to an analog simulator was used to study possible mechanisms by which the combined behavior of individual olivary neurons evokes synchronized membrane potential oscillations in a large population of neurons. The analog system was composed of four identical, interconnected oscillating units, each of which was capable of producing a damped sinusoidal oscillation in response to a trigger signal. When the units were coupled to each other, a single trigger pulse to one unit could evoke sustained oscillations. The integrity of the connections within the system was required to maintain these oscillations. In the hybrid system the analog system was reciprocally connected to an olivary neuron in a slice preparation. As in the analog system, the hybrid system could generate sustained oscillations following a trigger pulse to one of the units, as well as following a low threshold Ca spike in the neuron. Activation of the low threshold Ca conductance in the olivary neuron was necessary to achieve both gain and in-phase activity within the hybrid system, and thereby sustain the oscillations. The ability of the hybrid system to generate sustained oscillation is frequency dependent. Sustained oscillations were readily obtained at a &quot;preferred frequency&quot; of 5.2 Hz (n = 7) which was independent on the parameters used by the simulator, or on the membrane potential of the neurons. These results, which demonstrate the advantage of a new experimental approach developed to study rhythmogenesis in inferior olivary neurons, support the hypothesis that the inferior olivary nucleus, acting as an interconnected network of oscillating units, can generate an accurate subthreshold oscillation that serves as an internal time reference.
The changes induced by maternal exposure to cannabinoids in the maturation of nigrostriatal, tuberoinfundibular and mesolimbic dopaminergic activities of rat offspring 15-40 days old were studied. In the striatum, tyrosine hydroxylase activity was constantly decreased during cannabinoid exposure in males. This decrease was correlative to increased number of D1 and D2 dopaminergic receptors. Both effects were also observed after the drug withdrawal caused by weaning on day 24. In females, the most consistent effect appeared on day 20, when decreased dopamine content and number of D1 receptors were observed. Both effects disappeared after drug withdrawal, but the reduction in the number of D1 receptors was again observed 40 days after birth. In the limbic area, cannabinoid exposure caused a decrease in the number of D1 receptors in 15-day-old females, along with decreases in the content of dopamine and its metabolite, L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. Changes in receptors disappeared on subsequent days, but increases in L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid content and in its ratio with dopamine (L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine) were observed on day 20 followed by a decrease in the neurotransmitter content on day 30. In males, tyrosine hydroxylase activity increased on day 30, followed by an increase in L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid content and L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine ratio on day 40. In the hypothalamus, the cannabinoid effects were always manifested after the cessation of drug exposure. Thus, a rise in L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine ratio was observed in 30-day-old females, and it was followed by a decrease on day 40, accompanied by a decrease in the anterior pituitary content of dopamine. Rise in prolactin release was not significant. In males, tyrosine hydroxylase activity was increased 30 days after birth, while L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid content decreased. On day 40, L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid content increased, paired to a rise in L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine ratio and anterior pituitary content of dopamine and to a decrease in the prolactin release. Perinatal exposure to cannabinoids altered the normal development of nigrostriatal, mesolimbic and tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons, as reflected by changes in several indices of their activity. These changes were different regarding the sex and brain areas. Cannabinoid effects were more marked and constant in the striatum of males, while alterations in limbic neurons were mostly transient and those in hypothalamic neurons occurred after drug withdrawal. A long-term impact of these early changes on the neurological processes of adulthood is plausible.
The purpose of this study was to experimentally investigate the applicability of the equilibrium-point hypothesis to the dynamics of single-joint movements. Subjects were trained to perform relatively slow (movement time 600-1000 ms) or fast (movement time 200-300 ms) single-joint elbow flexion movements against a constant extending torque bias. They were instructed to reproduce the same time pattern of central motor command for a series of movements when the external torque could slowly and unpredictably increase, decrease, or remain constant. For fast movements, the total muscle torque was calculated as a sum of external and inertial components. Analysis of the data allowed reconstruction of the elbow joint compliant characteristics at different times during execution of the learned motor command. &quot;Virtual&quot; trajectories of the movements, representing time-varying changes in a central control parameter, were reconstructed and compared with the &quot;actual&quot; trajectories. For slow movements, the actual trajectories lagged behind the virtual ones. There were no consistent changes in the joint stiffness during slow movements. Similar analysis of experiments without voluntary movements demonstrated a lack of changes in the central parameters, supporting the assumption that the subjects were able to keep the same central motor command in spite of externally imposed unexpected torque perturbations. For the fast movements, the virtual trajectories were N-shaped, and the joint stiffness demonstrated a considerable increase near the middle of the movement. These findings contradict an hypothesis of monotonic joint compliant characteristic translation at a nearly constant rate during such movements.
Isolated living cell bodies were obtained by mechanical and enzymatic dissociation from adult rabbit nodose ganglion followed by separation of fibres and cells using a Percoll gradient. A purification yield of 45% was measured. Based on previous results obtained in whole ganglion and showing the presence of cholinergic cell bodies among the afferent fibres of the vagus nerve, this preparation was used to study choline uptake by neuron cell somata. Cholinergic cells counted after choline acetyltransferase immunohistological staining showed a stained population of 2.9% among the isolated population. Two [3H]choline uptake mechanisms were detected at the cell body level. The first, with Km1 = 7 microM and Vm1 = 200 pmol/h per ganglion is sodium dependent, related to acetylcholine synthesis (43%) and has an IC50 with hemicholinium-3 equal to 50 microM. The second, with Km2 = 54 microM and Vm2 = 2235 pmol/h per ganglion is sodium independent, poorly associated to acetylcholine synthesis (12%) and exhibits an IC50 of 2 microM with hemicholinium-3. Except for their sensitivity to hemicholinium-3, the high and low affinity choline uptake mechanisms observed at the somatic level have, respectively, the same characteristics as the high and low affinity mechanisms described at the synaptic level. Their physiological role, their opposed sensitivity to hemicholinium-3 compared to the synaptic uptake systems and the relation between the somatic high affinity choline transport and an acetylcholine somatic release are discussed.
Infusion of bradykinin or 6-hydroxydopamine into the knee joint of the rat activates sympathetic postganglionic nerve terminals and increases plasma extravasation, a major sign of acute inflammation. Since bradykinin attracts and activates neutrophils in vivo and since neutrophils can release factors leading to plasma extravasation, we evaluated the contribution of the neutrophil to bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation. We report that perfusion of bradykinin into the rat knee joint produces a prolonged increase in plasma extravasation which is markedly reduced not only by sympathectomy (chronic pretreatment with systemic 6-hydroxydopamine) but also by depletion of circulating polymorphonuclear leukocytes (intravenous infusion of hydroxyurea combined with intraperitoneal glycogen). Depletion of polymorphonuclear leukocytes also reduced the plasma extravasation induced by intra-articular infusion of 6-hydroxydopamine, which acutely activates sympathetic postganglionic terminals. We next tested whether attraction of neutrophils into the joint, in the absence of bradykinin, was sufficient to enhance plasma extravasation. Although the classical neutrophil attractant glycogen attracted neutrophils into the knee joint, it did not increase plasma extravasation. Co-infusion of bradykinin and glycogen into the knee joint, however, provoked plasma extravasation that was significantly greater than that produced by bradykinin alone. We hypothesize, therefore, that bradykinin not only attracts neutrophils but also activates them, by an as yet undefined mechanism that requires the sympathetic terminal. The activated neutrophils release factors that lead to plasma extravasation. The next series of studies evaluated the role of the sympathetic nervous system in neutrophil attraction in vivo by bradykinin and glycogen. Since quantification of neutrophil attraction was not possible in the knee joint, we performed these studies in the peritoneal cavity, a site where neutrophils are readily attracted.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Radioimmunoassay studies of cultures of PC12 pheochromocytoma cells have shown progressive increments in content and release of neurotensin in response to combinations of dexamethasone, nerve growth factor, activators of adenylate cyclase and lithium. We have studied the distribution of immunoreactive neurotensin by immunocytochemistry in cultures of PC12 cells and normal rat chromaffin cells, with two objectives: (i) to determine how changes measured by radioimmunoassay in extracts of PC12 cell populations are manifested at the level of individual cells and (ii) to determine whether normal chromaffin cells respond to combinations of agents similarly to PC12 cells. Staining for immunoreactive neurotensin is not identifiable in PC12 cells maintained in control medium or with any of the medium supplements alone. Approximately 3% of cells are stained after maintenance with dexamethasone plus nerve growth factor, verus 17% with dexamethasone plus nerve growth factor plus forskolin, and 33% with all four agents. This heterogeneity does not appear to result from clonal diversity, or to be cell cycle-dependent. Individual PC12 cells recruited to produce neurotensin in response to particular signals may, however, have passed a critical stage of differentiation toward a chromaffin cell, rather than neuronal phenotype before exposure to those signals. Staining for immunoreactive neurotensin is observed in up to 18% of normal chromaffin cells maintained with dexamethasone plus nerve growth factor, up to 45% with dexamethasone plus nerve growth factor plus forskolin, and up to 54% with all four agents. Proportions of cells stained under the various culture conditions are established before birth and in fetal cultures staining is confined for the most part to cells which do not undergo neuronal differentiation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Non-sympathetic neuropeptide Y-containing nerves were demonstrated by their persistence after destruction of sympathetic nerve terminals by acute 6-hydroxydopamine treatment for 48 h. In order to examine whether these neuropeptide Y-containing nerves reinnervate tissues following the loss of sympathetic nerves we administered guanethidine sulphate to one-week-old rat pups for three weeks to produce a complete and long-lasting sympathectomy and we monitored the innervation of the superior cervical ganglion, mesenteric vein, vas deferens and urinary bladder by noradrenaline- and neuropeptide Y-containing nerves two and 16 weeks later (assay and histochemical observations). By two weeks the reduction in neuropeptide Y content of tissues was similar to the reduction after acute sympathectomy with 6-hydroxydopamine treatment, indicating that there was no early reinnervation by non-sympathetic neuropeptide Y-containing nerve fibres at a time when sensory transmitters increase. Furthermore, there was no reinnervation by neuropeptide Y-containing nerve fibres by the time these sympathectomized animals had reached maturity, 16 weeks after cessation of treatment. Neuropeptide Y levels increased in the superior cervical ganglion with normal maturation but decreased in the prostatic end of the vas deferens. A non-sympathetic source of neuropeptide Y demonstrated in the immature rat vas deferens was no longer evident in the mature animal.
This study concerns the identification and location of interneurons in the spinal cord of the zebrafish by way of retrograde tracing from the body musculature. To distinguish motoneurons from interneurons; two tracers were applied: the fluorochrome Fluoro-Gold to label motoneurons, and the trans-synaptically transported compound wheat-germ agglutinin to label motoneurons and the associated interneurons that are considered to be premotoneurons. Because the tracer accumulated mainly in cell bodies (not in neurites), premotoneurons labeled directly from motoneurons could not be distinguished from those labeled via interjacent cells. Both tracers were unilaterally injected into the myotomal muscle at the anal level of the animal. The number of labeled cell bodies in the spinal cord was examined 6, 10 and 16 days after injection. Several technique-oriented experiments were performed in order to map all pathways along with the tracers were incorporated in the neurons. The following observations were made. (1) All Fluoro-Gold-positive cells contained wheat-germ agglutinin, but yet more cells contained only wheat-germ agglutinin; the number of wheat-germ agglutinin-labeled cells was about tenfold higher than the number of Fluoro-Gold-labeled cells. (2) Fluoro-Gold labeling was restricted to cells within one to two spinal cord segments corresponding to the injection site, whereas wheat-germ agglutinin labeling was more diffuse. (3) The position and size of Fluoro-Gold-labeled cells corresponded to those of motoneurons described in previous horse-radish peroxidase experiments. (4) Statistical analysis of the group of wheat-germ agglutinin-labeled cells showed two subpopulations, one with a mean cell size and position corresponding to motoneurons and one with a smaller mean cell size, also positioned within the motor column. The smaller cells were considered to be premotoneurons. The ratio motoneuron:premotoneuron was lowest in the ventrolateral area of the motor column.
The present work was carried out on isolated spinal cords of young rats. The aim of this study was the combined morphological and electrophysiological investigation of sensorimotor connections labelled with horseradish peroxidase and the evaluation of the relationship between their structural and functional properties. Sensorimotor contacts were widely distributed along the postsynaptic cell: from the soma and juxtasomatic dendrites to distal dendrites. The number of contacting boutons in the connection of a single afferent fibre and an individual motoneuron was about 10. The amplitude fluctuation patterns of the unitary and the minimal excitatory postsynaptic potentials of the motoneurons fitted with predictions based on a binomial model. A close correspondence was found between the estimated number of binomial release sites, n, and the number of contacting boutons. The calculated size of the quantal potential was about 100 microV. The difference in the organization of sensorimotor connections of the young rat and the frog is discussed.
A morphological investigation of sensorimotor connections was performed on the isolated lumbar spinal cord of 8-15-day-old rats using horseradish peroxidase labelling techniques. Horseradish peroxidase was applied to the filaments of dorsal and ventral roots and injected intracellularly into motoneurons. The labelled afferent fibres and their contacts on motoneurons were examined under a light microscope. Numerous afferent collaterals entered the lateral motor nuclei. In the medial motor nuclei a few afferent collaterals were found. Some fibres were visible passing through the ventral commissure. The number of boutons per afferent collateral in the motor nuclei was 40-60. A single terminal branch contained one to five boutons (average 1.5). Predominating axodendritic and apparent axosomatic contacts were found between afferent fibres and motoneurons belonging to the lateral motor nuclei. The contacting boutons were both terminaux and en passant. As a rule, the sensorimotor connection involved dorsally and rostrocaudally directed dendrites of the first to sixth orders.
We have investigated the cellular localization of opioid peptides and binding sites in the cat's superior colliculus by testing the effects of retinal deafferentation and intracollicular excitotoxin lesions on patterns of enkephalin-like immunostaining and opiate receptor ligand binding. In normal cats, enkephalin-like immunoreactivity marks a thin tier in the most dorsal stratum griseum superficiale, small neurons of the stratum griseum superficiale, and patches of fibers in the intermediate and deeper gray layers. Eliminating crossed retinotectal afferents by contralateral eye enucleation had little immediate effect on this pattern, although chronic eye enucleation from birth did reduce immunoreactivity in the superficial layers. By contrast, fiber-sparing destruction of collicular neurons by the excitotoxins N-methyl-D-aspartate and ibotenic acid virtually eliminated enkephalin-like immunoreactivity in the neuropil of the upper stratum griseum superficiale, presumably by killing enkephalinergic cells of the superficial layers. Such lesions did not eliminate the patches of enkephalin-like immunoreactivity in the deeper layers. In normal cats, opiate receptor ligand binding is dense in the stratum griseum superficiale, particularly in its upper tier, and moderately dense in the intermediate gray layer. Contralateral eye removal had no detectable effect on the binding pattern, but excitotoxin lesions of the colliculus dramatically reduced binding in both superficial and deep layers. Some ligand binding, including part of that in the upper stratum griseum superficiale, apparently survived such lesions. Similar effects were observed in the lateral geniculate nucleus: enucleation produced no change in binding, whereas excitotoxin lesions greatly reduced specific opiate binding. We conclude that in the superficial collicular layers, both enkephalin-like opioid peptides and their membrane receptors are largely expressed by neurons of intrinsic collicular origin. The close correspondence between the location of these intrinsic opioid elements and the tier of retinal afferents terminating in the upper stratum griseum superficiale further suggests that opiatergic interneurons may modulate retinotectal transmission postsynaptically.
The whole-cell voltage clamp technique was used to record potassium currents in mouse fetal hypothalamic neurons developing in culture medium from days 1 to 17. The neurons were derived from fetuses of IOPS/OF1 mice on the 14th day of gestation. The mature neurons (greater than six days in culture) showed both a transient potassium current and a non-inactivating delayed rectifier potassium current. These were identified pharmacologically by using the potassium channel blockers tetraethyl ammonium chloride and 4-aminopyridine, and on the basis of their kinetics and voltage sensitivities. The delayed rectifier potassium current had a threshold of-20 mV, a slow time-course of activation, and was sustained during the voltage pulse. The 4-aminopyridine-sensitive current was transient, and was activated from a holding potential more negative (-80 mV) than that required for evoking the delayed rectifier potassium current (-40 mV). The delayed rectifier potassium current was detectable from day 1 onwards, while the transient potassium current showed a distinct developmental trend. The time-constant of inactivation became faster with age in culture. The half steady-state inactivation potential showed a shift towards less negative membrane potentials with age, and the relationship was best described by a logarithmic regression equation. The developmental trend of the transient potassium current may relate functionally to the progressive morphological changes, and the appearance of synaptic connections during ontogenesis.
Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, we have analysed the distribution of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and peptide histidine isoleucine (PHI) in hypothalamus of male and female Sprague-Dawley rats under normal and experimental conditions. In most cases there was a good overlap between the distribution of VIP- and PHI-immunoreactive structures. At the median eminence level precapillary arterioles along its lateral aspect were surrounded by dense networks of VIP/PHI-positive fibers, suggesting that these peptides, via their vasodilatory property, may be involved in control of blood flow through portal vessels. Furthermore, a thick VIP/PHI-containing nerve bundle of variable size was observed on the surface of the median eminence in coronal, horizontal and sagittal sections. Also this bundle could be of importance for portal circulation, but VIP/PHI released may reach the anterior pituitary level and play a role in, for example, control of prolactin release. Although different lesions were performed, the origin of the VIP/PHI nerves around lateral blood arterioles and of the bundle is still unclear, but is in all probability peripheral. Within the median eminence of untreated rats only few positive nerve endings were seen in the external layer, but after 48 h hypophysectomy a large number of PHI-immunoreactive fibers could be observed. With regard to cell bodies the suprachiasmatic nucleus contained VIP/PHI-immunoreactive neurons even in untreated rats. After colchicine administration fluorescent cells were in addition seen in several other hypothalamic nuclei, including the parvocellular paraventricular nucleus. After hypophysectomy, with in situ hybridization, VIP mRNA could be demonstrated in magno- and parvocellular neurons of the paraventricular nucleus, whereas in control rats VIP mRNA was undetectable. These results demonstrate that VIP/PHI are present in at least three systems of direct neuroendocrine importance: (1) in nerves related to the blood vessels in the median eminence and presumably involved in control of blood flow through the portal system; (2) in parvocellular paraventricular neurons, presumably related to stress-induced prolactin release; and (3) in magnocellular neurons after certain experimental manipulations.
The localization of cell bodies and of the central terminal projections of extraocular muscle afferent neurons was examined in adult cats using transport of horseradish peroxidase. The results confirm that primary afferent cell somata subserving extraocular muscle proprioception are located within the medial portion of the ipsilateral trigeminal ganglion. Occasional labeling of cell bodies in the mesencephalic nucleus of the trigeminal nerve occurred only in association with evidence of spread of tracer beyond the eye muscles. These results, taken together with work of others, make it unlikely that the trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus participates significantly in eye muscle proprioception. The central projections of extraocular muscle afferent neurons were found consistently in a restricted area in the ventral portion of the pars interpolaris of the spinal trigeminal nucleus. This corresponds exactly with their site of termination in the monkey [Porter (1986) J. comp. Neurol. 247, 133-143]. Terminal labeling was restricted to this area in cases in which there was no evidence of spread of the tracer beyond the extraocular muscles. In contrast to previous findings in the monkey, the cat did not exhibit a second muscle afferent representation in the cuneate nucleus. Though it is known that extraocular muscle afferent signals interact with both retinal and vestibular signals, and thus probably are involved in both visual processing and oculomotor control, the details of their roles in these processes are not yet clear.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Excitotoxic lesions of the basal forebrain were made by infusing either alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) or ibotenic acid. Acquisition and performance of spatial learning in the Morris water maze, over a ten day, two trials per day, training regimen were unaffected by the AMPA-induced lesions which reduced cortical choline acetyltransferase activity by 70%. However, acquisition was significantly impaired in rats with ibotenic acid-induced lesions that reduced cortical choline acetyltransferase by 50%. Additionally, ibotenic acid-lesioned rats swam further than either sham or AMPA-lesioned rats, in the &quot;training&quot; quadrant during a probe trial, in which the escape platform was removed, suggesting a perseverative search strategy. Lesions induced with AMPA, but not ibotenate, significantly impaired the acquisition of &quot;step-through&quot; passive avoidance. Both AMPA- and ibotenate-induced lesions significantly impaired the 96 h retention of passive avoidance, but the effect of AMPA was greater on latency measures. Histological analysis revealed that AMPA infusions destroyed more choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons than did ibotenate infusions but, unlike ibotenate, spared the overlying dorsal pallidum and also parvocellular, non-choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons in the ventral pallidal/substantia innominata region of the basal forebrain. The impairment in acquisition of the water maze following ibotenate-induced basal forebrain lesions therefore appears unrelated to damage to cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis of Meynert and to depend instead on damage to pallidal and other neurons in this area. The AMPA- and perhaps also the ibotenate-induced impairment in the retention of passive avoidance appears to be more directly related to destruction of cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis. These data are discussed in the context of cortical cholinergic involvement in mnemonic processes.
The age-related cell loss of the nucleus basalis of Meynert is of considerable importance because loss of its neurons may be followed by cognitive decline. Compared to the number found at ages 16-29 years, we found that 50% of the total population of neurons is lost by 90 years of age. This change in number is accompanied by modifications in the morphometric features, including a 17.3% increase in cell size by 60 years of age as compared with values at 16 years, and followed by a gradual decline. Topographic differences were seen both in the neuronal loss and in morphometry: in relation to the youngest group, the posterior subdivision is the most severely affected by 90 years (64.5% decrease in number and 10% reduction in neuronal size), followed by the intermediate subdivision (42% loss of neurons accompanied by 4% increase in cell size). In the anterior subdivision no significant decrease in the number of neurons could be detected, although a 15% increase in cell size occurred.
The present paper deals with the proliferation and differentiation of glial cells in organotypic slice cultures of the rat hippocampal formation. Transverse slices of hippocampus of newborn to five-day-old rats were cultivated using the roller tube technique. To study the development of glial cells under these conditions, the slice cultures were processed for immunostaining employing antibodies against the glial fibrillary acidic protein. The proliferation of glial cells was studied in double-labeling experiments employing glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunostaining and the bromodeoxyuridine technique. The three-dimensional glial scaffold in the cultures was analysed in semithin and ultrathin cross-sections through the slice cultures after varying periods following explanation. Our results can be summarized as follows: 1. At all intervals after explanation of the slices there are numerous glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells with morphological characteristics of astrocytes. 2. With some modifications, the differentiation of astrocytes and their processes follows similar rules as observed in the hippocampus in vivo. A radial glial scaffold is also formed in the cultures. However, in cultures, a regular pattern of radial fibers is more obvious in the hippocampus proper than in the dentate gyrus. This glial scaffold persists after 20 days in vitro whereas it is known to disappear after the first postnatal week in vivo. 3. Bromodeoxyuridine-positive nuclei of glial cells were found at all time periods after explanation. After short incubation periods, they were most frequent in the &quot;ventricular&quot; zones of the cultures. Following longer incubation periods after bromodeoxyuridine administration, proliferating cells were found throughout the cultures, covering and underlying the cultured tissue. A rim of laterally migrating astrocytes completely surrounds the cultures. Our results demonstrate that glial cells proliferate and differentiate under the present culture conditions. After three weeks of incubation the whole slice culture is surrounded by a glial cover which may play an important role for the survival and differentiation of the cultured hippocampal neurons.
Responses of the auditory cortical neurons to sound tones were studied extra- and intracellularly in anaesthetized cats. The pattern of response to tone stimuli could most differ in neurons tuned to the same sound frequency and forming a vertical cortical column. Phasic reactions were found in 69% of the neurons studied. Such neurons were encountered in all cortical layers but about 50% of them were localized at a depth of 0.4-1.0 mm, which corresponds to layers III and IV of the auditory cortex. Neurons with phasic reactions were able to respond to a relatively narrow frequency band that demonstrates high discriminative ability of these cells to the frequency analysis of sound signals. Inhibitory processes realized via both forward afferent and recurrent intracortical inhibition mechanisms play particular roles in the formation of phasic reaction of such neurons to different frequency tones. Twenty-six per cent of neurons generated tonic responses to the sound. The majority of such cells (94%) were localized at a depth of 1.0-2.2 mm, which corresponds to cortical layers V and VI. Inhibitory processes exert a much lesser influence on formation of tonic responses in comparison with phasic ones. Neurons of the tonic type, in contrast to phasic neurons, respond to a wider frequency band; their lower ability to discriminate sound frequency is obvious. Parameters of the responses of tonic neurons strictly correlated with the duration and intensity of the acoustic signal. The possibility of some tonic neurons playing an inhibitory role in auditory cortex is discussed [Volkov I. O. et al. (1989) Neurophysiology, Kiev 21, 498-506, 613-620 (in Russian)]. A small portion of the auditory area AI neurons (2%) demonstrated the suppression of background activity during tone stimulation. They were localized mainly in deep cortical layers (V and VI). Intracortical inhibition is supposed to play a dominant role in the formation of this type of response. About 3% of the studied auditory cortex neurons with background activity generated no response to tonic stimuli. Such cells were usually encountered in the superficial auditory cortex layers (I and II).
The postnatal development of corticocortical neurons projecting from the medial bank of the lateral suprasylvian cortex to area 18 of the kitten's visual cortex was examined using retrograde fluorescent tracers. Area 18 was injected in young kittens aged nine days or less and in older kittens aged 30 days or more. Many of the injected kittens were perfused with fixative four to five days later, but some of the youngest were killed after longer survival periods of 35-50 days (long-survival animals). Labelled neurons in the medial bank of the lateral suprasylvian cortex were densely distributed in both superficial layers (II and III) and deep layers (V and VI) in the kittens injected less than nine days postnatal, irrespective of whether survival was short or long, but they were found almost exclusively in layers V and VI in the old, short-survival animals. Only in the group of old kittens did we find a clear topographical arrangement of projections in the rostrocaudal direction and a correlation between the rostrocaudal lengths of the injection sites and labelled areas. In the other two groups, for a similarly sized injection site, the labelled areas were much longer rostrocaudally than in the old, short-survival kittens, and occupied roughly the posterior two-thirds of the medial bank of the lateral suprasylvian cortex, irrespective of the positions of the injections. In the frontal plane, topography was unclear in all groups. These findings demonstrate that there is considerable postnatal refinement of the projection from the medial bank of the lateral suprasylvian cortex to area 18. This involves a loss of connections originating from superficial layers and a decrease of convergence with the appearance of topography. Our results from long-survival kittens suggest that most of the early exuberant population of corticocortical neurons projecting from the medial bank of the lateral suprasylvian cortex to area 18 survive beyond the first postnatal month but undergo axonal elimination during this period.
We have examined magnetic cortical responses of 15 healthy humans to 46 different pictures of faces. At least three areas outside the occipital visual cortex appeared to be involved in processing this input, 105-560 ms after the stimulus onset. The first active area was near the occipitotemporal junction, the second in the inferior parietal lobe, and the third in the middle temporal lobe. The source in the inferior parietal lobe was also activated by other simple and complex visual stimuli.
This study determined the effects of discrete microinjections of GABA agonists in the cholinergic nuclei of the pontomesencephalic tegmentum on spontaneous behavior and seizures induced by intravenous pentylenetetrazol, bicuculline or strychnine, in the rat. Injections of both the GABAA agonist piperidine-4-sulfonic acid and the GABAB agonist (-)baclofen in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus produced a dose-dependent suppression of behavioral arousal and a reduction in the threshold of myoclonic and clonic but not tonic seizures induced by bicuculline and pentylenetetrazol. There were no significant effects on any type of strychnine seizure. Injections in the surrounding brainstem structures, including the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, had little effect on spontaneous behavior and did not significantly alter the thresholds of pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures. We have previously demonstrated that injections of GABA agonists in the central medial intralaminar nucleus of the thalamus have similar effects on behavior and seizures. Since the central medial nucleus receives important direct cholinergic projections from the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, these two nuclei form a discrete ascending system which regulates seizure threshold.
The development of excitotoxic cell death caused by L-glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, quinolinate and kainate was examined in dispersed primary cultures of the rat cerebral cortex. Cell death was evaluated by phase-contrast microscopy and quantified by the measurement of lactic dehydrogenase activity in the culture medium. Cells obtained from embryonic cerebral cortex on days 16-18 of pregnancy, and maintained in a serum-supplemented medium, started to respond to glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate quinolinate and kainate by cell death on day 7 in vitro. The sensitivity to the neurotoxins increased rapidly, and in a similar fashion, during the second week and remained unchanged up to day 21. Our findings indicate that, unlike the cerebral cortex in situ, the sensitivity of cultured cortical cells to the cytotoxicity mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate receptors develops in a nearly parallel fashion.
The peripheral reorganization of pulpal nerves after tooth injury was studied, in the rat, with anterograde horseradish peroxidase tracing techniques, and combined retrograde Fluorogold tracing and immunohistochemistry was employed to examine the effects of inferior alveolar nerve lesions or tooth injury on some cytochemical characteristics of pulpal trigeminal ganglion nerve cells, namely content of substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide and the ganglioside GM1 (binding subunit of cholera toxin), as well as affinity to RT 97 (antibody to neurofilament protein) and the lectin Griffonia simplicifolia isolectin I-B4. Anterograde horseradish peroxidase tracing demonstrated that pulpal nerves either disappear or reinnervate novel targets after loss of pulpal tissue. There were no obvious signs of neuroma formation. Retrograde Fluorogold labelling with immunohistochemistry showed that after inferior alveolar nerve lesions with subsequent regeneration, a much higher proportion of Fluorogold cells (15%) were substance P-positive compared to normal (2%). In addition, 3% of the cells were Griffonia simplicifolia isolectin I-B4-positive. Such cells were very rare in controls. Proportions of calcitonin gene-related peptide-, GM1- and RT-97-positive cells were normal. After tooth lesions, the proportions of Fluorogold-positive substance P-, Griffonia simplicifolia isolectin I-B4-, GM1- and RT 97-labelled cells were similar to controls, while the proportion of calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive neurons was reduced. The results show that pulpal deafferentation may change the long-term cytochemical characteristics of affected trigeminal ganglion neurons.
Changes in the motor activity of the spinal locomotor generator evoked by tonic and phasic peripheral afferent signals during fictitious locomotion of both slow and fast rhythms were analysed in the cat. The tonic afferent inflow was conditioned by the position of the hindlimb. The phasic afferent signals were imitated by electrical stimulation of hindlimb nerves. The correlation between the kinematics of hindlimb locomotor movement and sensory inflow was investigated during actual locomotion. Reliable correlations between motor activity parameters during fictitious locomotion were revealed in cases of both slow and fast &quot;locomotor&quot; rhythms. The main difference between these cases was that correlations &quot;duration-intensity&quot; were positive in the first and negative in the second case. The functional role of &quot;locomotor&quot; pattern dependence on tonic sensory inflow consisted of providing stability for planting the hindlimb on the ground. For any investigated afferent input the phase moments in the &quot;locomotor&quot; cycle were found, in which an afferent signal caused no rearrangement in locomotor generator activity. These moments corresponded to the transitions between &quot;flexion&quot; and &quot;extension&quot; phases and to the bursts of integral afferent activity observed during real locomotion. The data obtained are compared with the results previously described for the scratching generator. The character of changes in &quot;locomotor&quot; activity in response to tonic and phasic sensory signals was similar to that of such changes in &quot;scratching&quot; rhythm in the case of fast &quot;locomotion&quot;. Intensification of the &quot;flexion&quot; phase caused by phasic high-intensity stimulation of cutaneous afferents during low &quot;locomotor&quot; rhythm was changed to inhibition (such as observed during &quot;scratching&quot;) when this rhythm was fast. It is concluded that the main regularities of peripheral afferent control for both the locomotor and scratching generators are the same. Moreover, these central pattern generators are just working regimes of a general spinal motor optimal control system containing the intrinsic model of limb movement dynamics. The consequences of this concept and ways of further research are discussed.
The influences exerted by central and peripheral afferents to the pineal gland have been studied in rats anesthetized with urethane (1.2 g/kg, i.p.). Spontaneous action potentials arising from the pinealocytes were recorded by means of glass micropipettes filled with 3 M NaCl containing a dye. The electrical stimulation of suprachiasmatic nucleus, superior cervical ganglia, sciatic nerve and retina evoked discharge changes in a significant number of pineal cells. However, a relatively higher proportion of pinealocytes failed to respond to these afferents. Three types of responses could be observed. Inhibitions were the predominant response patterns to suprachiasmatic nucleus, superior cervical ganglia and sciatic nerve, while excitations were mainly elicited following photic stimulation, whereas the remaining evoked activity was biphasic responses, which were observed in a small number of cells after stimulation of suprachiasmatic nucleus, superior cervical ganglia and retina. These data confirm some previous neural inputs to the pineal and demonstrate the existence of a modulatory effect of the suprachiasmatic nucleus on pinealocyte discharges as well as somatosensory afferents to the gland by way of the sciatic nerve.
The development of the hypothalamic catecholaminergic system during ontogenesis in rats has been studied with glyoxylic acid histofluorescent method in vivo and with isotopic biochemical technique in vitro. It has been demonstrated that at the 15th fetal day the catecholaminergic system was functionally inactive at least in its ability for the uptake and K(+)-stimulated release of catecholamines. Since the 16th fetal day, hypothalamic neuronal elements gained an ability for synthesis of catecholamines, their specific uptake and K(+)-evoked release. Over the subsequent two days, the intensity of the fluorescent intraneuronal product rose considerably showing the increase of either synthesis or accumulation of catecholamines. Simultaneously, the values of the uptake and K(+)-stimulated release of the exogenous radioactively-labelled dopamine increased significantly. The intensity of the fluorescence of the hypothalamic neuronal elements dropped from 20th fetal until the ninth postnatal day, whereas the specific uptake doubled over the same period reaching its adult level. By the 21st postnatal day the reaccumulation of the fluorescent product occurred.
The origin and function of type 2 astrocytes in the optic nerve are now well described, but there are few and controversial observations concerning their origin and functional significance in other regions of the mammalian brain. We here describe primary and highly enriched secondary glial cultures obtained from postnatal (P0-P6) rat hypothalami and cerebral cortices that included glial cells with morphological and immunocytochemical characteristics of type 2 astrocytes. The somata of such astrocytes were characteristically small and polygonal; they bore several processes with few branches. They were highly immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein and the surface antigens, A2B5 and NSP4; they were immunonegative for myelin basic protein and galactocerebroside. They grew on top of a continuous monolayer of much larger, flattened cells, that were glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive but A2B5- and NSP4-negative. In cultures derived from tissues younger than postnatal day 4, their appearance required the addition of adult (horse) serum to the culture milieu; they appeared spontaneously in cultures from older animals. Analysis of the origin of these cells, including experiments using tritiated thymidine incorporation, indicated that these astrocytes resulted from asymmetric divisions of the flat glial cells in the basal layer of the cultures. After their first appearance which varied according to the age of the source tissue, they were continuously generated, with a generation time no longer than 48 h; the life-span of individual cells was found to not exceed one week in neuron-free primary glial cultures. They displayed important process motility but did not show any significant migratory activity. The ready inducibility of glial cells showing many characteristics of type 2 astrocytes, in cultures derived from different brain areas, suggests that type 2-like astrocytes or their committed precursors are not restricted to particular neural structures, but are probably widely distributed within the mammalian brain. Their functional significance within the different brain areas remains to be determined.
The density of GABA-immunoreactive neurons was examined in the intralaminar and certain principal relay nuclei of the macaque monkey thalamus. Counts were made in 10-microns-thick frozen sections and in 1-micron-thick plastic sections and stereological formulae applied to obtain an accurate assessment of the volumetric density of GABA cells in the nuclei. It was found that GABA-immunoreactive cells account for at least 27% of the cells per unit area of all the thalamic nuclei investigated and up to as much as 50% by unit volume. The intralaminar nuclei show only slightly fewer GABA cells than the principal relay nuclei. Previous reports of their absence or relatively low numbers in the intralaminar nuclei probably stem from their smaller size, relatively weaker immunoreactive staining and from failure to apply stereometric formulae that reveal the density of neurons per volume of tissue. These results suggest that the cellular elements of the intralaminar nuclei are not fundamentally different from those of the principal relay nuclei of the thalamus.
The distribution and subcellular organization of two components of the secretory pathway, the Golgi apparatus and microtubules, have been investigated in Torpedo marmorata electrocyte. This highly polarized syncytium, embryologically derived from skeletal muscle cells, displays distinct plasma membrane domains on its innervated and non-innervated faces, and it played a critical role in the identification of the acetylcholine receptor. By immunocytochemical analysis, we show that in the electrocyte, numerous focal Golgi bodies are dispersed throughout the cytoplasm in frequent association with nuclei. Under experimental conditions known to stabilize microtubules, we reveal an elaborate network composed of two populations of microtubules exhibiting different dynamic properties as evaluated by cold-stability, resistance to nocodazole and post-translational modification. This network appears organized from several nucleating centers located in the medial plane of the cell that are devoided of centrioles. The network displays an asymmetric distribution with individual microtubules converging towards the troughs of the postsynaptic membrane folds. In these particular regions, we consistently observed clusters of non-coated vesicles in association with the microtubules. The organization of the microtubules in the electrocyte may thus result in a functional polarization of the cytoplasm. In other polarized cells, the particular organization of the secretory pathway accounts for the intracellular routing of membrane proteins. The organization that we have observed in the electrocyte may thus lead to the vectorial delivery of synaptic proteins to the innervated plasma membrane. Furthermore, the abundance of synaptic proteins makes the electrocyte a unique model with which to decipher the mechanisms involved in the sorting and targeting of these glycoproteins.
Immunocytochemistry of cysteine sulfinate decarboxylase was developed in the cerebellum with an antiserum that we have recently produced using as immunogen a homogeneous fraction purified about 2000-fold from liver. In the rat, this antiserum immunoprecipitated the enzymatic activity from brain, labeled one band (molecular weight = 51,000) on immunoblots of an enriched fraction from brain but none with a brain crude extract and thus appeared to be specific. In the cerebellum numerous immunolabeled cells were found in the white matter that were typically arranged in rows like oligodendrocytes. A few immunolabeled cells were scattered in the granular layer. Around the Purkinje cells numerous small satellite cells were immunostained that sent faintly labeled radial fibers through the molecular layer. These cells were thus identified as Golgi epithelial cells with their Bergmann fibers. Purkinje cells were not labeled either at the cell body or at the nerve ending levels. In the molecular layer no cells were found consistently and convincingly immunolabeled that could correspond to the stellate cells. No immunopositive punctae typical of the interneuron nerve endings were ever observed. A significant cysteine sulfinate decarboxylase activity was also measured in glial cell fractions enriched in oligodendrocytes and astrocytes respectively. The glial localization of taurine biosynthesis enzyme in the cerebellum does not support the hypothesis that it could be involved in neurotransmission, but rather suggests that taurine is manufactured by glial cells and accordingly may play a physiological role in relation to glial function.
The development of the spinal cord involves the proliferation of neurons, their migration to well-defined areas, fiber outgrowth and synapse formation. The present study was designed to correlate the spatiotemporal pattern of expression of synaptophysin, an integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles, with these basic processes occurring during the embryonic development of the rat spinal cord. Thoracic segments of spinal cords from embryonic days 12, 14, 16, 18, 20 and of adult spinal cords were studied. S1 nuclease protection assays and immunoblots revealed minute amounts of specific mRNA and synaptophysin at embryonic day 12. There was a steep increase of mRNA between embryonic days 14 and 16, after which levels reached a plateau. A rise in the amount of synaptophysin in the spinal cord occurred between embryonic days 12 and 14, and the levels changed only slightly until the end of embryonic development. Even higher levels of synaptophysin, found in the adult spinal cord, may indicate that its biosynthesis continued after birth. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed the localization of specific synaptophysin mRNA in the neuroepithelium. However, immunocytochemistry failed to detect synaptophysin in the neuroepithelial cells. Following migration of the neuroblasts, synaptophysins was found in neurons concomitantly with the onset of fiber outgrowth. Thus, already at embryonic day 12, outgrowing fibers of the dorsal root sensory neurons and of motoneurons were synaptophysin positive. From embryonic day 14 throughout the prenatal period, strong synaptophysin immunoreactivity was seen in the ventrolateral and dorsal parts of the marginal layer. Most likely this staining pattern indicates transient functional synaptic contacts because, in the adult spinal cord, the corresponding region, the white matter, exhibited only faint synaptophysin immunoreactivity. In the intermediate layer of the embryonic spinal cord, which corresponds to the gray matter of the adult spinal cord, synaptophysin-positive fibers were observed prior to the formation of functional synapses. The latter are most likely permanent, since synaptophysin in the adult spinal cord is mainly confined to the gray matter. Our data (i) show transcription and translation of synaptophysin within the neurons of the spinal cord and correlate these processes with proliferation, migration, fiber outgrowth and the formation of transient or permanent synapses, and (ii) prove that synaptophysin is a marker for fiber outgrowth in addition to synapse formation.
An immunocytochemical study of dorsal root ganglia, spinal cord and medulla oblongata was performed with antisera against the c-jun proto-oncogene encoded protein. The c-JUN-like immunoreactivity was restricted to the cell nucleus. In the CNS of untreated rats a basal c-JUN-like immunoreactivity was present in the nuclei of two types of neurons: motor and autonomic. Labelled nuclei could be seen in many motoneurons of the ventral horn of the entire length of spinal cord and the lower medulla oblongata, as well as in the area of the nucleus hypoglossus, the dorsal motor nucleus of nucleus vagus, nucleus ambiguus, nucleus facialis, nucleus abducens and motor nucleus of nucleus trigeminus. Additionally, labelled nuclei were found in the preganglionic sympathetic and preganglionic parasympathetic cells of the nucleus intermediolateralis and nucleus intercalatus in the spinal cord. In the medulla oblongata we found a cluster of cells with c-JUN-like immunoreactivity in an area between the dorsomedial part of the oral nucleus spinalis trigeminalis and the lateral border of the knee of facial nerve. Additionally, a second cluster of c-JUN-like immunoreactivity cells was visible between the ventromedial part of the oral nucleus spinalis trigeminalis and the lateral border of the rostral nucleus facialis. Examination of the characteristics of all cell groups with a basal c-JUN-like immunoreactivity in the spinal cord and lower brainstem revealed an overlapping distribution with cholinergic cell groups. Basal c-JUN-like immunoreactivity was also seen in the dorsal root ganglion cells. We examined the factors which can effect the expression of the c-JUN protein. Maximal expression of c-JUN-like immunoreactivity was observed after electrical stimulation of primary afferents. Stimulation of sciatic nerve at a strength sufficient to recruit A delta- and C-fibres produced c-JUN-like immunoreactivity in many nuclei of the ipsilateral dorsal horn of the lumbar spinal cord. c-JUN-like immunoreactivity was first detectable at 30 min following the end of stimulation, reached a maximum after 1 h, remained unchanged for another 1 h and declined to the basal level after 16 h. The distribution of c-JUN-like immunoreactivity in the lumbar cord coincided with the region of termination of sciatic nociceptive afferents. Contralateral c-JUN-like immunoreactivity appeared after 4 h. After noxious mechanical stimulation of the plantar hindpaw c-JUN-like immunoreactivity occurred in the spinal area of termination of nociceptive afferents of the tibial nerve. Noxious stimulation did not provoke additional c-JUN-like immunoreactivity in dorsal root ganglia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
It has previously been shown that noxious and non-noxious peripheral stimuli induce c-fos expression in spinal dorsal horn neurons. In the present study we have examined the expression of c-fos in brainstem neurons following noxious chemical stimulation of the respiratory region of the nasal mucosa. In urethane-anaesthetized rats we injected mustard oil or applied CO2 pulses to the right nasal cavity. In control animals we applied paraffin oil or a continuous flow of air. A further group of control animals was anaesthetized and not subjected to any experimental treatment. Two hours after the first stimulus the rats were perfused with 4% phosphate-buffered paraformaldehyde. Brainstem sections were incubated with primary antiserum against the FOS protein and processed according to the ABC method. Only the mustard oil-treated rats had obvious signs of rhinitis and displayed FOS-positive cells in laminae I and II of the subnucleus caudalis and in the subnucleus interpolaris of the trigeminal brainstem nuclear complex as well as in the medullary lateral reticular nucleus. These areas are known to be involved in the processing of nociceptive information. Although CO2 pulses applied to the nasal mucosa are known to evoke pain sensations in man we did not observe any FOS-positive neurons in trigeminal and reticular brainstem areas of CO2-treated rats. This lack of c-fos expression probably results from the fact that unlike mustard oil, CO2 did not induce any apparent inflammatory reactions. In all animals c-fos expression was found in the nucleus of the solitary tract and in the area postrema. Staining in these areas might partly result from factors related to anaesthesia, changed respiration parameters and stress. Since the mustard oil-treated rats displayed the highest levels of immunoreactivity in the nucleus of the solitary tract and in the area postrema, additional effects specifically related to nociceptive input are very likely.
Cessation of chronic (5 days), unilateral infusion of GABA into the somatomotor cortex of rats induces focal epileptic spikes which remain limited to the infused site and never evolve into generalized seizures. We have considered this finding as a new model of focal epilepsy and named it &quot;GABA withdrawal syndrome&quot;. In the present study, we have measured local cerebral glucose utilization in order to map the cortical and subcortical regions involved in the GABA withdrawal syndrome. Local cerebral glucose utilization increased two- to three-fold in a 1-1.5 mm diameter area, involving all the cortical layers at the GABA-infusion site. This hypermetabolic area contained a central (1-2 mm diameter) hypometabolic zone showing neuronal depopulation in some animals. Except for the epileptic focus, the hemisphere ipsilateral to the infusion site was slightly hypometabolic. However, there was a large increase (three- to five-fold) in some ipsilateral thalamic nuclei (posterior oralis, ventralis postero-lateralis, centralis lateralis, ventralis lateralis and reticularis thalami nucleus). The local cerebral glucose utilization of the contralateral cortex and thalamus were unchanged. The present results confirm the focal nature of the epileptogenic syndrome produced by stopping chronic, intracortical GABA infusion. These results are markedly different from those described in the penicillin focal epilepsy model. Our data also show that specific ipsilateral thalamic relays may, by an as yet unknown mechanism, play a role in maintaining paroxysmal activity during the GABA withdrawal syndrome.
Adenosine is now considered as a major regulatory agent in the mammalian central nervous system. Its actions are mediated by specific receptors which are coupled with an adenylate cyclase system via a G protein. The postnatal development of adenosine A1 receptors was studied by quantitative autoradiography using [3H]N6-cyclohexyladenosine, a potent receptor agonist in 42 rat brain structures. The coupling of these sites to G proteins was examined by measuring the effects of in vitro addition of guanylyl-5'-imidodiphosphate, a stable analogue of guanosine triphosphate, on N6-cyclohexyladenosine binding. [3H]N6-Cyclohexyladenosine-specific binding was quite low at birth, around 10% of adult levels, and exhibited a rather homogeneous distribution pattern, except in thalamic nuclei. Data showed a sequential development of adenosine A1 receptors in relation to the time course of maturation of cerebral structures with a proliferation peak which paralleled rapid brain growth. The time period by which adult levels are reached differed according to the cerebral region studied. N6-Cyclohexyladenosine-specific binding sites appeared to be functionally linked to G proteins in all structures and at all postnatal stages. However, the potency of guanylyl-5'-imidodiphosphate to displace N6-cyclohexyladenosine binding was significantly lower before 5 days of age, suggesting functional changes during postnatal maturation in cerebral pathways modulated by adenosine.
Female rats were lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine in the left substantia nigra. At least two weeks later they were tested with amphetamine (5 mg/kg, s.c.) and apomorphine (0.25 mg/kg, s.c.). A cell suspension from the ventral mesencephalon of rat embryos was distributed in three sites in a triangular fashion in the center of the denervated striatum. The amphetamine test was then repeated every month for six months. The pattern of circling to amphetamine before the graft was strictly ipsiversive in all animals. From the first month we observed a progressive change and three patterns of rotation could be observed. In 21% of animals, the total number of ipsiversive turns in 90 min actually increased but during the first 20 min the animals turned contralaterally to the lesion (and to the graft). In 38% of animals, the total number of turns switched from ipsiversive to contraversive with the animals turning initially toward the intact side and during the second half of the test toward the lesion. Finally 41% of rats progressively switched to turning only toward the intact side. In all cases, maximal contraversive turning occurred during the initial 20 min. In these rats, tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells were detected mainly in the dorsal striatum with a few in the central portion. Moreover there was a strong correlation between the number of surviving grafted neurons and the growth of their fiber into the host striatum and the extent of recovery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Sulphonylureas such as glibenclamide, which are used in the treatment of Type-2 diabetes, are inhibitors of ATP-sensitive potassium channels. These channels link cellular metabolism to membrane electrical activity and it is likely that they are closely associated with glibenclamide binding sites. Quantitative autoradiography was used to localize high-affinity [3H]glibenclamide binding sites in coronal sections of rat brain. The relative density of binding sites was found to correlate well with the relative capacity of sites determined in homogenate assays. There was no evidence of any variation of affinity between brain regions. The highest levels of binding were found in the substantia nigra with high levels in the globus pallidus, cerebral cortex, hippocampus and caudate-putamen, intermediate levels in the cerebellum, and low levels in the hypothalamus and pons. The density of [3H]glibenclamide binding sites was low in glucose-responsive brain regions, known to contain ATP-sensitive potassium channels that are inhibited by sulphonylureas. However, higher densities were associated with brain regions (often limbic structures) active during temporal lobe epilepsy. In at least two of these structures, the CA3 region of the hippocampus and the substantia nigra, it is probable that these sites are coupled to ATP-sensitive potassium channels. These results are discussed with reference to the reported actions of ATP-sensitive potassium channels on CNS function.
The effect of treatment for 5 weeks with L-DOPA (200 mg/kg/24 h) plus carbidopa (25 mg/kg/24 h) on the behavioral recovery produced by rat fetal ventral mesencephalon grafts implanted into the striatum of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats was assessed. Animals with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway and a sham graft (Group A) showed persistent high rates of rotation in response to the administration of apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) (contralateral rotation) or (+)-amphetamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) (ipsilateral rotation). Treatment of sham-grafted animals with L-DOPA plus carbidopa had no effect on the rate of rotation to apomorphine or (+)-amphetamine (Group B). The proportion of animals showing marked stereotypy following apomorphine administration was greater in sham-grafted animals receiving L-DOPA and carbidopa than in sham-grafted animals alone. Animals receiving unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions followed by a fetal graft (Group C) showed a reduction in apomorphine-induced contralateral rotation and a complete reversal of (+)-amphetamine-induced ipsilateral rotation when assessed 6 weeks later. The reductions in apomorphine- and (+)-amphetamine-induced rotational behaviour produced by the fetal graft in animals with a 6-hydroxydopamine lesion were not altered by treatment with L-DOPA plus carbidopa (Group D). The proportion of animals showing marked apomorphine-induced stereotypy did not change significantly in either group over time. In rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion receiving fetal dopamine grafts, treatment with high doses of L-DOPA and carbidopa for 5 weeks does not have a detrimental effect on the functional activity of the grafts as assessed by reduction of apomorphine- and (+)-amphetamine-induced motor asymmetry. The continuation of L-DOPA therapy may not adversely affect fetal graft survival and growth in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Data on the conduction velocities and circumferences of unmyelinated axons in cat hindlimb nerves obtained in two laboratories, each working independently of the other, have been brought together and compared. Results were obtained from normal, regenerated and deafferented nerves. Matching the conduction velocity and circumference distributions against one another suggested that conduction velocity (theta), in m/s, is linearly related to circumference (s), in microns, according to the equation theta = 0.24s. If this relationship is correct, it applies equally well to both sympathetic postganglionic and unmyelinated afferent axons.
The relative volume of perineuronal extracellular space, the number of gliagrana and their total calcium content have been measured in Aplysia punctata and A. californica, at the periphery of giant neurons R2 and LP1. After chemical fixation, the extracellular space amounts to 26% of the periganglionic glial zone, but this increases to 36% after quick freezing and freeze-substitution. The glial cytoplasm contains gliagrana, membrane-bound granules approximately 0.3 micron in diameter. The number of gliagrana per micron 2 of section, defined as &quot;abundance&quot;, was counted in electron micrographs of chemically fixed tissues. The abundance of gliagrana appears to be directly proportional to the volume of the extracellular space when the values are averaged per individual Aplysia. The total calcium concentration of the gliagrana is measured by X-ray microanalysis on sections of ganglia processed by rapid freezing and freeze-substitution in the presence of oxalic acid: it was found to be very high. An individual granule may contain 100 mM Ca in A. californica and 50 mM in A. punctata but in both species the calcium concentration varies along a wide range as if there were different functional states of the granules with respect to this concentration. The total calcium stored in the specific granules of the glial zone was estimated. It was calculated that should the glial calcium store be entirely diluted in the extracellular space of the glial zone, it would raise the calcium concentration of this space by approximately 1 mM (0.1-2.7 mM). These findings are discussed with regard to the hypothesis of glial cells regulating the perineuronal calcium concentration.
The distribution and connections of serotonin-immunoreactive fibers in the cell body region and neural sheath of the central ganglia of the snail, Helix pomatia, have been examined. The cell body region of the ganglia is supplied by an extremely dense network of varicose serotonin-immunoreactive fibers which surround neuronal perikarya in the ganglia. Immunoreactive processes also run to the neural sheath of both the ganglia and the peripheral nerve roots, forming a dense network. Electron microscopy revealed five different connections of serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities, according to their target: (i) non-specialized contacts with neuronal perikarya; (ii) non-specialized contacts with axon processes on the surface of the peripheral nerve roots; (iii) non-specialized neuromuscular connections with smooth muscle fibers in the neural sheath; (iv) varicosities engulfed by glial processes in both the cell body region and neural sheath; (v) varicosities embedded in the connective tissue elements of the sheath either partly or completely free of glial processes. In all cases of appositions no membrane specializations could be observed on either site of the contacts. These observations provide morphological evidence for non-synaptic regulatory actions of serotonin-containing neurons in Helix central nervous system: (i) modulation of the activity of neuronal perikarya; (ii) involvement in neuromuscular regulation; (iii) neurohormonal modulation of peripheral processes by release through the neural sheath.
The aim of the present study was to test whether intrastriatal implants of embryonic dopaminergic neurons are able to normalize the lesion-induced dysfunction of striatal enkephalinergic neurons, one of the major output systems of the striatum. The ascending dopaminergic pathway of adult rats was unilaterally lesioned. Three weeks later a cell suspension obtained from the mesencephali of ED14 rat embryos was implanted into the denervated striatum and striatal methionin enkephalin immunostaining was quantified six months later by the use of an image analyser. Methionin enkephalin immunostaining was unevenly distributed in the striatum of control animals. Besides the classical patch/matrix pattern, a mediolateral gradient was also present and, moreover, immunostaining decreased towards caudal levels. Seven months after the lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway, methionin enkephalin immunostaining was found to be increased in the denervated striatum by about 50%. However, relative increases were more sustained in the areas where basal methionin enkephalin immunostaining were lowest, i.e. the lateral striatum and posterior striatal areas. This resulted in an attenuation of the global gradients seen in the normal striatum. Increased immunostaining was also found in the ipsilateral globus pallidus. The implantation, into the denervated striatum, of embryonic dopaminergic neurons led to a reversal of the lesion-induced increase of striatal and pallidal methionin enkephalin immunostaining six months later. Moreover, this reversal resulted in an overshoot, as the level of immunostaining in the graft-bearing striatum was found to be lower than the levels found in the normal striatum. It is concluded that grafts of embryonic dopaminergic neurons can normalize the function of one of the major output systems of the striatum and, through it, influence more distant targets of this structure. This suggests a physiological basis for the behavioral effects observed previously with such grafts.
Mechanisms of long-lasting potentiation of synaptic responses induced in the thalamocortical and recurrent collateral pathways of the pyramidal tract were studied in intracellular recordings from the motor cortex of unanesthetized, chronically implanted cats. The observations provide the first description of long-lasting potentiation in the unanesthetized neocortex in vivo. Monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials of 2-5 mV in amplitude were evoked as test responses by stimulation of the pyramidal tract and thalamic ventrolateral nucleus at 0.1-0.5 Hz frequency. Pressure microinjections of drugs and ions were also performed during intracellular recordings. In the first series of experiments, test synaptic responses were paired with intracellular current injection-induced action potentials at an interstimulus interval set between 0-200 ms and 0.1-0.5 Hz frequency. Pairings (30-100 x) induced long-lasting potentiation of the test responses in 58% of cells. The increased synaptic responses typically initiated action potentials and their potentiation usually lasted over the period of recordings. Increases in amplitude of synaptic responses were not correlated with statistically significant changes in electrical membrane properties (resting potential, input resistance, time constant, spike threshold) or parameters of action potentials and their afterpotentials. The failure to induce increases in synaptic efficacy by unpaired stimuli (pseudoconditioning) demonstrated the associative property of the long-lasting potentiation. In a second series of experiments, differential cell conditioning was employed. This paradigm induced long-lasting potentiation of the explicitly paired synaptic response without noticeable modification of unpaired or pseudorandomly paired synaptic responses tested conjointly in the same neuron. These observations demonstrated the input-specificity of long-lasting potentiation. In a third series of experiments, subthreshold depolarizing current pulses were summated with synaptic responses to induce firing in the recorded neuron during pairing. Long-lasting potentiation occurred in 55% of the summated synaptic inputs. Pseudoconditioning did not induce synaptic potentiation in these cells. In a fourth series of experiments, conditioning was employed in neurons in which firing activity was suppressed by an intracellularly injected lidocaine derivative. Long-lasting potentiation was induced in 50% of the attempts when synaptic responses were paired with current-induced depolarizations greater than 30 mV. These results suggest that postsynaptic induction of long-lasting synaptic potentiation can be successful in the absence of postsynaptic sodium spikes in neurons of the motor cortex in vivo. In a fifth series of experiments, homosynaptic high-frequency tetanization (80-200 Hz for 5-15 s) was applied to the thalamocortical and recurrent pyramidal afferents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The supraoptic nuclei of both male and female 30-day-old rats rendered hypothyroid by daily subcutaneous injection of propylthiouracil were studied and the results were compared with age- and sex-matched rats fed ad libitum (control rats) and with undernourished rats. Morphometric methods were used to evaluate the volume of the supraoptic nucleus and the areal and numerical densities of its neurons. These parameters allowed us to estimate the total number of neurons of this nucleus. In addition, the mean cross-sectioned area and mean nuclear diameter of the same neurons were also evaluated. The volume of the supraoptic nucleus was reduced both in hypothyroid and undernourished animals when compared with normal controls. The areal and numerical densities of neurons from the former groups were increased and the volume density of the neuropil was reduced. As a consequence, the total number of neurons was found to be identical in all groups studied. Furthermore, the mean nuclear diameters and cross-sectioned areas of the supraoptic neurons were similar in all groups. The volumetric differences and the increased packing found were always more marked for hypothyroid than for undernourished rats. Differences were not detected between male and female groups. The present results support the view that the increased cell packing in hypothyroid animals depends upon a reduction in the neuropil of the nucleus, as has been described under similar conditions in other central nervous system areas displaying identical patterns of neurogenesis. In addition, it was found that the effects of undernourishment cannot be discriminated from those dependent on neonatal hypothyroidism.
The sequence of interspike intervals of the spontaneous activity in denervated electroreceptor organs of the catfish is analysed with several statistical techniques: visual inspection of dot displays, interval histograms, serial correlograms, tests for stationary and trends, and tests for renewal properties, based on the spectrum of intervals. The interspike interval train of primary afferents can usually be treated as a renewal process. Following denervation, a number of non-renewal properties emerge. The interval histogram of the renewal spike trains can be fitted well with a gamma probability density function; non-renewal cases need a more complex approach. We propose that the stochastic fluctuations in interval duration arise from randomly occurring quantal depolarizations (Stein's model of stochastic neuronal excitations. Two important properties with regard to synaptic transduction are: afferent firing results from capture of a limited number of depolarizing quanta; and the quantal input rate and the threshold for firing appear to be correlated.
Previous research has demonstrated that symmetric regions in one brain are, on the whole, larger than their asymmetric counterparts in another brain, and that side differences in the volumes of homologous architectonic areas are the result of a decrease in neuronal number in the smaller of the two areas. Therefore, understanding mechanisms by which neuronal numbers are regulated during development may be essential to the investigation of the ontogeny of asymmetry. The radial unit hypothesis of Rakic postulates four factors that determine the number of neurons within a neocortical region: (i) early progenitor cell division; (ii) late cell division; (iii) the effect of thalamocortical and corticocortical afferents, which govern, in part, boundary placement; and (iv) ontogenetic cell death. We report here on experiments that address the development of anatomical asymmetry in the light of this hypothesis. Pregnant Wistar rats were injected with [3H]thymidine on several dates during embryogenesis and their pups killed at several postnatal ages. An estimate of the total number of neurons contained within area 17 and area 18a of each hemisphere was determined and the percentage of those which were labeled was calculated. There were no side differences in this measure between either symmetric or asymmetric architectonic areas although there were consistent differences between areas 17 and 18a. This indicated that while late neuroblast division may be important for cytoarchitectonic differentiation, it may play little or no role in interhemispheric asymmetry.
The effect of intracranial pressure on cerebrospinal fluid formation has been studied in cats by ventricular perfusion with the aqueduct of Sylvius blocked (isolated ventricular perfusion). It has been found that intracranial pressure has a considerable effect on the rate of cerebrospinal fluid formation, while increases in pressure cause a significant and prolonged decrease in cerebrospinal fluid formation. The effect was observed in animals whether they were initially perfused under lower or under higher intracranial pressure. Cerebrospinal fluid absorption has been studied under the above conditions and it has been noted that the ventricles are capable of significant cerebrospinal fluid absorption, since in isolated ventricles cerebrospinal fluid formation and absorption were in balance at physiological intracranial pressure. In addition, cerebrospinal fluid formation rate within the isolated brain ventricles has been compared with the formation rate in the whole cerebrospinal fluid system. Since only about 30% of the total cerebrospinal fluid formation was observed by isolated ventricular perfusion, it seems that the brain ventricles are not the exclusive site of cerebrospinal fluid formation.
The effects of treatment with the antidepressant drug imipramine on neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity were studied immunocytochemically in the rat brain cortex and hypothalamus. It was found that the level of neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity in the cortex was significantly lowered three and 24 h after the last dose of chronic (14 days) imipramine administration as well as 3 h after acute administration. A tendency to decrease neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity was also found in the hypothalamus. The results obtained suggest an important role of the cortical neuropeptide Y in the action of the drug.
Previous investigations have demonstrated that the cerebrospinal fluid from Alzheimer's disease patients contains antibodies that recognize specific neuronal populations in the adult rat central nervous system. These findings suggest a pathogenic role for immunological aberrations in this disorder. In the present report the investigation of antibodies in the cerebrospinal fluid of Alzheimer's disease patients was extended to developing rat central nervous system. The antibody in cerebrospinal fluid from Alzheimer's disease patients recognized entirely different types of antigens in the developing rat central nervous system as compared to adult rat central nervous system. One of the most remarkable differences was the recognition of amoeboid microglial cells. Diverse morphological forms of amoeboid microglial cells were observed, located mainly in the cavum septum pellucidum and in the corpus callosum. Electron microscopy revealed that the cerebrospinal fluid antibody from the Alzheimer's disease patients recognized specific membrane receptors in the macrophagic microglia. The unexpected recognition of amoeboid microglia by antibodies in Alzheimer's disease-cerebrospinal fluid is particularly interesting since these cells proliferate in response to nervous system disease and also engulf debris. The results add further support to the concept that inflammation and similar immune mechanisms may contribute to Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis.
Fragments containing different cytoarchitectonic fields were dissected out of late embryonic rat hippocampal primordia and transplanted into the hippocampus or septum of adult syngeneic hosts. Field CA3 transplants contained clusters of large, angular (pyramidal) cell bodies surrounded by a radiating corona of dendrites. These cells stained selectively with our monoclonal antibody Py, and a proportion were labelled by [3H]thymidine administered on the 15th day of embryonic life. Field CA1 transplants contained smaller, angular, Py-negative cells, which formed elongated laminae rather than globular clusters. The ability of the host dentate granule cells to project to the transplants was examined by (1) the Timm stain for mossy fibres, (2) electron microscopy of Golgi-impregnated CA3 pyramidal neurons in the transplants, and (3) quantitative electron microscopic assessment of the proportions of large mossy fibre terminals in the synaptic population of the transplants. The Timm stain showed that CA3 transplants received a projection from host dentate granule cells when the transplants were placed in direct contact with the axons in the host mossy fibre pathway. As in the normal host field CA3, the ingrowing mossy fibres terminated selectively on the juxtacellular regions of the dendritic tree and ignored the major part of the dendrites in the radiating corona. The electron micrographs showed that within this territory the host mossy fibres formed synaptic terminals with all the complex features typical of normal mossy fibres, and were presynaptic to complex spines arising from the juxtacellular region of Golgi-impregnated donor CA3 pyramidal cells. The quantitative electron microscopic study demonstrated that the mossy fibre-innervated juxtacellular regions of the field CA3 transplants had up to 20% of the normal density of mossy fibre synapses found in the stratum lucidum of field CA3 in situ. CA3 transplants which were placed in the septum, remote from the host mossy fibres, had either trivial numbers of mossy fibre synapses or none. This confirmed that the abundant mossy fibre terminals in the intrahippocampal CA3 transplants were of host origin, and not due to donor dentate granule cells inadvertently included in the grafts. The selectivity of the host dentate projection for field CA3 transplants was demonstrated by the observation that CA1 transplants in the same locations received only slight mossy fibre projections in the Timm stain, and in electron micrographs their synaptic population had only insignificant numbers of large mossy fibre terminals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Local cerebral blood flow and local cerebral glucose utilization were measured using quantitative autoradiography in parallel groups of rats (n = 5-7) which 12-15 weeks previously had undergone limited unilateral ibotenate-induced lesion of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis, followed by implantation into ipsilateral neocortex of primordial basal forebrain cell suspensions. Surviving transplants were visualized by acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. Neither lesion alone nor the presence of a transplant produced significant side-to-side differences in either blood flow or glucose use in any of the 20 brain areas measured. Glucose use within the transplant was independent of the site of implantation. When sited in neocortex, glucose use in the transplant (66 +/- 4 mumol/100 g per min) was significantly lower than in the corresponding contralateral site (113 +/- 3 mumol/100 g per min), whereas when sited in subcortical white matter, glucose use (53 +/- 3 mumol/100 g per min) was significantly higher than in the contralateral side (29 +/- 4 mumol/100 g per min). In the host brain as a whole, the ratio of blood flow to glucose use ipsilateral to the transplant (m = 1.27, r = 0.88) was not significantly different from that of the contralateral side (m = 1.30, r = 0.94). This relationship was also observed within the transplanted tissue itself despite the fact that alkaline phosphatase histochemistry revealed a relative hypervascularization associated with the implantation site.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Goldfish retinal explants were used to study optic tectum participation in the regulation of intermediate filament protein synthesis in retinal ganglion cells during optic nerve regeneration. Retinas were explanted at various times after removal of the contralateral optic tectum. The synthesis of the intermediate filament proteins ON1 and ON2 in the cultures was quantitated by labeling with [35S]methionine, followed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, autoradiography, and densitometry. Neuritic growth from the explants was quantitated based on fiber length and density. In retinal explants placed in culture after 23 days of optic nerve regeneration, the synthesis of ON1 and ON2 was reduced when the tectum had been ablated. In contrast, synthesis of these proteins in explants placed in culture at an earlier stage of regeneration was not affected by tectal ablation. At all time points tested, neuritic outgrowth from retinal explants was stimulated by tectal ablation. These findings indicate that the synthesis of the ON1 and ON2 intermediate filament proteins during regeneration is not directly regulated by axonal volume. Further, our findings suggest that interaction between growing axons and tectum is important for sustained expression of these proteins during the later stages of optic nerve regeneration.
Responses of the thalamic non-specific medial nuclei and relay ventral posteromedial nucleus neurons evoked by stimulation of the teeth pulp of A alpha and A sigma fibers of infraorbital nerve and caudal nucleus of the spinal trigeminal tract were studied in cats under thiopental-chloralose anesthesia. Three groups of neurons were revealed: low-threshold, high-threshold and convergent. In medial nuclei, 29% of neurons formed the low-threshold group, 12% made up the high-threshold group and 59% were convergent. In the ventral posteromedial nucleus 47% of neurons formed the low-threshold group, 4% made up the high-threshold group and 49% were convergent. Ninety per cent of the medial nuclei neurons and 79% of the ventral posteromedial nucleus neurons responded to stimulation of the caudal nucleus spinal trigeminal tract. The conditioning central gray matter stimulation could suppress responses of low-threshold, high-threshold and convergent neuron groups. In medial nuclei 100% of responses induced by stimulation of teeth pulp and A sigma fibers of the infraorbital nerve were completely suppressed and 86% of responses induced by stimulation of the A alpha fibers of the infraorbital nerve stimulation were also completely suppressed. In the ventral posteromedial nucleus 40% of responses induced by stimulation of teeth pulp and A sigma fibers of the infraorbital nerve were completely suppressed and 26.4% of responses induced by stimulation of the A alpha fibers of the infraorbital nerve were completely suppressed. Conditioning stimulation of the central gray matter suppressed responses evoked by stimulation of the caudal nucleus spinal trigeminal tract and in the most part neurons of the medial nuclei and neuron responses of the ventral posteromedial nucleus. The inhibitory influence of central gray matter stimulation on neuronal responses evoked by stimulation of the caudal nucleus spinal trigeminal tract shows that the central gray matter had a direct influence on the activity of thalamic neurons.
Functional activity changes in 35 selected structures of the rat brainstem elicited by subcutaneous formalin injection in a forepaw were investigated by the [14C]2-deoxyglucose method in unanesthetized, freely moving animals. Experiments were initiated 2 min (&quot;early&quot; group) or 60 min (&quot;late&quot; group) after the injection. Treatment induced a significant increase of [14C]2-deoxyglucose uptake relative to controls in 17 structures of the &quot;early&quot; group, including portions of the bulbar, pontine and mesencephalic reticular formation, nucleus raphe magnus, median and dorsal raphe nuclei, the ventrolateral and dorsal subdivisions of the periaqueductal gray matter, deep layers of the superior colliculus and the anterior pretectal nucleus. Most changes were bilateral, with the exception of the increases observed in the nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis and the lateral parabrachial area, which were contralateral, and the one in the mesencephalic reticular formation, which was ipsilateral to the injected paw. In pentobarbital-anesthetized rats a significant difference in metabolic activity values between formalin- and saline-injected animals was only detected at the medullary level. In the &quot;late&quot; unanesthetized formalin group functional activity levels were higher than controls in four structures, including the lateral reticular and paragigantocellular nuclei, contralaterally, and nucleus cuneiformis and ventrolateral periaqueductal gray matter, bilaterally. No between-groups difference was observed in visual or auditory structures. These results provide evidence for activation of several brainstem regions, which are conceivably involved in different sensory, motivational or motor circuits, during the initial phase of formalin-evoked noxious stimulation in unanesthetized animals. Functional changes blunted over time as did pain-related behavior integrated at the supraspinal level, but they persisted in some brainstem regions for which involvement in endogenous antinociceptive systems have been suggested. The mechanisms underlying these time-related changes need to be clarified.
The functional activity pattern in the cervical enlargement of the spinal cord (as expressed by changes in local glucose utilization) was investigated by the semi-quantitative [14C]2-deoxyglucose technique 2 min (&quot;early&quot; group) or 60 min (&quot;late&quot; group) after injection of a small amount of dilute formalin (0.06-0.08 ml, 5%) in a forepaw of unanesthetized, freely-moving rats. Control animals were either injected with an equivalent volume of saline or simply handled. In both formalin groups a tonic flexion of the injected limb was present during the experiments, while supraspinal-integrated behavior (such as licking the affected paw) was sharply reduced in the late group. A bilateral increase of metabolic activity indexes, more pronounced on the ipsilateral side, was found in the &quot;early&quot; formalin-injected animals. The highest increase over control values was found in the medial part of the superficial (laminae I-II) region of the ipsilateral dorsal horn. However, the [14C]2-deoxyglucose uptake was found to be elevated over the whole extent of the dorsal horns, as well as in the gray matter surrounding the central canal, anterior horns and ipsilateral dorsolateral funiculus. In a parallel group of experiments performed in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats metabolic increases in the early period after formalin injection were less pronounced; they were only found in the ipsilateral side of the cord. In the &quot;late&quot; formalin group the overall metabolic changes were less conspicuous. They were mainly observed in the side ipsilateral to the injection, the highest increase being found in the deep portion (laminae V-VI) of the dorsal horn. Therefore, the spatial distribution of functional activation elicited during prolonged noxious stimulation in the spinal cord gray matter of unanesthetized rats varies according to time and changes in animal behavior.
The genetically dystonic rat is insensitive to the tremorogenic effects of harmaline. This behavioral deficit has been linked to a defect in the olivocerebellar pathway, since few Purkinje cells of dystonic rats show a normal increase in rhythmic complex spike activity following harmaline. In normal rats, the Purkinje cell response to harmaline and tremor are initiated by a rhythmic increase in neuronal firing in the caudal inferior olive. The present single unit recording study was conducted, therefore, to determine if the inferior olive of the dystonic rat is activated by harmaline. Olivary unit responses to harmaline were also examined in normal rats made tolerant to harmaline tremor. These rats are behaviorally insensitive to harmaline and also fail to display rhythmic complex spike activity but do not have the motor deficits of the mutant rats. The spontaneous firing rate of neurons in the caudal and rostral inferior olive of the dystonic rat was significantly slower than that of phenotypically normal littermates. Despite this, all cells recorded in the caudal portion of the medial accessory olive of both dystonic and normal rats showed increased rhythmic activity following harmaline injection. Thus, the failure of the mutants to show harmaline tremor is not due to a failure of the drug to activate cells in the olive. Rather, the data suggest a defect in the subsequent transmission of this information. Unlike the control and dystonic rats, harmaline-tolerant rats failed to show sustained rhythmic activity in the inferior olive. These findings suggest that chronic treatment with harmaline may interfere with harmaline tremor at the level of the inferior olive.
Six pairs of female squirrel monkeys were given a daily intraperitoneal injection of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) for 9-14 days, beginning the same day on which they received either a bilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion or a sham lesion of the locus coeruleus. Sham animals developed typical parkinsonian signs (i.e. tremor, bradykinesia, hypokinesia and reduced blink rate) which largely recovered by six to nine weeks after the start of MPTP treatment. At nine weeks, post mortem levels of striatal dopamine in these same animals were partially reduced (by 45%), and this only in the putamen, compared to values obtained from three non-operated, normal control animals. Additionally, histological examination revealed a moderate loss of neuronal cell bodies in the substantia nigra, pars compacta. In marked contrast, the locus coeruleus-lesioned monkeys exhibited little or no recovery from the parkinsonian signs induced by MPTP. Post mortem examination of these animals revealed profound decreases in caudate (by 84%) and putamen (by 91%) dopamine content, and severe neuronal cell loss in the substantia nigra pars compacta of all animals. These neurological, biochemical and histological assessments indicate that lesioning of the locus coeruleus impairs the recovery which usually occurs from the parkinsonian manifestations induced by MPTP in squirrel monkeys. The results support the hypothesis that deficient locus coeruleus noradrenergic mechanisms underlie the progression of Parkinson's disease.
We have observed that in rat caudate-putamen nuclei, neurons immunolabeled for choline acetyltransferase were sometimes in direct apposition to unlabeled perikarya and dendrites [Pickel V. M. and Chan J. (1990) J. Neurosci. Res. 25, 263-280]. Similar juxtapositions between plasmalemmas of nerve cells each receiving input from one common terminal have been associated with activation of certain central neurons [Theodosis D. T. and Poulain D. A. (1989) Brain Res. 484, 361-366]. Thus, we sought to determine the relative abundance and ultrastructure of the appositions and the frequencies of shared synapses between choline acetyltransferase-labeled and unlabeled neurons in the rat striatum. A monoclonal antibody raised against choline acetyltransferase was localized in semi-adjacent ultrathin sections through 24 neurons in the dorsolateral caudate-putamen nuclei. Five of these choline acetyltransferase-labeled perikarya showed direct somatic appositions with unlabeled neurons. The remaining 19 of the choline acetyltransferase-labeled perikarya did not show somatic appositions with unlabeled perikarya; however, when traced through multiple (20-100) semi-adjacent sections their dendrites always showed extensive plasmalemmal juxtapositions with one or more unlabeled perikarya. The apposed perikarya had round nuclei and other characteristics of medium, spiny neurons. The majority of the apposed cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons were postsynaptic to at least one common unlabeled terminal. These terminals usually formed symmetric junctions. At sites of appositions, the plasmalemmas of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive soma or dendrites and unlabeled neurons were closely spaced without intervening astrocytic processes. The appositions lacked the ultrastructural features typical of gap-junctions, but did occasionally show parallel arrays of thin (1-2 nm) electron-dense bands. In both labeled and unlabeled perikarya, the nuclei were separated from the appositional zones by narrow (0.7-3.3 microns) rims of cytoplasm. This cytoplasmic rim contained subsurface cisternae and other less specialized smooth and rough endoplasmic reticulum, and vesicular structures. The findings suggest that in the caudate-putamen nuclei (1) the tonically active cholinergic neurons [Wilson C. J. et al. (1990) J. Neurosci. 10, 508-519] may modulate or be modulated by non-cholinergic spiny neurons through non-synaptic somatic or dendritic appositions, and (2) that both neurons may be simultaneously inhibited by shared afferent input. Activation of this system could facilitate coordinated movements through synchronization of cholinergic interneurons and spiny projection neurons containing GABA or other transmitters.
The effect of 20 min of ischemia on the cellular and subcellular distribution of glutamate, glutamine and taurine in the rat hippocampus was studied by means of an immunocytochemical procedure based on antisera raised against protein glutaraldehyde conjugates of the respective amino acids. Forebrain ischemia was induced by temporary occlusion of the common carotid arteries in rats with permanently occluded vertebral arteries. Within 90 s after removal of the carotid ligatures, the rats were perfused through the heart with a mixture of glutaraldehyde and paraformaldehyde. For semiquantitative electron microscopic analysis, ultrathin sections were incubated in a primary antiserum followed by a secondary antibody coupled to colloidal gold particles. The gold particle densities over different tissue compartments within the CA1 field and the mossy fiber zone of the hippocampus were determined by means of a specially designed computer program, and values from normal and ischemic animals were compared. It was found that in the astrocytes, the level of immunoreactivity for glutamine and taurine is unchanged or slightly decreased after ischemia, while that for glutamate is increased, particularly within the mitochondria (by about 100%). In contrast, pyramidal cell bodies display a reduced immunolabeling for all three amino acids following the ischemic episode. The results show that ischemia causes a redistribution of glutamate from neurons to glia. The observed increase in the glial immunolabeling for glutamate indicates that the capacity of the glial cells to metabolize glutamate is exceeded during ischemia. This glial response to ischemia has not previously been recognized and may play a role in the chain of events leading to &quot;excitotoxic&quot; cell death during or following an ischemic episode. The reduction of glutamate and taurine immunolabeling in neurons points to a possible amino acid efflux and is compatible with previous biochemical studies demonstrating an elevated extracellular level of these amino acids during ischemia.
Experiments were carried out to test whether changes in the sensitivity of hippocampal pyramidal neurons to the neurotransmitters glutamate, GABA and noradrenaline may be associated with the establishment of an epileptogenic focus induced by kindling. The effects of iontophoretically applied neurotransmitters on the firing rate of single units were quantified in the rat hippocampal CA1 area in kindled and control animals. Kindling was induced by electrical tetanic stimulation of the Schaffer collateral/commissural fibers. Firing was evoked by local glutamate iontophoresis while simultaneous GABA or noradrenaline application suppressed this response. A significant reduction of the GABAergic inhibitory action on the firing rate in kindled animals studied around four or around 42 days after the last convulsion was found. In the same neurons, the suppressive effect of noradrenaline was not different from controls. The neurons of kindled animals, investigated around four days after the last seizure, had a reduced sensitivity for glutamate; more glutamate ejection current was needed to evoke firing or to evoke the maximum firing rate. In contrast, the responsiveness for glutamate was significantly increased long-term after the last convulsion. These findings demonstrate that hippocampal Schaffer collateral kindling is associated with a long-lasting reduced effectiveness of the GABA-mediated response on glutamate-evoked firing in CA1.
To investigate the relation between perforant path and the pattern of glutamate-like immunoreactivity in its target regions in the rat hippocampal formation, unilateral lesions of various size and location were placed to interrupt certain contingents of these afferent fibers. Postembedding immunohistochemistry at the level of light microscopy yielded the same pattern of immunoreactivity in the hippocampal formation contralateral to the lesion as in untreated animals. On the ipsilateral side, however, extensive transections of the perforant path led to a drastic loss of glutamate-immunoreactive terminal-like elements in the outer part of the dentate molecular layer. More restricted lesions induced a loss of punctate glutamate-like immunoreactivity in narrower bands within this zone. The width and the location of the affected bands appeared to depend on the extent of the transections and their topographical relation to the perforant path fiber system. These results and those obtained using a postembedding immunogold method at the level of electron microscopy strongly indicate that perforant path terminals in the dentate molecular layer of the rat contain high levels of glutamate and, thus, provide further support for an already well-documented role of this excitatory amino acid as neurotransmitter in this system.
We have developed a novel slice preparation of the mouse somatosensory forebrain. This preparation is unique in including both the ventrobasal nucleus of the thalamus and the sensorimotor &quot;barrel&quot; cortex in a 400-microns-thick slice with the functional connectivity between them preserved, and in allowing direct visualization of the various components of the barrel system in unstained living tissue. Thalamocortical connectivity was demonstrated by recording the laminar profile of cortical field potentials evoked electrically from the ventrobasal nucleus. Current-source density analysis of this profile showed that the largest and earliest sinks were coextensive with the two known sites of thalamocortical terminals, layer IV and the junction of layers V and VI. The sink in layer IV could be dissociated experimentally into a small, early sink of presynaptic origin (most probably a presynaptic spike volley in the thalamocortical terminals) and a later, larger sink generated postsynaptically. By mapping the subcortical stimulation sites that elicited a response at different layer IV recording sites we concluded that the thalamus-to-cortex projection preserves the general dorsoventral relationship of the afferents. Intracellularly recorded responses elicited by thalamic stimulation included (but were not limited to) monosynaptic excitatory and disynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. The thalamus-to-cortex connections were also mapped with the axonal fluorescent tracer dioctadecyl-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate. The thalamo-cortical slice is a very suitable system for studying the physiology and pharmacology of the thalamocortical synapse and for exploring the synaptic circuitry of the somatosensory cortex.
Rhythmical oscillation of thalamic neuronal populations occurs under physiological conditions and in several disease states. In the present experiments we examined the network properties of population rhythmicity and the possible involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the frequency regulation and maintenance of rhythmic thalamic bursts. Multisite recording of neuronal activity and local microinjections of drugs were performed on the freely moving rat. Rhythmic thalamic population bursts at 6 to 9 Hz and concurrent neocortical high voltage spike-and-wave spindles were observed during awake immobility, with the thalamic rhythm leading the neocortical high voltage spindle. Even though all individual thalamocortical neurons fired in a phase-locked manner to the high-voltage spindle, the majority discharged at a significantly lower frequency than that of the population (multiunit) activity. In contrast, neurons in the nucleus reticularis thalami discharged at the frequency of the population bursts. Neurons in the extrapyramidal system and neocortex but not the hippocampal formation also fired in a phase-locked manner to the high-voltage spindle. Systemic administration or local microinjection of either non-competitive or competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate blockers (ketamine or ap-5) slowed the frequency of thalamic multiunit bursts and associated high-voltage spindles from 8 to 2 Hz, or completely blocked rhythmicity. Unilateral thalamic injection of ketamine or ap-5 resulted in a suppression of the amplitude of high-voltage spindles in the injected hemisphere. It is concluded that thalamic rhythmicity is not due to the &quot;pacemaker&quot; properties of thalamic cells but is rather an emergent property of the relay thalamus-nucleus reticularis network. Furthermore, we hypothesize that the frequency of network oscillation is regulated by the interplay between two major classes of voltage-dependent conductances in the thalamocortical cells: low-threshold calcium channels and high-threshold N-methyl-D-aspartate channels.
Estimation of noradrenaline and adrenaline utilization in the pineal gland of female rats was attempted using inhibitors of the enzymes that catalyse the catecholamine biosynthetic pathway. Treatment with FLA63, an inhibitor of dopamine beta-hydroxylase (10 mg/kg, 2 h before killing), induced depletion of noradrenaline and adrenaline in the preoptic area and median eminence (sites, respectively, inside and outside the blood-brain barrier) but, paradoxically, resulted in a significant increase (+77%) in the pineal content of adrenaline without affecting that of noradrenaline. Treatment with LY134046, an inhibitor of phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (40 mg/kg, 5 and 2 h before killing), induced depletion of adrenaline in the preoptic area and median eminence but, again, resulted in a paradoxical and large increase in pineal adrenaline (+224%); this increase was prevented by prior adrenalectomy. Blood samples taken from free-moving rats fitted with intravenous and intraperitoneal cannulae revealed a marked increase in plasma levels of adrenaline after each injection of LY134046. These results suggest that the adrenal medulla is the primary source for the increase in pineal adrenaline seen after administration of the enzyme inhibitors. The precise site of uptake and the biological implications of this phenomenon remain to be elucidated. Nevertheless, interpretation of in vivo experiments involving these catecholamine synthesis inhibitors should take this adrenal response into account.
The interspike interval histogram of spontaneously firing electroreceptor organs of freshwater catfish (Ictalurus nebulosus LeS.) fits well with the probability density function of a gamma distribution. The shape parameter r of this probability density function can be used as a measure for the firing threshold of the spike generator, and the scale parameter lambda provides a measure for the input rate of synaptic quanta. Here, we have studied the physiological meaning of the two parameters of the fitted gamma probability density function by manipulating the mean firing rate. This was done in two ways: &quot;frequency clamp&quot; stimulation and a change in temperature. Frequency clamp stimulation, compensating for adaptation of the response, keeps the afferent firing rate at a fixed value for a limited period. We show that within such a period not only the mean spike rate remains constant, but these spike trains can be regarded as renewal series: the spike generator is functionally uncoupled from the frequency-dependent parts of the transduction path. Concerning the gamma parameters, two types of responses are found: at strong excitation lambda increases, r does not change; with small stimuli r is inversely proportional to the stimulus strength, lambda remains unchanged. This is difficult to explain when stimulus transduction acts via the synaptic input rate only. Stimulation seems to influence the firing threshold of the spike generator directly. At strong inhibition a regular firing pattern suddenly takes over; the major part of the variability suddenly disappears from the spike train. A change in temperature causes a shift in lambda (Q10 approximately 2.3), but not in r. This points to a temperature effect on the input rate only.
To investigate a possible relationship between synapse elimination and myogenesis, we examined both phenomena during the first 2 weeks of postnatal life in the rat lateral gastrocnemius muscle. Synapse elimination and myogenesis occur simultaneously. Sixty per cent of the number of fibers observed in adult muscles is generated during the first 10 days of postnatal life; during this time, the majority of muscle cells in lateral gastrocnemius also become singly innervated. We delayed synapse elimination by cutting the tendon of insertion of lateral gastrocnemius (tenotomy) on the day of birth. Both synapse elimination and postnatal myogenesis were slowed by tenotomy. Tenotomized muscles contained fewer detectable cells than unoperated contralateral control muscles. These results suggest that synapse elimination may be altered by altering postnatal muscle fiber addition.
The distribution of phenytoin-inducible cytochrome P450 in non-treated mouse brain and spinal cord was analysed immunohistochemically using polyclonal antibodies against phenytoin-induced mouse cerebral microsomal P450. This P450 protein was proved in Ouchterlony [Volk B. et al. (1988) Neurosci. Lett. 84, 219-224], Western blot, and immunohistochemical analyses to be reactive to the specific antibodies and an IgG fraction raised against phenobarbital-induced rat liver microsomal P450IIB1. The phenytoin-induced P450 is designated P450IIB1* because immunologically it is comparable with P450IIB1; however, it has not yet been analysed for other characteristics of this enzyme. Immunocytochemistry was performed on acetone-fixed serial cryosections of the whole brain using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase detection system. Negative controls included incubations with preimmune serum of the immunized animal instead of the primary antibody and preabsorption of the antibody with the corresponding immunogen. The pattern of immunoreactive sites indicates that P450IIB1* is not distributed evenly throughout the CNS. It was found to be restricted to only some cellular populations. The most striking aspect of immunostaining was a predominant reactivity in the evolutionary old brain parts. Neuropil and neuronal staining was found in the spinal cord (motor neurons of the ventral horn), medulla oblongata (hypoglossal nuclei, magnocellular part of the lateral reticular nuclei), pons (trigeminal, facial, cochlear and pontine nuclei), cerebellum (granule cells), midbrain (dorsal raphe nucleus) and limbic lobe (hippocampal pyramidal cells). Neuropil reactivity alone appeared in cerebellar nuclei, midbrain, thalamus, basal ganglia, neopallium and olfactory brain. Generally, pia mater/arachnoid, ependyma, choroid plexus, vascular system and some astrocytic populations were found to be strongly P450IIB1* immunoreactive. In comparison with astroglia, which is characterized by glial fibrillary acidic protein-positiveness, the astrocytes, which are also P450IIB1* reactive, occurred only in subpial and subependymal layers, and in large fiber tracts of the spinal cord and brainstem, where they were attached to the vascular system. Otherwise, the glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes were not P450IIB1* immunoreactive in the cerebellar molecular layer (fibers of Bergmann glia), in remaining neuropils and in white matter areas.
Levels of N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate measured by high-pressure liquid chromatography were found to be very high in the cat substantia nigra, particularly in the pars compacta, while those in the caudate nucleus were much lower. In halothane-anaesthetized cats implanted with push-pull cannulae, N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (10(-8) M) induced a marked and prolonged release of newly synthesized [3H]dopamine, when infused into the posterior but not into the anterior part of the caudate nucleus. In contrast, in the presence of tetrodotoxin (10(-6) M), N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (10(-8) M) reduced the residual release of [3H]dopamine; this effect was also more pronounced in the posterior than in the anterior part. In the conditions used, as indicated by experiments with [3H]N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate no glutamate was formed from the infused N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate. Ibotenate (10(-5) M) induced changes in [3H]dopamine release in both the absence and presence of tetrodotoxin, which were closely similar to those observed with N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate. Responses induced by either N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate or ibotenate were not mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors since N-methyl-D-aspartate stimulated the release of [3H]dopamine only when used in a high concentration (10(-4) M) and applied in a magnesium-free superfusion medium in both the presence of glycine (10(-6) M) and strychnine (10(-6) M). In addition, the stimulatory effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin; it was of similar amplitude in both parts of the caudate nucleus and of shorter duration than that evoked by either N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate or ibotenate alone. N-Acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate interacted with dopaminergic neurons not only presynaptically in the caudate nucleus but also in the substantia nigra since a marked increase in [3H]dopamine release was observed both from local dendrites and from nerve terminals in the ipsilateral caudate nucleus when N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (10(-7) M) was infused locally into the substantia nigra pars compacta. No effect could be seen in contralateral structures. The isomer of natural N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate, beta-N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (10(-7) M), had no effect on [3H]dopamine release when applied similarly in the substantia nigra, thus confirming the specificity of the action of N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate.
The effects of caffeine on ischemic neuronal injury were determined in rats subjected to forebrain ischemia induced by bilateral carotid occlusion and controlled hypotension (50 mmHg for 10 min). High resolution (100 microns) multi-slice, multi-echo magnetic resonance images were obtained daily for three consecutive days post-operatively in sham-operated rats and in rats that received either saline vehicle (controls), a single i.v. injection of 10 mg/kg caffeine 30 min prior to an ischemic insult (acute caffeine group), or up to 90 mg/kg per day of caffeine for three consecutive weeks prior to an ischemic insult (chronic caffeine group). Rats in the control group exhibited enhanced magnetic resonance image intensity in the striatum 24 h after ischemia which increased in the striatum and also appeared in the hippocampus after 48 h, and which began to resolve in both regions by 72 h post-ischemia. Histopathological analysis of each rat following the final magnetic resonance examination showed that ischemic neuronal injury was strictly confined to the brain regions showing magnetic resonance image changes. Acute caffeine rats showed accelerated changes in the magnetic resonance images, with increased hippocampal intensity appearing at 24 h post-ischemia. Although there was magnetic resonance evidence of accelerated injury, quantitative analysis of the histopathological data at 72 h showed no significant difference in the extent of neuronal injury in any brain region between control-ischemic and acute caffeine rats. Nine out of 11 rats in the chronic caffeine group showed no magnetic resonance image changes over the three study days. Chronic caffeine rats had significantly less neuronal damage in all vulnerable brain regions than either of the other groups of ischemic rats. The accelerated ischemic injury in rats treated with an acute dose of caffeine may occur secondary to antagonism of adenosine receptors, whereas protection from ischemic injury following chronic administration of caffeine may be mediated by up-regulation of adenosine receptors.
The relationship between orthodromic extracellular field potentials and intradendritic depolarizations in apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons was investigated using the in vitro slice preparation of rat hippocampus. Orthodromic synaptic field potentials evoked by stimulation of afferent inputs in stratum radiatum or stratum oriens were used to measure extracellular voltage gradients generated over the pyramidal cell axis. Extracellular gradients were of opposite polarity over the region of pyramidal cell apical dendrites in stratum radiatum. The stratum radiatum-evoked gradient was negative towards the apical dendrites and the stratum oriens-evoked gradient negative towards the cell body layer, with gradients reaching values of up to 50 mV/mm over the apical dendritic axis. Intradendritic recordings obtained greater than 150 microns from stratum pyramidale directly measured the subthreshold apical dendritic excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by stratum radiatum or stratum oriens stimulation. These ground-referenced recordings were then compared to the transmembrane potential calculated by subtraction of the corresponding extradendritic field potential. Both stratum radiatum and stratum oriens stimulation evoked graded excitatory postsynaptic potentials that could be recorded in apical dendritic impalements up to 265 microns from stratum pyramidale. The calculated transmembrane potential of the stratum radiatum-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential had a significantly greater rate of rise, peak amplitude, and rate of decay than that of the ground-referenced excitatory postsynaptic potential. In contrast, the rates of rise and decay of the transmembrane potential of the stratum oriens-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential were reduced with respect to the ground-referenced recording. The peak amplitude of the stratum oriens-evoked transmembrane potential, however, varied according to the polarity of the corresponding extradendritic population spike response recorded in stratum radiatum. These data reveal that synaptic activation of either basal or apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal cells evokes a depolarization that can be recorded over a substantial region of the apical dendritic arbor. Furthermore, extradendritic field potentials evoked by stimulation of these inputs produce opposite effects on the transmembrane potential of apical dendrites. The magnitude of the accompanying extracellular voltage gradients suggest that these shifts in transmembrane potential reflect ephaptic interactions at the apical dendritic level of pyramidal cells.
The aim of this study was to demonstrate the presence of calmodulin-stimulated protein kinase II, protein kinase C, and cyclic AMP-stimulated protein kinase in isolated myenteric ganglia and to characterize the major ganglia phosphoproteins using biochemical and immunochemical techniques. Ganglia from the small intestine of guinea-pigs were isolated, disrupted by sonication in Triton X-100, and phosphorylated. The phosphoprotein patterns obtained were compared with those of synaptosomes from guinea-pig and rat cerebral cortex. Myenteric ganglia were as rich in protein kinase C and cyclic AMP-stimulated protein kinase as brain tissue, but the level of calmodulin-stimulated protein kinase II was relatively lower. The alpha subunit of calmodulin-stimulated protein kinase II was detected by immunoblotting and the beta subunit by autophosphorylation. The ratio of beta to alpha subunit was considerably higher in ganglia than in brain and ganglia beta subunit had a lower apparent molecular weight than the brain enzyme. A number of neuronal phosphoproteins were found in ganglia including the 87,000 mol. wt phosphoprotein, synapsins 1a and 1b, and proteins IIIa and IIIb. A phosphoprotein of 48,000 mol. wt had many of the characteristics of the B-50 protein but was not the same. In addition, a number of other phosphoproteins not previously identified in neurons were found in ganglia including those with apparent molecular weights of 60,000 and 58,000 that were the major calmodulin kinase substrates. The guinea-pig enteric nervous system has been extensively studied but, unlike other parts of the mammalian nervous system, little is known about the intracellular mechanisms underlying its functions. A technique for isolating myenteric ganglia is now available and we have used this preparation to characterize the major protein kinase and phosphoproteins present in this tissue. The results obtained will allow the phosphorylation of the various proteins to be investigated after physiological or pharmacological manipulation of myenteric ganglia in situ and in vivo.
The retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase was used to examine and compare the distribution and morphology of thalamic, cerebellar and spinal projecting neurons in rat trigeminal nucleus interpolaris following large injections into their respective targets. The regional distribution of these three populations was evaluated in relation to the six cytoarchitecturally distinct regions which characterize the nucleus. Cerebellar projecting neurons were distributed throughout the rostrocaudal extent of trigeminal nucleus interpolaris, but were infrequently present in its dorsolateral region and in the rostral pole of the nucleus. Thalamic projecting neurons exhibited a distribution pattern that extensively overlapped with that of the trigeminocerebellar neurons: however, they were particularly concentrated in caudal, dorsomedial and rostral, ventrolateral regions of the nucleus. Trigeminospinal projecting neurons exhibited a more restricted distribution within ventral and lateral regions of trigeminal nucleus interpolaris. Although the three populations of projection neurons could not be distinguished solely on the basis of somatic size or shape, distinct regional variations in the distribution and somatodendritic and axonal morphology of these neurons indicated that they arise largely from independent cell populations. However, several regions were identified in which specific cell types were likely to contribute to axonal collaterilization among these pathways. In the ventrolateral magnocellular region of the nucleus, for example, more than half of the large multipolar-shaped neurons were retrogradely labeled after injections into each of the three target sites. The results of the present study indicate that the thalamic, cerebellar and spinal projections of trigeminal nucleus interpolaris arise from a morphologically heterogeneous group of neurons. In addition, regional variations in the distribution and morphology of these neurons provide evidence for the existence of functionally distinct regions that parallel the cytoarchitecturally defined regions of the nucleus. This study also provides indirect evidence for and against collateralization among these three projections within specific regions of the nucleus.
The anterograde transport of horseradish peroxidase and tritiated amino acids was used to examine the distribution and morphology of spinal afferent fibers terminating in the rat spinal trigeminal complex. The results confirm the existence of a direct, ipsilateral projection from the spinal cord which is distributed exclusively to the deepest layers of the medullary dorsal horn narrow regions subjacent to the spinal trigeminal tract in trigeminal nucleus interpolaris, trigeminal nucleus oralis and the trigeminal main sensory nucleus. Spinal inputs also terminated in the insular trigeminal-cuneatus lateralis nucleus which is a distinct component of the interstitial system of the spinal trigeminal tract. The spinal afferent fibers which terminated in the dorsolateral parts of the spinal trigeminal complex arose from the dorsal column funiculi, while those that terminated in ventral parts of the complex arose from both the dorsal column and lateral funiculi. The tritiated amino acid experiments indicate that at least part of the spinotrigeminal pathway originates from cells located in the cervical spinal dorsal horn. The present findings also document a complex spatial relationship between the spinotrigeminal and trigeminospinal pathways which includes an extensive overlap between spinotrigeminal fibers and spinal projecting neurons in each of the lateralmost regions of the complex. This spatial overlap supports the existence of anatomical substrates which may underlie functional reciprocal loops between the spinal trigeminal complex and cervical spinal cord. Since these regions are primarily concerned with the processing of sensory information from lateral and posterior parts of the face, it follows that the spinotrigeminal pathway may be primarily concerned with the integration of head and neck functions. In addition, the spatial convergence of spinal inputs and the distribution of other trigeminal efferent neurons suggests that part of the spinotrigeminal pathway may be involved in spino-trigemino-thalamic and spino-trigemino-cerebellar pathways in parallel with other spinobulbar pathways in the medulla.
The effects of serotonin on pyramidal cells of layer V of the medial prefrontal cortex were examined using intracellular recording techniques in rat brain slices in vitro. Bath administration of serotonin (0.3-100 microM) produced two distinct responses which could be differentiated physiologically and pharmacologically. The first of these responses was a membrane hyperpolarization. This effect of serotonin was associated with a decrease in input resistance and was independent of the transmembrane chloride gradient, suggesting that it was mediated by an increase in potassium conductance. The ability of serotonin to induce a hyperpolarization was mimicked by (+/-)-8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin hydrobromide and was blocked by BMY 7378 and spiperone but not by ketanserin, indicating that it was mediated by the activation of receptors of the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A subtype. The second response to serotonin involved a membrane depolarization, the replacement of the afterhyperpolarization that follows a burst of spikes in these cells by a slow depolarizing afterpotential, and a decrease in spike frequency accommodation. These effects were mimicked by 4-bromo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl-isopropylamine and antagonized by ketanserin and by low concentrations of spiperone, indicating that they were mediated by the activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors. Interestingly, qualitatively identical responses could be elicited in these cells by activation of muscarinic and alpha 1-adrenergic receptors suggesting that 5-hydroxytryptamine2, muscarinic and alpha 1-adrenergic receptors converge onto a common set of membrane mechanisms to increase cellular excitability. Although 5-hydroxytryptamine1A and 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors mediated opposing effects on membrane excitability, most pyramidal neurons appeared to express both receptor subtypes on their membrane surface. The coactivation of both receptor subtypes resulted in a selective enhancement of responsiveness to strong excitatory stimuli with little effect on weaker stimuli. The paradoxical presence of two serotonin receptors mediating opposite effects on membrane excitability in the same cell provides a flexible mechanism by which serotonin might regulate how pyramidal neurons encode incoming excitatory stimuli onto firing activity.
The ontogenesis of cells showing GABA-like immunoreactivity, and the distribution of the immunoreactivity for the GABAA receptor were studied immunocytochemically in the prenatal rat brain. By embryonic day 14, a few GABA-like immunoreactive (GABA-positive) cells scattered at the subpial limit of the marginal zone (primordial plexiform layer) in the lateral part of the developing cortex. GABA-positive cells appeared progressively within the dorsal and medial sectors of the primordial plexiform layer, occupying deeper positions within the layer. The immunoreactivity for the GABAA receptor covered the whole thickness of the primordial plexiform layer. By embryonic day 16, most GABA-positive cells populated three distinct laminar compartments of the developing cortex: the prospective lamina I, the subplate, and the lower part of the intermediate zone. The GABA-positive cells of the lower intermediate zone appeared to be typical of the developing cerebral cortex of the rat: their neuronal nature was assessed immunocytochemically, using monoclonal antibodies against microtubule-associated protein 2, mainly expressed in neuronal somata and dendrites, and against intermediate filament protein vimentin, expressed in glia. The lower intermediate zone contained cells immunoreactive for microtubule-associated protein 2, although the immunostaining was less intense than in the prospective lamina I and the subplate. Preliminary results showed no vimentin-positive cells in the lower intermediate zone. At embryonic day 16, immunoreactivity for the GABAA receptor was present within the prospective lamina 1 and the subplate. Preliminary results showed no vimentin-positive cell in the lower intermediate zone. At embryonic day 16, immunoreactivity for the GABAA receptor was present within the prospective lamina 1 and the subplate, but not in the lower intermediate zone. From embryonic day 18 onwards, the immunostaining for the GABAA receptor labelled, unambiguously, the subplate as a lamina clearly separated from the suprajacent cortical plate. At embryonic day 18, the GABAA receptor started to be expressed within the lower, differentiating part of the cortical plate. Within the cortical plate, the expression of GABA in neural cell perikarya, and the immunostaining for the GABAA receptor, followed a similar spatio-temporal (&quot;inside-out&quot;) gradient during pre- and early postnatal stages. Most GABA-positive cells of the lower intermediate zone started to disappear (or stopped the expression of GABA) by embryonic day 20, but some remained until adulthood. A similar time-course was observed for the microtubule-associated protein 2-immunoreactive cell population located at the same level.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Protein F1/GAP-43 is a protein kinase C substrate associated with axonal growth and synaptic plasticity. We used in situ hybridization in rat brain to determine the cellular distribution of its gene expression. Throughout the septotemporal axis of the adult hippocampus, pyramidal cells express F1/GAP-43 mRNA, but granule cells do not. To determine if F1/GAP-43 expression in granule cells ever occurs, we studied its expression in development during mossy fiber outgrowth, when expression should be maximal. Quantitation of relative hybridization levels in the hippocampus revealed a modest increase in granule cell F1/GAP-43 mRNA coincident with mossy fiber outgrowth. But even the peak hybridization in granule cells on day 16 was 75% less than in pyramidal cells. The distribution of grains was over the entire granule cell layer at day 9, but was restricted by day 20 to the inner aspect of the layer, the site of the youngest cells which are still sending out axonal processes. Cell-selective expression of F1/GAP-43 within a particular brain structure was not restricted to the hippocampus. In cerebellum, F1/GAP-43 hybridization was detected in granule cells but not Purkinje cells; in olfactory bulb, mitral cells but not internal granule cells; in habenula, cells in the lateral but not medial nucleus; in substantia nigra, pars compacta cells but not cells in pars reticulata. Neurons containing biogenic amines exhibited intense F1/GAP-43 hybridization: substantia nigra pars compacta (dopamine), the locus coeruleus (norepinephrine), and dorsal raphe (serotonin). In contrast, cholinergic neurons exhibited little (basal forebrain) or no (medial habenula) hybridization. F1/GAP-43 expression is not restricted to a specific cell type and is not correlated with axon length. High F1/GAP-43 expression is apparent in many neurons having either neuromodulatory or memory storage functions. We propose that F1/GAP-43 is important for accelerating process outgrowth and synaptic remodeling, rather than directing growth itself.
With the exception of L-DOPA pharmacological treatment in Parkinson's disease, the neurodegenerative diseases lack effective treatment. Previous studies of neurodegenerative diseases suggest that symptoms arise secondary to defects in local neuronal circuitry and cannot be treated effectively with systemic drug delivery. Therefore, a promising treatment is the application of fetal or genetically engineering cells which protect or replace neurons in deficient regions. Engineered cells can be derived from cell lines or grown from recipient host fibroblasts or other cells, then modified to produce and secrete substances at a specific area of the brain. A previous study using parallel intracerebral infusions of nerve growth factor and an excitotoxic amino acid into the rat striatum demonstrated a protective effect of nerve growth factor on neurons [Aloe L. (1987) Biotechnology 5, 1085-1086]. In order to further test this paradigm, we have utilized a biological delivery system of nerve growth factor by implanting fibroblasts into the rat striatum which secrete high levels of nerve growth factor, prior to infusing the neurotoxins quinolinate or quisqualate. Animals in this group had smaller lesions than did a group implanted with a similar non-nerve growth factor-producing graft. In addition, marked neuronal sparing was noted within areas of lesions in those animals containing a nerve growth factor-producing graft. These results indicate that implantation of genetically engineered nerve growth factor-secreting cells can be used to protect neurons at a specific target from excitotoxin-induced lesions.
Lipid peroxidation disrupts membrane integrity and causes structural and functional alterations in ischemic tissues. Taurine and ketamine are putative ischemic protectants that affect Ca2+ influx. Here we report the influence of these compounds on lipid peroxidation in subcellular fractions, isolated cells and intact tissue from bovine retinas. P2 membrane fractions and isolated cells were exposed to the lipid peroxidation inducers cadmium chloride (200 microM) or L-ascorbic acid (1 mM) in the presence of 0-50 mM taurine, 0-10 mM ketamine, 1 mM kynurenic acid or 1 mM dextromethorphan. The latter compounds are N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists. Lipid peroxidation in isolated eyes reperfused after 1 h of ischemia either with or without protectants was determined by thiobarbituric acid assay. Glutathione was measured in isolated retinas subjected in vitro to simulated ischemia (no glucose or oxygenation) for 60 min either alone or in the presence of taurine or ketamine. Ketamine inhibited chemical- or ischemia-induced lipid peroxidation as well as ischemic glutathione depletion. Under the same conditions, taurine failed to affect lipid peroxidation or glutathione. The data show a direct effect of ketamine on lipid peroxidation and point to separate mechanisms of action for ketamine and taurine.
Peripheral axotomy of primary afferent neurons results in the up-regulation of the growth-associated phosphoprotein GAP-43, by dorsal root ganglion cells. We have studied the temporal sequence of GAP-43 expression in those dorsal root ganglion neurons with unmyelinated axons (the small dark cells) and in those with myelinated axons (the large light cells) after sciatic nerve section in the adult rat. Immunoreactivity for the RT 97 neurofilament epitope, which is detectable only in large light dorsal root ganglion cells, was used to differentiate the two types of dorsal root ganglion cell. Within two days of a sciatic nerve section the number of GAP-43-immunoreactive profiles in the ipsilateral ganglion had increased five-fold and this increase persisted for 80 days post-section. While 50% of the small numbers of GAP-43-positive cells in control ganglia were RT 97 positive, only 8% of the large number of GAP-43-immunoreactive cells four days post-section, were RT 97 positive. By 14 days the number of RT 97-positive/GAP-43-positive cells had increased to 29%. This was paralleled by an increase in GAP-43 immunoreactivity in large diameter profiles at 14 days. The signals that alter GAP-43 expression in unmyelinated (small, RT 97 -ve) and myelinated (large, RT 97 +ve) afferents after peripheral nerve injury appear to operate with different time-courses.
Adenosine A2 receptors were labeled and visualized by autoradiography in tissue sections of the human brain using the A2-selective agonist ligand [3H](2-p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenylamino)-5'-N-carboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680). The binding of this ligand was of high affinity, reversible, and was blocked by adenosine A2 agents. Autoradiographic mapping of adenosine A2 sites revealed them to be exclusively restricted to the caudate nucleus, putamen, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle and the lateral segment of the globus pallidus. The densities of adenosine A2 receptors in other brain areas did not differ from background levels. This selective localization prompted us to study the consequences of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Huntington's chorea on the densities and localization of these sites in the basal ganglia. In Parkinson's disease the density of adenosine A2 binding sites was comparable to that seen in control cases. In contrast, density values of A2 sites were dramatically decreased, compared to control values, in the basal ganglia of patients with Huntington's chorea. Similar losses of A2 receptors were observed in the guinea-pig striatum after local application of quinolinic acid while lesioning of the dopaminergic neurons was without effect. All these results taken together suggest that adenosine A2 receptors are localized on striatal output neurons which degenerate in Huntington's chorea.
In the neostriatum a selective loss of neurons occurs following exposure to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonists. One hypothesis emerging from this observation is that an excitotoxic process via N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors may contribute to the pathogenesis of Huntington's disease, which is characterized by the loss of medium-sized neurons. However, whether there is a selective distribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in specific populations of neostriatal neurons is unknown. In this study the expression of c-fos mRNA and protein was used to examine the response of neostriatal cells to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor stimulation in the rat. After intrastriatal injection of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist, quinolinic acid, an increase in c-fos mRNA concentrations was detected using in situ hybridization and Northern blot analysis. Western blot analysis showed that not only the c-Fos mRNA protein product but also other Fos-related antigens capable of binding to DNA were increased in response to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. The selectivity of the neuronal response to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation was examined immunohistochemically at the light and ultrastructural levels. Our results indicate that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation by quinolinic acid stimulates medium spiny neurons to increase c-Fos expression; to a lesser extent, medium aspiny interneurons and glial cells also respond. In contrast, negligible change in c-Fos expression is observed in large neurons. These results are consistent with other evidence that medium-sized spiny neurons are preferentially vulnerable to the toxic effects of excitatory amino acids acting at N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. An additional implication of these findings is that activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in medium spiny neurons leads to increased expression of candidate AP-1 transcription factors, thereby coupling the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and regulation of gene expression in signal transduction processes of the neostriatal medium spiny neuron.
In order to examine a possible interaction between D1 and D2 receptors in the dopaminergic control of the electrically-evoked release of [3H]GABA in the rat prefrontal cortex, the effects of D1 and D2 dopamine agonists were studied in vitro on cortical slices. The D1 agonist SKF38393 (10(-5) M) inhibited the electrically-evoked release of [3H]GABA. This effect was totally reversed by both the D1 antagonist SCH23390 (10(-7) M) and the D2 antagonist sulpiride (10(-5) M). We previously observed that maximal D2-mediated inhibition of the electrically-evoked release of [3H]GABA was obtained with 10(-7) M RU24926 and 10(-8) M LY171555. Here we showed that the inhibition produced by these two D2 agonists is also abolished by 10(-7) M SCH23390. In dopamine-depleted slices from reserpine-treated animals, it was not possible to detect an effect of either RU24926 (10(-7) M) or SKF38393 (10(-5) M), suggesting a permissive role of endogenous dopamine in the effect of either D2 or D1 agonist. Finally, SKF38393 used at a subliminar concentration (10(-6) M) was able to potentiate the effect of a liminar concentration of RU24926 (1.5 x 10(-8) M). Taken together these results strongly suggest that in the rat prefrontal cortex a D1-D2 receptor synergism is involved in the dopaminergic control of the electrically-evoked release of [3H]GABA.
Kainate, an agonist of a unique subclass of glutamate receptors (kainate receptor), was injected intracerebroventricularly in rats to induce convulsive reactions and hippocampal damage in order to model glutamate-mediated brain injury. Rats treated with magnesium sulfate (subcutaneously injected, up to 600 mg/kg) were found to be protected from kainate neurotoxicity depending on the dose and time of application. Results were largely consistent with those obtained previously by using quinolinate as an excitotoxic N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor agonist. Magnesium is discussed as being a natural and relatively safe therapeutic in cases of glutamate-induced (hypoxic, ischemic, traumatic, or convulsive) disorders of the brain.
Mammalian skeletal motor units have differing properties including their different susceptibility to fatigue. The question discussed in this paper is whether and to what extent proprioceptive feedback via muscle spindles can contribute to shape the firing patterns of motor units so as to minimize their loss of force during fatiguing contraction. The firing of a skeleto-motoneuron dispatches signals which are fed back to the same and homonymous as well as synergistic motoneuron. Two feedback pathways are of concern here: one via the related muscle unit and muscle spindle afferents (proprioceptive path), and one via recurrent motor axon collaterals and Renshaw cells (recurrent inhibitory path). It is suggested that the contraction of a motor unit or a small group of adjacent ones is signalled to the homonymous alpha-motoneurons via proprioceptive afferents, the signal being filtered and enhanced by spinal recurrent inhibition. This is effected by timed correlation of the signals which are propagated through the two feedback loops. The effects of the correlation can be strengthened by (i) topographical order of the feedback connections, (ii) heterosynaptic interaction, and (iii) tendencies towards synchronous discharge between motoneurons. These mechanisms render the possibility more likely that information about the unfused contractions of a muscle unit (or a small group of them), mediated via proprioceptive afferents, play a role in shaping the precise discharge pattern of the innervating motoneuron(s). These mechanisms could be used to optimize the force output of large fatiguing motor units during long activation, during which their activation rates normally decrease (adapt) over time. Our results show that during adapting motoneuron firing Renshaw cells and muscle spindle afferents may show discharge patterns which at least in part are in keeping with such an hypothesis.
Interleukin-I receptors were mapped and characterized in mouse brain by quantitative autoradiography using human recombinant [125I]interleukin-I alpha and [125I]interleukin-1 beta as ligands. Both ligands provide identical receptor mapping. In terms of specificity, interleukin-1 alpha and interleukin-1 beta were equally potent in binding competitions assays with either [125I]interleukin-1 alpha or [125I]interleukin-1 beta (EC50 11 pM). These receptors were shown to be highly concentrated in the dentate gyrus, in the choroid plexus at various levels of the brain, in the pituitary and in the meninges. They were also present at low concentrations in the cortex but undetectable in other brain structures. In the dentate gyrus, interleukin-1 receptors were localized on the granular and molecular layers (granule cells) when visualized on slides dipped in nuclear emulsion. Cellular localization of interleukin-1 receptors was assessed using selective lesion by colchicine. The complete loss of [125I]interleukin-1 binding in hippocampal areas where neurons were destroyed by colchicine demonstrates that interleukin-1 receptors are located on granule cells. Following lesion, sparse undestroyed cells, with glial cell morphology, also showed significant labelling. In conclusion, interleukin-1 receptors are located on the granule cells in the mouse dentate gyrus. These neurons may therefore be targets for neuromodulation by interleukin-1 and they may play a key role in the central effect of interleukin-1 as well as in the control of the immune response by the brain.
SERCA-2 is an endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase present in brain [Gunteski-Hamblin A.-M. et al. (1988) J. biol. Chem. 263, 15032-15040]. We sought to map the distribution of this pump in the rat brain and investigate its relationship to Ca2+ uptake by brain endoplasmic reticulum. Using in situ hybridization and Northern blots with antisense oligonucleotide probes, we found that SERCA-2 is concentrated most densely in the cerebellum, especially in Purkinje cells, and in the hippocampus, with heavy labeling also in cortex, thalamus, pontine nuclei and the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb. 45Ca2+ uptake displayed a similar pattern with heaviest accumulation in cerebellum, hippocampus, cortex, thalamus and olfactory bulb. In corpus striatum and substantia nigra, relative 45Ca2+ accumulation was greater than SERCA-2 mRNA. Thus, SERCA-2 appears to be involved in Ca2+ uptake into endoplasmic reticulum in brain for release by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and other agents.
The ability of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, MK-801, ketamine and alaptide [a newly synthesized cyclo(1-amino-1-cyclopentane-carbonyl-L-alanyl) with protective properties in models of hypoxia], to prevent neuronal degeneration caused by intracerebroventricular application of quinolinic acid was investigated. Neurodegenerative effects of quinolinate in the hippocampal formation were found to increase with the degree of maturity of glutamatergic target structures. A protective potency of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists was observed at all developmental stages studied (12- and 30-day-old and adult rats). MK-801 showed the highest efficacy, alaptide the lowest. These findings suggest a parallelism in maturity of glutamatergic transmission processes as one prerequisite of quinolinate vulnerability and postnatal increases of target fields of the protectives. Application of MK-801 or ketamine after quinolinate injection intensified their protective effects when compared to simultaneous or preadministration. This observation is interpreted as indicating that quinolinate is a prompter of a delayed neurodegenerative process rather than acting immediately as a toxicant.
Experiment 1 investigated the effects of catecholaminergic deafferentation or cell body lesions of the amygdala on fear conditioning to explicit and contextual cues. Bilateral infusions of quinolinic acid mainly damaged neurons within the basolateral region of the amygdala. 6-Hydroxydopamine infusions at the same coordinates resulted in an 86% depletion of noradrenaline and a 63% depletion of dopamine from the amygdala, but had no effect on the concentration of 5-hydroxytryptamine. After recovery from surgery, lesioned rats and controls were exposed to pairings of an auditory (clicker) conditioned stimulus and (foot shock) unconditioned stimulus in a distinctive environment. During testing, rats with both 6-hydroxydopamine and cell body lesions showed severely impaired conditioning to explicit cues, compared with controls, indicated by their reduced suppression of drinking when the conditioned stimulus was introduced into a separate, lick-operant chamber. Neither lesion affected fear conditioning to contextual cues, measured as preference for a &quot;safe&quot; environment over the one in which they were shocked. In Experiment 2, rats received bilateral, ibotenic acid-induced lesions of the hippocampal formation. Lesioned rats and controls were again tested for aversive conditioning to explicit and contextual cues. Rats with cell body lesions of the hippocampus showed normal suppression of drinking in the presence of the conditioned stimulus, but were severely impaired in choosing the safe environment based on contextual cues alone. These results suggest a double dissociation of the effects of amygdala and hippocampal damage on fear conditioning to explicit and contextual cues.
Previous exposure to a dopaminergic agonist (priming) strongly potentiates contralateral turning behaviour in response to D1 and D2 agonists in unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. In order to study the influence of priming on the behavioural interaction of D1 and D2 receptors, we examined the effect of selective D1 and D2 receptor blockade on the contralateral turning induced by the mixed D2/D2 agonist apomorphine in drug-naive and primed 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. In drug-naive rats, apomorphine induced a dose-related, apparently monophasic rotation curve. Administration of selective D1 (SCH 23390) or D2 (raclopride) antagonists abolished the contralateral turning induced by 0.1 mg/kg of apomorphine and partially inhibited that induced by 0.5 mg/kg. In primed rats low doses of apomorphine (0.05 mg/kg) induced an apparently monophasic contralateral turning which was reduced by D1 receptor blockade and completely abolished by D2 receptor blockade; a higher dose of apomorphine (0.1 mg/kg) instead elicited a biphasic (two-peak) pattern of rotation. After this dose of the agonist, blockade of D1 or D2 receptors abolished the second peak of rotation but, while D1 blockade reduced the total number of turns, D2 blockade failed to do so. Quantitative analysis of the interaction between D1 and D2 receptors in the overall turning effect, as well as in the time-course of turning behaviour, indicates that D1 and D2 receptors interact not only positively but also negatively. After higher doses of apomorphine, both negative and positive interactions take place sequentially during the time-course of apomorphine action and provide a clue for explaining the two-peak pattern of rotation observed after apomorphine in rats previously exposed to the drug.
The effects on the expression of a conditioned place preference of bilateral, excitotoxic amino acid-induced lesions of the basolateral region of the amygdala, or the ventral striatum, or asymmetric, unilateral lesions of both structures were studied. The place preference was conditioned by exposing hungry rats to sucrose in a distinctive environment. Following acquisition, bilateral quisqualate-induced lesions of the basolateral amygdala, as well as bilateral quinolinate-induced lesions of the ventral striatum, abolished the conditioned place preference. Bilateral ventromedial, but not dorsolateral, quinolinate-induced caudate-putamen lesions attenuated the place preference. Combining a unilateral lesion of the basolateral amygdala with a contralateral lesion of the ventral striatum also disrupted the conditioned place preference. These data provide further support for the hypothesis that the basolateral amygdala and ventral striatum are important parts of a neural system subserving stimulus-reward associations.
Relatively high external Mg2+ specifically induces a shoulder in the post-tetanic decay of miniature endplate potential frequency at frog neuromuscular junctions. This effect is antagonized by Ca2+, but not by Sr2+ and Mn2+. This shoulder formation is not caused by Mn2+ or dinitrophenol in the medium. It is suggested that Mg2+ enters nerve terminals and displaces Ca2+ from internal stores; Mg2+ subsequently interferes with Ca2+ removal until the Mg2+ itself has been removed. The dinitrophenol result suggests that ATP-dependent Ca2+ extrusion is not permanently slowed. An equally likely and simpler explanation is that Mg2+ enters nerve terminals and the Mg2+ itself causes an increase in miniature endplate potential frequency. External Ca2+ competes with Mg2+ for channel entry and prevents this effect. The time course of the decay of miniature endplate potential frequency reflects the processes involved in Mg2+ extrusion and/or uptake.
The expression of the growth associated protein, GAP-43, in developing rat hindlimb peripheral nerves has been studied using immunocytochemistry. GAP-43, is first detected in lumbar spinal nerves at embryonic day (E)12 as the axons grow to the base of the hindlimb. It is expressed along the whole length of the nerves as well as in the growth cones. GAP-43 staining becomes very intense over the next 36 h while the axons remain in the plexus region at the base of the limb bud before forming peripheral nerves at E14. It remains intense along the length of the growing peripheral nerves, the first of which are cutaneous, branching away from the plexus and growing specifically to the skin, their axon tips penetrating the epidermis of the proximal skin at E15 and the toes at E19. GAP-43-containing terminals form a dense plexus throughout the epidermis which subsequently withdraws subepidermally in the postnatal period. GAP-43 staining is also evident along the growing muscle nerves during muscle innervation, which follows behind that of skin. Axons branch over the surface of proximal muscles at E15 but do not form terminals until E17. As target innervation proceeds, GAP-43 staining declines in the proximal part of the nerve but remains intense in the distal portions. Overall GAP-43 expression in the hindlimb decreases in the second postnatal week as axon growth and peripheral terminal formation decline.
The expression of the growth-associated protein GAP-43, detected by immunocytochemistry, has been studied in the developing rat lumbar spinal cord over the period E11 (embryonic day 11), when GAP-43 first appears in the spinal cord, to P29 (postnatal day 29) by which time very little remains. Early GAP-43 expression in the fetal cord (E11-14) is restricted to dorsal root ganglia, motoneurons, dorsal and ventral roots and laterally positioned and contralateral projection neurons and axons. Most of the gray matter is free of stain. The intensity of GAP-43 staining increases markedly as axonal growth increases, allowing clear visualization of the developmental pathways taken by different groups of axons. Later in fetal life (E14-19), as these axons find their targets and new pathways begin to grow, the pattern of GAP-43 expression changes. During the period, GAP-43 staining in dorsal root ganglia, motoneurons, and dorsal and ventral roots decreases, whereas axons within the gray matter begin to express the protein and staining in white matter tracts increases. At E17-P2 there is intense GAP-43 labelling of dorsal horn neurons with axons projecting into the dorsolateral funiculus and GAP-43 is also expressed in axon collaterals growing into the gray matter from lateral and ventral white matter tracts. At E19-P2, GAP-43 is concentrated in axons of substantia gelatinosa. Overall levels decline in the postnatal period, except for late GAP-43 expression in the corticospinal tract, and by P29 only this tract remains stained.
The sciatic nerve was crushed in the right hindlimb in newborn (3-8 h old) rats. Two to four months later, electromyographic activity was recorded from both the control and reinnervated ankle extensor muscles soleus or lateral gastrocnemius and from the ankle flexor muscle tibialis anterior. Tonic postural activity was present in the extensor muscles on both sides during quiet stance. The control flexor muscles were usually silent in this situation, but the reinnervated flexors exhibited abnormal sustained activity. During locomotion, the control extensors were activated during the stance phase and their mean burst made up 61.5% of the step cycle. The control tibialis anterior muscle fired only during the swing phase, with the burst lasting 18.1% of the step cycle. In the reinnervated extensor muscles, the mean burst duration was decreased (46% of the cycle) but the basic locomotor pattern was not impaired. The reinnervated tibialis muscle, however, was activated abnormally, with one appropriate flexor burst during the swing phase and an &quot;extensor-like&quot; burst during the stance phase of the step. Reflex responses to stretch were weak or absent on the operated side. Histological examination showed that the reinnervated soleus and tibialis muscles were almost devoid of muscle spindles. The motor unit mean firing rates in the reinnervated soleus (22 imp/s) and lateral gastrocnemius (45 imp/s) matched those of the control muscles (25 and 42 imp/s, respectively). In contrast to the phasic, high-frequency firing (52-80 imp/s) in the control tibialis, the reinnervated tibialis motor units fired at significantly lower rates (22-56 imp/s).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Buspirone reduces anxiety clinically but, unlike classical anxiolytics, is not muscle relaxant, sedative, anticonvulsant or effective in increasing GABA function. The basis for its clinical action is not known, but action at both dopamine D2 and serotonin1A receptors has been suggested. Buspirone, like classical anxiolytics, produces a general reduction in the frequency of hippocampal rhythmical slow activity elicited by stimulation of the midbrain in the rat. Methysergide (3 mg/kg i.p.), GR38032F (0.3 mg/kg i.p.) and haloperidol (0.2 mg/kg and 2.0 mg/kg i.p.) failed to block this effect of buspirone (10 mg/kg i.p.). Apomorphine (0.3 mg/kg i.p.) had minor effects, but did not produce a general reduction in frequency. Pindolol (2 mg/kg i.p.) produced a small reduction in frequency itself. In the presence of pindolol, buspirone was without effect, while the effect of chlordiazepoxide (5 mg/kg i.p.) was potentiated. These results show that: (a) the similar effects of buspirone and classical anxiolytics such as chlordiazepoxide on reticular-elicited hippocampal rhythmical slow activity are achieved through different mechanisms; (b) the effects of buspirone in this particular test are more likely to depend on its interaction with serotonin1A receptors than its interaction with D2 receptors; and (c) that, as in other tests, buspirone does not act via serotonin2 or serotonin3 receptors.
The effect of procaine microinjection into the ventromedial portion of the medullary reticular formation on forelimb muscle activity evoked by electrical mesencephalic locomotor region and natural vestibular stimulation has been investigated in the decerebrated guinea-pig. This injection is followed by a reversible increase of the threshold of mesencephalic locomotor region stimulation necessary for the activation of muscle rhythmic activity. Procaine injection is accompanied by reduction of vestibular influence on flexor muscle activity evoked by electrical cutaneous and mesencephalic locomotor region stimulation. Vestibular influence on extensor muscle activity remains unchanged after the injection. The results indicate that medial medullary reticular formation is the site of the convergence of mesencephalic locomotor region and vestibular activity. It is suggested that the vestibular system contributes to the modulation of reticulospinal activity coupled with the initiation and control of locomotion.
The effects of ambient temperature on the sleep-waking cycle were studied in intact cats and those with bilateral electrolytic lesions in the pontine tegmentum. At a room temperature of 23 degrees C, the percentage of time spent in paradoxical sleep was significantly lower in the lesioned cats than in intact animals. The mean duration of paradoxical sleep episodes was also decreased in the lesioned animals. The reduction in slow-wave sleep was not significant. At a slightly warmer ambient temperature of 30 degrees C, both the mean duration of paradoxical sleep episodes and the total duration of paradoxical sleep in the lesioned animals were increased toward normal values. Slow-wave sleep increased slightly but not significantly. At a higher ambient temperature of 35 degrees C, as well as at colder ambient temperatures of 15 and 7 degrees C, the durations of both paradoxical sleep and slow-wave sleep were significantly reduced. Under these thermal loads, the reduction in the duration of sleep was significantly greater in the lesioned cats than in the intact animals. The results suggest that: (i) pontine lesions alter the sleep cycle of cats and ambient temperature influences this alteration; (ii) the effects of thermal loads on the sleep cycle are more severe in the lesioned cats; and (iii) a moderately warm ambient temperature (30 degrees C) improves the sleep of pontine-lesioned cats.
Nerve growth cones, the motile tips of growing neurites, are closely related to the exact pathway finding, and their roles for synaptogenesis have been proposed to be modified by some neurotransmitters. In the present study, to clarify the expression and the ontogeny of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in growth cones, growth cone membranes from fetal and neonatal rat forebrain were isolated, and muscarinic receptors in growth cone membrane were pharmacologically characterized, by using the [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate as a labeled ligand. The specific binding sites for [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate had already been detected in growth cone membrane on embryonic day (E)17 (Bmax = 557 fmol/mg protein: KD = 19.7 pM) and gradually increased in amount without significant changes in the KD values from E17 to postnatal day (P)5. [3H]Quinuclidinyl benzilate binding sites in growth cone membrane were several times higher than that in the P2-fraction-derived membranes, and in perinuclear membranes. Competitive inhibition studies showed that the proportion of high-affinity sites for pirenzepine (M1-subtype) to total [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate binding sites in growth cone membrane was significantly lower than that in adult synaptic plasma membranes. In contrast, the proportion of high-affinity sites for AF-DX 116 (M2-subtype) was significantly higher than that in adult synaptic plasma membranes (E17 growth cone membrane: M1, 29.5%; M2, 56.9%; adult synaptic plasma membrane: M1, 63.6%, M2, 5.9%). Electron micrographic examination revealed that there were no significant morphological differences among growth cone particle fractions at the developmental stages which we examined, and that mature synaptic elements did not contaminate the growth cone particle fractions. Biochemical examination by electrophoresis and the phosphorylation study of the growth cone particle fractions showed that the protein composition and the phosphoprotein pattern did not change markedly during these stages. Our results suggest that muscarinic receptors were expressed and more concentrated in growth cone membrane than in other membrane portions from perinatal rat forebrain, and that they may play some role in the axonal guidance in growth cone via receptor subtype-specific signal transduction mechanisms.
Opioid peptide- as well as vasopressin-containing neurons synapse on gonadotropin releasing hormone neurons in juvenile macaques. In this study we performed double-label immunostaining for opioid and vasopressin neurons in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei in order to assess their interrelationships. Neuroendocrine neurons in the hypothalamus were prelabeled by microinjection of electron-dense retrograde tracer into the median eminence, and were easily identified in frontal Vibratome sections. Sections through the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei were immunostained for vasopressin with the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique, and for opioids using the indirect immunogold method. By light microscopy, opioid-immunoreactive inputs appeared to innervate an average of 39% of the vasopressin neurons in the paraventricular nucleus and 33% in the supraoptic nucleus, and were more prevalent anteriorly. Clusters of opioid afferents formed cup-like calices around major processes of many vasopressin neurons, especially in the paraventricular nucleus. Electron microscopy revealed that these groups of opioid axon terminals made frequent symmetrical and fewer asymmetrical synapses on both neuroendocrine and non-neuroendocrine vasopressinergic cell bodies and dendrites. Our study did not reveal vasopressin-opioid synapses in these hypothalamic nuclei, but this does not preclude the possibility of their existence elsewhere. These results indicate that opioid afferents modulate vasopressin neuronal activity in the monkey paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei. Previous results have suggested that corticotropin releasing hormone acts via vasopressinergic neurons to stimulate opioid neuronal activity and to inhibit gonadotropin releasing hormone release. Taken together, the data suggest that stressful stimuli could initiate a series of neuropeptidergic interactions which ultimately alter pulsatile gonadotropin releasing hormone secretion and thus gonadotropin secretion in primates.
To determine whether cultured medulla contains chemosensitive neurons which are excited by CO2 and fixed acid and whether this function is specific to the ventral medulla, tissue explants of ventral and dorsal medulla were prepared from neonatal rats and incubated for two to three weeks. Cultures were superfused with artificial cerebrospinal fluid, maintained at 37 degrees C, and pH of the superfusate was varied either with PCO2 (14-71 Torr) at constant HCO3- (22 mM) or HCO3- (10-30 mM) at constant PCO2 (35 Torr). Spontaneous action potentials were recorded extracellularly in 51 ventral and 23 dorsal medullary neurons. Ventral medullary neurons exhibited a steady baseline firing frequency of 4 +/- 0.8 Hz. In contrast, dorsal medullary neurons exhibited two different patterns of spontaneous activity: 11 fired continuously (7.2 +/- 1.4 Hz) while 12 fired with a bursting pattern. Burst duration was 0.80 +/- 0.14 min and cycle time was 1.74 +/- 0.43 min. Decreasing pH with CO2 caused an increase in the activity of 10 of 27 ventral medullary neurons and two of six dorsal medullary neurons with a mean response of 7.5 Hz/pH unit. Varying pH by changing HCO3- had no effect on firing frequency. These results demonstrate that: (i) chemosensitive neurons are present in both ventral and dorsal medullary explant cultures; (ii) these cells only respond to changes in pH induced with CO2; and (iii) about half of the dorsal medullary neurons fire spontaneously with a regular bursting pattern of activity.
Topographical distribution of the climbing fiber responses induced by stimulation of the superior colliculus was investigated in the cerebellar posterior vermis (lobules VI-VII) of the cat. The climbing fiber-responsive areas were distributed longitudinally forming sagittal zones. The sagittal zones responsive to stimulation of the left and right superior colliculus were located on the side ipsilateral to the stimulation, and they were completely segregated. The sagittal zones responsive to stimulation of the caudal superior colliculus were distributed more laterally than those responsive to stimulation of the rostral superior colliculus. Study of the extracellular unit in the inferior olive demonstrated that the climbing fiber responses were relayed in the caudomedial part of the medial accessory olive contralateral to the stimulation.
Choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity was demonstrated in particular projection systems in cat cerebellum by combining immunohistochemistry, retrograde tracing and lesioning paradigms. The monoclonal antibody used in this study recognized a 68,000 mol. wt protein on immunoblots of cat cerebellum and striatum. Choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity was localized to some neurons and varicose fibers in the cerebellar nuclei, and also to some mossy fibers and endings (rosettes), fiber plexuses around Purkinje cells, granule cells and parallel fibers in the cerebellar cortex. In addition, the presence of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive large cells, presumptive Golgi cells, in the granular layer was confirmed. In each cerebellar nucleus, choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons contained either large, medium-sized or small cell bodies and were distributed evenly in the entire nuclear domain. Large and medium-sized ones were frequently encountered. Choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive mossy fibers and rosettes were most abundant in the vermal lobules I-III, VIII, IX and the simple lobule, moderately accumulated in the vermal lobules IV-VII, X, crus I and crus II, and less abundant in the paramedian lobule, paraflocculus and flocculus. Some granule cells with prominent dendritic claws and bifurcating parallel axons were immunolabeled in the entire vermis with infrequent occurrence in the remaining cortices. Following unilateral lesioning of the cerebellar nuclei with electrocoagulation or kainate injections, a reduction in number of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive fibers occurred ipsilaterally in the cerebellar cortex and contralaterally in the red nucleus, ventrolateral thalamic nucleus and ventroanterior thalamic nucleus. In addition, perikarya of some cerebellothalamic neurons were shown to contain choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. The results indicate that some nucleocortical, cerebellorubral and cerebellothalamic projections are cholinergic and that a subpopulation of cholinergic granule cell-parallel fibers exists.
The effect of exogenously applied cholinergic agents upon mitral-granule cell complex activity of the olfactory bulb was studied in anesthetized rats. Output neurons were activated by electrical paired-pulse stimulation (40-80 ms time interval) applied either to the olfactory nerve (orthodromic stimulation) or to the lateral olfactory tract (antidromic stimulation). Evoked field potentials were recorded in the granule cell layer. Cholinergic agents were introduced close to the mitral cell body layer through a push-pull cannula. With both orthodromic and antidromic stimulations, acetylcholine in the presence of eserine (an acetylcholinesterase blocker), did not alter the conditioning volley, while it induced a significant increase in the amplitude of the test volley. This effect could be replicated using the cholinergic agonist carbachol. This attenuation of the paired-pulse inhibition is due to a reduction of the dendrodendritic inhibitory action of granule cells upon relay cells. Muscarinic and nicotinic transmission were studied using antidromic and orthodromic stimulations, respectively. The selective effect of acetylcholine on the test volley was totally abolished by the blockade of the muscarinic transmission (by atropine). The blockade of the GABAergic transmission (by picrotoxin), could also prevent the acetylcholine-induced effect. The results lead us to propose that in deep bulbar layers, acetylcholine may activate muscarinic receptors situated on second-order GABAergic interneurons. These interneurons could in turn inhibit granule cells (first-order interneurons). The nicotinic antagonist d-tubocurarine selectively enhanced the duration of the late component and did not appear to modify early components when stimulation was applied to the olfactory nerve. This effect related to both the conditioning and the test volleys and the enhancement in the duration of depolarization of granule cell dendrites suggests that normal activation of nicotinic receptors contributes to a faster repolarization of granule cells. Since nicotinic receptors belong to the outer glomerular layer, this result points to the existence of interneurons belonging to the periglomerular region where they receive nicotinic input and project to deep layers where they modulate granule cell activity. Taken together, our results suggest the presence of a phasic muscarinic and a tonic nicotinic modulation of bulbar interneuronal activity. Since both could finally reduce the inhibitory action of granule cells, the action of cholinergic afferents would facilitate transmission of bulbar output neurons to central structures.
Evoked dopamine release was monitored in vivo from the olfactory tubercle of anaesthetized rats by differential pulse amperometry combined with carbon fibre electrodes which, in most cases, were electrochemically treated. Dopamine release was evoked by electrical stimulation of the ascending dopaminergic pathway. The dopamine release evoked by burst stimulation (20 s with a mean frequency of 6 Hz) was dose-dependently decreased by D,L-apomorphine (25-800 micrograms/kg, s.c.) or by quinpirole (50 micrograms/kg, s.c.) while the opposite effect was observed with haloperidol (12.5 micrograms/kg-0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) or with D,L-sulpiride (2-200 mg/kg, s.c.). Neither the D1 agonist SKF 38393 (10 mg/kg, s.c.) nor the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) affected the evoked dopamine release. Moreover, sulpiride competitively antagonized the effects of apomorphine. The relative amplitude of the apomorphine inhibition was inversely correlated with the stimulation frequency (6 or 9 Hz). The increase induced either by haloperidol or by sulpiride was positively related to the stimulation frequency (from 3 to 9 Hz) and reached a stable value (+700% of the pre-drug-evoked dopamine release) with higher frequencies (from 9 to 20 Hz). This increase also depended on the duration of the stimulation: both single-train (10 pulses) or burst stimulations for 20 s, whose frequency inside the trains was in both cases 14 Hz, evoked a dopamine release which was minimally affected by sulpiride or haloperidol. In conclusion, in physiological conditions the amplitude of the impulse flow-dependent dopamine release is regulated by the extrasynaptic extracellular dopamine concentration which varies from 10 to 100 nM. This presynaptic autoinhibition is mediated by autoreceptors of the D2 type and is involved in the nonlinear relationship between impulse flow and dopamine release.
Rats bearing excitotoxic lesions of the lateral hypothalamus are hypodipsic and hypophagic, but responses to 24 h food or water deprivation are normal, as are responses to different taste stimuli. The most striking deficit present in lateral hypothalamic-lesioned rats is an inability to respond as controls to dehydrating, dipsogenic or glucoprivic challenges. The present experiments examined the ability of rats bearing bilateral N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced lesions of the lateral hypothalamus to recognize and respond to changes in their internal environments. All of the lesioned rats tested showed mild to moderate hypophagia and hypodipsia, and none responded properly by drinking over 1 h after i.p. injection of hypertonic saline. However, the addition of glucose to the water supply promoted an increase in drinking and a decrease in lab chow consumption to maintain a constant energy intake; the addition of salt to the diet promoted an increase in drinking and no change in eating; 24 h water deprivation induced the same amount of drinking in lateral hypothalamic-lesioned rats as in controls; and injection i.p. of water (but not physiological saline) before drinking water was returned to rats which were 24 h water deprived suppressed drinking. These data suggest that lateral hypothalamic-lesioned rats are in receipt of normal information from their peripheries, and that they can adjust their behaviour over a period of days or minutes to changes in the internal milieu. The most consistent deficit is in responding actively and rapidly to challenging stimuli; the nature of this and the mechanisms which might produce it are discussed. We suggest that the consequences of excitotoxic lesion are better explained by disruption of input to the cortex from the lateral hypothalamus rather than by interference with metabolic processes.
Excitotoxic lesions of rat lateral hypothalamus produce impairments in eating and drinking, but not motor deficits. However, it has not been established what causes these eating and drinking impairments. In the present experiments, drinking, plasma osmolality and arginine-vasopressin concentration were measured in lateral hypothalamic-lesioned and control rats following systemic injection of hypertonic saline. In response to hyperosmolality, N-methyl-D-aspartate-lesioned rats drank significantly less than controls but showed normal increases in plasma osmolality and arginine-vasopressin concentration. This dissociation of neuroendocrine and behavioural responses suggests that the impairment of rats with excitotoxic lesions of the lateral hypothalamus is unrelated to physiological (as opposed to behavioural) mechanisms of homeostasis.
The effects of two doses of muscarinic (arecoline and scopolamine) and nicotinic (nicotine and mecamylamine) cholinergic receptor agonists and antagonists on the radial maze errors of rats, performing poorly after ibotenate lesions to the nucleus basalis and medial septal brain regions, were assessed before and after transplantation of cholinergic-rich and -poor fetal grafts, using tasks which measured short- (working) and long-term (reference) spatial and associative memory. Lesioned rats showed improvement with the agonists, and impairment with the antagonists, at low doses which did not affect the performance of controls; these effects were more marked for working than reference memory, especially in the spatial task. The peripherally acting antagonists N-methylscopolamine and hexamethonium did not affect the performance of control or lesioned rats. Effects of the cholinergic probes were re-examined 16 weeks after grafting, in groups with cholinergic-rich grafts to cortex and/or hippocampus which showed functional recovery, and groups with cholinergic-rich grafts to basal forebrain, or cholinergic-poor grafts to basal forebrain, cortex, and hippocampus, which showed no improvement. All lesioned rats, regardless of site, type, or efficacy of transplant, continued to show marked impairment with the antagonists. Poorly performing grafted animals also showed improvement with the agonists. In rats with behaviourally effective cholinergic-rich grafts, arecoline had no effect, but nicotine substantially increased working and reference memory errors, particularly spatial working memory errors. Rats with grafts in both cortex and hippocampus showed the largest increases in errors after nicotine. These results show that lesioned rats were more sensitive to the bi-directional effects of cholinergic receptor ligands than controls, consistent with a role for acetylcholine in the lesion-induced deficits. The predominant effect of drugs on working memory may also be consistent with disruption of acquisition rather than of storage or retrieval processes in memory, and may be related to impairment of attention. The results further show that, despite behavioural recovery, supersensitive responses to cholinergic drugs were not normalized in rats with cholinergic-rich grafts, and that an additive interaction between graft and host may have occurred in response to nicotine.
After ibotenate (10.0 mg/ml) lesions to the nucleus basalis and medial septal regions, at the source of the cortical and hippocampal branches of the forebrain cholinergic projection system, rats displayed long-lasting stable impairment in reference and working memory in both spatial (place) and associative (cue) radial maze tasks. Cell suspension transplants of cholinergic-rich fetal basal forebrain tissue dissected at embryonic day 15 substantially improved all aspects of radial maze performance to a comparable degree whether sited in cortex, hippocampus, or both regions of the host brain. No additive effects were obtained with grafts in both terminal regions, but total graft volume, assessed stereologically, showed a significant negative correlation with error scores. Rats with behaviourally effective grafts, like controls, were disrupted in the place task when tested in dim light which obscured extra-maze spatial cues. Lesioned rats were not affected by change in lighting. Grafts of cholinergic-poor fetal hippocampal tissue did not improve radial maze performance; neither did grafts of cholinergic-rich tissue placed within the host basal forebrain lesion sites. In rats with cholinergic-rich terminal grafts, cortical and hippocampal choline acetyltransferase activity was restored to control level, commensurate with site of transplant, whereas it was significantly reduced in lesioned animals and those with functionally ineffective grafts. The indiscriminate error pattern and insensitivity to changes in lighting shown by lesioned rats suggested that lesioning primarily disrupted attention rather than short- or long-term spatial or associative memory processes. Since rats with cholinergic-rich grafts showed both reduced errors and recovery of stimulus control, the data indicated that grafts affected information processing, rather than changes in motor or motivational processes. Changes in choline acetyltransferase activity and the behavioural efficacy of cholinergic-rich grafts are consistent with the involvement of acetylcholine in the behavioural deficits and recovery displayed by lesioned and grafted groups, but do not rule out contributions from other factors. The equipotency of grafts within each terminal region suggests also that there may be a considerable degree of functional cooperation between the two branches of the forebrain cholinergic projection system. Functional recovery may involve local, nonspecific synaptic or paracrine mechanisms within the target regions, since grafts were efficacious only when placed in the terminal areas, but not when sited homotopically in the basal forebrain, indicating that they did not achieve any functionally significant structural repair to the host brain at that site.
Long-Evans female rats sustained electrolytic lesions of the fimbria and the dorsal fornix and, 10-14 days later, received intrahippocampal suspension grafts of septal-diagonal band tissue from either 14-day-old (Group S14, n = 8) or 16-day-old fetuses (Group S16, n = 10), or of parietal cortex from 16-day-old fetuses (Group Cx, n = 10). Sham-operated (Group S, n = 10) and lesion-only (Group Fifo, n = 21) rats served as non-grafted controls. Spontaneous alternation was assessed in a T-maze at three weeks and two months post-grafting. Home cage and open field activity as well as radial maze learning were assessed from two months post-grafting onwards. Fimbria-fornix lesions induced lasting hyperactivity in both the open field and the home cage, impaired radial maze learning and transiently reduced spontaneous alternation rates. Neither type of graft significantly affected home cage activity. Septal-diagonal band grafts improved open field habituation (within trial decline of ambulatory activity) and radial maze learning; the former was observed only in S16 rats, whereas the latter was observed only in S14 rats. Acetylcholinesterase histochemistry revealed an initial lesion-induced depletion of hippocampal acetylcholinesterase (eight days post-surgery) which was no longer observed at the end of the experiment. Acetylcholinesterase positivity was similar in S14 and S16 grafts, which also contained many choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons. Cortical grafts were found to be almost devoid of acetylcholinesterase positivity and no well-stained choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons could be identified. Septal-diagonal band grafts from 14-day-old fetuses and cortical grafts contained more parvalbumin-positive neurons than septal-diagonal band grafts provided by 16-day-old fetuses. These results suggest that grafts rich in cholinergic neurons may promote behavioral recovery from fimbria-fornix lesion-induced deficits. However, such a recovery may concern different behavioral deficits as a function of the age of the implanted tissue, suggesting that the maturity stage of the donor may critically influence the functional expression in the lesioned recipient. Also, such a recovery does not appear to be related solely to cholinergic hippocampal (re)innervation and might depend on the presence, not only of cholinergic neurons, but also of non-cholinergic neuronal populations, such as parvalbumin-positive (probably GABAergic) neurons.
Gamma interferon is a potent immunoregulatory peptide produced by activated lymphocytes. Recently, a gamma interferon-like immunoreactive molecule has been demonstrated immunohistochemically in subpopulations of rat neurons. We have now further characterized this molecule. Western blot analysis of spinal ganglia homogenates revealed a single 60,000 mol. wt band that was immunoreactive with monoclonal antibody DB1 directed against rat gamma interferon. A polyclonal antiserum and the monoclonal antibodies DB10 and DB12 failed to detect this band although all antibodies were able to label the major 18,000 mol. wt band of recombinant gamma interferon on the same blots. The 60,000 mol. wt band was selectively present in homogenates from primary sensory and sympathetic ganglia but was absent from the central nervous system and other peripheral organs, corresponding to the reported immunocytochemical distribution of gamma interferon-like immunoreactivity. The 60,000 mol. wt protein does not appear to be glycosylated. It could not be solubilized by detergents such as Triton X-100 and it co-purified with cytoskeleton-enriched preparations. At the nucleic acid level, Northern blot analysis using probes specific for rat gamma interferon mRNA failed to detect specific mRNA in rat spinal ganglia, whereas a strong 1.2 kb signal was detected in activated spleen cells. Functionally, gamma interferon-like immunoreactive material is strongly induced in superior cervical ganglion neurons after preganglionic axotomy of the sympathetic chain, but remains constant or slightly decreases in L5 spinal ganglion neurons after sciatic nerve transection. In contrast, major histocompatibility complex antigens are strongly induced on non-neuronal cells in both systems. We conclude that the neuronal gamma interferon-like immunoreactive material is clearly distinct from lymphocyte-derived gamma interferon and might not be involved in the control of major histocompatibility complex expression on glial cells.
Astrocytes are involved, as are microglia/macrophages [Marty et al. (1991) Neuroscience 45, 529-539], in the formation of a glial scar after CNS lesions. This study was undertaken to follow the time-course of changes in the morphology and distribution of astrocytes that takes place during the formation of a glial scar after kainic acid injection in the rat thalamus. The astrocytes were identified using an antibody raised against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and the progression of their reaction to the lesion was followed from 24 h to one year after the kainate injection. Three periods could be distinguished during the evolution of the astrocytic response in the neuron-depleted area. There was an initial appearance of a large number of GFAP+ cells. These cells displayed profound morphological differences from the normal. They were enlarged, round and devoid of processes. These GFAP+ astrocytes disappeared four days after the lesion. This increase of the GFAP+ cells in the neuron-depleted area may be due to cytoskeletal changes and thus an increased exposure of antigenic sites. In a second period between four and 14 days, the only GFAP+ elements present in the neuron-depleted area were long and straight processes. These processes entered the lesioned area from the periphery and seemed to follow axon bundles. Additionally, during the first weeks, the number of reactive astrocytes increased in a small band just around the area of neuronal loss. The third period began after two weeks. The lesioned area became gradually occupied by GFAP+ astrocytes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
When an area of the adult rat CNS is depleted of neurons by an in situ excitotoxic injection, afferent axons to the area exhibit morphological alterations reminiscent of growth cones. These morphological changes are likely to be related to the deprivation of target cells. In addition, however, the area of neuronal loss is itself the site of profound changes in glial cell content, and altered axon-glial interactions may play a role in the axonal changes. In an attempt to define these interactions, we have undertaken a systemic study of glial populations in excitotoxically lesioned CNS over time. The microglial/macrophagic response is analysed in this paper; the astrocytic response is described in the companion paper [Dusart et al. (1991) Neuroscience 45, 541-549]. The microglial/macrophagic response was studied following kainic acid-induced neuronal loss in the thalamus of the adult rat. These microglial/macrophagic cells were labeled with the B4 isolectin from Griffonia simplicifolia, and the time-course of their response was studied between one day and one year post-lesion. This time-course study revealed different stages in the evolution of the response. At one day post-lesion, cell counts indicated that there was no increase in the number of non-neuronal cells in the neuron-depleted area. However, activated labeled cells were present in the entire thalamus on the side of the lesion, neuron-depleted or not. They were characterized by both increased lectin-binding and altered morphology when compared to quiescent microglia. In the absence of recruitment and/or proliferation, this result indicates that the early response consisted solely of the activation of resident microglia. By contrast, we observed a progressive increase in the number of non-neuronal cells in the lesion from four to 15 days post-lesion. A recruitment of blood-borne monocytes was apparent, and the observation of mitotic labeled cells indicated a proliferation of microglial/macrophagic cells in situ. There was a progressive decrease in the microglial/macrophagic reaction that began one month after lesion. In a thin band of parenchyma surrounding the neuron-depleted area, activated microglial/macrophagic cells were seen contacting neurons, and clusters of glial cells were observed around neurons up to one year post-lesion. These results suggest that neurons around the lesion site itself may be injured, secondarily, from a long term deleterious effect of the inflammatory process. This study allows us to conclude that activated microglia/macrophages are the predominant glial cell type in the excitotoxically lesioned CNS over the first weeks.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Mast cells are involved in allergic reactions, but may also participate in neurogenic inflammation. The morphology of mast cells in rat dura mater and tongue was evaluated by histochemistry, as well as by scanning and transmission electron microscopy following unilateral trigeminal ganglion stimulation (5 min, 5 Hz, 5 ms, and 0.02, 0.1 or 1.0 mA). Mast cells in dura and tongue of normal animals were numerous, perivascular and often in close proximity to nerve fibers. After 5 min of electrical stimulation, mast cells contralateral to the stimulation showed histochemical characteristics of normal peripheral tissue mast cells (Safranin-positive), and by electron microscopy appeared homogeneous with numerous intact electron-dense granules. On the stimulated side, however, the staining characteristics of mast cells showed changes indicating progressive intracellular loss of their granular content. In addition, the total number of stainable mast cells decreased at all three stimulus intensities, but reached significance only at 0.1 and 0.02 mA. Ultrastructural evidence of granule changes consistent with secretion were observed although degranulation was not observed until 20 min after stimulation. There were no mast cell changes after electrical trigeminal stimulation in adult rats treated as neonates with capsaicin to destroy small caliber sensory afferent axons. These results suggest that mast cells may secrete in response to electrical stimulation of trigeminal axons, possibly mediated by antidromic release of neuropeptides, and may participate in the development of neurogenic inflammation.
The effect of fetal mesencephalic transplants on dopamine receptor supersensitivity has been studied behaviorally and biochemically in rats with a unilateral lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway. Female rats were lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine in the left substantia nigra. At least one month later they were tested with apomorphine (0.25 mg/kg, s.c.), amphetamine (5 mg/kg, s.c.), LY 171555 (D2 agonist) (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) and CY 208243 (D1 agonist) (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.). A suspension containing approximately 1.5 x 10(6) cells from the ventral mesencephalon of rat embryos was distributed in three sites in a triangular fashion in the center of the denervated striatum. Six months later, grafted dopamine neurons reinnervated the medial part of the dorsal striatum, increased the dopamine level and reversed the rotational asymmetry evoked by amphetamine. Apomorphine given four months post-transplant still elicited contraversive circling but the number of turns was reduced. Circling evoked six months post-transplant by CY 208243 or LY 171555 was significantly less in grafted rats than in lesioned non-grafted rats. The density of dopaminergic receptors in the striatum of grafted and lesioned rats was examined by autoradiography by means of in vitro binding with [3H]SCH 23390 for D1 receptors and [3H] spiperone for D2 receptors. The results show that intrastriatal nigral transplants decrease the supersensitivity of the D2 receptors and to a lesser extent of the D1 receptors. Normalization of D2 receptors may explain the decrease of behavioral supersensitivity following administration of apomorphine and D2 agonist in grafted rats. D1 receptors were less affected by the lesion and also less normalized than D2 receptors by the transplants.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The presence and cellular localization of five membrane peptidases has been investigated in peripheral nerves, including those of the autonomic nervous system, in the pig. Endopeptidase-24.11 (&quot;enkephalinase&quot;) peptidyl dipeptidase A, aminopeptidase N, aminopeptidase W and dipeptidyl peptidase IV were studied by both enzymic assays of membranes prepared from samples of nerve and by immunoperoxidase histochemistry at light and in two cases, endopeptidase-24.11 and aminopeptidase W, at electron microscopic levels. All five peptidases could be quantified by enzymic assay, though the activities were about 1% of those in renal microvilli and less than those of choroid plexus membranes. Endopeptidase-24.11 was associated with Schwann cell membranes in all types of nerve examined, including major nerves containing predominantly myelinated fibres as well as autonomic nerves, such as the vagus and splenic nerves and the sympathetic chain, staining being observed in membranes associated with myelinated and unmyelinated fibres. The Schwann cell location of endopeptidase-24.11 was confirmed by correlation with immunostaining for glial fibrillary acidic protein and by electron microscopy. This peptidase is known to have a wide repertoire of susceptible substrates among neuropeptides which was here shown to include vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (Km 268 microM, kcat 568 min-1), one of a number of neuropeptides present in peripheral nerve fibres. Three of the peptidases, peptidyl dipeptidase A, aminopeptidase N and dipeptidyl peptidase IV, were associated with microvessels of peripheral nerves. Aminopeptidase N was also observed in connective tissue elements, including the perineurium. Aminopeptidase W was unique among the five peptidases in having a neuronal localization. This was observed in unmyelinated and myelinated nerves and was supported by comparison with the pattern of staining observed for neurofilament protein and by electron microscopic immunoperoxidase staining. This observation was unexpected since aminopeptidase W has not been detected as a neuronal marker in the brain. Some possible roles for the membrane peptidases in peripheral nerves are discussed.
In vivo administration of pertussis toxin is often used to study the involvement of guanine nucleotide binding proteins in signal transduction. Especially when it is administered in the brain the effect is often poor. This could be due to the fact that pertussis toxin does not reach the area of interest. To evaluate the extent to which pertussis toxin is distributed in rat brain after intraventricular injection, different techniques were used. Immunohistochemical studies with an antibody against pertussis toxin showed that immunoreactivity was limited to periventricular brain structures less than 0.5 mm from the lumen. The highest immunoreactivity was seen 16-24 h after injection. After 96 h the labeling was very weak. The proportion of guanine nucleotide binding proteins that were ADP-ribosylated by in vivo injection of pertussis toxin into the ventricles as assessed by in vitro [32P]-back-ADP-ribosylation was very low 48 h after the injection, in all regions studied. Direct injection of pertussis toxin into the brain caused a marked ADP-ribosylation localized to the region injected that was maximal at 72 h after injection. At 96 h there were also effects after control injections, indicating non-specific effects. Synaptosomal membranes and other membranes were equally affected by pertussis toxin. The results suggest that in studies regarding the effect of pertussis toxin treatment on signal transduction, the toxin must be injected very close to the brain region of interest and, furthermore, that the rats should be killed 48-72 h after injection. In case of lack of effect on the response of interest one should examine whether the ADP-ribosylation of pertussis toxin-sensitive guanine nucleotide binding proteins in the area of concern has been affected.
We studied the detailed distributions and morphology of structures immunoreactive to type B monoamine oxidase, and compared them with those stained by monoamine oxidase enzyme histochemistry in the brain of cats treated with or without colchicine. By means of the indirect immunohistochemical method in conjunction with type B monoamine oxidase monoclonal antibody, we demonstrated type B monoamine oxidase immunoreactivity in neuronal cell bodies, fibers and astroglial cells in the cat brain. As expected, the distribution of type B monoamine oxidase-immunoreactive cell bodies overlapped that of serotonin-containing ones in the lower brainstem and midbrain, as well as that of histaminergic ones in the posterior hypothalamus. We found novel cell groups containing type B monoamine oxidase in the areas described below. Intense type B monoamine oxidase-immunopositive and enzymatically active neurons, corresponding to liquor-contact ones, were discovered in the wall of the central canal of the spinomedullary junction. Weak immunoreactivity was identified in neurons of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, parvocellular reticular formation and locus coeruleus complex, which have been reported to contain type A monoamine oxidase enzymatic activity. Type B monoamine oxidase-immunostaining in these structures was enhanced by treatment with colchicine. In addition, lightly immunostained cells were distinguished in the caudal portion of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, area of tuber cinereum, retrochiasmatic area, and rostral portion of the paraventricular thalamic nucleus after colchicine treatment. These cells also displayed monoamine oxidase activity; however, it was difficult to enzymatically characterize their nature due to its weak activity and sensitivity to inhibitors of both A and B. Distinct type B monoamine oxidase-immunoreactive fibers and terminal-like dots were abundant in the whole brain, particularly in the central gray, dorsal pontine tegmentum, interpeduncular and pontine nuclei, nucleus of the solitary tract and dorsal motor nucleus of vagus, where dense innervations of serotonergic fibers have been reported. Their immunoreactive density increased after colchicine treatment, but monoamine oxidase enzymatic reaction did not. An intense immunoreactivity could be seen in many glial cells in parts of the brain including myelinated axon pathways. The densest accumulation of such labeled glial cells was found in the central gray, inferior olive, medial geniculate body, substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area of Tsai, retrorubral area, hypothalamus, thalamus and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. In contrast, the striatum contained less numerous type B monoamine oxidase-immunoreactive and enzymatically active astroglial cells in comparison with the other structures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Immunoautoradiographic techniques were used to determine the topographical distribution of interleukin 2-like immunoreactivity and interleukin 2 receptor-like immunoreactivity (Tac antigen-like immunoreactivity) in rat brain. Interleukin 2 receptors were also visualized by film autoradiography using 125I-recombinant human interleukin 2. Endogenous interleukin 2-like immunoreactive material was present in a limited number of brain regions. The highest densities were localized to the median eminence-arcuate nucleus complex, hippocampal formation, lamina IV of the cerebral cortex, lateral septum, neostriatum and cerebellum. Lower levels of interleukin 2-like immunoreactive material were present in the thalamus, medial septum and granule cell layer of the cerebellar cortex. Tac antigen-like immunoreactivity was observed in virtually the same brain regions, and within these brain regions showed the same distribution as interleukin 2-like immunoreactivity. In contrast, [125I]interleukin 2 binding sites were only detected in the hippocampal formation and the molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex. Quantitative analyses confirmed that there was a positive correlation between the densities of interleukin 2-like immunoreactivity and interleukin 2 receptor immunoreactivity (Tac antigen-like immunoreactivity) in various brain regions, suggesting that interleukin 2 is synthesized and/or stored in the vicinity of the site of interaction with the Tac antigen of its receptor. Overall, the presence of endogenous interleukin 2-like immunoreactive material and interleukin 2 receptor-like immunoreactive material in selective regions of the rat brain suggests that this neurokine may normally act to regulate a variety of brain functions in the adult rat.
This study examined and compared the immunocytochemical distribution of the two calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin and calbindin-D28k in the primary motor and somatosensory areas of the rat neocortex. Parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells were found in all layers of the cortex except layer 1 and reached their peak density in the middle layers. The two cortical areas differed markedly in the number, cell size and morphology of immunoreactive cells. Parvalbumin-positive cells were more than twice as numerous in the somatosensory cortex compared to the motor cortex. In addition, the average size of their cell bodies was 25-30% larger in the somatosensory area. Parvalbumin cells in the motor area represented several classes of nonpyramidal cells, while the somatosensory cortex contained in addition many large cells with thick vertically oriented primary dendrites. Some of these cells resembled regular or inverted pyramidal neurons. Punctate neuropil labeling was much heavier in the upper layers of the somatosensory than in the motor cortex and was especially heavy in layer 4. Dense parvalbumin-positive perisomatic puncta surrounded large, unstained pyramidal cells in layer 5B of the motor cortex. Calbindin-D28k neuronal staining in both areas was confined to two populations. The most prominent was darkly labeled, small nonpyramidal cells confined to two bands in layers 2/3 and 5/6. There was also a lighter stained population composed of many pyramidal cells distributed throughout layers 2 and 3. In addition, the motor area contained a band of lightly stained, large pyramidal cells in layer 5B. Calbindin-D28k neuropil labeling was heaviest in layers 1 to 3. In contrast to parvalbumin, we found only minor differences in distribution, size and morphology of calbindin-D28k cell body or neuropil staining in the two cortical areas. Double-labeling immunocytochemistry showed that the large majority of immunoreactive cells contained only calbindin-D28k or parvalbumin, but a distinct population of multipolar cells in the upper layers of the somatosensory cortex contained both. The clear parcellation of parvalbumin immunoreactivity in the rat neocortex suggests that parvalbumin is preferentially associated with specific neuronal populations and terminals in the somatosensory cortex. The more general and homogeneous labeling of the upper layers of the cortex indicates that calbindin-D28k could be related to the relatively high density of calcium channels or N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the superficial layers of the rat cortex.
Pharmacologic studies have indicated that accurate performance on the radial-arm maze depends upon the integrity of both nicotinic and muscarinic cholinergic neurotransmitter systems and that these systems interact in a complex fashion. Although numerous studies have suggested that pathways deriving from the basal nuclear complex of the forebrain are critical for the cholinergic modulation of learning and memory, most have focussed on the septohippocampal projection, and none have specifically targeted the medial or lateral systems. In Experiment 1, cortical knife cuts interrupting the medial cholinergic pathway were made at the level of the caudate-putamen nucleus. Such transections produced a robust but temporary disruption of choice accuracy performance in the radial-arm maze. Recovery of this behavior occurred within 10 days and before cholinergic fiber regeneration, suggesting that compensatory changes could have taken place in non-ablated neuronal circuits. In Experiment 2, daily postsurgical administration of arecoline, an agonist with predominantly muscarinic actions, was found to virtually eliminate the adverse behavioral effects of medial pathway transections, indicating that the deficit could be attributable, in part, to disruption of cholinergic projections. In Experiment 3, the effects of scopolamine, a muscarinic antagonist, and mecamylamine, a nicotinic antagonist, were examined in rats with medial cholinergic pathway transections after behavior had returned postsurgically to control levels. Although both drugs attenuated radial-arm maze performance before knife cuts, only scopolamine reduced choice accuracy following surgery. We conclude that the medial cholinergic pathway, particularly its nicotinic actions, plays an important role in cognitive function, at least as exemplified by radial-arm maze performance. Muscarinic mechanisms associated with other telencephalically projecting cholinergic networks, as well as possibly with the medial pathway itself, appear to operate interactively with nicotinic influences.
We have examined adult and embryonic rat olfactory epithelia by immunohistochemical techniques using the monoclonal antibody 1A-6, which was raised against embryonic rat olfactory epithelia. A heretofore unidentified cell type, reactive with the monoclonal antibody 1A-6, was observed scattered within the epithelium. The 1A-6 reactivity of these cells is most intense on the microvilli projecting from the luminal cell surfaces. For several reasons, we believe these cells are not neurons but a distinct subpopulation of supporting cells or some other sort of non-neuronal cells. (1) They have no identifiable axonal process, are not reactive with an antibody against olfactory marker protein, and are not in juxtaposition with trigeminal axons. (2) They survive ablation of the olfactory bulb. (3) Their nuclei lie within the supporting cell layer, and they resemble supporting cells morphologically and in their [3H]thymidine birthdating and turnover characteristics. However, the 1A-6-positive cells fail to react with the general supporting cell-specific monoclonal antibody SUS-1 [see Hempstead J. L. and Morgan J. I. (1983) Brain Res. 188, 289-295] a finding which suggests that they are not typical supporting cells. Immunoreactivity to 1A-6 is developmentally regulated. Immunohistochemical preparations of almost all tissues we examined showed widespread reactivity in the embryo but a much more restricted pattern in the adult. In the olfactory epithelium of the fetus, the luminal surfaces of all cells, including supporting cells and olfactory receptor cells and cilia, are reactive, while in the adult only the non-neuronal cell subpopulation shows this reactivity. We also found that during the reconstitution of olfactory epithelium which occurs in response to olfactory bulbectomy-induced neuronal degeneration, fetal patterns of 1A-6 reactivity are not re-expressed, i.e. the only 1A-6-positive cells are the non-neuronal cells seen in unperturbed adult olfactory epithelium. Preliminary biochemical analyses of membrane fractions from E19 brain and from adult olfactory mucosa indicate that the 1A-6 reactivity is associated with two bands, having molecular weights of 42,000 and 46,000 on Western blots.
Expression of c-JUN, JUN B and JUN D proteins was investigated in axotomized neurons following transection of the vagus nerve and the cervical sympathetic trunk in the rat. Vagotomy induced the expression of c-JUN and JUN D in the nodose ganglion, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve and nucleus ambiguus, whereas JUN B was not expressed in these areas, c-JUN and JUN D appeared after 10 h in the nodose ganglion and after 24 h in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve with a maximum of immunoreactivity after 48 h. The c-JUN protein remained expressed at an increased level up to 100 days, whereas the immunoreactivity of JUN D declined after five days. Crush of the vagus nerve initially evoked an intense expression of c-JUN and JUN D, but in the course of regeneration the expression of c-JUN and JUN D had returned to more basal levels after 100 days. Similar to vagotomy, application of colchicine and vinblastine on to the intact vagus nerve induced expression of c-JUN and JUN D. On the other hand, application of lidocaine prior to vagotomy did not prevent the expression of these proteins. Transection of the cervical sympathetic trunk induced expression of c-JUN and JUN D, but not of JUN B, in the preganglionic sympathetic neurons of thoracic spinal cord. In these neurons, expression of c-JUN was still enhanced after 60 days whereas JUN D had returned to basal level. One hour after vagotomy, c-JUN and JUN B were transynaptically expressed in the area of central termination of sensory vagal neurons and declined within 10 h to basal levels. JUN D showed a late onset of expression, it appeared after 5 h and persisted for 60 days in this area. We postulate that the expression of c-JUN and JUN D in axotomized neurons is induced by deprivation of a target-derived suppressor.
Long-survival [3H]thymidine autoradiography was used to quantitatively determine the time of origin of neurons in the endopiriform nucleus and the claustrum in rats killed on postnatal day 60 after their dams received two consecutive daily injections of [3H]thymidine on embryonic day E13 and E14, E14 and E15, ... E21 and E22. The claustrum originates late, on E15 and E16, and has a strong gradient in the longitudinal direction, posterior (older) to anterior (younger). In contrast, the endopiriform nucleus originates early, on E14 and E15, and lacks a longitudinal gradient but has a strong one in the vertical direction, ventral (older) to dorsal (younger). Sequential-survival [3H]thymidine autoradiography was used to qualitatively determine the germinal sources and settling sites of endopiriform and claustral neurons in embryonic rats. The dams received a single injection of [3H]thymidine on either E14 (to heavily label older endopiriform neurons) or E16 (to heavily label younger claustral neurons) and were killed in sequential 24-h intervals. Neurons in the presumptive endopiriform nucleus settle within two to three days after their peak time of neurogenesis while those in the presumptive claustrum take approximately five days to settle after their peak. It is postulated that endopiriform neurons are generated in the palliostriatal ventricular angle, the neuroepithelium that forms a wedge between the primordia of the neocortex and the basal ganglia, and that claustral neurons are generated in the neocortical neuroepithelium. Divergent developmental patterns between the endopiriform nucleus and the claustrum support the anatomical evidence that these nuclei have different connections. Furthermore, neurogenetic gradients in the claustrum correlate with the pattern of anatomical connections between the claustrum and the neocortex.
Ample behavioral evidence suggests that ascorbate parallels the action of haloperidol, a widely used neuroleptic. To determine the extent to which this parallel extends to chronic treatment, 21 days of exposure to ascorbate (100 or 500 mg/kg) alone or combined with haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg) were assessed on stereotyped behavior and neostriatal D2 dopamine receptor binding in rats. Our results indicate that when challenged with the dopamine agonist, apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg), animals chronically treated with haloperidol or high-dose ascorbate alone display a supersensitive sniffing response relative to controls, while animals chronically treated with the combination of haloperidol and high-dose ascorbate display a further potentiation of sniffing relative to the haloperidol groups. In addition, [3H]spiperone saturation studies showed, as expected, an up-regulation of striatal D2 dopamine receptors in rats treated with haloperidol as reflected by a change in receptor density (Bmax) but not affinity (KD). Ascorbate treatment, however, had no effect on D2 receptor density or the distribution of [3H]apomorphine in whole brain. Even though chronic treatment with the haloperidol-high-dose-ascorbate combination produced an up-regulation of striatal D2 dopamine receptors, this treatment did not cause a further up-regulation relative to haloperidol alone nor did it have any effect on [3H]apomorphine distribution. Taken together, these findings indicate that although chronic ascorbate produces behavioral supersensitivity to apomorphine through central mechanisms, they appear to differ from those induced by chronic haloperidol.
D1, a subtype of the dopamine receptors, is widely distributed in the nervous system and has been shown to be positively coupled to adenylate cyclase. Using a combination of in vitro receptor autoradiographic and in situ hybridization techniques, the present study examines the co-distribution of D1 receptor binding sites and D1 receptor messenger RNA in adjacent rat brain sections. D1 receptor binding sites were labeled using the selective antagonist [3H]SCH23390 (4.6 nM) in the presence of 1 microM ketanserin, while the D1 receptor messenger RNA was visualized with a 35S-labeled riboprobe corresponding to a region between transmembrane domains III and VI of the rat D1 receptor (bp 383-843). Analysis of serial sections suggested a good agreement between D1 receptor binding and messenger RNA in several brain regions, including the paleocortex, caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, amygdala and suprachiasmatic nucleus. Marked discrepancies between D1 receptor binding and messenger RNA were observed in other brain regions including the entopeduncular and subthalamic nuclei, substantia nigra (pars reticulata), hippocampus and cerebellum. While technical considerations may contribute to these results, much of the discordance between the distributions is likely due to the differential localization D1 receptor messenger RNA in cell bodies and receptor binding sites on fibers and may provide insights into receptor synthesis, transport and membrane insertion. In the basal ganglia, for instance, D1 receptors are synthesized in the striatum and are either transported to efferent projections in areas such as the substantia nigra, or remain localized in striatal cells bodies. Ibotenic acid lesions in the striatum are consistent with these conclusions and demonstrate a coordinate loss of D1 receptor binding and messenger RNA in the caudate-putamen that is accompanied by a degeneration of fibers projecting to substantia nigra and a loss of D1 binding in the pars reticulata. Neurons in the dentate gyrus and in the granular layer of the cerebellum, on the other hand, synthesize D1 receptors and transport them entirely to either their dendritic or axonal fields, respectively, in the molecular layer. This analysis provides a better understanding of dopaminergic receptor systems in the CNS and their anatomical organization.
The connections between the host and 5-hydroxytryptamine-containing neurons grafted to the spinal cord have been analysed using electron microscopic immunohistochemistry. Adult rats with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine lesions of the brain and spinal cord received implants of embryonic medullary raph neurons at three sites in the spinal cord. Eight to 10 months after grafting, the transplanted 5-hydroxytryptamine-positive neurons had formed extensive and complex contacts with spines, dendrites, perikarya and vesicle-containing structures in both the dorsal and ventral horns. Reinnervation of laminae IV-VI was less rich. In the graft itself, connections were also made between non-immunoreactive varicosities and 5-hydroxytryptamine-containing dendrites, and somata, but the exact origin of the afferents was not determined. Outside the implant site, no obvious synaptic junctions onto grafted 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive boutons were obvious, although labelled and unlabelled varicosities were often in close apposition. Synaptic junctions in the dorsal horn were predominantly symmetric, with the presynaptic varicosity containing mostly small agranular vesicles. By contrast, in the ventral horn most junctions were asymmetric, while the presynaptic element contained both small agranular and large dense-core vesicles. The results demonstrate that the types of synaptic contacts formed between the grafted 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons and the host spinal cord are remarkably similar to those found in intact spinal cord. In addition, the division of morphological differences that exists between 5-hydroxytryptamine-containing boutons in the normal dorsal vs ventral horns is also apparent in the transplanted animals. Finally, there appear to be present several anatomical substrates for the regulation by the host of 5-hydroxytryptamine output from the grafted neurons.
Peculiarities of excitation and inhibition in ventral lateral and ventral anterior thalamic neurons were studied in cats with movement disorders (bradykinesia and muscle rigidity) induced by injury of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons with neurotoxin N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (5 mg/kg daily, intramuscularly for five days). As was shown in chronic experiments, mean discharge frequency of neurons related to initiation of upper limb movements increased. Excitation of these neurons coincided with movement initiation, flexion and extension becoming more prominent and prolonged as compared with normal animals. In parallel to those changes, bradykinesia developed. In acute experiments performed under ketalar anaesthesia and myorelaxine immobilization it was found that neurotoxin caused a decrease of the inhibition duration and effectiveness in relay and non-relay thalamic motor nuclei neurons. The inhibition deficiency was accompanied by a shortening of latencies of orthodromic responses evoked by red nucleus stimulation. Two days after the last neurotoxin injection, light microscope examination revealed that about 48% of neurons located in the pars compacta of substantia nigra were destroyed. Electron microscopic analysis showed hydropic changes in perykaria and dendrites in most neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta that are typical of the light type of degeneration. Pathomorphological processes in the synaptic apparatus were also found. The content of dopamine in the caudate nucleus fell to 30% as compared with intact animals. The suggestion is made that the deficiency of inhibition developed in motor thalamic neurons in response to nigrostriatal system destruction results from attenuation of dopamine-modulated direct GABAergic nigrothalamic influences and/or might be connected with increased inhibition of inhibitory interneurons of the same thalamic nuclei conditioned by pallidum disinhibition.
A variety of fatty acids produced sustained changes in excitability in the guinea-pig hippocampal slice. Although each fatty acid was unique, a general pattern was evident. During a 30-min exposure, the synaptic potential was minimally affected, although population spike amplitude showed significant increases. With wash, synaptic efficacy increased. The increase in the synaptic potential was significant with arachidonic acid (100 microM), oleic acid (100 microM), myristic acid (250 microM) and capric acid (250 microM). Also with wash, the coupling between the synaptic potential and the population spike was reduced significantly for most of the fatty acids tested: arachidonic acid (50 microM, 100 microM), linoleic acid (100 microM) oleic acid (100 microM), stearic acid (100 microM), myristic acid (250 microM) and capric acid (250 microM, 500 microM). The fatty acids may influence neuronal excitability, in part, through a direct membrane action. The observed synaptic enhancement is consistent with a role for a fatty acid in long-term potentiation. In addition, fatty acid exposure mimics the effects of X-radiation. We suggest that free radical-induced release of fatty acids contributes to electrophysiological damage in a number of pathological states.
Microdialysis was combined with a highly sensitive sequential multiple antigen radioimmunoassay to simultaneously measure extracellular cholecystokinin and neurotensin fragments from discrete regions of the rat brain in vivo. The assay was conducted in 96-well plates and provided a limit of detection for both peptides of 0.1 fmol. Dialysis membranes composed of polyacrylonitrile, Cuprophan and polycarbonate were evaluated in vitro using both radiolabelled peptides and radioimmunoassay. Polycarbonate probes were implanted in the posterior medial nucleus accumbens-septum, medial caudate nucleus or medial prefrontal cortex of halothane-N2O-anaesthetized rats. Cholecystokinin immunoreactivity levels were generally above the assay detection limits (0.1-0.7 fmol) in 30-min samples from all three regions under basal conditions. Recovered basal amounts of neurotensin immunoreactivity were detectable in the nucleus accumbens-septum in approximately 50% of experiments (0.1-0.2 fmol) but were not measured in the caudate nucleus or prefrontal cortex. In the nucleus accumbens-septum, a 10-min pulse of 200 mM K(+)-containing artificial cerebrospinal fluid in the perfusion medium during a 30-min sampling period increased the recovered cholecystokinin and neurotensin immunoreactivity to 9.7 fmol +/- 1.9 S.E.M. and 5.8 +/- 1.6 S.E.M., respectively. A second stimulation following a 2.5-h interval produced similar elevations with S2:S1 ratios of 0.62 +/- 0.07 and 0.68 +/- 0.07 for cholecystokinin and neurotensin, respectively. In a separate series of experiments the second stimulation of both peptides was prevented by perfusion of a 10 mM EGTA-containing medium. Similar results were obtained in the caudate nucleus for cholecystokinin, but K(+)-induced elevations in neurotensin immunoreactivity were much smaller (0.5 fmol) in this brain region and calcium dependency was not established. Sequential K+ stimulations at 50, 100 and 200 mM produced progressively greater increases in recovered cholecystokinin and neurotensin immunoreactivity from the nucleus accumbens-septum and of cholecystokinin immunoreactivity from the prefrontal cortex. No neurotensin immunoreactivity was detected in the prefrontal cortex following K+ stimulation. Large post mortem increases in the recovered amounts of cholecystokinin and neurotensin immunoreactivity were observed. This effect was significantly attenuated by EGTA although there was a large calcium-independent component of the cholecystokinin immunoreactivity. On reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography the major cholecystokinin-immunoreactive peak co-eluted with sulphated cholecystokinin octapeptide. Neurotensin-immunoreactive material co-eluted with neurotensin (1-13), neurotensin (1-12), neurotensin (1-11), neurotensin (1-10) and neurotensin (1-8). These results further demonstrate the potential of microdialysis for studying neuropeptide release and metabolism in vivo when combined with sufficiently sensitive assay procedures.
The effect of repeated electroconvulsive shock (five shocks during 10 days) on preprocholecystokinin and preprotachykinin-A messenger RNA expression was studied in the mesencephalic periaqueductal gray and adjacent areas of rat using in situ hybridization histochemistry with specific oligonucleotide probes. An increased number of preprocholecystokinin and preprotachykinin-A messenger RNA hybridization positive neurons (+30% and +47%, respectively) in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus was observed following repeated electroconvulsive shock. In addition, both preprocholecystokinin and preprotachykinin-A messenger RNA expression, measured as grain density over single neurons, was significantly increased (+37% and +45%, respectively). The results indicate that cholecystokinin- and substance P-containing neurons in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus are activated by repeated electroconvulsive shock, which may be related to the antidepressant and analgesic effects of electroconvulsive shock treatment.
N-Acetyl-aspartate is found in high concentrations in all areas of the brain, but is undetectable in non-neuronal tissue. In order to characterize the cellular localization of N-acetyl-aspartate in brain, highly specific monoclonal antibodies against N-acetyl-aspartate were produced by fusing spleen lymphocytes obtained from mice immunized with N-acetyl-aspartate conjugated to thyroglobulin by carbodiimide with P3/x63-Ag8.653 mouse myeloma cells. Clones were selected which secrete IgG2a(k) antibodies highly specific for conjugated N-acetyl-aspartate. Only 3-6% cross-reactivity with conjugated N-acetyl-aspartate-glutamate was observed at high antibody concentrations, whereas no cross-reactivity (less than 1%) was observed with conjugated N-acetyl-glutamate or aspartate. Preincubation of the antibodies with 0.5 mg/ml conjugated N-acetyl-aspartate blocked immunoreactivity more than 90%, while preincubation with conjugated N-acetyl-aspartate-glutamate and free N-acetyl-aspartate had no effect. Immunocytochemical staining has shown that N-acetyl-aspartate-like immunoreactivity is localized in neurons, which are widely distributed throughout the brain. The immunoreactive neurons exhibited intense staining of the perikarya, proximal dendrites and axons. No consistent pattern of distribution of immunoreactivity was observed with regard to primary neurotransmitter characteristics of stained neurons although neurons with long projections or extensive arbors, such as pyramidal cells in cortex, locus coeruleus, motor neurons and Purkinje cells, stained much more intensively than local circuit neurons.
The localization of two cytoskeletal proteins was analysed in the cell bodies and processes of ganglionic neurons and small, intensely fluorescent cells of the parasympathetic cardiac ganglion of Necturus maculosus (mudpuppy). Antibodies against microtubule-associated protein-2 and against the highly phosphorylated isoforms of high and middle molecular weight neurofilament subunits were used as somatodendritic and axonal markers, respectively. The ganglionic neurons, which usually have only one major process, and small, intensely fluorescent cells, which have several processes, showed distinctly different staining patterns with the two antibodies. In control and denervated ganglia, the ganglionic cell bodies and several hundred micrometers of the proximal processes were labeled with the antibody against microtubule-associated protein-2, whereas small, intensely fluorescent cells and processes showed a paucity of immunoreactivity. The neurofilament antibody labeled numerous axons in the ganglion but did not label the proximal part of the postganglionic process or small, intensely fluorescent cell processes. Denervation resulted in the presence of phosphorylated neurofilament subunit immunoreactivity in the soma and proximal process of the ganglionic neuron. These data suggest that (i) small, intensely fluorescent cells and ganglionic neurons in the mudpuppy cardiac ganglion contain distinctly different cytoskeletal proteins, (ii) the proximal part of postganglionic &quot;axons&quot; contains dendrite-like and not axon-like cytoskeletal proteins, and (iii) deafferentation promotes the localization of phosphorylated forms of neurofilament subunits in the soma and proximal process of parasympathetic ganglionic neurons.
The various nuclei of the trigeminal complex were studied by immunohistochemical (enkephalin localization) and ultrastructural means in the brainstems of eight newborn human babies that died within 24 h after birth. Positive enkephalin neurons were detected in the chief sensory and spinal trigeminal nuclei as well as in some fibers of the trigeminal nerve. Ultrastructurally, two morphologically distinct types of neuron were observed, respectively, in the motor nucleus, the spinal nucleus and the mesencephalic nucleus of the trigeminal complex, whereas three morphologically distinct types of neuron were observed in the chief sensory nucleus. &quot;Glomerulus&quot; formation was a frequently observed feature in the chief sensory nucleus. In the spinal nucleus, rolls of synaptic terminals stacking up one on top of another and synapsing onto the final synaptic element were very much in evidence. Axosomatic, axodendritic, dendrodendritic and dendroaxonic synapses were demonstrated in all the different nuclear areas of the trigeminal complex but axoaxonic synapses were absent in the mesencephalic nucleus. Some of the findings in the present human study were similar to those reported in the rats and cats.
Changes in arachidonic acid metabolism were studied in the optic nerve, the chorioretina, and in the vitreous following crush injury to the optic nerve of rats. Crush injury led to: (i) a 3.9-fold increase in optic nerve prostaglandin type E2 in vitro production which peaked on day 5 and was followed by a gradual decline, but was still significantly higher than baseline levels by day 12; (ii) a two-fold increase in the chorioretina prostaglandin type E2 in vitro production which peaked on day 1, and resumed baseline levels by day 3; (iii) a 3.5-fold increase in vitreous prostaglandin type E2 levels on day 1 which remained at 1.5-2 times higher than baseline levels for the rest of the study period (12 days). The findings indicate that the pattern of changes in prostaglandin type E2 production by the optic nerve (consisting mostly of white matter) is different from that described for injured brain tissues. The prolonged accumulation of vitreal prostaglandin type E2 in eyes with damaged optic nerve may lead to undesirable effects on the retina beyond those directly manifested in the retina by altered axonal flow in the injured optic nerve.
The process of regeneration of skin patch denervated empullary electroreceptor organs of the African catfish Clarias gariepinus has been investigated at an ambient temperature of 28 degrees C with both electrophysiological and histological methods. At day 1 after denervation none of the receptor organs on the skin patch showed afferent activity. At this stage none of the ampullary organs previously recorded showed a normal appearance. Degenerative changes consisted of a decreased number of receptor cells and an often invisible lumen. At day 7 regeneration seems to start with a high density of primordial ampullary organs, more than a seven-fold increase compared to controls. In these units, the level of spontaneous activity is very low: compared to controls, more than a two-fold increase in mean interspike interval. At this stage, the sensitivity to electrical stimuli is already at the level of untreated control organs. At day 15 there is a lower, i.e. approximately normal, density of ampullary organs with a normal morphology. In these units both spontaneous firing and sensitivity returned to normal. It can be concluded that the functional dichotomy between spontaneous firing and sensitivity that was found in degenerating ampullary electroreceptor organs is also found during the process of their regeneration, although the underlying cellular changes may be totally different. The speed of recovery suggests that only regeneration of the distal part of the sectioned nerve fibers takes place.
The effects of thrombin were examined in primary cultures of dissociated medial septal cells from fetal (embryonic day 17) rat brains. Seven days of continuous exposure of these cultures to thrombin produced a dose-dependent increase in the activity of the enzyme choline acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.6) and no change in the number of acetylcholinesterase (EC 3.1.1.7)-positive cells. Maximal induction of choline acetyltransferase activity occurred around 1-2 nM thrombin and was first detected after five days of treatment. In addition, thrombin promoted neuronal cell aggregation, proliferation of the astroglia, and changes in astroglial cell morphology. Neuronal aggregation was first noted after 24 h of treatment, while the proliferative response of the astroglia was first apparent after four days of treatment, slightly prior to the increase in choline acetyltransferase enzymatic activity. In order to see if the induction of the enzyme choline acetyltransferase was dependent upon the astroglial cell response, we included the anti-mitotic agent 5-fluoro-2'-deoxyuridine, to find that astrocyte proliferation, as well as thrombin-induced increase in choline acetyltransferase, were both abolished. In contrast, the aggregation of neurons was not affected. Finally, thrombin-induced changes in choline acetyltransferase could not be antagonized by immunoneutralizing anti-nerve growth factor antibodies and when thrombin was added simultaneously with 100 ng/ml 2.5-S nerve growth factor, the increase in choline acetyltransferase activity was additive. In conclusion, it appears that thrombin affects cholinergic septal neurons indirectly via the responsive astrocytes in a manner distinct from nerve growth factor.
The expression of gamma-aminobutyric acid was studied in sensory neurons and peripheral target tissues of the chick dorsal root ganglia by combining immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy. In the chick embryos, the first immunoreaction was observed at embryonic day 12 in 1.4% of ganglion cell bodies. The intensity of immunostaining gradually increased during development and the percentage of immunostained neurons reached an average of 7.3% after hatching. These immunostained cell bodies could be identified as sensory neurons belonging either to some large neurons of the A1 subclass or to a few small neurons of the B1 subclass. The other neuronal cell bodies, corresponding to the A2 and B2 subclasses, as well as the satellite and glial cells were apparently devoid of any gamma-aminobutyric acid immunostaining. Among the peripheral tissues innervated by the primary sensory neurons, the nerve endings of Achilles' tendon and the paravertebral autonomic ganglia appeared devoid of immunoreactivity. In contrast, immunoreactivity was found within nerve endings located in some neuromuscular spindles of the skeletal muscles and within some Herbst's corpuscles in the subcutaneous tissue of the skin. Thus, the present results provide evidence that gamma-aminobutyric acid may be expressed by neuronal cell bodies belonging to two subclasses of primary sensory neurons and could be a putative neurotransmitter involved in the peripheral sensory innervation of, at least in part, skin and skeletal muscles.
In the present study, quantitative in situ hybridization was used to analyse the effect of haloperidol treatment on D2 dopamine receptor gene expression in the rat caudate-putamen nucleus. Variations of D2 receptor mRNA level were studied and measured at the macroscopic level of densitometric analysis of X-ray film and at the microscopic level by counting of autoradiographic silver grains in striatal cells. Macroscopic analysis demonstrated that haloperidol treatment two times 1 mg/kg per day during seven, 14 and 21 days increased D2 receptor mRNA level in the caudate-putamen. Detailed microscopic analysis demonstrated a significant increase in D2 receptor mRNA in the two neuronal populations known to express the D2 receptor gene: medium-sized neurons previously identified as enkephalinergic neurons, and large-sized neurons previously identified as cholinergic neurons. The increase was more important in cholinergic neurons (+119%) than in enkephalinergic neurons (+54%). Haloperidol treatment did not modify the number of medium-sized enkephalinergic neurons expressing the D2 receptor mRNA. In contrast, it significantly increased the percentage of large-sized neurons containing D2 receptor mRNA (from 80 to 94%). These results demonstrate that haloperidol treatment acts at the gene level to modulate D2 receptor content in striatal dopaminoceptive neurons, and that the D2 receptor mRNA increase in postsynaptic neurons contributes to dopamine supersensitivity induced by neuroleptics in the rat. This suggests that dopamine acts trans-synaptically to control D2 receptor gene expression in target striatal neurons. These results suggest that modifications of D2 receptor gene expression may be part of the biological events that lead to the movement disorders induced by neuroleptic drugs or Parkinson's disease.
Three-dimensional distribution gradients of intracerebrally injected tritiated dopamine were calculated on the basis of concentrations in multiple punch-samples from sequential sections of Macaca fascicularis brain tissue. The monkey was pretreated systemically with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor to retard elimination. Gradients were best fit by cubic exponential equations relating concentration to distance from the center of the site. The concentration at the center, total amount of label, and total extent of the site injected just before perfusion were consistent with initial distribution in the extracellular space, if the volume fraction of the latter is estimated at 20%. The extent of distribution was distinctly greater in the mediolateral and dorsoventral dimensions than in the anteroposterior dimension. The total amount of label near the site decreased rapidly in the first few minutes after injection, then much more slowly, reaching about 30% of the injected amount after 2 h. Its distribution within the site changed steadily, the outer boundary gradually expanding and the peak at the center gradually decreasing. This pattern was consistent with an initial rapid dispersion by injection pressure and an initial loss of tritiated dopamine due to disruption of the blood-brain barrier at the center of the site, followed by a steady expansion of the site driven by diffusion and bulk flow.
In vitro quantitative autoradiography using [3H]L-deprenyl, an irreversible and preferential inhibitor of monoamine oxidase B, was performed to investigate the localization of the enzyme in brains from senile dementia of Alzheimer type and control cases. Brains from three male patients with the clinical diagnosis of senile dementia of Alzheimer type and from three male control patients, without any known clinical history of neurological disorder, were obtained at autopsy. Cryosections of 100 microns thickness were mounted on gelatinized glass plates and dried over desiccant for one week at -20 degrees C. The sections were incubated with 10 nM [3H]L-deprenyl for 1 h and then exposed to film for four weeks. The autoradiographs were analysed by computer-assisted densitometry. Monoamine oxidase-B activities were also estimated in 1% homogenates from 10 different regions, using 10 microM beta-[ethyl-14C]phenylethylamine, in order to study the consonance between the autoradiographical and biochemical techniques. Both [3H]L-deprenyl binding and monoamine oxidase-B activities in senile dementia of Alzheimer type were higher than in the controls in all brain regions studied. The increase was highest in the white matter (about 70%) and in the order of 20-50% in the various gray matter regions. A high correlation coefficient (r approximately 0.9) was obtained between [3H]L-deprenyl binding and monoamine oxidase-B activity, both in the senile dementia of Alzheimer type and in the control brains.
The synaptic efficacy of inhibitory synapses in tongue protruder motoneurons reinnervating the tongue retractor muscle was studied in cats. We have demonstrated that the percentage magnitude of a short- and a long-lasting inhibitory postsynaptic potential in the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials produced in the tongue protruder motoneurons, whose axons had been cut but allowed to regenerate to make functional contact with the tongue retractor muscles, by lingual nerve or inferior alveolar nerve stimulation, was rearranged to appear like that exhibited by the tongue retractor motoneurons that normally supply that muscle. In addition, the peak amplitude of the summated afterhyperpolarization in a tongue protruder motoneuron on operated cats at nine months axon-union was in the normal range.
Pre-embedding immunohistochemistry with monoclonal antibody to choline acetyltransferase was combined with post-embedding immunohistochemistry with antisera to GABA and glycine in order to study the pattern of coexistence of GABA, glycine and acetylcholine in neurons in lamina III of rat spinal dorsal horn. Of 50 neurons which were choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive, 47 showed GABA-like immunoreactivity and none were immunoreactive with antiserum to glycine, despite the fact that glycine is thought to be present in the majority of GABAergic neurons in lamina III. This suggests that while acetylcholine and glycine can both coexist with GABA in lamina III neurons, they are present in different populations of GABAergic cells. Taken together with recent ultrastructural evidence concerning the synaptic connections of glycinergic and cholinergic structures in the dorsal horn, this suggests that there are functional differences between neurons which contain GABA and glycine and those which contain GABA and acetylcholine.
Recordings were made from neurons in subnucleus reticularis dorsalis of the rat. Two populations of neurons could be distinguished: those with total nociceptive convergence which were driven by activating A delta- and C-fibers from any part of the body and those with partial nociceptive convergence which were driven by activating A delta-fibers from any part of the body or C-fibers from some, mainly contralateral, regions. The effects on subnucleus reticularis dorsalis neurons of manual acupuncture, performed by a traditional Chinese acupuncturist at the &quot;Renzhong&quot;, &quot;Sousanli&quot;, &quot;Changqiang&quot;, and &quot;Zusanli&quot; acupoints and at a non-acupoint next to &quot;Zusanli&quot;, were studied. Acupuncture stimulation for 30 s at the acupoints or the non-acupoint strongly excited all the total nociceptive convergence neurons tested; these neurons responded with a discharge of rapid onset which was often followed by after-discharges lasting for approximately 30-60 s. The majority but not all of the partial nociceptive convergence neurons responded to 30 s of acupuncture stimulation at the acupoints or the non-acupoint. This was especially the case when the stimulus was applied to contralateral or midline parts of the body. The potency of acupuncture as a means of activating subnucleus reticularis dorsalis neurons varied significantly with the area of the body being stimulated such that: contralateral greater than midline greater than ipsilateral areas. The levels of induced activity were of similar magnitude to those evoked by noxious mechanical stimuli applied under identical experimental conditions. No differences were found between the capacities to activate subnucleus reticularis dorsalis neurons of the &quot;Zusanli&quot; point and the adjacent non-acupoint, no matter whether these were stimulated ipsi- or contralaterally; this suggests a lack of topographical specificity in the activation of these neurons. Since subnucleus reticularis dorsalis neurons are activated exclusively or preferentially by noxious inputs, it is concluded that the signals elicited by manual acupuncture travel through pathways responsible for the transmission of nociceptive information. Since acupuncture, a manoeuvre which is known to elicit widespread extrasegmental antinociceptive effects, activates subnucleus reticularis dorsalis neurons which, anatomically, send dense projections to the dorsal horn at all levels of the spinal cord, we would suggest that this structure may be involved not only in signalling pain but also in modulating pain by means of spino-reticulo-spinal feed-back mechanisms.
The distribution of transforming growth factor-beta isoforms 1, 2 and 3 and transforming growth factor-beta 2 and 3 mRNAs in adult rat central and peripheral nervous system was examined using Northern blotting and isoform specific antibodies for immunocytochemistry. Transforming growth factor-beta 2 and 3 mRNA were present in all brain areas including cerebral cortex, hippocampus, striatum, cerebellum and brainstem. In sciatic nerve, transforming growth factor-beta 3 mRNA was highly expressed, but transforming growth factor-beta 2 mRNA was not detectable. Transforming growth factor-beta 1-like immunoreactivity was confined to meninges and choroid plexus in the brain and connective tissue in peripheral ganglia and nerves. Transforming growth factor-beta 2 and 3 immunoreactivity entirely overlapped and, in general, were found in large multipolar neurons. Highest densities of immunoreactive neuronal perikarya were present in spinal cord and brainstem motor nuclei, hypothalamus, amygdaloid complex, hippocampus and cerebral cortical layers II, III and V. Most thalamic nuclei, superior colliculi, periaqueductal gray and striatum were almost devoid of transforming growth factor-beta 2- and 3-immunoreactive neurons. Fibrous astrocytes in white matter areas were intensely immunostained. Most dorsal root ganglionic neurons, their satellite cells and Schwann cells in peripheral nerves were also labeled. Transforming growth factor-beta 2- and 3-immunoreactive neurons were localized in brain regions that have been shown to contain neurons synthesizing and/or storing basic fibroblast growth factor suggesting possible opposing or synergistic effects of these peptide growth factors. However, the precise functions of local synthesis and storage of the transforming growth factor-beta isoforms in the nervous system are as yet unknown.
Extracellular levels of acetylcholine were measured by the microdialysis method coupled to high performance liquid chromatography in the dorsal hippocampus of freely moving rats over a period of 24 h to examine whether the acetylcholine release in the hippocampus exhibited a diurnal variation. Spontaneous motor activity was simultaneously measured with an automatic animal activity monitor. The amount of acetylcholine collected per 20-min sample varied markedly, in a range from about 5 to 90 pmol. There appeared to be variations in the amount with a 2-4 h periodicity as well as an apparent diurnal periodicity. In all five rats studied, the overall mean value for the dark cycle (11.1-34.5, average 20.9 pmol/20 min) was significantly greater than that for the light cycle (5.1-21.3, average 12.3 pmol/20 min), showing a 70% average increase. Cross-correlation analysis performed between the amount of acetylcholine and the motor activity count for the animal during the sampling revealed a significant positive correlation coefficient in four rats studied. The present study demonstrates for the first time that the acetylcholine release shows a diurnal variation.
In an attempt to define neurochemically the part played by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) as a potential Parkinson's disease-inducing neurotoxin, we measured the tissue concentrations of the monoamines dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin in 45 brain regions in nine rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) receiving repeated intramuscular injections of a total amount of 2.1-7.5 mg/kg MPTP-HCl. Four monkeys treated with MPTP during a period of one to five weeks developed permanent Parkinsonism, and five animals receiving the neurotoxin during a period of two to seven months remained asymptomatic. We found that, compared with the distribution pattern established in the brain of seven normal (drug-free) rhesus monkeys, in the MPTP-treated monkeys none of the three major brain monoamine neuron systems was completely resistant to the neurotoxin. In addition, each brain monoamine had a characteristic regional pattern of MPTP-induced changes. As expected, the most significant alterations were found within the nigrostriatal dopamine system, i.e. profound dopamine loss in caudate nucleus, putamen and substantia nigra. However, many extrastriatal regions of the subcortex and brainstem also suffered significant loss of dopamine, with the noradrenaline loss in the regionally subdivided brainstem being less widespread, and the serotonin levels least affected. Thus, in subcortex/brainstem the ranking order of sensitivity to MPTP was: dopamine greater than noradrenaline much greater than serotonin. In the cerebral (neo- and limbic) cortex, all three monoamine neuron systems suffered widespread statistically significant losses. The ranking order of MPTP sensitivity of the cortical monoamines was: noradrenaline greater than serotonin greater than dopamine. In the cerebellar cortex, dopamine and noradrenaline concentrations were significantly reduced, whereas the serotonin level remained unchanged. A remarkable observation was that many of the subcortical and cortical changes found in the symptomatic monkeys were also found in the asymptomatic animals. Our data are compatible with several possible mechanisms by which MPTP may have produced the observed patterns of monoamine loss in the brain of the rhesus monkey. Our study demonstrates that in the rhesus monkey MPTP mimicked, in addition to the profound striatal dopamine loss, some of the extrastriatal dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin changes often seen in the brain of patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease. However, using our treatment regimen, we have not been able to reproduce in the rhesus monkey the inter-regional pattern of striatal dopamine loss typical of idiopathic Parkinson's disease, i.e. a significantly greater loss of dopamine in the putamen compared with the caudate nucleus.
Projections between the medial cortex and basal forebrain in the rat were demonstrated by intracellular recordings and the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. Direct projections between these areas were indicated by antidromic action potentials, short latency (less than 5 ms) orthodromic potentials, and labeled axon terminals in the basal forebrain subsequent to iontophoresis of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin into posterior cingulate cortex. High proportions of antidromic action potentials were encountered in responsive cortical neurons (66%) and basal forebrain neurons (97%). Antidromic latencies recorded in the basal forebrain (less than 1.0 ms) revealed fast ascending projections; cortical neurons showed both fast and slow descending projections (latencies of 0.3-3.7 ms). Relatively few synaptic potentials (none in the diagonal band of Broca) and sparse labeling of axon terminals observed in the basal forebrain indicated that the ascending projections may be the more physiologically important or, at least, densest pathway. Polysynaptic feedforward pathways were suggested through long latency (greater than 20 ms) inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic potentials, the former being the more common response. Candidate inhibitory neurons were identified in both cortex and basal forebrain. Possible monosynaptic (less than 5 ms) inhibitory postsynaptic and antidromic responses in these cells provided evidence that candidate inhibitory neurons participate in the reciprocal pathways.
Serotonergic axons are widely distributed in the primate forebrain and represent the most abundant ascending projection from the reticular formation. Immunocytochemical methods have been utilized to examine the density, laminar distribution and morphology of serotonergic axons in both primary projection (motor, somatosensory) and association areas (dorsolateral prefrontal, area 5) as well as in the hippocampus and in cingulate cortex of rhesus and cynomolgus macaques. Serotonergic axons are present in all areas of cortex examined, and all cortical layers receive serotonergic afferents. However, the intracortical distribution of serotonergic axon terminals is not uniform; rather, different regions of cortex exhibit dissimilarities in both the density and laminar distribution of serotonergic axons. Thus, there are local patterns of serotonin innervation that are characteristic of each cortical area. Highly diverse patterns of serotonin innervation are found in heterotypical areas of cortex; more subtle variations are present among homotypical areas. Two morphologic types of serotonergic axon terminals, fine and beaded, are present in all cortical areas, and they typically exhibit different laminar distributions: in most areas of neocortex, beaded axons predominate in layer I while fine axons predominate in layers II-VI. However, exceptions to this pattern were observed in primary visual cortex and in the hippocampal formation. The distinctive local patterns of serotonin innervation observed in this study indicate that raphe-cortical projections are likely to have differential influences on particular cytoarchitectonic areas of cerebral cortex in the primate. Moreover, the discrete laminar distribution of serotonin axons suggests that serotonergic projections selectively innervate particular neuronal elements in cerebral cortex. The present findings suggest that the two classes of serotonergic axons, fine and beaded, which have different patterns of termination, affect different sets of cortical neurons. In addition, these two serotonergic projections may be associated with different sets of serotonergic receptors and thus produce selective effects on cortical function.
Following a set of studies concerning the intrinsic electrophysiology of mammalian central neurons in relation to global brain function, we reach the following conclusions: (i) the main difference between wakefulness and paradoxical sleep lies in the weight given to sensory afferents in cognitive images; (ii) otherwise, wakefulness and paradoxical sleep are fundamentally equivalent brain states probably subserved by an intrinsic thalamo-cortical loop. From this assumption, we conclude that wakefulness is an intrinsic functional realm, modulated by sensory parameters. In support of this hypothesis, we review morphological studies of the thalamocortical system, which indicate that only a minor part of its connectivity is devoted to the transfer of direct sensory input. Rather, most of the connectivity is geared to the generation of internal functional modes, which may, in principle, operate in the presence or absence of sensory activation. These considerations lead us to challenge the traditional Jamesian view of brain function according to which consciousness is generated as an exclusive by-product of sensory input. Instead, we argue that consciousness is fundamentally a closed-loop property, in which the ability of cells to be intrinsically active plays a central role. We further discuss the importance of spatial and temporal mapping in the elaboration of cognitive and perceptual constructs.
Rats with chemical sympathectomy, induced either at neonatal age (long-term sympathectomy) or in adult animals (short-term sympathectomy) by guanethidine or by 6-hydroxydopamine, were used to determine the contribution of sympathetic noradrenergic fibres to afferent neuron-mediated responses and to non-neurogenic inflammation in the rat. Following long-term sympathectomy with 6-hydroxydopamine there was a 66% depletion of noradrenaline in the paw skin. This was accompanied by a 20-53% increase in the levels of sensory neuropeptides in the paw skin and sciatic nerve. A hypersensitivity towards heat stimuli was observed in the tail immersion test. Neither neurogenic plasma protein extravasation following antidromic nerve stimulation or upon local mustard oil application nor the development of the non-neurogenic carrageenan oedema and its susceptibility towards indomethacin were impaired. Neonatal guanethidine sympathectomy caused an 86% depletion of noradrenaline in the paw skin and neurogenic plasma protein extravasation upon antidromic nerve stimulation was impaired. Sensory neuropeptides were unchanged in the skin after neonatal guanethidine and only calcitonin gene-related peptide content was increased in the spinal cord and sciatic nerves. The other observations (i.e. the sensitivity towards heat stimuli, the neurogenic mustard oil inflammation and the non-neurogenic carrageenan oedema) were similar to those observed after neonatal 6-hydroxydopamine treatment. Following the short-term treatment protocol of 6-hydroxydopamine, an 82% depletion of noradrenaline in the skin was accompanied by an increase in calcitonin gene-related peptide content, whereas after adult guanethidine (60% depletion of noradrenaline) levels of sensory neuropeptides were unchanged. Neurogenic plasma protein extravasation was found to be unimpaired after either type of short-term chemical sympathectomy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purpose of the present study was to identify the existence of sexual dimorphism in the dendritic field of accessory olfactory bulb mitral cells in rats and to investigate the effects of male orchidectomy and female androgenization on the day of birth upon this dendritic field. The rapid Golgi method was used to conduct a quantitative study of various characteristics of the dendritic field of accessory olfactory bulb mitral cells. The results indicated greater values for males than females for the following characteristics: (i) somatic area; (ii) degree of branching in the dendritic field; (iii) total dendritic length; and (iv) dendritic density around the neuronal soma. Orchidectomy of males, as well as androgenization of females, on the day of birth inverted these differences.
Recently we have demonstrated that dopamine inhibits action potentials in cultured frog melanotrophs through D2 receptor-mediated activation of hyperpolarizing potassium current and reduction of calcium and sodium currents. Herein, the respective roles of G proteins, guanosine-5'-triphosphate and adenosine-3':5'-cyclic-monophosphate in dopamine-induced electrical responses were investigated using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Pretreatment of melanotrophs with pertussis toxin (1 microgram/ml) abolished the hyperpolarization and arrest of action potentials evoked by dopamine (1 microM) in 77% of the cells studied. Addition of guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) (500 microM) to the intracellular solution did not alter the effects of a first exposure to dopamine, but completely blocked the response of cultured melanotrophs to subsequent pulses of dopamine. In cells which were dialysed with guanosine-5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (100 microM) dopamine caused a sustained hyperpolarization and an irreversible inhibition of spikes. Voltage-clamp recordings with electrodes containing guanosine-5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate), showed that the increase of potassium current and decrease of calcium and sodium currents caused by dopamine were irreversible. These effects were not modified when the pipette contained, in addition to guanosine-5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate), a high concentration of adenosine-3':5'-cyclic-monophosphate (100 microM) together with the inhibitor of phosphodiesterases 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (100 microM). It is concluded that, in cultured frog melanotrophs, a pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein is implicated in the coupling of dopamine D2 receptors to activation of potassium channels and inhibition of calcium and sodium channels. Our results also indicate that the G protein-mediated signal transduction does not involve the adenylate cyclase system.
Two major sources of afferent synaptic inputs to projection neurons in the rat substantia nigra reticulata are the striatum and the globus pallidus. In order to understand better the functional relationships between these two afferents in the control of the activity of nigrofugal neurons, experiments have been performed to test the possibility that single nigrofugal cells receive convergent synaptic inputs from the striatum and the globus pallidus. To address this question we have used two different approaches. First, we have developed a double anterograde labelling technique suitable for both light and electron microscopy and combined this procedure with the retrograde transport of lectin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase in order to retrogradely label the nigrocollicular cells. Second, we have combined the anterograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin from the globus pallidus and immunocytochemistry for DARPP-32 as a marker for the striatal terminals, with the retrograde transport of lectin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase from the superior colliculus. In the double anterograde labelling experiment, biocytin was injected in the striatum, Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin in the globus pallidus and lectin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase in the superior colliculus. Following these injections, rich plexuses of biocytin- and Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin-labelled terminals were found in the ventral two-thirds of the substantia nigra. The biocytin-positive terminals (striatonigral) were generally small and formed rich plexuses without any apparent neuronal association whereas the Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin-labelled terminals (pallidonigral) were much larger and formed baskets around the perikarya of retrogradely and non retrogradely labelled cells in the substantia nigra reticulata. In areas of the substantia nigra reticulata where the fields of biocytin- and Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin-labelled terminals overlapped, the perikarya and the proximal dendrites of retrogradely and non retrogradely labelled cells were found to be apposed by numerous Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin-immunoreactive pallidonigral terminals and a few biocytin-labelled striatonigral terminals. In the sections prepared for electron microscopy, the biocytin was localized using 3,3'-diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride whereas Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin was localized using benzidine dihydrochloride. It was thus possible to distinguish the biocytin- from the Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin-labelled terminals in the electron microscope by the texture of the reaction product associated with them.4+ Examination of 231 biocytin-labelled (striatonigral) terminals and 105 Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin-immunoreactive (pallidronigral) terminals revealed that the striatonigral terminals were generally small, contained few mitochondria and formed symmetric synapses predominantly with the distal dendrites (77%) and far less frequently with the perikarya (3%) of substantia nigra reticulata cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have previously shown that retinal deafferentation causes a decrease in immunoreactive dendrites of substance P-positive neurons of the superficial superior colliculus of the rat. Since some retinorecipient thalamic and pretectal nuclei are putative targets for substance P-containing cells of the superior colliculus, the present study attempted to ascertain whether substance P-immunoreactive fibers in these nuclei are also affected by retinal denervation. We found that unilateral eye removal produced a progressive increase in fibrous substance P immunoreactivity in the nucleus of the optic tract, lateral posterior nucleus, and lateral geniculate nucleus of the side contralateral to the enucleation. On the other hand, unilateral lesions to the superficial layers of the superior colliculus produced a dramatic reduction in substance P immunoreactivity in the ipsilateral nucleus of the optic tract, lateral posterior nucleus, and dorsal and ventral lateral geniculate nuclei. In bilaterally enucleated animals, unilateral lesion to the superior colliculus produced, as expected, loss of immunoreactive fibers only in the lateral posterior nucleus and the retinorecipient nuclei ipsilateral to the lesion. These results suggest that transneuronal changes in the distribution of substance P in collicular neurons observed after enucleation could be reflected in their projections to the other primary visual centers and to the lateral posterior nucleus.
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone prohormone contains five copies of the thyrotropin-releasing hormone progenitor sequence Gln-His-Pro-Gly, each flanked by pairs of basic amino acids and separated by intervening sequences (connecting peptides). Using a perifusion system for rat hypothalamic slices, we have studied the ionic mechanisms underlying the release of two connecting peptides originating from the thyrotropin-releasing hormone precursor: prepro-thyrotropin-releasing hormone-(160-169) (Ps4) and prepro-thyrotropin-releasing hormone-(178-199) (Ps5). Quantification of these two peptides in the effluent fluid was performed using sensitive and highly specific radioimmunoassay procedures. Reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography analysis of the effluent perifusate showed that released peptides co-eluted with synthetic Ps4 and Ps5. The secretion of Ps4 and Ps5 was stimulated by depolarizing agents such as (i) high potassium concentrations, (ii) ouabain, an Na+/K(+)-ATPase inhibitor, and (iii) veratridine, a stimulator of voltage-operated Na+ channels. The response to potassium (70 mM) was not affected by the specific Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin. The K+ channel blocker tetraethylammonium did not modify K(+)-evoked release of Ps4 and Ps5. These data suggest that voltage-operated Na+ channels are not involved in the stimulatory effect of high K+ on the release of Ps4 and Ps5. The lack of effect of picrotoxin, a Cl- channel blocker, on the secretion of the connecting peptides indicates that chloride ions play a minor role in the release process. In contrast, deprivation of Ca2+ in the perifusion medium suppressed K(+)-evoked release of the two peptides, indicating that voltage-operated Ca2+ channels are implicated in the release process. Taken together, the present results show that non-thyrotropin-releasing hormone peptides originating from the thyrotropin-releasing hormone precursor are secreted by mediobasal hypothalamic fragments. The release of these peptides is stimulated by depolarization through a calcium-dependent process. These data indicate that Ps4 and Ps5 may be released at the level of the median eminence into the portal circulation, suggesting that these peptides may play a role in the control of anterior pituitary cells.
The topographical organization of amygdaloid projections to the caudatoputamen, nucleus accumbens, and lateral portions of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and central amygdaloid nucleus was investigated, in the rat, using the retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase. Although the caudatoputamen and nucleus accumbens are the principal components of the striatum, there is evidence that lateral portions of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and central amygdaloid nucleus may be striatal-like structures. The basolateral nucleus was the main source of amygdaloid fibers to all of these structures. In many instances labeled areas of the basolateral nucleus were continuous with labeled areas in the adjacent lateral and basomedial nuclei. Amygdaloid neurons projecting to the striatum and striatal-like areas exhibited an overlapping topographical organization. In general, the medial-to-lateral coordinate in the striatum corresponds to the medial-to-lateral coordinate in the basolateral nucleus. There was also a partial reversed sagittal topography in that the caudal caudatoputamen receives its principal projection from the rostral basolateral nucleus. However, the rostral basolateral nucleus had a stronger projection to the rostral caudatoputamen and lateral nucleus accumbens than the caudal basolateral nucleus. The principal striatal projection of the caudal basolateral nucleus was to the medial nucleus accumbens. Amygdaloid labeling produced by injections into the medial nucleus accumbens was very similar to that seen with injections into the lateral portions of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and central amygdaloid nucleus. The retrograde amygdaloid labeling seen in this investigation, when compared to labeling seen with cortical injections in previous studies, suggests that specific amygdaloid domains project to particular cortical areas as well as to the principal striatal targets of the same areas.
Different doses of the excitotoxin quisqualate were used to make lesions in the caudal part of the ferret nucleus basalis, i.e. the part that projects to the visual cortex. The higher doses of the excitotoxin destroyed all nerve growth factor receptor-immunoreactive cells in the caudal nucleus basalis and gave rise to up to 75% loss of acetylcholinesterase-containing axons in the visual cortex. In sections stained for Nissl substance there was generalized tissue damage around the injection sites and extensive loss of all neuron types in areas surrounding the caudal nucleus basalis. Lower doses of the excitotoxin damaged only a proportion of the nerve growth factor receptor-immunoreactive neurons in the caudal nucleus basalis and produced a much lower depletion of acetylcholinesterase-positive fibres in the visual cortex. The only damage seen in sections stained for Nissl substance was a loss of magnocellular neurons in the vicinity of the injection sites. A quantitative morphological approach was used to show that either one week or three months after the lesions there was a linear correlation between the proportion of acetylcholinesterase-positive axons lost in the visual cortex and the proportion of nerve growth factor receptor-immunoreactive cells that had disappeared from the caudal nucleus basalis. Since the correlation lines for the short-term (one week) survival and the long-term (three months) survival experiments coincided, this indicated that no collateral sprouting of cholinergic axons had occurred in the visual cortex of the long-term survival animals regardless of size of the lesion in the nucleus basalis.
Recent evidence has suggested that cAMP plays a role as a second messenger in the decrease in nociceptive threshold (or hyperalgesia) produced by agents acting on primary afferent terminals. In support of this hypothesis we report that intradermal injection of a direct activator of adenyl cyclase, forskolin, produces a dose-dependent hyperalgesia in the rat. The duration of this hyperalgesia was prolonged by the phosphodiesterase inhibitors, isobutylmethylxanthine and rolipram. Forskolin hyperalgesia was antagonized by the Rp isomer of cyclic adenosine-3'5'-monophosphothioate, an analog of cAMP that prevents the phosphorylation of the cAMP protein kinase. The Rp isomer of cyclic adenosine-3'5'-monophosphothioate also inhibited the hyperalgesia induced by a membrane-permeable analogue of cAMP, 8-bromocyclic adenosine monophosphate, as well as the hyperalgesia induced by agents that are presumed to act directly on primary afferent nociceptors: prostaglandin E2, prostaglandin I2, (8R,15S)-dihydroxyicosa(5E-9,11,13Z)tetraenoic acid; and the adenosine A2-agonist 2-phenylaminoadenosine. Although the cAMP second messenger system contributes to primary afferent hyperalgesia, we found no evidence for a contribution of protein kinase C. Thus, hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E2, prostacyclin (prostaglandin I2), (8R,15S)-dihydroxyicosa(5E-9,11,13Z)tetraenoic acid, the adenosine A2-agonist 2-phenylaminoadenosine, 8-bromocyclic adenosine monophosphate and the direct activator of adenyl cyclase, forskolin, were not significantly attenuated by the selective inhibition of protein kinase C by the 19-31 fragment of protein kinase C. Two other inhibitors of protein kinase C, sphingosine and staurosporine, also failed to attenuate prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia.
The distribution of cells belonging to the rat spinomesencephalic tract was studied by means of the retrograde transport of fluorescent dyes. Bilateral midbrain injections of cytoplasmic and nuclear tracers were made in order to evaluate the location of ipsilateral, contralateral, or bilaterally projecting cells. Spinal neurons with ascending projections to midbrain and descending propriospinal projections were identified by midbrain and spinal injections of different cytoplasmic labels. The locations of spinomesencephalic tract cells included seven regions of the spinal gray matter: marginal zone, lateral neck of the dorsal horn, nucleus proprius, the region around the central canal, the lateral cervical and spinal nuclei and the ventral horn. Cells projecting to the ipsilateral or contralateral midbrain had similar distributions and were frequently found in clusters with overlapping dendritic fields. Approximately 75% of spinomesencephalic cells projected to the contralateral midbrain. The largest contribution to the spinomesencephalic tract cell population was found in cervical cord segments 1-4. Cells with bilateral projections accounted for nearly 2% of all labeled cells, whereas 5% had both ascending and descending projections. Spinomesencephalic cells were found to have varying dendritic fields and morphology, e.g. fusiform, pyramidal, round/oval, and multipolar. The results of the present study lend further support to the view that the spinomesencephalic tract is a multi-component pathway with varied origins and projection targets.
The organization of connections between the amygdala, prefrontal cortex and striatum was studied using anterograde and retrograde tract tracing techniques in the rat. The anterograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin and wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase was used to examine the striatal projections of the prefrontal cortex. These studies revealed that the prelimbic area of the medial prefrontal cortex projects mainly to the medial part of the striatum, whereas the dorsal agranular insular area of the lateral prefrontal cortex projects mainly to the ventrolateral part of the striatum. The organization of amygdaloid projections to the prefrontal cortex and its associated portions of the striatum was investigated using the fluorescence retrograde tract tracing technique. Different color fluorescent dyes, True Blue and Diamidino Yellow, were injected into the prefrontal cortex and striatum. These studies demonstrated that medial portions of the basolateral nucleus, and adjacent portions of the lateral, basomedial and amygdalo-hippocampal nuclei, project to both the medial prefrontal cortex and its associated medial striatal region. The rostral pole and lateral portions of the basolateral nucleus project to both the lateral prefrontal cortex and its associated lateral striatal region. Many neurons in the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus, and to a lesser extent other amygdaloid nuclei, were double-labeled in these experiments, indicating that these cells send collaterals to both the prefrontal cortex and striatum. These findings indicate that discrete areas of the amygdala, and in some cases individual amygdaloid neurons, can modulate information processing in the first two links of distinct cortico-striato-pallidal systems arising in the medial and lateral prefrontal cortex.
The distribution of the neurons of the central complex (or &quot;centre mdian-parafascicular complex&quot;) and of other thalamic regions projecting to the striatum was studied using a cartographic technique based on ventricular landmarks. The brain of a macaque was used as a reference for the cytoarchitectonic study of the complex. Three parts were isolated: the pars parafascicularis (or medial part), the pars media (or middle part) and the pars paralateralis (or lateral part). Wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase was stereotaxically injected into either the sensorimotor or the associative territory of the striatum (i.e. the striatal space occupied by the axonal endings coming from either the sensorimotor or the associative cortex) of four macaques. Neurons projecting to the sensorimotor territory of the striatum were found to be located within the pars media (middle part) of the central complex while neurons projecting to the associative territory of the striatum were located within the pars parafascicularis. In all experimental cases, labelled neurons were scarce or absent in the pars paralateralis (or lateral part). Outside the central complex, neurons projecting to the sensorimotor territory of the striatum were scattered within the lateral part of the lateral mass, in the intralaminar nuclei and in the posterior part of the internal lamina. Neurons projecting to the associative territory of the striatum were observed mainly in the paraventricular region, dorsal to the rostral part of the lateral mass, and in the dorsolateral part of the nucleus oralis medialis. Our three-dimensional analysis of the clusters of the central complex cells projecting to the two striatal territories justifies the partitioning of the central complex into three parts. The pars media (or middle part), which projects to the sensorimotor territory of the striatum, receives selectively pallidal afferent axons. It belongs to the Nauta-Mehler loop, a closed loop linking the central complex to the basal ganglia. The pars parafascicularis, which projects to the associative territory of the striatum, seems more related to oculomotor neuronal systems. The pars paralateralis (or lateral part) appears to have very little, if any, relation with the striatum.
The Nauta impregnation method was used to map the neuronal changes in the canine lumbosacral segments following ischemia and reperfusion. The early perikaryal changes ensuing during the first phase after 30 min of thoracic aorta cross-clamping alone or followed by 30 min of reperfusion were mapped. During the second phase (one to six postischemic reperfusion days) the dendritic, preterminal and synaptic degeneration developed. The influence of 30 min cross-clamping immediately followed by perfusion fixation is characterized by the occurrence of flocculent argyrophilic clusters in the cytoplasm of middle-sized and large neurons of L3-S1 segments. Declamping of the thoracic aorta followed by 30 min of reperfusion basically modifies the susceptibility of lumbosacral neurons to Nauta impregnation promoting somatic and dendritic argyrophilia mainly of small (less than 15 microns) neurons, localized mostly in the fifth, sixth and seventh layers, respectively. This early appearing somatic and dendritic argyrophilia is not abolished by a pretreatment of sections with acetone in which cholesterol and its esters are highly soluble, or chloroform-methanol which extracts total lipid. After 24 h of reperfusion the somatic and dendritic argyrophilia is lost but the first signs of drop-like degeneration are detected in all but three superficial dorsal horn layers. At the end of the third reperfusion day, an atypical form of bouton degeneration was found, consisting of massive occurrence of enlarged (greater than 4 microns) boutons encircled by a clear halo. Laminar distribution of enlarged degenerating boutons coincides with laminar quantitative distribution of small argyrophilic neurons detected 30 min after reperfusion. The basic orientation of the many terminal fibres attached to enlarged boutons suggests that they belong to the axons localized mainly in the lateral and anterior columns. Despite a dense argyrophilic network pervading the gray matter of lumbosacral segments only pale shadows of middle-sized and large neurons were found at the end of the sixth reperfusion day and neither somatic nor vessel wall argyrophilia could be detected. All animals surviving one, three and six days postoperatively suffered from fully developed paraplegia.
Plasmalemmal fractions from cultured astrocytes have been used as the immunogen in generating a monoclonal antibody, termed 8C10, which binds to the surface of cultured astrocytes of the rat. 8C10 immunoreactivity is present on the membrane surface of cultured type 1 astrocytes, type 2 astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, meningeal cells, and 02A progenitor cells, and it persists after aldehyde fixation. The antibody also stains aldehyde-fixed central nervous system, in a pattern which suggests that the plasma membranes of fine astrocytic processes in adult neuropil express the epitope. Astrocytic perikarya and processes in white matter are also stained, but there is no immunoreactivity present in neuronal processes or perikarya. Astrocytic processes in developing cerebellar cortex are stained at postnatal ages when some of these processes are guiding the migration of neuronal perikarya.
The levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine and tachykinin neuropeptides substance P, neurokinin A, neurokinin B and neuropeptide K were measured in the spinal cord of rats treated by intraventricular injection of the selective serotonergic neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine. The spinal cord levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine as measured by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection decreased by more than 90% in the ventral and dorsal cord compared to controls. The levels of substance P as measured by radioimmunoassay were significantly reduced (66%, P less than 0.01) in the ventral lumbar cord only. In this region, neurokinin A, neurokinin B and neuropeptide K levels were determined by combined high performance liquid chromatography and radioimmunoassay. The neurotoxin treatment also caused a significant reduction of neurokinin A (72% reduction, P less than 0.01) and a non-significant reduction of neuropeptide K, but virtually no change in the neurokinin B level. Immunohistochemical studies of the ventral lumbar cord of sham-operated animals showed immunoreactivity for 5-hydroxytryptamine as well as for substance P and neurokinin A in nerve fibres around motor neurons. In neurotoxin-treated rats this region was devoid of immunohistochemically detectable substance P- and neurokinin A-positive fibres and showed very sparse or no 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactivity. We conclude that among the tachykinins both neurokinin A and substance P, but probably not neurokinin B, co-exist with 5-hydroxytryptamine in nerve terminals in the rat ventral spinal cord.
Isolated spinal cords of newborn rats were perfused with artificial cerebrospinal fluid and the release of endogenous acetylcholine was measured using high-performance liquid chromatography with an electrochemical detection system. Application of high-K+ (90 mM) medium evoked about an eight-fold increase in the acetylcholine release, and the K(+)-evoked release was Ca2+ dependent. Veratridine (20 microM) also evoked about a four-fold increase in the acetylcholine release, and this increase was suppressed by 0.2 microM tetrodotoxin. Application of substance P at 0.3-3 microM evoked a concentration-dependent release of acetylcholine. The substance P-evoked acetylcholine release was Ca2+ dependent and abolished by tetrodotoxin. Neurokinin A, neurokinin B, acetyl-Arg6-septide and senktide (3 microM each) also evoked a release of acetylcholine. Electrophysiological experiments using isolated spinal cords of newborn rats showed that bath application of substance P induced a depolarization of motoneurons, which was enhanced by edrophonium. This enhancement of substance P-induced depolarization by edrophonium disappeared in a low-Ca2+ medium or in the presence of atropine and dihydro-beta-erythroidine. In the presence of edrophonium and dihydro-beta-erythroidine, substance P induced an inhibition of monosynaptic reflex, and this inhibition was abolished by atropine. These results suggest that substance P and other tachykinins induce a release of acetylcholine from the newborn rat spinal cord by exciting cholinergic neurons.
Isolated spinal cords of newborn rats were perfused with artificial cerebrospinal fluid and the effects of substance P and its analogs on the release of endogenous GABA were examined. Application of substance P evoked a dose-dependent release of GABA from spinal cords. The threshold concentration of substance P for induction of a significant increase in the GABA release was 3 microM. The substance P-evoked GABA release was neither blocked by removal of Ca2+ from perfusion medium nor by tetrodotoxin. In contrast, the GABA release evoked by high K+ (90 mM) was abolished in Ca(2+)-free medium, and the GABA release evoked by veratridine (5 microM) was suppressed by tetrodotoxin (1 microM). A GABA uptake inhibitor, cis-4-hydroxynipecotic acid, markedly augmented the GABA release induced by high K+, but not that induced by substance P or veratridine. These results suggest the possibility that a carrier-mediated mechanism might be involved in the GABA release induced by substance P, as well as by veratridine, in the newborn rat spinal cord. Two N-terminal fragments of substance P, substance P free acid and substance P1-10 amide, as well as [D-Arg1,D-Trp7,9,Leu11]substance P (spantide), evoked an increase in the GABA release, whereas substance P1-6, and a C-terminal fragment, substance P5-11 were inactive. Somatostatin and compound 48/80 also evoked a GABA release, which was independent of external Ca2+ and resistant to tetrodotoxin. [D-Pro4,D-Trp7,9,10]substance P4-11 (10-15 microM) inhibited the GABA release evoked by substance P, somatostatin and compound 48/80.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Endoneurial hypoxia has been put forward as a factor contributing to diabetic neuropathy. The aim of this study was to determine whether alterations in motor nerve conduction velocity, Na+/K(+)-ATPase activity and substance P content of nerve and skin tissue, characteristic of the diabetic rat, could develop in non-diabetic animals subjected to a central hypoxaemia for five weeks. Compared to normoxic controls, five weeks of central hypoxaemia caused a fall in motor nerve conduction velocity of 30% (P less than 0.01), a decrease in sciatic nerve substance P content (68%; P less than 0.001) combined with elevated substance P content per unit area foot skin (44%; P less than 0.01). This pattern of change is qualitatively similar to that seen in diabetic rats. The Na+/K(+)-ATPase activity, however, was unaltered by the hypoxic environment. These findings support strongly a partial role for hypoxia in the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy.
Immunohistochemical methods that employed a polyclonal antiserum directed against a glutamate-hemocyanin conjugate were utilized to examine the rat basilar pontine nuclei at both light and electron microscopic levels in order to identify putative glutamatergic neural elements. A large number of cells ranging in size from 11 to 32 microns in diameter and present in all subdivisions and at all rostrocaudal levels of the basilar pons exhibited intense glutamate immunoreactivity. Immunoreactive punctate structures, confirmed by electron microscopy to be axon terminals, were homogeneously distributed throughout the pontine neuropil, although a somewhat greater accumulation was apparent medially at mid-levels of the basilar pons and laterally at more caudal levels. Immunolabeled axons were also present throughout the pontine nuclei. In order to demonstrate possible extrinsic sources of glutamate-immunoreactive axon terminals within the pontine gray, injections of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase were made directly into the basilar pons. Tissue was then evaluated for the presence of retrogradely transported wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase and the same tissue sections processed for glutamate immunocytochemistry. Following this combined protocol, neuronal somata exhibiting both wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase and glutamate immunoperoxidase reaction products were observed within layer Vb of the cerebral cortex, zona incerta, the dentate nucleus of the cerebellum, nucleus paragigantocellularis of the medullary reticular formation, and the dorsal column nuclei. Such double-labeled cells were considered to represent glutamatergic neurons that provide axonal projections to the basilar pons. Ultrastructural studies of the pontine nuclei confirmed the presence of glutamate immunogold labeling in dendrites, neuronal somata, axons, and axon terminals. Immunoreactive boutons contained round vesicles and primarily formed asymmetric synapses at various postsynaptic loci which included glutamate-immunolabeled dendritic profiles and somata. These results suggest that glutamatergic basilar pontine neurons form one segment of a multisynaptic pathway involving glutamatergic afferents to the basilar pons, glutamatergic pontocerebellar projection neurons, and the glutamatergic granule cells of the cerebellar cortex.
It is well established that acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter at several distinct sites in the mammalian enteric nervous system. However, identification of the cholinergic neurons has not been possible due to an inability to selectively label enteric cholinergic neurons. In the present study an immunohistochemical method has been developed to localize choline acetyltransferase, the synthetic enzyme for acetylcholine, in order that cholinergic neurons can be visualized. The morphology, neurochemical coding and projections of cholinergic neurons in the guinea-pig small intestine were determined using double-labelling immunohistochemistry. These experiments have revealed that many myenteric neurons are cholinergic and that they can be distinguished by their specific combinations of immunoreactivity for neurochemicals such as calretinin, neurofilament protein triplet, substance P, enkephalin, somatostatin, 5-hydroxytryptamine, vasoactive intestinal peptide and calbindin. On the basis of their previously described projections, functional roles could be attributed to each of these populations. The identified cholinergic neurons are: motorneurons to the longitudinal muscle (choline acetyltransferase/calretinin); motorneurons to the circular muscle (choline acetyltransferase/neurofilament triplet protein/substance P, choline acetyltransferase/substance P and choline acetyltransferase alone); orally directed interneurons in the myenteric plexus (choline acetyltransferase/calretinin/enkephalin); anally directed interneurons in the myenteric plexus (choline acetyltransferase/somatostatin, choline acetyltransferase/5-hydroxytryptamine, choline acetyltransferase/vasoactive intestinal peptide); secretomotor neurons to the mucosa (choline acetyltransferase/somatostatin); and sensory neurons mediating myenteric reflexes (choline acetyltransferase/calbindin). This information provides a unique opportunity to identify functionally distinct populations of cholinergic neurons and will be of value in the interpretation of physiological and pharmacological studies of enteric neuronal circuitry.
The distribution of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide was determined in primary afferent neurons of the medial and posterior articular nerve of the cat's knee joint. Perikarya of articular afferents were visualized by retrograde labelling with the fluorescent dye Fast Blue which was applied at the transected end of the peripheral nerves. Substance P was found in about 17% of labelled medial articular afferents and in about 16% of labelled posterior articular afferents, respectively, whereas calcitonin gene-related peptide was present in about 35 and 32% of the medial and posterior articular nerve cells, respectively. Taking into account that these neuropeptides are known to be co-localized, probably not more than one-third of the joint afferents contain substance P and/or calcitonin gene-related peptide. Quantification of cell diameters revealed that substance P was found only in small- or intermediate-sized perikarya (less than 50 microns) indicating that this peptide is predominantly found in unmyelinated neurons. Calcitonin gene-related peptide was present mainly in small- and intermediate- but also in some large-sized neurons (greater than 50 microns) providing evidence that this peptide is found in unmyelinated and to a lesser extent in myelinated neurons. This is consistent with previous studies that show that substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide are present primarily in unmyelinated and thinly myelinated primary afferents. When the portion of substance P-positive neurons of the medial articular nerve is compared to the number of articular afferents displaying a nociceptive function as determined in earlier electrophysiological studies, it can be calculated that at most 30% of the nociceptive-specific articular afferents contain this neuropeptide.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The projections of the superficial dorsal horn to the lateral reticular nucleus of the medulla oblongata of the rat, and the morphological types of spinal cord lamina I neurons involved were studied after injecting the retrograde tracer cholera toxin subunit B in the caudal portion of the lateral reticular nucleus. Only injection sites located in the lateral part of the lateral reticular nucleus caused retrograde cell labelling in the superficial dorsal horn (laminae I-III). However, injection sites covering the lateral half of the lateral reticular nucleus and the region intermediate between its lateral border and the ventrocaudal tip of the trigeminal spinal nucleus also labelled cells in the neck of the dorsal horn. In contrast, injection sites confined to the intermediate region gave rise to an almost exclusive cell labelling in laminae I-III. Because the lateral part of the lateral reticular nucleus and the adjoining lateral region are rich in noradrenergic cells, it is suggested that these may be the specific targets of laminae I-III neurons. On the basis of the solid dendritic filling achieved, labelled lamina I cells were classified structurally. Most were fusiform cells (80%) and a minority pyramidal or flattened cells (10% each). Since fusiform cells also project selectively to the parabrachial nuclei, which together with the lateral reticular nucleus have been implicated in respiratory and cardiovascular reflexes, it is suggested that this cell type may convey nociceptive input originating autonomic responses. The pyramidal cells project also in large numbers to the mesencephalic periaqueductal gray which, like the lateral reticular nucleus, exerts descending inhibition on the dorsal horn nociceptive neurons. This suggests that this cell type may activate the spinal-midbrain pain modulatory loops centred on both nuclei.
When the neural tracer Fluoro-Gold is used to retrogradely label a population of axotomized neurons, cellular labeling can persist in the axotomized nucleus even when Nissl staining indicates that the injured neurons have degenerated. In order to determine the identity of the labeled cells that remain, this study combines retrograde transport of Fluoro-Gold with immunocytochemical methods for identification of specific non-neuronal cell types following peripheral axotomy and Fluoro-Gold labeling of motoneurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus in neonatal and adult rats. Fourteen days following cervical vagotomy in neonatal rats, Nissl staining revealed a virtually complete loss of vagal motoneurons. Fourteen days after cervical vagotomy in adult rats, vagal motoneuronal loss was not yet extensive but chromatolysis had clearly begun. Injection of Fluoro-Gold into the vagus nerve just prior to the vagotomy led to Fluoro-Gold labeling of remaining vagal motoneurons. In addition, many other small, brightly labeled cells were present in the lesioned vagal nuclei of all rats. Immunofluorescent identification of astrocytes with anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein and microglia and macrophages with OX42 (anti-C3bi complement receptor) and ED1 (anti-monocyte/macrophage cytoplasmic antigen) demonstrated that the small, bright Fluoro-Gold-labeled cells were non-neuronal, non-astrocytic phagocytes, including microglia. These results indicate that phagocytic microglia and other macrophages sequester Fluoro-Gold in the axotomized dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus of neonatal and adult rats, leading to persistence of fluorescent cellular labeling following the loss of retrogradely labeled axotomized neurons.
Bone metabolism may be influenced by the innervation of skeletal tissues. Neuropeptides such as vasoactive intestinal peptide, from sympathetic nerves, and calcitonin gene-related peptide, from sensory nerves, have been implicated as local modulators of bone metabolism. The effect of neonatal sympathectomy and of capsaicin-induced sensory denervation in rats was studied on the following: (i) the radial bone growth and apposition rate in tibiae (normal growth and modeling) and (ii) the percentage of periosteal surface of the mandible occupied by osteoclasts during induced remodeling. Neonate rats were treated with guanethidine, capsaicin, or appropriate vehicle. At seven weeks, maxillary molars were removed to induce remodeling on the buccal surface of the mandible. Animals were killed four days after surgery. Cross-sectional cortical area, medullary area, and periosteal apposition rate were measured by histomorphometry in ground sections of tibiae. The percentage of periosteal surface at the remodeling site occupied by osteoclasts (stained for acid phosphatase) was measured in frozen, undecalcified sections. There was no significant difference in cortical or medullary area or periosteal apposition rate in tibiae between each drug treatment and its control. However, the mandibular bone surface occupied by osteoclasts was increased 45.5% (P less than or equal to 0.005) in animals treated neonatally with guanethidine compared to controls. In contrast, the mandibular surface occupied by osteoclasts was decreased 21.2% (P less than or equal to 0.04) in animals treated neonatally with capsaicin compared to controls. The alteration of bone remodeling (osteoclast surface) by both treatments indicates that sensory and sympathetic nerves play a role in focal metabolism of bone.
In barbiturate anaesthetized spinal cats, antibody microprobes were used to measure release of immunoreactive substance P in the superficial dorsal horn following electrical stimulation of unmyelinated primary afferents of the ipsilateral tibial nerve. Prior microinjection of neuropeptide Y (0.2-0.6 microliters of 10(-5) mol/l solution) in the region of the substantia gelatinosa reduced the evoked release of immunoreactive substance P for up to 40 min. Microinjection of similar volumes of phosphate-buffered saline at similar sites was without effect. This action of neuropeptide Y could contribute to analgesia, particularly if this neuropeptide is co-released with noradrenaline from axon terminals in the superficial dorsal horn.
Although numerous data support the existence of a presynaptic inhibitory control by opioids of substance P-containing primary afferent fibres entering the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, the exact nature of the opioid receptor involved in this control is still a matter of debate. In the present study, the potential role of delta opioid receptors was investigated by looking for the possible effects of selective delta ligands on the in vivo release of substance P-like material from the whole spinal cord in halothane-anaesthetized rats. Perfusion of the intrathecal space allowed the collection of substance P-like material that was released at a constant rate of approximately 0.65 pg substance P equivalents/min for at least 135 min. The addition of Tyr-D-Thr-Gly-Phe-Leu-Thr (10 microM) or dermenkephalin (10 microM), two selective delta agonists, to the perfusing fluid produced a marked reduction (-50-65%) in substance P-like material outflow which could be prevented by the selective delta antagonist naltrindole (10 microM) but not by naloxone (10 microM), which acts preferentially on mu opioid receptors. Furthermore, naltrindole alone (or the association of this antagonist plus dermenkephalin) enhanced the outflow of substance P-like material (+ 170%) as expected from the blockade of a tonic inhibitory control due to the stimulation of delta receptors by endogenous opioids.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Central nervous system neurons which have access to the general circulation were identified by injecting the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold peripherally. Fluoro-Gold does not penetrate the blood-brain barrier but is taken up by nerve terminals which project to areas supplied by fenestrated capillaries or to the periphery. Fluoro-Gold-accumulating neurons were present in the following regions or cell groups of the central nervous system: diagonal band of Broca; medial preoptic area; organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis; subfornical organ; anterior periventricular area; paraventricular nucleus; arcuate nucleus; accessory magnocellular nuclei of the hypothalamus; motor neurons of cranial nerves III-VII, and IX-XII in the brainstem and spinal cord; autonomic ganglionic cells of cranial nerve III (Westphal-Edinger nucleus) in the mesencephalon and the intermediolateral column of the spinal cord; sensory ganglia of the cranial nerve V (mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus); and the C1-C2 and A2 adrenergic cell groups in the medulla. In addition, Fluoro-Gold-accumulating neurons were seen in the sensory ganglia of cranial and spinal nerves. Retrograde labeling with Fluoro-Gold can be combined with immunocytochemistry to identify the chemical messengers within Fluoro-Gold-labeled perikarya. Although a large number of neurons are labeled in the central nervous system with Fluoro-Gold when it is administered peripherally, this technique in combination with immunocytochemistry can be a powerful tool to identify selected neuronal systems in the central nervous system.
The external zone of the rat median eminence contains a large amount of galanin-immunoreactive terminals indicating that galanin might function as a hypophysiotropic hormone. The possible sources of these galanin-containing nerve terminals were studied in the male and female rat by means of retrograde labeling in combination with fluorescence immunocytochemistry. Fluoro-Gold was used as retrograde tracer, and it was injected peripherally. Fluoro-Gold does not penetrate the blood-brain barrier, but it is taken up by nerve terminals which project to areas supplied by capillaries that lack the blood-brain barrier. The simultaneous detection of Fluoro-Gold taken up by nerve terminals in the median eminence and the endogenous galanin in thin paraffin sections has revealed that approximately 60% of the hypophysiotropic galanin cells are located in the arcuate nucleus. The remaining portion is located in the parvocellular subdivision of the paraventricular nucleus. Only scattered hypophysiotropic galanin cells are present in the medial preoptic area.
A monoclonal antibody has been raised which recognizes an epitope, PAC 1 (postsynaptic density and cytoskeleton enriched), which is specifically associated with two novel glycoprotein components of forebrain postsynaptic density preparations and a novel neuronal cytoskeletal-associated polypeptide. The monoclonal antibody has been used to study the cellular and subcellular localization of these molecules and for the partial characterization of all three PAC 1 antigens in the rat. The PAC 1 epitope is present on two concanavalin A binding glycoproteins of apparent molecular weights 130,000 (pgp130) and 117,000 (pgp117). Both species are enriched in preparations of rat forebrain postsynaptic densities and to a lesser extent in synaptic membranes. The epitope is also expressed by a polypeptide of 155,000 mol. wt, cp155. This molecule is highly enriched in cytoskeleton rather than membrane preparations. Enzymic removal of N-linked carbohydrate lowers the molecular weights of the PAC 1 glycoproteins pgp130 and pgp117 by 11,000 and 14,000 respectively, and suggests that cp155 is not glycosylated. Detergent, alkaline and salt extractions of postsynaptic densities and synaptic membranes indicate that pgp130 and pgp117 are integral membrane glycoproteins and are tightly bound components of postsynaptic density preparations. Immunocytochemical studies of adult rat forebrain show prominent staining of pyramidal cell dendrites and perikarya. There is no evidence of glial staining. Electron microscope studies show staining of microtubules together with punctate deposits of plasma membrane-associated reaction product. Several criteria have been used to show that pgp130 and pgp117 do not correspond to other known neuronal glycoproteins of similar molecular weight. We conclude that the PAC 1 epitope is expressed by two novel synaptic glycoproteins which are very probably integral components of the postsynaptic density and by a novel neuronal cytoskeleton-associated protein.
Retrograde axonal transport and immunocytochemical methods were utilized to determine the origin of serotonergic afferents to selected primary projection and association areas of cerebral cortex in macaque monkeys. After injections of Fast Blue or Diamidino Yellow in primary motor, somatosensory, or visual cortex, retrogradely labeled neurons are found in both the dorsal and median raphe nuclei. The sets of dorsal raphe neurons which innervate these cortical areas differ in their spatial distributions along the rostrocaudal axis of the brainstem; a coarse rostrocaudal topographic relationship is found between these groups of dorsal raphe neurons and their cortical targets. In contrast, neurons in the median raphe which innervate these primary projection areas are not differentially distributed along the rostrocaudal axis. However, in both the median and dorsal raphe nuclei, most neurons projecting to primary visual cortex are situated lateral to the cells which project to motor and somatosensory areas; many of these visually projecting neurons lie among the fascicles of the medial longitudinal fasciculus. For comparison with the serotonergic innervation of primary projection areas, the locations of raphe cells projecting to three areas of association cortex were examined: dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, area 5 and area 7b. Neurons projecting to each of these association areas are found throughout the dorsal and median raphe nuclei. Their distributions are similar to one another; however, more cells projecting to dorsolateral prefrontal cortex are in the rostral part of the dorsal raphe. The dorsal and median raphe neurons projecting to these association areas are intermingled with neurons projecting to motor and somatosensory cortex, but are medial to most of those projecting to visual cortex. Thus, separate cortical areas are innervated by different sets of raphe neurons; these sets partially overlap, yet differ in their rostrocaudal and mediolateral distributions. Ascending serotonergic projections to cerebral cortex form a widely distributed system which exhibits a highly intricate anatomic organization. The present observations support the hypothesis that the dorsal raphe nucleus is comprised of distinct sets of neurons whose output is distributed to multiple, interconnected cortical areas; these serotonergic projections may play a role in the coordination of excitability in functionally related areas of cortex. In contrast, the serotonergic projections arising from the median raphe appear to be more divergent and are likely to have a global influence on cortical activity. Since these individual raphe nuclei have different projection patterns, they are likely to have distinct functional roles.
The effects of Ricinus toxin on the neurons of the ciliary ganglia were investigated in the quail. The neuronal death and the morphological alterations of the ganglionic cells were assessed following injection of the toxin in the anterior chamber of the eye or after application of the toxin on the postganglionic nerves at a crush site. A 45% loss of choroid neurons without loss of ciliary neurons was observed after postganglionic nerve crush alone. Injection of the toxin in the anterior chamber of the eye led to a selective loss of ciliary neurons (38%). Application of the toxin to the crushed postganglionic nerves led to a loss from both neuronal populations (40% of total neurons). This work indicates that different procedures result in selective lesion of the different neuronal populations in the ciliary ganglion.
Motor neurons which innervate the circular muscle layer of the guinea-pig small intestine were retrogradely labelled, in vitro, with the carbocyanine dye, DiI, applied to the deep muscular plexus. By combining retrograde tracing and immunohistochemistry, the chemical coding of motor neurons was investigated. Five classes of neuron could be distinguished on the basis of the co-localization of immunoreactivity for the different antigens; the five classes were also characterized by different lengths and polarities of their axonal projections and by their cell body shapes. Two classes with local or orally directed axons were immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase and substance P and are likely to be cholinergic excitatory motor neurons. Two other classes had anally directed axons; they were immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and are likely to be inhibitory motor neurons. A small proportion of neurons with short projections to the circular muscle were immunoreactive for neither substance P nor for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, but are likely to be cholinergic. The morphological and histochemical identification of excitatory and inhibitory motor neurons provides a neuroanatomical basis for the final motor pathways involved in the polarized reflex motor activity of the gut.
Previous studies have demonstrated that insulin receptors are widely distributed throughout areas of the forebrain in the adult rat that are involved in modulating neuroendocrine functions and feeding behaviour. In addition, a recent investigation showed that there is a good correlation between the presence of the insulin receptor and phosphotyrosine-containing proteins in these regions, indicating a possible functional activity of insulin receptors in vivo. It is unknown whether neural connections between specific brainstem nuclei to forebrain regions may also be under direct regulation of insulin or related factors. In order to test this possibility, the distribution of insulin receptors and phosphotyrosine was mapped throughout the hindbrain of the adult rat by immunocytochemistry, using specific antibodies against the beta-subunit of the insulin receptor as well as against phosphotyrosine. Both markers showed a high degree of overlap throughout numerous distinct anatomical regions of the hindbrain. In the mesencephalon, insulin receptor and phosphotyrosine-positive neurons were found in the precommissural nucleus, the lateral and dorsal part of the central gray, the mammillary bodies and the interpeduncular nucleus. In addition, immunoreactivity was found in the subependymal layer around the aqueduct along fibres and nerve cells possibly contacting the cerebrospinal fluid. In the pons and medulla, dense immunoreactivity was seen in the lateral superior olive, nucleus of the solitary tract, spinal trigeminal nucleus and nucleus ambiguous. Scattered cells were found in the pontine and vestibular nuclei, as well as in the reticular formation. The cerebellum contained moderately dense immunoreactivity in the granule cell and molecular cell layer of the cortex, as well as in the deep cerebellar nuclei.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The distribution, morphology and number of serotonin-, catecholamine- and substance P-containing neurons in the human dorsal raphe nucleus were studied. Parallel series of sections were prepared from 10 human brainstems obtained at autopsy from patients without neurological disease aged between 42 and 88 years. The neurons were identified using immunohistochemistry with antibodies raised against phenylalanine hydroxylase (tryptophan hydroxylase-containing, serotonin neurons), tyrosine hydroxylase (catecholamine neurons) and substance P. A reference series of Nissl-stained sections was also prepared and data published separately were used to delineate the subnuclear divisions of the dorsal raphe nucleus and to establish the total number of neurons in each subnucleus. The following principal findings emerged. (1) Serotonin-synthesizing neurons are present in all regions of the dorsal raphe nucleus and their total number is 165,000 +/- 34,000. The same types of neurons as those seen in Nissl material characterize each of the five subnuclei (caudal, dorsal, ventral, ventrolateral and interfascicular). (2) Substance P-containing neurons mostly occupy the rostral part of the nucleus and their number is 74,600 +/- 17,600. (3) Catecholamine cells are only found in the rostral part of the dorsal raphe nucleus and their number is 5600 +/- 3400. (4) In the ventral and interfascicular subnuclei the combined number of serotonin-synthesizing and substance P-containing neurons exceeds the total number of Nissl-stained neurons suggesting that serotonin and substance P co-exist in a substantial part of the cell population of the dorsal raphe nucleus. This is further supported by the highly similar morphology and size of these neurons. It is concluded that there are demonstrable chemical differences between the various subregions of the human dorsal raphe nucleus. These differences are in harmony with the results of hodological studies in animals, which have demonstrated differential projection pathways emerging from this nucleus.
The subnuclear and synaptic distribution of substance P immunoreactivity was examined in the rat interpeduncular nucleus at the light and electron microscope level. The nucleus possessed a prominent substance P-immunoreactive axonal plexus in the lateral and dorsomedial subnuclei, and in the dorsal cap of the rostral subnucleus. The density of substance P-immunoreactive axons in the remaining subnuclear divisions was sparse to moderate. Terminals of immunoreactive axons contained spherical vesicles and formed asymmetric contacts on dendritic processes exclusively. Immunoreactive neurons, restricted to the rostral subnucleus, possessed long, sparsely branched dendrites. Unlabelled terminals containing either spherical or pleomorphic vesicles contacted substance P-immunoreactive dendritic profiles. Axodendritic and axosomatic synapses containing substance P immunoreactivity pre- and postsynaptically were not observed. Ultrastructural evidence for synaptic relationships between substance P-containing profiles and those containing either choline acetyltransferase or glutamate decarboxylase was obtained by means of double antigen immunohistochemistry. Terminals of fasciculus retroflexus axons stained for choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity formed asymmetric synaptic contacts with substance P-immunoreactive dendritic profiles. Few substance P-positive dendrites in the rostral subnucleus received terminals possessing glutamate decarboxylase activity. Unlabelled terminals containing either spherical or pleomorphic vesicles contacted substance P- and glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive dendritic profiles simultaneously. Terminals possessing either substance P or glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity formed synaptic contacts with dendritic processes of neurons in the lateral subnucleus. Many of the neurons within this subnuclear division contained glutamate decarboxylase. This study provides direct evidence of synaptic relationships between choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive axons and substance P-immunoreactive dendritic profiles, and between substance P-positive axons and glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive dendrites. These findings reveal that two types of transmitter-specific axons of the fasciculus retroflexus innervate neuronal populations of the interpeduncular nucleus stained immunohistochemically for either substance P or glutamate decarboxylase.
The effect of intradermal injection of Spantide II, a novel tachykinin antagonist, and the neuropeptide galanin on neurogenic plasma extravasation induced by antidromic stimulation of C-fibers in the sciatic nerve was examined in the hindpaws of rats. Activation of C-fibers by antidromic sciatic nerve stimulation (2 Hz, 5 min) consistently evoked a localized plasma extravasation of Evans Blue in the skin area of the hindpaw innervated by the sciatic nerve. Intradermal injection of 3 nmol Spantide II significantly inhibited this response. The plasma extravasation was nearly totally abolished when the concentration of Spantide II was increased to 9 nmol. Intradermal injection of 1.5 and 15 nmol galanin also inhibited plasma extravasation. Intradermal injection of 9 nmol Spantide II effectively blocked the plasma extravasion in the hindpaw induced by 8 nmol intravenous substance P. Plasma extravasation induced by intravenous substance P was also inhibited by the higher, but not by the lower, dose of galanin injected intradermally. The present results indicate that Spantide II, a potent non-toxic tachykinin antagonist, effectively blocks the neurogenic plasma extravasation induced by antidromic C-fiber stimulation, thus supporting the view that tachykinins play an important role in this neurogenic inflammatory process. It is further shown that galanin, a naturally occurring neuropeptide present in primary afferents, also inhibits C-fiber activation-evoked plasma extravasation, indicating an interaction between galanin and tachykinins in the peripheral terminals of primary afferents, possibly through both pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms.
The distribution of corticostriatal projections from areas 7m, 7a, 7b and 7ip of the posterior parietal cortex was studied in rhesus monkeys using horseradish peroxidase conjugated with wheat-germ agglutinin as an anterograde tracer. All parietal subdivisions project bilaterally over a broad anteroposterior expanse of the caudate nucleus and putamen; however, the zones of densest terminal labeling varied for each parietal subdivision. Thus, area 7m projects preferentially to dorsal and dorsolateral portions of the head and anterior part of the body of the caudate nucleus. The main striatal target of area 7a is also in the head and anterior portion of the body of the caudate nucleus, but at dorsal and dorsomedial zones. The preferential target region of area 7ip in the striatum is in the posterior two-thirds of the body of the caudate nucleus, where the labeled terminals spare only the medial border. In contrast to the other parietal subdivisions, 7b projects preferentially to the putamen. In this nucleus, the location of labeling after 7b injections appears to correspond to the zones containing the representations of the distal forelimb and head. Each parietal subdivision projects to a rather extended anteroposterior domain in the contralateral neostriatum, the projection zones being always less extensive than in the ipsilateral side, but with a similar topographic distribution. Because we have shown previously that each parietal subdivision is part of a distinct distributed corticocortical network, the neostriatal territories innervated by each subdivision can be correlated with the corresponding network, thus providing insight into the functional specializations of the striatum.
The effects of intrathecal administration of neurokinin A, substance P and [Tyr5, D-Trp6,8,9 Arg10]neurokinin A-(4-10) (Men 10207), a specific NK-2 receptor antagonist, on the spinal nociceptive flexor reflex were studied in decerebrate, spinalized, unanesthetized rats. Intrathecal neurokinin A and substance P facilitate the flexor reflex in a similar manner. The reflex facilitation to intrathecal neurokinin A, but not substance P, is dose-dependently blocked by pretreatment with Men 10207. The NK-2 receptor antagonist by itself facilitates the flexor reflex with a potency about 10 times less than that of neurokinin A, indicating a partial agonistic property. Reversible depression of the flexor reflex, which is not due to nonspecific spinal blockade, is observed after 700 pmol Men 10207. Further increasing the dose of Men 10207 to 7 nmol for 20 s at an intensity that activates unmyelinated (C) fibers stimulation of peripheral nerves at 1 Hz for 20 s at an intensity that activates unmyelinated (C) fibers facilitates the ipsilateral flexor reflex. The duration of the facilitation after conditioning stimulation of the cutaneous sural nerve is several minutes and about 1 h after conditioning stimulation of the gastrocnemius muscle nerves. Pretreatment with Men 10207 (70-700 pmol) has no effect on facilitation by the sural nerve conditioning stimulation, but effectively blocks the long-term reflex facilitation to the gastrocnemius nerve stimulation. The present results indicate a distinct role for NK-2 tachykinin receptors in mediation of spinal reflex excitability in the rat. Neurokinin A may be involved in the long-term increase of spinal reflex excitability after activation of unmyelinated fibers innervating muscle.
The anatomy of histamine-immunoreactive cell bodies in normal adult human brain was examined in detail. In addition, the distribution of these cells in three cases of Alzheimer's disease was compared to the distribution of neurofibrillary tangles. Histamine-immunoreactive cell bodies were confined to the tuberal and posterior hypothalamus, forming the tuberomammillary nuclear complex. Most of the about 64,000 histamine neurons were large and multipolar. They comprised four distinct parts: (i) a major ventral part corresponding to the classical tuberomammillary nucleus, (ii) a medial part including the supramammillary nucleus and part of the posterior hypothalamic area, (iii) a caudal paramammillary part, and (iv) a minor lateral part. The parts showed some similarity with the subgroups in rat. In human, as compared to rat, the histamine neurons occupy a larger proportion of the hypothalamus. Numerous neurofibrillary tangles were found in the Alzheimer hypothalami, concentrated in the tuberomammillary area. Most of them were of globular type and extracellular, and only a minority were histamine immunoreactive. They may represent remnants of degenerated tuberomammillary neurons.
Intraocular grafts of embryonic rat septum and co-grafts of septum plus hippocampus were studied with immunohistochemical markers after one and six months (short term) and 12 months (long term) of survival. Neurons in all the septal tissues expressed the epitope for the rat beta-nerve growth factor receptor in sections reacted with the monoclonal antibody 192-IgG. Stained fibers traversed the interface of the short and long term co-grafts and 192-IgG-positive processes were most prominent in the septum when combined with the hippocampal formation. In contrast, labeled processes were sparse and the perikarya of positive neurons appeared shrunken in the long term single septal transplants. Axon and dendrite profiles in the grafts were examined with antibodies that recognize the phosphorylated heavy neurofilament unit (RT97) and the high molecular weight microtubule-associated protein termed MAP 2, respectively. In the short term single and double grafts, characteristic arrays of RT97-positive processes defined the tissues and axonal tracts connecting the septum with the hippocampus. Typical immunostaining of the neuronal somas and the dendrite arbors were were outlined with the MAP 2 antibody. After one year in oculo, extensive changes in the patterns of axonal and dendritic immunoreactivity were noted in the isolated septal grafts. Abnormalities identified with the RT97 antibody included hypertrophied axons, short fragments of kinked axons and neurofilaments in the neuronal perikarya. The formation of circular &quot;abnormal fiber aggregates&quot; composed of densely packed abnormal and normal axonal processes were also distinctive in only the long term single septal transplants. In addition, a reduction in the density of dendrites and the presence of truncated arbors stained with the MAP 2 antibody suggested that regression of the dendrites had occurred. These spatial modifications in axonal and dendritic staining were not present in the septal portion of the combined preparations. In astrocytes, an increase in the antigenicity to glial fibrillary acidic protein paralleled the age of the transplant and was most extensive in the septal grafts. The results illustrate that intraocular co-grafts of hippocampus protect septal neurons and glial cells from abnormal changes in immunoreactivity to antibodies directed against cytoskeletal proteins and exemplify the long term supportive effects of the hippocampus on the morphology of septal neurons, including neurons that express the receptor for nerve growth factor.
Adult monkey sensorimotor cortex consists of several structurally and functionally distinct areas. The developmental sequence through which the characteristic architectonic features and the borders of these areas become resolved was examined in a series of fetal, postnatal and adult monkeys by using Nissl staining, cytochrome oxidase and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry, and immunocytochemistry for GABA and the neuropeptides somatostatin, neuropeptide Y, substance P and cholecystokinin. At the youngest fetal age examined (E110), the pre- and postcentral gyri possess six clearly delineated cellular layers; populations of GABA- and neuropeptide-immunoreactive cells can be identified, but their somatic sensory cortex at E110 lacks areal cytoarchitectonic parcellation. Despite the apparent homogeneity in the cytoarchitecture of the somatic sensory cortex, incipient areal borders are revealed by staining for cytochrome oxidase and acetylcholinesterase activity, and by staining immunocytochemically for several neuropeptides. The motor cortex at E110 differs from that in adults by the presence of a prominent layer IV; a clear cytoarchitectonic border between areas 3a and 4 is detectable at E110, which is also revealed by chemoarchitectonic markers. With increasing age, the characteristic architectonic features gradually emerge and areal cytoarchitectonic borders appear, becoming adult-like by early postnatal ages. The gradual changes in cytoarchitecture are paralleled by redistributions of GABA- and neuropeptide-immunoreactive cells and fiber plexuses. The data demonstrate that the progressive refinement in cytoarchitectonic features and in the distributions of neurotransmitter- and peptide-containing cells occurs primarily during the latter third of gestation. The major changes are temporally coincident with the ingrowth of afferent axonal systems, suggesting that the establishment of connectivity may be capable of modulating finer details of structural or molecular phenotype, particularly intra-areal cytoarchitectonic features and neurotransmitter or peptide expression.
Previously, we showed that the neuropeptide galanin hyperpolarizes and decreases membrane excitability of mudpuppy parasympathetic neurons [Konopka L. M., McKeon T. W. and Parsons R. L. (1989) J. Physiol. 410, 107-122]. We also demonstrated that membrane excitability remains depressed when the agonist-induced potential change is negated electrotonically. We hypothesized that galanin inhibits the membrane conductances associated with spike generation. However, we cannot rule out the possibility that the decreased excitability is due to a galanin-induced increase in membrane potassium conductance which reduces the effectiveness of subsequent depolarizing stimuli. Therefore, in the present study we tested, with the galanin-induced hyperpolarization negated, whether the galanin-induced increased membrane potassium conductance was responsible for the decreased excitability. The results showed that the galanin-induced decreased excitability was not dependent on the peak amplitude of the galanin-induced hyperpolarization. Furthermore, the decreased excitability occurred in cells in which there was no measurable galanin-induced hyperpolarization. Moreover, in most cells the galanin-induced decrease in input resistance, measured at the peak of the hyperpolarization (3-25 mV), was less than 15% and when the hyperpolarization was negated electronically, the decrease was even less (approximately 2%). These results indicated that when the hyperpolarization was negated, the galanin-induced increase in potassium conductance was not responsible for the decreased excitability. In preparations pretreated with 5 mM tetraethylammonium, galanin decreased excitability which indicated that a galanin-induced decrease in the calcium-dependent potassium current was not necessary for the decreased excitability. Galanin also decreased excitability in preparations exposed to either 1-3 microM tetrodotoxin or 100-200 microM cadmium. Following galanin application, the threshold for initiation of tetrodotoxin-insensitive spikes was shifted to more positive membrane potentials. Galanin also decreased the amplitude and hyperpolarizing afterpotential of barium spikes in the absence of any agonist-induced hyperpolarization. These observations confirmed that galanin decreased the voltage-dependent calcium conductance. In the present study, we showed that when the hyperpolarization was negated, galanin decreased excitability by shifting the threshold for spike generation regardless of whether voltage-dependent sodium or calcium currents were primarily responsible for the depolarizing component of the action potential.
The mammalian tachykinins, substance P and neurokinin A, and the non-mammalian tachykinin, physalaemin, were tested on functionally identified dorsal horn neurones in vivo. The experiments were done on cats which were anaesthetized with sodium pentobarbital or were anaemically decerebrated. Extracellular single-unit recordings were made in the lumbar spinal cord and the tachykinins were applied by iontophoresis. Each neurone was classified functionally as wide dynamic range, non-nociceptive, nociceptive specific or proprioceptive. The response to tachykinin application was determined for each neurone. Application of each of the tachykinins evoked a characteristic excitatory response which was delayed in onset, slow in developing and prolonged: physalaemin excited 99/131 neurones tested, neurokinin A excited 45/63 neurones and substance P excited 32/49 neurones. With two neurones physalaemin evoked a depression of the rate of firing, which may have been caused indirectly by excitation of a neighbouring neurone. Such depression was not elicited by either substance P or by neurokinin A. Physalaemin had a preferential excitatory effect on nociceptive neurones evoking excitation of 76/94 nociceptive neurones compared with 12/23 non-nociceptive neurones (chi 2 = 7.9, 1 d.f., P = 0.005). Substance P also caused a preferential excitation, with 30/40 nociceptive neurones being excited while all of the non-nociceptive neurones (n = 7) were unaffected (chi 2 = 11.5, 1 d.f., P = 0.0007). In contrast, neurokinin A failed to have a preferential effect; 32/46 nociceptive and 9/10 non-nociceptive neurones were excited (chi 2 = 1.0, 1 d.f., P = 0.40). Comparing the proportions of nociceptive neurones excited by the different tachykinins indicated that this type of neurone was not differently sensitive to any of the three peptides (chi 2 = 3.2, 2 d.f., P = 0.20). On the other hand, non-nociceptive neurones were preferentially excited by neurokinin A and physalaemin compared with substance P (chi 2 = 13.4, 2 d.f., P = 0.001). With regard to the endogenous tachykinins the results of this study may be interpreted in the following ways. The differential excitatory effect of substance P on nociceptive neurones supports the proposed role for this peptide in the transmission specifically of nociceptive inputs at the first afferent synapse. On the other hand, as neurokinin A excited non-nociceptive as well as nociceptive neurones, there may be a functional role for neurokinin A distinct from that of substance P.
The antibody microprobe technique was used to study the release of immunoreactive substance P and immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide within the lower lumbar spinal cord of anaesthetized spinalized cats pretreated twice daily for 3.5 days with increasing doses of morphine hydrochloride (2-20 mg/kg, i.p.). Both peptides were released in the region of the substantia gelatinosa during noxious cutaneous thermal stimulation or high-intensity electrical stimulation of a hind limb nerve. Intravenous administration of naloxone increased the nociceptive excitation of lumbar dorsal horn neurons, but did not alter the evoked release of immunoreactive substance P or immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide in the superficial gray matter dorsal to these neurons. In addition, the release of both peptides was not significantly different to that detected under similar experimental conditions in opioid-naive cats. The results suggest that alterations in neuropeptide release from the central terminals of nociceptive primary afferent neurons do not occur during states of opiate dependence and withdrawal, and thus do not contribute to the characteristic signs of these phenomena in dependent animals.
Muscle fibre areas and numbers, tetanic force, resident macrophage numbers and acetylcholine sensitivity were measured in normal and denervated soleus muscles of C57BL/Ola mice for comparison with data from outbred and other inbred strains. Serum creatine kinase levels were also measured. The muscles of normal C57BL/Ola mice had more fibres, generated more tension, had fewer resident macrophages and had a lower acetylcholine sensitivity than muscles of other strains. The normal level of serum creatine kinase was lower in C57BL/Ola mice than in Balb/c mice. Following denervation, the mean cross-sectional area of muscle fibres in Balb/c mice started to fall from day 1 but a fall was not seen in muscles from C57BL/Ola mice until day 5. The development of increased acetylcholine sensitivity was slower in the C57BL/Ola mice although the values in all mouse strains had converged by five days. The levels of serum creatine kinase also rose more slowly following denervation in C57BL/Ola mice. The differences between the data from C57BL/Ola mice and others are ascribed to the slow rate of Wallerian degeneration in that strain. The results support the view that the effects of denervation on muscle are due to both inactivity and an inflammatory effect contributed by nerve degeneration. The mutation that causes slow nerve degeneration may, however, also affect muscle directly, making it more resistant to catabolism.
In the rat and guinea-pig isolated ureter electrical field stimulation of intrinsic nerves (10 Hz for 10 s) produces transient inhibition of evoked (20 mM KCl or 0.1-1 microM neurokinin A) rhythmic contractions by releasing transmitter(s) from peripheral endings of capsaicin-sensitive primary afferents. The C-terminal fragment of human calcitonin gene-related peptide (8-37) blocked the inhibitory effect of electrical field stimulation as well as that produced by exogenous calcitonin gene-related peptide, while leaving unaffected the inhibitory response to isoprenaline. Human calcitonin gene-related peptide (8-37) was devoid of any inhibitory activity of its own but enhanced the amplitude and frequency of KCl-evoked rhythmic contractions in the rat ureter, probably by antagonizing the inhibitory effect of endogenous calcitonin gene-related peptide released by KCl. Omega conotoxin fraction GVIA, a peptide which possesses a potent blocking activity of N-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels, prevented the inhibitory response to electrical stimulation in the guinea-pig ureter, while leaving the response unaffected in the rat ureter. Conotoxin had no effect toward the inhibition produced by exogenous calcitonin gene-related peptide indicating its prejunctional site of action, demonstrated previously in the guinea-pig ureter [Maggi et al. (1990) Neurosci, Lett. 114, 203-206]. Dermorphin, an amphibian peptide with potent agonist activity on mu-type opioid receptors, inhibited the response to electrical stimulation in the guinea-pig ureter but had no effect in the rat ureter.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recent data have shown that [125I]D-Ala2, MePhe4, Met(o)ol5-enkephalin (FK-33-824) is a highly selective and specific mu opioid receptor ligand [Moyse et al. (1986) Peptides 7, 351-355]. This probe was used here to investigate the detailed radioautographic distribution of mu sites at various levels of the spinal cord. [125I]FK-33-824 binding sites were localized by both tritium-sensitive film and liquid emulsion radioautography in the spinal cord of naive and deafferented rats. In naive animals, high densities of mu sites were apparent within laminae I-II at all levels of the dorsal horn, with higher levels of labelling seen in layer IIi as compared to IIo in the lumbar segment. Laminae III-IV contained about half the quantities of binding observed in superficial layers. Relatively high densities of sites were also seen over lamina VI in the upper cervical cord and throughout Clarke's column. Within the latter, [125I]FK-33-824 binding clearly spared the large perikarya of the spinocerebellar neurons. In the ventral horn, [125I]FK-33-824 binding was mainly concentrated in layer IX, at the level of cervical and lumbar enlargements. Labelled sites were confined to the neuropil, mostly sparing the soma of motoneurons. Significant decreases in [125I]FK-33-824 binding in laminae I-II (55%) and III-IV (28%) were detected four days following cervical (C3-C7) or lumbar (L1-L6) rhizotomies. These decrements were most evident at seven days post-lesion at C3-C7 levels (93 and 76% in laminae I-II and III-IV, respectively) and recovered slightly thereafter up to 28 days post-lesion. In contrast, dorsal rhizotomies did not influence mu labelling in either the ventral horn or Clarke's column. These results confirm the association of mu opioid binding sites with dorsal primary afferent fibres and demonstrate the presence of mu sites in Clarke's column and lamina IX of the ventral horn. These findings suggest that endogenous opioids in the spinal cord play a role in sensory motor integration as well as in the modulation of primary nociceptive inputs.
Established methods for cryopreservation of living cells were modified for freeze-storage of postnatal retinal ganglion cells from rat. Retinal cell suspensions containing fluorescently labeled ganglion cells were frozen after addition of 8% dimethyl sulfoxide and stored at -80 degrees C for up to 66 days. Viability of identified retinal ganglion cells was assessed by their ability to take up and cleave fluorescein diacetate to fluorescein. No significant difference was found in the number of living retinal ganglion cells when cells obtained from the same dissociation were counted before and after freezing (6.65 +/- 2.37 x 10(4) vs 7.05 +/- 3.67 x 10(4) retinal ganglion cells per ml, respectively; mean +/- S.D., n = 4). In culture following cryopreservation, the cells appeared morphologically normal, and developed neurites and growth cones similar to their freshly dissociated counterparts. Since very little is known about the electrophysiology and membrane properties of neurons after cryopreservation, we used the whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique to study voltage- and ligand-gated conductances in cryopreserved retinal ganglion cells. The cryopreserved retinal ganglion cells studied under current-clamp maintained resting potentials of -60.9 +/- 6.6 mV (n = 10) and upon depolarization fired action potentials. During voltage-clamp in the whole-cell mode, depolarizing voltage steps activated Na(+)-(INa), Ca(2+)-(ICa), and K(+)-currents in all cells tested (n = 122). INa could be reversibly blocked by 1 microM tetrodotoxin added to the external solution. ICa was blocked by external 250 microM Cd2+ or 3 mM Co2+. In some cells, ICa consisted of both a transient and prolonged component. The outward K(+)-current consisted of Ca(2+)-dependent and -independent components. The Ca(2+)-insensitive portion of the K+ outward current was separated into four distinct components based upon pharmacological sensitivity and biophysical properties. In many cells, a rapidly inactivating current similar to the A-type K(+)-current (IA) observed in freshly cultured retinal ganglion cells was isolated by its greater sensitivity to 4-aminopyridine (5 mM) than to tetraethylammonium (20 mM). A tetraethylammonium-sensitive current with a more prolonged time course reminiscent of IK, the delayed rectifier, was also found. When the 4-aminopyridine- and tetraethylammonium-insensitive portions of the outward current were further analysed with voltage protocols, an additional slowly decaying potassium current became apparent. The inhibitory amino acids, GABA (20 microM) and glycine (100 microM), activated chloride-selective currents that were selectively blocked by bicuculline methiodide (10 microM) and strychnine (5 microM), respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Voltage-dependent calcium currents were investigated by the patch-clamp technique in whole-cell recording configuration in cultures from 8-day-old rat cerebella, which contained greater than or equal to 90% granule cells. In solutions designed to minimize the sodium and potassium conductances and in 20 mM barium, an inward current activated around -25 mV, reached a peak amplitude at +20 mV and reversed around +80 mV. In 20 mM calcium, this current was approximately 50% of that in barium. From one to three days in vitro only 16% of the cells tested (n = 20) had a current exceeding 50 pA in maximum amplitude, while after four days in vitro the current reached 100 pA in all neurons tested (n greater than 70). Verapamil (50-100 microM) reversibly depressed this current. The dihydropyridine agonist Bay K 8644 (1 microM) enhanced the maximum conductance by 25 +/- 8% (n = 4), caused a negative shift in the activation of 21 +/- 5 mV and a prolongation of the deactivation time course as the voltage was stepped back from +20 to -80 mV. The GABAB agonist baclofen (50 microM) reversibly depressed the current by 27 +/- 8% in 80% of the cells. The effect was similar to that of GABA (10 microM), when the GABAA response (chloride current) was partially blocked by bicucculine. This current can be classified as a dihydropyridine-sensitive high-voltage-activated calcium current. The modulation by GABAB agonists is likely to be significant for presynaptic inhibition.
Six-day-old neuronal cultures derived from 14-day-old embryonic rat cerebral hemispheres were highly enriched in GABAergic neurons, as was demonstrated by immunocytochemistry using an anti-glutamate decarboxylase antiserum. They contained about 64% glutamate decarboxylase-positive neurons. About 8% of these neurons proliferated, as shown by a combination of glutamate decarboxylase immunocytochemistry and [3H]thymidine incorporation into cell nuclei. The proliferative activity of GABAergic precursor cells and changes in the cellular concentrations of the non-essential amino acids, including GABA under the effect of basic fibroblast growth factor were studied. When basic fibroblast growth factor was added to the cultures 4 h after seeding, the proliferation of the GABAergic neurons was stimulated about threefold. Under this culture condition, the concentration per cell of all amino acids increased, except those of GABA and beta-alanine. When basic fibroblast growth factor was added to cultures only on day four, the proliferation of the neuronal cells was no more enhanced. Under this condition of treatment, the concentrations of all non-essential amino acids, including those of GABA and beta-alanine were enhanced. Under both basic fibroblast growth factor treatments the concentration of GABA per GABAergic cell was increased. In contrast, the specific activity of glutamate decarboxylase was not stimulated under these conditions. We hypothesize that under the effect of basic fibroblast growth factor the capabilities of the cells to store GABA are improved.
The results of the present study, in the rat and cat, indicate that not only a lesion of peripheral nerve or capsaicin pretreatment but also pharmacological deafferentation with local anaesthetic or disruption of the connections between primary sensory neurons and the central nervous system are effective in producing dystrophic changes in tissues. These effects of deafferentation do not seem to depend on the sympathetic or parasympathetic efferents. Dystrophic changes are connected with microcirculation disturbances: slow down of local blood flow, elevation of the vascular permeability, oedema and leucocyte infiltration. The findings indicate that capsaicin-sensitive primary sensory neurons are the afferent part of some reflex arrangement which participates in the regulation of microcirculation and the maintenance of trophic processes in peripheral tissues. The efferent part of this arrangement is unknown.
Hybridization signals indicating mRNAs encoding the precursor of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and CGRP immunoreactivity were detected on parallel sections containing brainstem motor nuclei using in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry. In untreated and saline-injected rats the motoneurons in the hypoglossal, facial motor nuclei and in the ambiguus nucleus showed weak to moderate hybridization signals. In these motoneurons CGRP immunoreactivity was restricted to the Nissl bodies of the perikarya. Twenty-four and 42 hours after intracerebroventricular colchicine injection the intensity of both the hybridization signal and the immunoreaction product increased. The distribution of CGRP immunoreactivity changed from discrete perikaryal localization to diffuse reaction in the perikarya and along the proximal dendritic tree. Motoneurons in the rest of the brainstem motor nuclei (VIth, Vth, IVth and IIIrd) of untreated and saline-injected rats showed neither hybridization signal nor CGRP immunoreactivity. After intracerebroventricular injection of colchicine these motoneurons showed both hybridization signal and CGRP immunoreactivity. In all nuclei the size of motoneurons decreased and their Nissl structure changed to an amorphous basophilic mass following colchicine treatment.
Previous studies have shown that the endogenous phosphorylation of the neuron-specific protein B-50 in isolated synaptic plasma membranes is inhibited by adrenocorticotrophic hormone(1-24). The aim of this study is to examine if there is a specific neuroanatomical interaction of adrenocorticotrophic hormone and B-50 in the mesencephalic central gray substance of the rat. With light microscopy, high B-50 immunoreactivity was detected throughout the mesencephalic central gray substance, overlapping with those areas where adrenocorticotrophic hormone-immunoreactive fibres were present. To study the ultrastructural localization of B-50 and adrenocorticotrophic hormone, we employed a method of immunogold labelling on ultrathin sections of freeze-substituted and Lowicryl HM20-embedded fixed brain tissue. This offered optimal morphological preservation together with high retention of antigenicity. At the electron microscopic level, adrenocorticotrophic hormone immunoreactivity was detected in dense-core secretory granules present in non-junctional regions of axoinal varicosities. This suggests a non-synaptic release of adrenocorticotrophic hormone from the axons. Using double immunolabelling techniques we showed that in adrenocorticotrophic hormone-innervated areas of the mesencephalic central gray substance B-50 immunoreactivity was present at plasma membranes of all unmyelinated axons and axonal varicosities and virtually absent in dendrites. The result on B-50 localization agrees well with previous studies in the hippocampus [Van Lookeren Campagne et al. 1990 J. Neurocytol. 19, 948-961] and in the pyramidal tract [Gorgels et al. 1989 J. Neurosci. 9, 3861-3869] of the rat and suggests that in the mature rat central nervous system, B-50 expression in axons is a general phenomenon. For the adrenocorticotrophic hormone-innervated areas, we discuss the proposal that non-synaptically released adrenocorticotrophic hormone modulates B-50 phosphorylation in axons and axon terminals.
A procedure was developed to conduct simultaneously immunocytochemical and neurochemical studies on the serotonergic system in adjacent 300-micron-thick slices of rat hippocampus. This procedure was applied to correlate morphological (innervation pattern and density), neurochemical (5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid levels and [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine uptake and release) and behavioral (spatial learning) effects of neurotoxin-induced denervation and reinnervation by grafting fetal mesencephalic raphe cells. Intracerebroventricular injections of a low dose of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine caused a discrete serotonergic denervation of the hippocampus. Eleven months after lesioning, 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid levels and [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine uptake capacity were decreased by 50-60%. By this time, the residual fibers displayed an enhanced vulnerability towards K(+)-induced depolarization. Grafting of a fetal raphe cell suspension resulted in a reinnervation of the host hippocampus. The pattern of reinnervation was comparable to control innervation and the density was supranormal at the level of the graft. As observed semiquantitatively, the innervation density decreased with distance from the core of the graft. Neurochemical studies showed that the fibers were capable of synthesizing, metabolizing and releasing 5-hydroxytryptamine. The turnover of 5-hydroxytryptamine in both the denervated and the reinnervated hippocampus was comparable to that in control tissue. Previous behavioral testing of the denervated and of the denervated and implanted animals did not reveal any effect on spatial learning, either in an individual or in a social test paradigm. The latter data substantiate the notion that interference with the hippocampal serotonergic innervation does not hamper adequate spatial learning.
This study was designed to identify whether synaptic reorganizations occur in epileptic human hippocampus which might contribute to feedback excitation. In epileptic hippocampi, (n = 21) reactive synaptogenesis of mossy fibers into the inner molecular layer of the granule cell dendrites was demonstrated at the light microscopic and electron microscopic levels. There was no inner molecular layer staining for mossy fibers in autopsy controls (n = 4) or in controls with neocortex epilepsy having no hippocampal sclerosis (n = 2). Comparing epileptics to controls, there were statistically significant correlations between Timm stain density and hilar cell loss. Since hilar neurons are the origin of ipsilateral projections to the inner molecular layer, this suggests that hilar deafferentation of this dendritic zone precedes mossy fiber reafferentation. Quantitative Timm-stained electron microscopy revealed large, zinc-labelled vesicles in terminals with asymmetric synapses on dendrites in the inner molecular and granule cell layers. Terminals in the middle and outer molecular layers did not contain zinc, were smaller and had smaller vesicles. These histochemical and ultrastructural data suggest that in damaged human epileptic hippocampus, mossy fiber reactive synaptogenesis may result in monosynaptic recurrent excitation of granule cells that could contribute to focal seizure onsets.
Rat superior cervical ganglia infected with herpes virus suis (pseudorabies virus) display a spontaneous bursting activity of still unknown origin. Previous intracellular recordings from the ganglionic neurons combined with pharmacological studies showed that the postganglionic action potentials are induced by acetylcholine release spontaneously from the preganglionic nerve. In this study we investigated whether the acetylcholine release is caused by mechanisms which are dependent on action potentials spontaneously generated on the preganglionic nerve or by mechanisms which occur without any changes in the excitability of presynaptic fibers. Simultaneous intra- and extracellular recordings from the ganglion cells and from the preganglionic nerve, respectively, were performed 32-38 h after the inoculation of herpes virus suis (strain Aujeszky) into the anterior chamber of one eye of the rat. Tetrodotoxin, well known to prevent the generation of action potentials by blocking the fast sodium channels, completely and reversibly abolished, whereas the potassium channel blockers 4-aminopyridine and apamin, enhanced the spontaneous, bursting activity at pre- and postsynaptic levels. The nicotinic receptor antagonist hexamethonium abolished the postsynaptic discharges and reduced the preganglionic activity by 50%. Pre- and postsynaptic electrical activities were suppressed in low calcium Krebs' solution, demonstrating that extracellular calcium is required not only for acetylcholine release but also for triggering the presynaptic action potentials. It is concluded that in the infected ganglia the spontaneous acetylcholine release is due to the generation of action potentials in the preganglionic nerve. Voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels contribute to the presynaptic electrogenesis, while the latter appears to be damped by the activation of voltage- and calcium-dependent potassium channels. Possible factors as well as mechanisms inducing such an increase in excitability are discussed.
The effects of reserpine treatment (10 mg/kg, i.p.) on the content of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity and catecholamines were compared with the levels of mRNA coding for neuropeptide Y, tyrosine hydroxylase and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase in rat sympathetic neurons and adrenal gland. A reversible depletion of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was observed in the right atrium of the heart, kidney and masseter muscle, while the immunoreactive neuropeptide Y content in the stellate and lumbar sympathetic ganglia and its axonal transport in the sciatic nerve increased following reserpine. The increase in the stellate ganglion was maximal at 48 h and absent 9 days after reserpine treatment. The expression of neuropeptide Y mRNA and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA in both the stellate and the superior cervical ganglion increased earlier than the neuropeptide Y content, with a clear cut two-fold elevation at 24 h after reserpine. The increase in both mRNAs in the superior cervical ganglion and the depletion of neuropeptide Y, but not of noradrenaline, in terminal areas was prevented after pretreatment both with a nicotinic receptor antagonist (chlorisondamine) and with surgical preganglionic denervation. A marked (75-90%) depletion of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity and adrenaline in the adrenal gland, concomitant with 3-4-fold increases in neuropeptide Y mRNA and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA expression, was present at 24 h after reserpine treatment. Also in the adrenal gland, there was a reversal of the reserpine-induced increase in neuropeptide Y mRNA and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA and depletion of neuropeptide Y and adrenaline following splanchnic denervation. Pharmacological, ganglionic blockade prevented the depletion of neuropeptide Y and the increased expression of neuropeptide Y mRNA, but not fully, the tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA elevation. In addition, a marked decrease in phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase mRNA levels was noted after reserpine. This decrease was reversed by denervation and by ganglionic blockade. Denervation alone led to a small but significant decrease in all mRNAs examined both in the superior cervical ganglion and the adrenal medulla. The present data suggest that the depletion of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity in sympathetic nerves and in the adrenal gland after reserpine is associated with a compensatory increase in neuropeptide Y synthesis and axonal transport, most likely due to increased nicotinic receptor stimulation. Whereas the reserpine depletion of neuropeptide Y in both sympathetic nerves and adrenal gland is related to neuronal activation, adrenal but not nerve terminal depletion of catecholamines can be prevented by the ganglionic blocker chlorisondamine.4+e difference in effect of pharmacological ganglionic
The respiratory region of the nasal mucosa is innervated by the ethmoidal nerve. Chemical nociceptive stimulation of this area leads to upper airway reflexes that prevent access of noxious substances to the respiratory tract and the lungs. In the present study we examined the localization of the cell bodies of the respective primary afferent fibres within the trigeminal ganglion, as well as their central projections. In 25 rats a horseradish peroxidase-wheat germ agglutinin gel was applied to the right nasal cavity. The animals were killed after 48-72 h. For visualization of the tracer the tissue was processed according to the tetramethylbenzidine method. In the trigeminal ganglion almost all labelled cell bodies were localized in a medial band immediately caudal to the entrance of the ophthalmomaxillary branch. Transganglionic projections to the trigeminal brainstem nuclear complex were only localized in the superficial laminae of the subnucleus caudalis and in the subnucleus interpolaris, areas known to be involved in processing of nociceptive information. An additional labelled terminal field was observed in the interstitial subnucleus of the nucleus tractus solitarius, which is involved in respiratory control. These results are in favour of the hypothesis that the ethmoidal nerve in rat constitutes the afferent limb of protective upper airway reflexes since it transmits mainly nociceptive information.
The immunochemical and immunocytochemical reactivity of an anti-carbohydrate monoclonal antibody (Elec-39), obtained against acetylcholinesterase from Electrophorus electricus electric organ, was followed during the postnatal development of the rat cerebellum. The specificity of this antibody resembles that of a family of anti-carbohydrate antibodies that includes HNK-1, L2, NC-1 and NSP-4, as well as IgMs that occur in some human neuropathies. As revealed by immunoblotting techniques, the reactivity of Elec-39 is maximum around postnatal days 10-12. At this age, the antibody reveals eight major proteins of mol. wt ranging between 14 and 150 kDa. Some of them (with mol. wts of 14, 18, 28 and 31 kDa) are transiently expressed. They correspond to previously identified glycoproteins binding to the plant lectin concanavalin A and binding also to the endogenous mannose-binding lectin CSL and endogenous membrane-bound mannose-binding lectin. In young animals, an important staining with the Elec-39 antibody can be observed on postmitotic precursors of granule cells, on astrocyte processes in the external granular layer, on newly formed parallel fibres and on unmyelinated axons of the white matter. In adult animals, the labelling is localized essentially in myelin and also in the cytoplasm of astrocytes. These results are discussed in relation to ontogenetic phenomena occurring during cerebellar development and the potential role of the carbohydrate epitope revealed with Elec-39 as a determinant in cell adhesion processes.
Focal iontophoretic injections of the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold into the locus coeruleus were combined with immunocytochemistry for phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase, the final enzyme in the synthesis of epinephrine. Retrograde labeling confirmed recent findings that the major afferents to the locus coeruleus are present in the ventrolateral (nucleus paragigantocellularis) and dorsomedial medulla (nucleus prepositus hypoglossi), areas containing the C1 and C3 adrenergic cell groups, respectively. The Fluoro-Gold label revealed morphologic details of locus coeruleus afferent cells. Labeled neurons in the prepositus hypoglossi region were typically round (10 microns diameter) or ellipsoidal and compressed against the ventricle wall (10 x 20 microns), while those in the paragigantocellularis were most often multipolar and ellipsoidal or triangular in shape (10 x 20-20 x 30 microns). Double labeling in the same tissue sections revealed that locus coeruleus afferent neurons are intercalated among phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase-positive C1 and C3 neurons. Twenty-one per cent of locus coeruleus afferent neurons in paragigantocellularis stained for phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase while only 4% of locus coeruleus afferents in the prepositus hypoglossi area exhibited phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase immunoreactivity. In paragigantocellularis, doubly labeled neurons were usually the smaller locus coeruleus afferents, while in the prepositus hypoglossi phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase labeling was found in all cell types that project to the locus coeruleus. Phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase-positive fibers from the C1 and C3 cell groups form an adrenergic fiber bundle in the dorsomedial medulla; in the pons, these fibers appear to exit this bundle and innervate the locus coeruleus. Fibers from the neurons of the C3 cell group also appear to ascend on the dorsal surface of the medulla to innervate the locus coeruleus. The phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase fiber innervation in the locus coeruleus was dense and highly varicose. Phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase innervation in the dorsal pons was not restricted to the locus coeruleus but was also prominent in neighboring areas such as Barrington's nucleus and the lateral dorsal tegmental nucleus of Gudden.
Extracellular recordings were made from serotonergic neurons of the rat dorsal raphe nucleus in a slice preparation. In the presence of phenylephrine (3 microM) to restore the pacemaker activity of otherwise silent serotonergic neurons, superfusion with the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A agonist ipsapirone depressed the firing of these neurons with an IC50 of approximately 50 nM. Complete inhibition was achieved with 100-300 nM of the drug. Concomitant superfusion with the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A antagonists spiperone (100 nM) or propranolol (10 microM) markedly reduced the inhibitory effect of ipsapirone (100 nM). Superfusion with K+ channel blockers such as apamin (50-100 nM), charybdotoxin (100 nM) or Ba2+ (1 mM) did not induce any changes in the electrical activity of serotonergic neurons. However, 4-aminopyridine (0.1-1 mM) disrupted the regularity of their discharge without affecting the mean firing rate. The ipsapirone-induced inhibition was unchanged by apamin and charybdotoxin, but was markedly reduced by Ba2+ and 4-aminopyridine. Thus the IC50 of ipsapirone was shifted to approximately 150 nM in the presence of 1 mM of 4-aminopyridine. These results indicate that, in serotonergic neurons within the dorsal raphe nucleus, the K+ channel opened through the stimulation of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A autoreceptors is 4-aminopyridine-sensitive.
A model of the hippocampal granule cells was created that closely approximated most of the measured intracellular responses from a neuron under a variety of stimulus conditions. This model suggests that: (1) A simple, four-conductance model can account for most of the intracellular behavior of these neurons. (2) The repolarization mechanism in granule cells may be different from that in squid axons. A weak potassium conductance may be present in hippocampal granule neurons, which simultaneously give rise to a small, passive depolarizing afterpotential. (3) The strength duration properties may assist in identifying the electronic and sodium channel properties with short stimulus pulse widths. (4) Repetitive firing responses are highly dependent on the cell's recent history of activation and the regulation of the slow potassium conductance and calcium dynamics. (5) The anodic break response is probably not a property of typical granule cells. Through thorough and precise comparison of experimental and model responses, computer simulations can help assembling channel information into verifiable models that accurately reproduce intracellular data.
The septohippocampal projection was visualized in three Macaca mulatta monkeys by anterograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. Following injections of the lectin into the medial septal nucleus, P. vulgaris leucoagglutinin-labelled fibres were found in the hippocampal complex, mainly in stratum oriens of the CA1 subfield, throughout the CA3 subfield, and in the hilus and stratum moleculare of the dentate gyrus. The majority of labelled axons were varicose, and formed multiple contacts with cell bodies and dendrites of calbindin D28k- and parvalbumin-immunoreactive non-pyramidal cells. GABA immunoreactivity of P. vulgaris leucoagglutinin-labelled axons and their postsynaptic targets was investigated by sectioning varicose axon segments for correlated light and electron microscopy, and processing alternate ultrathin sections for postembedding immunogold staining for GABA. All P. vulgaris leucoagglutinin-labelled boutons examined were GABA-immunoreactive and the majority of them formed symmetrical synapses with GABA-immunoreactive cell bodies and dendrites. The results demonstrate that a GABAergic septohippocampal pathway exists in the monkey, and, similar to the rat, terminates on different types of GABAergic neurons, including the parvalbumin- and calbindin D28k-containing non-pyramidal cells.
Following the localization, at the electron microscope level, of the immunoreactivity towards a putative kainate receptor on Bergmann glial cells in the chick cerebellar cortex, cultures of Bergmann glia were used to establish the presence of functional kainate receptor/channels and study their properties. Bergmann glia were identified by their fusiform morphology and their ability to bind an anti-kainate binding protein monoclonal antibody, a kainate receptor high affinity ligand--kainyl-bovine serum albumin--and a glial marker--anti-vimentin monoclonal antibody. Membranes prepared from the culture cells displayed, using 25 nM [3H]kainate, the binding of 4.1 pmol of [3H]kainate/mg protein and showed the presence in Western blots of the two polypeptides of 49 and 93 kDa attributed to the kainate binding protein. Kainate, at concentrations above 0.1 mM, was found to increase the influx into cultured Bergmann glia of 22Na+, 86Rb+, 45Ca2+ and 36Cl- ions. The traffic of 22Na+, induced by kainate and glutamate, observed only in the presence of 1 mM ouabain, was blocked by kainate receptor antagonists and by 0.01 mM quisqualate. Analysis of the kinetics of incorporation of 22Na+ and 45Ca2+ ions showed an initial accumulation of 22Na+ and 45Ca2+ ions followed by their total dissipation. The results indicate that the kainate-induced influx of Na+ ions through the kainate receptor/channel causes the reverse transport of Na+ ions, by activation of the Na+/Ca2+ and Na+/H+ exchangers which remove intracellular Na+ ions. Pre-exposure of the cells to 0.5 mM dibutyryl cAMP was found to greatly enhance the kainate-induced 22Na+ ion influx. We propose that the Bergmann glia kainate receptors modulate the efficacy of the glutamatergic synapses between the parallel fibers and Purkinje cell spines and form part of a glial machinery responsible for plastic changes in synaptic transmission.
The projections from the midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei to the cerebral cortex were studied in the rat by means of anterograde tracing with Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin. The midline and intralaminar nuclear complex taken as a whole projects to widespread, predominantly frontal, cortical areas. Each of the constituent thalamic nuclei has a restricted cortical projection field that overlaps only slightly with the projection fields of adjacent midline and intralaminar nuclei. The projections of the intralaminar nuclei cover a larger cortical area than those of the midline nuclei. The laminar distributions of fibres from individual midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei are different and include both deep and superficial cortical layers. The parataenial, paraventricular and intermediodorsal midline nuclei each project to circumscribed parts of the prefrontal cortex and the hippocampal and parahippocampal regions. In the prefrontal cortex, the projections are restricted to the medial orbital, infralimbic, ventral prelimbic and agranular insular fields, and the rostral part of the ventral anterior cingular cortex. In contrast to the other midline nuclei, the rhomboid nucleus projects to widespread cortical areas. The rostral intralaminar nuclei innervate dorsal parts of the prefrontal cortex, i.e. the dorsal parts of the prelimbic, anterior cingular and dorsal agranular insular cortical fields, the lateral and ventrolateral orbital areas, and the caudal part of the ventral anterior cingular cortex. Additional projections are aimed at the agranular fields of the motor cortex and the caudal part of the parietal cortex. The lateral part of the parafascicular nucleus sends fibres predominantly to the lateral agranular field of the motor cortex and the rostral part of the parietal cortex. The medial part of the parafascicular nucleus projects rather sparsely to the dorsal part of the prelimbic cortex, the anterior cingular cortex and the medial agranular field of the motor cortex. Individual midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei are thus in a position to directly influence circumscribed areas of the cerebral cortex. In combination with previously reported data on the organization of the midline and intralaminar thalamostriatal projections and the prefrontal corticostriatal projections the present results suggest a high degree of differentiation in the convergence of thalamic and cortical afferent fibres in the striatum. Each of the recently described parallel basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits can thus be expanded to include projections at both the cortical and striatal levels from a specific part of the midline and intralaminar nuclear complex. The distinctive laminar distributions of the fibres originating from the different nuclei emphasize the specificity of the midline and intralaminar thalamocortical projections.
Outside the nervous system myelomonocytic cells are known to play an important role in the inflammatory response and tissue repair after injury. In this study we have examined the myelomonocytic response to neuronal destruction following unilateral injection of the excitotoxin kainic acid into the mouse hippocampus. Intrahippocampal injection of kainate induces rapid, synchronous neuronal death. There is no neutrophil recruitment and a delay of at least 48 h before macrophage-microglial cell numbers increase. The microglial reaction in the injected hippocampus consists of altered morphology, a 6-9-fold increase in mononuclear phagocyte cell numbers and enhanced expression of the macrophage-specific plasma membrane antigen, F4/80, assessed immunohistochemically and by Western blotting. Microglia also respond at distant sites related to the projection pathway and terminals of killed pyramidal cells but the reaction varies in cell numbers, kinetics and morphology. The absence of neutrophil recruitment and the delay in an increase in macrophage or microglial cells shows that the CNS differs from other sites in the body with regard to the kinetics and nature of the myelomonocytic cell inflammatory response. The role of mononuclear phagocytes in tissue repair in the CNS remains to be defined.
Antinociceptive effects elicited from the midbrain may involve both ascending and descending projections from the periaqueductal gray and dorsal raphe nucleus. To investigate the relationship between these different efferent pathways in the rat, we performed a double-labeling study using two retrograde tracers, colloidal gold-coupled wheatgerm agglutinin-apo horseradish peroxidase and a fluorescent dye. One tracer was microinjected in the medullary nucleus raphe magnus; the second was injected into one of several regions rostral to the periaqueductal gray that have been implicated in nociceptive and antinociceptive processes. The results can be grouped into two categories. First, injections into the ventrobasal thalamus, lateral hypothalamus, amygdala, and cerebral cortex labeled neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus but not in the periaqueductal gray. Up to 90% of these projection neurons were serotonin immunoreactive, and up to 17% were also retrogradely labeled from the nucleus raphe magnus. Second, only injections into the ventrobasal hypothalamus (which included the beta-endorphin-containing arcuate neurons) or into the medial thalamus labeled neurons in the periaqueductal gray itself. Injections into the medial thalamus, but not into the ventrobasal hypothalamus, also labeled neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus. Up to 20% of the neurons retrogradely labeled from these regions were also retrogradely labeled from nucleus raphe magnus. The presence of large populations of rostrally projecting periaqueductal gray neurons that collateralize to the nucleus raphe magnus implies that activity in ascending projections necessarily accompanies any activation of the periaqueductal gray-nucleus raphe magnus pathway. Possibly, projections from the medial thalamus and medial hypothalamus mediate antinociceptive effects that complement descending inhibition. Finally, possible antidromic activation of these pathways must be considered when interpreting the results of electrical brain stimulation studies.
We investigated, to examine the involvement of lipid peroxidation and inhibitory mechanisms, a novel lipid peroxidation inhibitor (KB-5666) and a GABAA receptor-effector (pentobarbital) on ischemic neuronal damage and the alterations in the second messenger and neurotransmitter systems in Mongolian gerbils by means of morphology and in vitro receptor autoradiography. Quantitative receptor autoradiography visualized binding sites for [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, [3H]forskolin, [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate, [3H]isradipine (PN200-110), [3H]N6-cyclohexyl-adenosine, and [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate indicating binding sites for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, forskolin, protein kinase C, L-type calcium channels (or dihydropyridine binding sites), adenosine A1, and muscarinic cholinergic receptors, respectively. In the morphological study, KB-5666, 10 and 50 mg/kg, i.v., 5 min before ischemia, protected against ischemic neuronal damage to the hippocampal CA1 subfield following 5 min of bilateral carotid artery occlusion in a dose-dependent manner. Pentobarbital, 30 mg/kg, i.v., 5 min before ischemia, also had a protective effect. In receptor autoradiographic studies, all receptor bindings decreased significantly in the CA1 subfield seven days after ischemia. In particular, [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding in the CA1 subfield was completely lost after ischemia. [3H]Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and [3H]forskolin binding decreased as early as 6 h after ischemia. In the CA3 subfield, [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, [3H]PN200-110, and [3H]N6-cyclohexyladenosine bindings decreased seven days after ischemia. In the dentate gyrus, [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding decreased seven days after ischemia. KB-5666 and pentobarbital prevented reductions in these receptor bindings in the CA1 subfield at 6 h and seven days after ischemia. These results indicate that KB-5666 and pentobarbital protect the brain from both structural and functional damage after ischemia, and that lipid peroxidation and inhibitory mechanisms may play a pivotal role in the neuronal damage of the hippocampal CA1 subfield after ischemia.
The axons of dentate granule cells, the mossy fibres, establish synaptic contacts with the thorny excrescences of the apical dendrite of CA3 pyramidal neurons. Dentate granule granule cells develop postnatally in rats, whereas the CA3 pyramidal cells are generated before birth. In the present studies, using unilateral neonatal gamma-ray irradiation to destroy the granule cells in one hemisphere, we have studied the effect of mossy fibre deprivation on the development of their targets. We show that such &quot;degranulation&quot; prevents the normal development of giant thorny excrescences, suggesting that the development of thorny excrescences in CA3 pyramidal neurons is under the control of mossy fibres. In contrast, irradiation of the hippocampus of the neonatal rat does not affect the development of the dendritic arborization of CA3 pyramidal cells and their non-mossy dendritic spines.
A light and electron microscopic study of GABA-immunoreactive neurons and profiles in the ventroanterior-ventrolateral and ventromedial nuclei of rat dorsal thalamus was conducted using antiserum raised against GABA. Less than 1% of the neurons in these motor-related nuclei exhibited GABA immunoreactivity, confirming previous reports that these nuclei are largely devoid of interneurons. Immunoreactive neurons in the ventral anterior-ventral lateral complex and ventromedial nucleus were bipolar or multipolar in shape, and tended to be smaller than non-immunoreactive neurons. GABA immunoreactivity in the neuropil consisted of labeled axon terminals and myelinated and unmyelinated axons, and was lower in the ventral anterior-ventral lateral complex and ventromedial nucleus than in neighboring thalamic nuclei. The density of neuropil immunolabeling was slightly higher in ventral anterior-ventral lateral complex than in ventromedial nucleus. GABA-immunoreactive axon terminals, collectively termed MP boutons for their medium size and pleomorphic vesicles (and corresponding to &quot;F&quot; profiles of some previous studies of thalamic ultrastructure), formed symmetric synapses and puncta adhaerentia contacts predominantly with large and medium-diameter (i.e. proximal) non-immunoreactive dendrites. Approximately 12 and 18% of boutons in the ventral anterior-ventral lateral complex and ventromedial nucleus, respectively, were GABA-immunopositive. Many of these immunoreactive profiles probably arose from GABAergic neurons in the thalamic reticular nucleus, substantia nigra pars reticulata and entopeduncular nucleus. Two types of non-immunoreactive axon terminals were distinguished based on differences in morphology and synaptic termination sites. Boutons with small ovoid profiles and round vesicles that formed prominent asymmetric synapses onto small-diameter dendrites were observed. Mitochondria were rarely observed within these boutons, which arose from thin unmyelinated axons. These boutons composed approximately 82 and 74% of boutons in the ventral anterior-ventral lateral complex and ventromedial nucleus, respectively, and were considered to arise predominantly from neurons in the cerebral cortex. In contrast, boutons with large terminals that contained round or plemorphic vesicles and formed multiple asymmetric synapses predominantly with large-diameter dendrites were also observed. Puncta adhaerentia contacts were also common. Mitochondria were numerous within large boutons with round vesicles, which arose from myelinated axons. Many of the large boutons were likely to have originated from neurons in the cerebellar nuclei. Approximately 6% of the boutons in the ventral anterior-ventral lateral complex and 8% in ventromedial nucleus were of the large type.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The atoxic binding fragment of tetanus toxin, Fragment C, was injected into paravertebral ganglion 14, the avian homologue of the mammalian stellate ganglion. Postinjection survival intervals were varied from 2.5 h to 33 days. Experiments performed at the shortest survival time of 2.5 h showed that Fragment C was retrogradely transported by sympathetic preganglionic axons at a rate greater than or equal to 10 mm/h. At survival times ranging from 5 to 15 h. Fragment C-positive, retrogradely labeled sympathetic preganglionic neurons were observed within the last cervical spinal segment and throughout the first three thoracic spinal cord segments. Sporadic retrograde labeling of sympathetic preganglionic neurons was evident within the fourth and fifth thoracic spinal cord segments. Fragment C-labeled perikarya and dendrites exhibited both diffuse cytoplasmic immunostaining as well as intracellular, perinuclear accumulations of small. Fragment C-positive granules. Retrogradely labeled preganglionic neurons were found within both autonomic subnuclei within avian thoracic spinal cord; the column of Terni and the nucleus intercalatus spinalis. The distribution and numerical density of retrogradely labeled sympathetic preganglionic neurons indicated further that: (a) both myelinated and unmyelinated preganglionic axons appear to be capable of intra-axonally transporting Fragment C; and (b) it is unlikely that there is differential Fragment C labeling of a morphologically distinct population of sympathetic preganglionic neurons within or across subnuclei. Fragment C is transferred out of sympathetic preganglionic somas and dendrites into the surrounding neuropil at an aggregate rate greater than or equal to 5 mm/h. Trans-synaptic transport was evident at postinjection survival times as short as 5 h and continued to increase in density within the sympathetic preganglionic neuropil for 24 h. Fragment C-positive terminal labeling persisted for at least 20 days. At survival times greater than or equal to 1 day. Fragment C-positive puncta and weak intracellular labeling of neurons were evident in areas of the spinal gray outside of the nuclear boundaries of the column of Terni and nucleus intercalatus. The regions showing evidence of trans-synaptic and transneuronal labeling included: (a) a group of small cells dorsal to the column of Terni, (b) lamina V and (c) lamina VII. This expansion of Fragment C-labeled neuronal elements was segmental in organization and co-extensive with the retrograde labeling pattern of sympathetic preganglionic neurons. Spinal interneurons in these regions may provide segmental, monosynaptic input to sympathetic preganglionic neurons. Fragment C leaked into the systemic circulation from the site of injection in paravertebral ganglion 14.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Antisera against acidic fibroblast growth factor purified from bovine brain were produced in rabbits and used for immunohistochemical study of the rat brain. When examined in an immunospot assay using a nitrocellulose membrane, the best antibody was capable of detecting 80 fmol of acidic fibroblast growth factor but failed to react even with up to 5 pmol of basic fibroblast growth factor. Using this antiserum, the immunohistochemical distribution of acidic fibroblast growth factor was examined in rat brain. Acidic fibroblast growth factor-like immunoreactivity was localized mainly in a subpopulation of ependymal cells and tanycytes, as well as in some glial cells. Positive ependymal cells were observed throughout the walls of ventricles, including the third ventricle and cerebral aqueduct. Immunoreactive processes of tanycytes were found extending from the ventral wall of the third ventricle to the brain parenchyma and surface. The most intense immunostaining was observed in circumventricular organs such as the organum vasculosum laminalis terminalis and the subfornical organ. Particularly in the latter organ, there was an extremely dense plexus of immunoreactive fibers and processes around the wall of capillaries. The present results suggest that the effects of acidic fibroblast growth factor on brain functions may be exerted through the circumventricular organs and/or ependymal cells.
Protons can release in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-like immunoreactivity from peripheral endings of capsaicin-sensitive afferents. Here we have studied the mechanism by which proton promotes CGRP-like immunoreactivity release and whether the neuropeptide released might exert a biological action. In muscle slices of guinea-pig urinary bladder high pH (pH 8 or 9) media neither enhanced CGRP-like immunoreactivity outflow nor affected the capsaicin-evoked CGRP-like immunoreactivity release. The CGRP-like immunoreactivity release evoked by superfusion with pH 5 medium was not affected by tetrodotoxin (0.3 microM) indomethacin (10 microM) or the protein kinase C inhibitor H-7 (30 microM). However, it was reduced by 35% in the presence of the voltage-sensitive Ca(2+)-channel antagonists nifedipine (1 microM) and omega-conotoxin (0.1 microM) and by 80% in presence of the capsaicin &quot;antagonist&quot; Ruthenium Red (10 microM). The CGRP-like immunoreactivity release by capsaicin (10 microM) was reduced by 80% in the presence of Ruthenium Red, and not affected by voltage-sensitive Ca(2+)-channel blockers, while that evoked by 80 mM K+ was decreased by 82% in the presence of nifedipine and omega-conotoxin. The Ca(2+)-channel agonist Bay K 8644 enhanced the high K(+)-evoked CGRP-like immunoreactivity release but not that induced by capsaicin or pH 5 medium. Exposure to pH 6 solution of one half of the neck of guinea-pig urinary bladder induced a slowly developing inhibition of electrically evoked contractions, that was absent in the half pre-exposed in vitro to a desensitizing dose of capsaicin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A significant depletion of the electroactive monoamines and their metabolites in the vicinity of a carbon fiber microelectrode may be induced by in vivo staircase voltammetry in the brain, even if the duration of the voltammetric scans is relatively short (approximately 5 s). The variation of this depletion was determined in the extracellular fluid of the cat thalamus at different durations of the pauses separating consecutive measurements. Pauses not shorter than 5 min ensured a nearly full relaxation, so that at the beginning of each subsequent scan a virtually undisturbed environment surrounded the electrode. With pauses shorter than 5 min, it is still possible to monitor major changes in the monoamine concentration. Staircase scans separated with 45 s pauses, for example, were suitable to study the increase in monoamine levels after administration of reserpine, and release phenomena stimulated with KCl were monitored with frequently repeated voltammetric pulses. The electrochemically induced depletion, on the other hand, can be used for characterizing the dynamics of mass transport in the studied brain structure. This was demonstrated with staircase voltammetry alternated with pauses of 1-100 s, and with quasi-chronoamperometry. In vivo brain voltammetry is generally used for monitoring extracellular monoamine (including dopamine) levels. These may be significantly altered by the voltammetric measurement itself through depletion in the vicinity of the electrode. This effect can be minimized with appropriate selection of sampling intervals and other parameters of staircase voltammetry. Conversely, depletion and the following relaxation can be used for determining dynamic characteristics of the studied brain structure which would be difficult to obtain otherwise.
The effect of glutamate and aspartate iontophoresis on extracellular pH was investigated in the turtle cerebellum in vitro. Both amino acids produced a rapid alkaline transient, typically followed by a prolonged acidification. These responses could be evoked in all layers of the cerebellum. Transition from bicarbonate to N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid-buffered media amplified the pH shifts. Similar alkaline-acid transients could be evoked in the molecular layer by electrical stimulation of the parallel fibers or the ipsilateral peduncle, or by superfusion of glutamate or aspartate. However, no alkaline shifts were evoked in the granular layer by either parallel fiber or peduncle stimulation. In contrast, the iontophoretically induced alkaline shifts were largest in the granular layer. Compared with the stimulus-evoked alkalinizations, the iontophoretic alkaline shifts were relatively insensitive to Mn2+ or Cd2+. These data suggest that the activity-dependent alkalinization of brain extracellular space is generated by a bicarbonate-independent mechanism related to excitatory synaptic transmission. The results are consistent with a flux of hydrogen ions through cationic channels, but do not support a direct role for voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. In view of the sensitivity of ion channels to changes in external pH, and the magnitude of the amino acid-induced pH shifts, these results indicate that extracellular pH could play an important modulatory role in excitatory synaptic transmission.
The superior colliculus sends a climbing fiber output to cerebellar vermal lobules VI-VII through the inferior olive. The present study in cats morphologically clarified the existence of a topographical organization in the tecto-olivo-cerebellar projection. A horseradish peroxidase study on the tecto-olivary projection showed that the rostral and caudal superior colliculus projected mostly contralaterally to the caudal and rostral areas of the caudomedial part of the medial accessory olive, respectively. The lateral superior colliculus was found to project more laterally than was the medial superior colliculus. Investigation on the olivocerebellar projection demonstrated that the rostral and caudal areas of the caudomedial part of the medial accessory olive sent climbing fiber terminals contralaterally to the lateral and medial parts of vermal lobules VI-VII, respectively. Thus, it was revealed that the rostral superior colliculus projected mostly to the medial part of ipsilateral vermal lobules VI-VII while the caudal superior colliculus projected mostly to the lateral part of ipsilateral vermal lobules VI-VII.
To study the projection from the pretectum to the lateral geniculate nucleus, we placed wheat-germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase into the lateral geniculate nuclei of six cats, allowed this marker to be retrogradely transported by afferent axons to their parent somata in the pretectum, and revealed the label in these cells with stabilized tetramethylbenzidine histochemistry. In three cases we made large pressure injections that completely infiltrated the lateral geniculate nucleus and extended into neighboring thalamic nuclei; in the other three we made smaller iontophoretic injections largely confined to the A- and C-laminae of the lateral geniculate nucleus. In both types of injection we found labeled pretectal cells mainly in the nucleus of the optic tract but also found some cells labeled in the olivary pretectal nucleus and the posterior pretectal nucleus. After one of the larger injections we analysed both sides of the pretectum and found that 11% of the labeled cells were located contralaterally and were distributed in the same three nuclei. We analysed only the ipsilateral side in the remaining five cats. In those five experiments we also immunohistochemically stained the pretectal sections with an antibody directed against the neurotransmitter, GABA. Of the retrogradely labeled pretectal cells, 40% were also labeled for GABA, and those were similar in soma size (350 microns 2 in cross-sectional area) to those labeled only with the retrograde marker (331 microns 2). GABA-positive cells not labeled by retrograde transport were smaller (246 microns 2) than either of these other cells populations. These results indicate that at least 40% of the cells involved in the projection from the pretectum to the lateral geniculate nucleus are GABAergic. We suggest that this extrathalamic projection may serve to inhibit thalamic GABAergic cells. This, in turn, would disinhibit geniculate relay cells, thereby facilitating the geniculate relay of retinal information to cortex.
Antisera raised against the fixation products of L-glutamate and L-aspartate were used, singly or in combination, to study the ultrastructural localization of the amino acids in the rat dorsal horn, with post-embedding immunogold techniques. Immunostaining for each of the amino acids was also combined with immunolocalization of GABA, an important inhibitory neurotransmitter in the spinal cord, or synaptophysin, a synaptic vesicle glycoprotein. In addition, we examined the localization of glutamate immunoreactivity in relation to that of calcitonin-gene related peptide and substance P, two neuropeptides present in high concentrations in the dorsal horn. Glutamate- and aspartate-immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies, dendrites, axons and terminals were apparent in the first three laminae of the dorsal horn. In somatic and dendritic profiles, the immunolabel was present over the general cytoplasm and mitochondria; in the terminals, it was found over small, agranular vesicles, mitochondria and, at times, synaptic densities. Quantitative estimation indicated that the colloidal gold density in the glutamate-immunoreactive terminals was five-fold more than in any other neuronal profile. Both glutamate- and aspartate-immunopositive terminals made asymmetric synaptic contacts onto unlabelled dendrites; glutamate-positive terminals often formed the core of type I and II glomeruli. After double labelling of the same sections, glutamate and aspartate immunoreactivities consistently occurred in different axonal and terminal profiles. In these preparations, it was clearly seen that glutamate-immunoreactive terminals were far more numerous than (more than 10-fold) those immunoreactive for aspartate. Double labelling for glutamate or aspartate and GABA also revealed distinct staining of different terminals. Simultaneous immunolocalization of each of the amino acids and synaptophysin showed the amino acid and glycoprotein immunoreactivities co-localized in small, agranular vesicles in immunoreactive terminals. Finally, triple labelling of the same sections for glutamate, calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P revealed that glutamate was often co-localized with either of the two neuropeptides in the same axonal boutons; terminals that showed simultaneous labelling for glutamate, calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P were also noted. In all cases, the glutamate immunoreactivity was restricted to small, clear vesicles whereas the neuropeptide immunoreactivities were present in larger, dense-cored vesicles. Our observations demonstrate that there is an abundant glutamate immunoreactivity in the superficial layers of the rat dorsal horn, localized in neuronal profiles distinct from those containing aspartate or GABA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) is a phosphoprotein of the nerve terminal membrane which has been linked to the development and restructuring of axonal connections. Using a monospecific antibody prepared in sheep against purified GAP-43, we examined the temporal and spatial changes in the distribution of this protein from embryonic stage day 13 (E13) to adulthood. At stages in which neurons are still dividing and migrating, levels of GAP-43 are extremely low, as is seen in the cortical plate throughout the embryonic period. With the onset of process outgrowth, intense GAP-43 immunoreactivity appears along the length of axons: by E13, such staining is already strong in the brainstem, where it continues up through the first postnatal week and then disappears. In the neocortex, intense fiber staining first appears several days later but ends at the same time as in the brainstem. At the end of the period of intense axonal staining there is a brief interval in which high levels of GAP-43 immunostaining are seen in the neuropil. In regions of the brain in which specific developmental events have been characterized anatomically and physiologically, the period of dense neuropil staining coincides with the formation of axonal end-arbors, the beginning of synaptogenesis, and the time at which synaptic organization can be modified by the impingent pattern of activity (i.e. the critical period). Over the next few days, staining in neuropil declines sharply in most regions except for certain structures in the rostral neuraxis which may be sites of ongoing synaptic remodeling.
The projection from the retina to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus in the primate arises from two morphologically distinct types of ganglion cells. The P-ganglion cells project to the parvocellular layers, the M-ganglion cells to the magnocellular layers. We have developed a neurofibrillar stain which stains the M-ganglion cell population with a high degree of selectivity allowing us to map their distribution across the retina. As with other ganglion cell types the M-ganglion cell density peaks close to the fovea and declines towards the periphery. At 1 mm from the fovea the proportion of M-ganglion cells ranges from 6 to 10% and then increases to about 8-10% over much of the retina except along the nasal horizontal meridian. Along the nasal horizontal meridian the percentage increases from 10% at 7 mm eccentricity to 20% or more at higher eccentricities. The increased percentage of M-ganglion cells in the nasal quadrant of the retina correlates with the relatively smaller dendritic trees of M-ganglion cells in this region.
Physiological studies have established that preganglionic sympathetic nerve fibers innervating the rat superior cervical ganglion release a second transmitter, in addition to acetylcholine. Based on pharmacological and histochemical investigations, possible candidates for this non-cholinergic neurotransmitter include vasoactive intestinal peptide and peptide histidine isoleucine amide. For example, previous immunohistochemical studies have demonstrated that antisera raised against both of these peptides stain neural processes in the rat preganglionic cervical sympathetic trunk and in the superior cervical ganglion. In the present study, it was found that, when the cervical sympathetic trunk was ligated, vasoactive intestinal peptide- and peptide histidine isoleucine amide-like immunoreactivities built up on both sides of the ligature. In addition, examination of the thoracic spinal cord in colchicine-treated animals revealed vasoactive intestinal peptide- and peptide histidine isoleucine amide-like immunoreactivies in neuronal cell bodies in the intermediolateral cell column and in the region of the lateral funiculus adjacent to it. In a second group of animals in which retrograde tracing techniques were used, these two regions of the spinal cord were shown to contain most of the cell bodies of the preganglionic neurons that project to the superior cervical ganglion. Smaller numbers of retrogradely labeled neurons were found dorsal to the central canal and in the nucleus intercalatus. When either vasoactive intestinal peptide- or peptide histidine isoleucine amide-like immunostaining and retrograde labeling were examined in the same animals, double-labeled neurons were found in the intermediolateral cell column and in the lateral funiculus. These data demonstrate that vasoactive intestinal peptide- and peptide histidine amide-like immunoreactivities are present in certain of the preganglionic neurons that project to the superior cervical ganglion, supporting the hypothesis that vasoactive intestinal peptide and peptide histidine isoleucine amide are released in the ganglion when these preganglionic neurons are activated.
The effect of acute dopamine receptor antagonist treatment on cellular prosomatostatin mRNA expression was investigated in the adult rat striatum using the technique of non-radioactive in situ hybridization. Adult female Wistar rats were given a single intraperitoneal injection of either raclopride (D2 antagonist), SCH 23390 (D1 antagonist) or the D1 (S) enantiomer SCH 23388. Animals were killed either 1, 3 or 9 h following the single i.p. injection and their brains rapidly removed. Striatal sections were then processed for in situ hybridization using an alkaline phosphatase-labelled oligonucleotide probe complementary to a portion of the rat somatostatin cDNA. Blockade of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors resulted in a significant decrease in the cellular content of prosomatostatin mRNA. However, no change in the number of prosomatostatin mRNA containing striatal cells was observed following any of the treatments at any time point. These findings demonstrate that the cellular content of prosomatostatin mRNA in the adult rat striatum is influenced by selective dopamine D1 and D2 receptor antagonists. Further, these findings are consistent with a functional interaction between dopamine and somatostatin in the rat striatum.
Glutamate, aspartate and the agonists of the excitatory amino acid receptors, N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate and quisqualate, evoked more release of both endogenous and preloaded exogenous taurine from cerebral cortical slices from three-day-old than from specimens from adult mice. The N-methyl-D-aspartate- and quisqualate-evoked release was blocked by D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and glutamatediethylester, respectively, in three-day-old mice but not in the adults. The kainate-evoked release was not affected by gamma-D-glutamyltaurine and gamma-D-glutamylglycine in either age group. Exposure of the slices to excitatory amino acids and their agonists caused intracellular swelling of the slices, which was directly proportional to the increase in taurine release in adult mice. In three-day-old mice the correlation between the swelling and taurine release was less pronounced. The excitatory amino acid receptors seem to modify more effectively the release of taurine in the developing than the adult brain. In the adults the evoked release of taurine may be related to cell volume regulation in the context of the excitation-coupled ionic and water movements across plasma membranes.
The ontogeny of muscarinic cholinergic binding sites was studied in rat fetal central nervous system by in vitro autoradiographic techniques using [3H]N-methyl scopolamine as ligand (1 nM). Nonspecific binding was determined after the addition of 1 microM atropine. The main findings of this study are the early appearance of muscarinic cholinergic binding sites in fetal rat central nervous system before gestational day 14, their subsequent spread in a caudofrontal direction and the rapid change of patterns within individual brain regions. Muscarinic cholinergic sites are present shortly after cell birth, though the time-lag between cell generation and expression of muscarinic sites differs between neuronal cell populations. High receptor densities are noted in certain brainstem nuclei that are important for early fetal and neonatal behaviors.
A detailed neurochemical analysis of the distribution of markers for the most relevant neurotransmitter systems within the rat hippocampal formation has been performed. The hippocampi, obtained from unfrozen brains of male Sprague-Dawley rats were subdissected into tissue parts containing mainly CA1, CA3 or the dentate gyrus, respectively. Each part was further divided into ventral and dorsal halves. In these six hippocampal subregions the concentrations of noradrenaline, dopamine, serotonin, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and the putative neurotransmitter amino acids glutamate, aspartate, GABA, glycine and taurine, and the levels of somatostatin and neuropeptide Y and the activities of choline acetyltransferase, acetylcholinesterase and glutamate decarboxylase were measured. A marked heterogeneity in the subregional distribution of markers for various neurotransmitter systems within the hippocampal formation was observed. Each neuronal marker was characterized by an individual pattern of distribution. Most of the markers showed a concentration-gradient, increasing from dorsal to ventral; only taurine was more abundant in the dorsal than in the ventral parts and no dorsoventral difference was seen for aspartate, glycine and neuropeptide Y. The highest molar ratios of total 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol to noradrenaline and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid to serotonin were found in the dorsal hippocampus. The levels of noradrenaline, GABA and glutamate decarboxylase activity were highest in the dentate gyrus and lowest in CA1. The concentrations of somatostatin were highest in CA1; those of serotonin were highest in CA3. Highest activities of choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase were found in the dentate gyrus; lowest activities were found in CA3. In CA3 the lowest values of glutamate, aspartate, taurine and somatostatin were also found. The heterogeneity in the distribution of individual neurochemical markers allows insights into possible functional differences of hippocampal subregions and provides a relevant basis for future neurochemical investigations in this brain area.
We have recorded cochlear potentials after perilymphatic perfusion of cumulative doses of the excitatory amino acid alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) which selectively recognizes the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate ionotropic receptor formerly known as the quisqualate receptor. Our results show that AMPA (1-80 microM) caused a significant suppression of the amplitude of the compound action potential evoked by acoustic stimulation. A total elimination of this potential at the 100 microM concentration was observed in all animals. In no case was the cochlear microphonic potential, a hair cell receptor potential, affected by AMPA. Histological examinations were performed either at the end of the physiological studies or on cochleas perfused for 10 min with a single dose of AMPA (50 or 100 microM). In both experimental conditions, a selective dendritic swelling or radial afferent nerve endings under the sensory inner hair cells was observed. No damage was found in both types of hair cells supporting cells, lateral and medial efferent fibers and spiral afferent nerve ending on the outer hair cells. The occurrence of the radial dendrite swelling was prevented when 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (500 microM) was perfused in the cochlea 10 min prior, then concomitantly with AMPA. The present study strongly suggests that non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, possibly of the AMPA subtype, are involved in the synaptic transmission between the inner hair cells and the primary auditory neurons. They provide further support for the hypothesis that L-glutamate, or another excitatory amino acid, acts as an inner hair cell neurotransmitter.
The ultrastructural organization of presumed catecholamine-containing boutons, in the dorsal horn of the cat lumbosacral spinal cord, was examined in an immunocytochemical study using an antiserum against tyrosine hydroxylase. The study was restricted to the first four laminae of Rexed. Light microscopic inspection revealed numerous, varicose, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons throughout this region of the spinal cord. Within laminae I and II the fibres exhibited a prominent rostrocaudal orientation, while in laminae III and IV they were organized predominantly dorsoventrally. Correlated ultrastructural analysis confirmed that these varicosities were synaptic boutons. Forty-five of these structures were examined through serial sections and they were found to form symmetrical (Gray type II) synaptic junctions with dendrites (95%) and somata (5%). Immunoreactive boutons were not observed to be either presynaptic or postsynaptic to axon terminals. These findings suggest that catecholamines within the spinal dorsal horn act through a postsynaptic action upon dorsal horn neurons.
The origin of the noradrenergic innervation of the preganglionic autonomic nuclei in the medulla oblongata and spinal cord is still controversial. In this investigation descending connections of the locus coeruleus to the dorsal motor vagus nucleus in the rat are studied with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin and horseradish peroxidase as neuroanatomical tracers. Locus coeruleus projections in the motor vagus nucleus are found in the medial part at rostral levels and in the lateral part at intermediate levels of this nucleus. The terminal labeling in the lateral intermediate part of the vagus nucleus appears in an area where possibly preganglionic parasympathetic cardiac neurons are located, suggesting that the locus coeruleus might be involved in regulation of cardiovascular functions. After small iontophoretic injections of horseradish peroxidase in the motor vagus nucleus, retrogradely labeled cells are found in the ventral part of the locus coeruleus and occasionally in the dorsal part of the nucleus. The results show that the locus coeruleus-dorsal motor vagus nucleus pathway may participate in the inhibition of the cardiac preganglionic neurons in the dorsal motor vagus nucleus by the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus.
The effect of systemically administered medetomidine, a selective alpha-2-adrenoceptor agonist, was studied by electrophysiological recordings of the peripherally evoked responses of three different types of sensory neuronal populations in the rat: medial thalamic neurons exclusively responding to mechanical cutaneous stimuli at noxious intensities, spinothalamic tract neurons of the spinal cord responding exclusively or differentially to mechanical cutaneous stimuli at noxious intensities, and low-threshold mechanoreceptive spinal dorsal horn neurons with ascending projections. The neuronal effects were compared with the behavioral data obtained in mechanically and thermally induced nociceptive tail reflex tests in intact and spinal rats. A reversal of the antinociceptive effects was attempted by systemically (1.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or intrathecally (25 micrograms) administered atipamezole, a selective alpha-2-adrenoceptor antagonist. Systemically administered medetomidine produced an atipamezole-reversible, dose-dependent suppressive effect on the evoked responses of nociceptive medial thalamic and spinothalamic tract neurons. A lower dose of medetomidine was needed to suppress significantly (half-maximally) evoked responses of the nociceptive medial thalamic neurons (100 micrograms/kg) than those of the nociceptive spinothalamic tract neurons (300 micrograms/kg). The decrease of evoked responses of the nociceptive spinothalamic tract neurons was accompanied by a decrease in spontaneous activity. The responses of the low-threshold mechanoreceptive projection neurons of the spinal cord were not influenced by medetomidine (30-300 micrograms/kg). The reflex studies with a (anesthetic) medetomidine dose of 300 micrograms/kg indicated that in intact and otherwise drug-free rats, medetomidine produced a significant prolongation of the nociceptive reflex response latency to a tail-pinch and heat; these antinociceptive effects of systemic medetomidine were reversed by systemically and intrathecally applied atipamezole. In spinal rats systemically applied medetomidine (300 micrograms/kg) also produced a significant prolongation of the tail-flick latency, which was reversed by systemically applied atipamezole. The results suggest that a high anesthetic dose of systemically applied medetomidine (300 micrograms/kg) can suppress nociceptive sensory neuronal and reflex responses due to spinal segmental mechanisms through an action on alpha-2-adrenoceptors. This spinal effect is selective to responses of nociceptive neurons, and at least partly postsynaptic as indicated by the concomitant decrease in spontaneous activity. At a lower, subanesthetic (but sedative) dose (100 micrograms/kg) the antinociceptive effect of systemically applied medetomidine can be explained by supraspinal alpha-2-adrenergic mechanisms.
Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings were made from acutely dissociated neurons obtained from the embryonic chick ciliary ganglion. Recording pipettes were filled with salines containing 120 mM CsCl or 120 mM tetraethylammonium-Cl. Application of depolarizing voltage commands evoked L-type Ca2+ currents and, at voltages positive to 0 mV, an unidentified cationic conductance. The unidentified cationic conductances made the Ca2+ currents appear to undergo voltage-dependent inactivation and made a large contribution to tail currents present during repolarizing voltage steps. Ca2+ Ca2+ currents showed little or no sign of inactivation and did not reverse at voltages up to +60 mV. Application of somatostatin-14 or somatostatin-28 produced a reversible inhibition of Ca2+ currents in virtually all cells, regardless of size. Somatostatin-28 (1-14) was inactive. The effects of somatostatin-14 and somatostatin-28 were attenuated by pretreatment with pertussis toxin, suggesting a role for G-proteins in mediating the response. Somatostatin-14 and somatostatin-28 had no effect on voltage-dependent K+ currents. The results suggest that somatostatin peptides modulate the motor output of the chick ciliary ganglion.
The pattern of enkephalin immunoreactivity was examined in the adult rat neostriatum, at various times after unilateral removal of the nigrostriatal dopamine input by 6-hydroxydopamine injection into the medial forebrain bundle. Animals were examined 12 days, 26 days or 13 months after the lesion. Enkephalin-immunoreactive synaptic boutons (n = 1018) in the control and the dopamine-depleted neostriatum were analysed in the electron microscope. The area of enkephalin-immunoreactive synaptic bouton profiles was significantly larger in the dopamine-depleted neostriatum and this increase was maximal in rats in which the lesion had been made 26 days or 13 months previously (50% increase). The synaptic specializations of these enkephalin-immunoreactive boutons were significantly longer in the neostriatum from the injected side. Dendritic shafts were the principal postsynaptic target of these boutons (67%) but dendritic spines (18%), perikarya (6.5%) and unidentifiable small dendrites or spines (8.5%) were also contacted. The proportions of enkephalin-immunoreactive boutons on the different postsynaptic targets were not altered by the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. The increase in enkephalin immunoreactivity observed in the dopamine-depleted neostriatum in previous studies may be explained by the increase in the size of enkephalin-immunoreactive synaptic boutons found in the present ultrastructural investigation. The observations do not rule out the possibility that there is also an increase in the number of immunoreactive synaptic boutons, due to, for example, sprouting of the existing enkephalin-containing fibres.
In order to study the role of the dopaminergic system in the mu- or delta-opioid inhibition of endogenous acetylcholine release evoked by glutamate, we blocked the dopaminergic transmission with dopaminergic antagonists and/or 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. In all these experimental conditions we show that dopaminergic antagonists by themselves could not modify the glutamate-evoked acetylcholine release, and the selective D1 antagonist (SCH 23390) was unable to modify the mu- or delta-opioid inhibition of glutamate-evoked acetylcholine release. However, in the non-lesioned animals and in the contralateral striata to 6-hydroxydopamine lesions, D2 antagonists (haloperidol or sulpiride, 10 microM) prevented the effects of delta-opiate agonists ([D-Ala2, D-Leu5]enkephalin, 1 microM and [D-Pen2, D-Pen5]enkephalin, 0.1 microM), but not the effects of mu-opiate agonists (morphine or [D-Ala2, Gly(ol)5]enkephalin, 1 microM). Furthermore, [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]enkephalin inhibition of glutamate-evoked acetylcholine release was prevented by D2 antagonists in a concentration-dependent manner. Instead, in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned side, while [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]enkephalin (1 microM) inhibition of glutamate-evoked acetylcholine release was completely abolished, morphine (1 microM) inhibition remained unchanged. We conclude that the inhibition of glutamate-evoked endogenous acetylcholine release by delta-opiate agonists, unlike mu-opiate agonists, depends on dopaminergic terminals and D2 receptors. Furthermore, these results suggest that the inhibition by delta-opiate agonists could be the result of dopamine release from dopaminergic terminals and its action on D2 receptors.
Using quantitative autoradiography, the cellular localization and characterization of cerebellar excitatory amino acid binding sites in normal, Purkinje cell-deficient and granuloprival (granule cell-deficient) mouse cerebella were investigated. In the molecular layer of normal mouse cerebellum, the quisqualate subtype of excitatory amino acid receptor (assayed by [3H](RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate, quisqualate-sensitive L-[3H]glutamate, and [3H]6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione binding) predominated. In the granule cell layer of the cerebellum, N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive L-[3H]glutamate and [3H]glycine binding sites were predominant. In the molecular layer of Purkinje cell-deficient mutant mice, [3H](RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate binding sites and [3H]6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione binding were reduced to 24% (P less than 0.01) and 36% (P less than 0.001) of control, respectively, while quisqualate-sensitive [3H]glutamate binding sites were reduced to 54% of control (P less than 0.01). N-Methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive [3H]glutamate and [3H]glycine binding were unchanged. In the granule cell layer of these mouse cerebella, there was no change in excitatory amino acid receptor binding. In the molecular layer of granuloprival mouse cerebella, [3H](RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate binding was increased to 205% of control (P less than 0.01), [3H]6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione binding was increased to 136% of control (P less than 0.02), and quisqualate-sensitive [3H]glutamate binding was increased to 152% of control (P less than 0.01). N-Methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive [3H]glutamate and [3H]glycine binding were unchanged. In areas of granule cell depletion N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive [3H]glutamate and [3H]glycine binding were reduced to 68% (P less than 0.01) and 59% (P less than 0.01) of control, respectively. In the granule cell layer, binding to quisqualate receptors was not significantly different from binding in controls with any of the ligands tested. These results suggest that three different receptor assays: [3H](RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate, quisqualate-sensitive L-[3H]glutamate, and [3H]6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione binding can be used to demonstrate that quisqualate receptor specific binding sites are located on Purkinje cell dendrites in the molecular layer of cerebellum, and that these binding sites apparently up-regulate in response to granule cell ablation and Purkinje cell deafferentation.
When the brain temperature was lowered by 2 degrees C from normothermic temperature, a protective effect on postischemic neuronal death was exhibited and levels of extracellular glutamate were attenuated to about half of those at normothermic brain temperature in the gerbil hippocampus. Hypothermia has been reported to confer a protective effect on ischemia-induced delayed neuronal death. The present study was carried out to quantify this protective effect of hypothermia on the degree of alteration in extracellular release of glutamate during ischemia and the final histopathological outcome in the hippocampus. Extracellular glutamate levels were measured by microdialysis. In gerbils whose brain temperature was maintained at normothermia (37 degrees C), glutamate increased during ischemia and the early period of recirculation (by 15-fold), and CA1 neurons were consistently damaged. In animals whose brain temperature was maintained at 35 or 33 degrees C during ischemia, the release of glutamate was significantly attenuated to half or a quarter, respectively, at 37 degrees C. In animals whose brain temperature was maintained at 31 degrees C during ischemia, the release of glutamate was slightly lower than that at 33 degrees C. No CA1 ischemic neuronal damage was seen in 60% of gerbils at 35 degrees C and none was seen in any gerbils at 33 and 31 degrees C. In animals whose brain temperature was maintained at 39 degrees C during ischemia, the release of glutamate was slightly higher than that at 37 degrees C, and a high mortality rate of animals (75%) was observed. Our results reinforce other recent evidence suggesting that one of the mechanisms by which lowering of the brain temperature by only a few degrees during ischemia exerts a protective effect in the hippocampus, involves the reduction of ischemia-induced glutamate release.
The opiate peptide enkephalin has been immunohistochemically localized within specific populations of climbing fibers and mossy fibers in the opossum's cerebellum. The intention of the present study was to determine the physiological effects of this peptide on Purkinje cell activity as well as to examine interactions between this peptide and the excitatory amino acids glutamate and aspartate. Iontophoretic application of enkephalin onto Purkinje cells in the posterior lobe vermis and adjacent hemisphere suppressed activity in nine of 16 (56%) spontaneously active units. Enkephalin increased the spontaneous activity of one unit and had no effect on six (38%) of the units. In addition, this peptide blocked the excitatory effects elicited by iontophoretic application of glutamate in 34 of 35 (97%) units tested and of aspartate in all cases. Enkephalin had no effect on one cell activated by glutamate. Simultaneous application of naloxone, a nonspecific opiate receptor antagonist, did not block the suppressive effects of enkephalin. Rather, there was a potentiation of suppressive responses as compared to that seen when each is applied alone. The results suggest that classically defined excitatory afferent projections to the cerebellum may be capable of both exciting and suppressing the activity of their target neurons. The excitatory action is likely mediated by an amino acid, whereas the release of the peptide enkephalin results in a decrease in unit activity. Further, it appears that enkephalin mediates its suppressive effect through mechanisms that are not mediated by opioid receptors.
The aim of this study was to examine the development of the basalocortical pathway by using choline acetyltransferase and nerve growth factor receptor immunocytochemistry, acetylcholinesterase histochemistry and retrograde axonal transport. The observations were made in the ferret because in this species brain development occurs over a much more protracted period than in the rat. Staining for choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in the brain was minimal before birth. Adult levels of staining for the enzyme were not seen in cell bodies until three weeks after birth and in axons up to six weeks after birth. This, however, did not mean that presumptive cholinergic pathways are absent early in development. There was strong staining for nerve growth factor receptor in basal forebrain neurons from at least two weeks before birth. Positive staining for acetylcholinesterase was found in axons that begin to invade the cerebral cortex a week before birth. The retrograde axonal transport technique showed that the basalocortical pathway has a normal organization in the neonate. The conclusion is that cholinergic pathways form early in the prenatal period in the ferret but express their transmitter function late in postnatal development.
The neurotoxicity of glutamate was investigated quantitatively in mixed neuronal and glial spinal cord cell cultures from fetal mice at 12-13 days of gestation. Five-minute exposure to 10-1000 microM glutamate produced widespread acute neuronal swelling, followed by neuronal degeneration over the next 24 h (EC50 for death about 100-200 microM); glia were not injured. Glutamate was neurotoxic in cultures as young as four days in vitro, although greater death was produced in older cultures. By 14-20 days in vitro, 80-90% of the neuronal population was destroyed by a 5-min exposure to 500 microM glutamate. Acute neuronal swelling following glutamate exposure was prevented by replacement of extracellular sodium with equimolar choline, with minimal reduction in late cell death. Removal of extracellular calcium enhanced acute neuronal swelling but attenuated late neuronal death. Both acute neuronal swelling and late degeneration were effectively blocked by the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dextrorphan and by the novel competitive antagonist CGP 37849. Ten micromolar 7-chlorokynurenate also inhibited glutamate neurotoxicity; protection was reversed by the addition of 1 mM glycine to the bathing medium. These observations suggest that glutamate is a potent and rapidly acting neurotoxin on cultured spinal cord neurons, and support involvement of excitotoxicity in acute spinal cord injury. Similar to telencephalic neurons, spinal neurons exposed briefly to glutamate degenerate in a manner dependent on extracellular Ca2+ and the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
The data in the preceding paper [Halliday G. M. and McLachlan E. M. (1991) Neuroscience 43, 531-550] suggest that some neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla contain some catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes but may not produce catecholamines. The present study addresses this question directly by comparing the anatomical location and morphology of these neurons with those revealed by formaldehyde-induced fluorescence. Catecholamine-containing somata of rats and guinea-pigs have been demonstrated following FAGLU-perfusion in normal untreated animals, in animals pretreated with pargyline (a monoamine oxidase inhibitor), and in animals pretreated with colchicine (to block axoplasmic transport). The number and location of fluorescent somata in the ventrolateral medulla have been determined in serial coronal sections of tissue from the cervical spinal cord to the level of the facial nucleus. Catecholamine-fluorescent neurons at different levels of the ventrolateral medulla varied in their topography and sensitivity to pharmacological manipulation. However, the rostrocaudal distributions in rats and guinea-pigs were quantitatively remarkably similar implying that homologous groups of catecholamine-containing neurons exist. Comparison between these distributions and those of somata stained immunohistochemically for catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes and neuropeptide Y [Halliday G. M. and McLachlan E. M. (1991) Neuroscience 43, 531-550] revealed that the majority of fluorescent neurons in both species probably contain dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y as well as tyrosine hydroxylase. Those neurons lying just caudal to the facial nucleus immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase but not dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y also lack catecholamine fluorescence. This rostral group of somata can be identified immunohistochemically in cats. The size and morphology of catecholamine-fluorescent neurons have been analysed in detail, and compared with the same features of the immunohistochemically stained neurons. Three morphological types of catecholamine-containing neurons could be distinguished in material prepared by both techniques from rats and guinea-pigs, and in immunohistochemical material from cats. Rostral tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons, which differed morphologically from these three types, were present in all three species. On the basis of anatomical location, neuronal morphology and chemical characteristics, four groups of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons have been identified in the ventrolateral medulla of rats, guinea-pigs and cats. Only the caudal three of these four groups appear to synthesize catecholamine, probably noradrenaline. From published data it seems likely that these four groups of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons have distinct projections and functions related to cardiovascular and respiratory control.
Neurons in the ventrolateral medulla oblongata of rats, guinea-pigs and cats that contain tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase and neuropeptide Y have been demonstrated immunohistochemically in serial coronal sections of tissue taken from the level of the cervical spinal cord to the level of the facial nucleus. The anatomical distribution of these neurons has been described, quantified and reconstructed in three dimensions to compare the neuron populations between species. In all species, between 50 and 90% of immunoreactive neurons lay rostral to the level of the obex. There were no significant differences in the number and distribution of neurons containing catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes between control animals and those pretreated with colchicine, with two exceptions: all dopamine-beta-hydroxylase neurons were weakly immunoreactive without colchicine pretreatment in cats, and pretreatment with colchicine revealed a small rostral group of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in guinea-pigs. There were remarkable similarities in the rostrocaudal distributions of neurons containing tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y in relation to comparable anatomical landmarks across the species. However, the distributions of neurons containing tyrosine hydroxylase. Phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-positive neurons, while densely stained in rats, were only faintly stained in cats and absent in guinea-pigs; the distribution of these neurons was similar to the distribution of neurons containing only tyrosine hydroxylase. The similarity of the distribution of neurons demonstrated using tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y immunohistochemistry implies that homologous catecholamine-containing neuron groups do exist in the ventrolateral medulla despite the variation in phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase between species. In contrast to the previous classification of neuron groups into A1 and C1 based on the presence or absence of this latter enzyme, the data suggest that a discrete group of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons, which probably do not contain dopamine-beta-hydroxylase or neuropeptide Y, can be distinguished in the rostral ventrolateral medulla of all species. The absence of detectable dopamine-beta-hydroxylase in this group of neurons suggests that they may not synthesize either adrenaline or noradrenaline.
Indirect immunocytochemistry of striatal neurons in primary culture, generated from the embryonic mouse brain, suggested that 2-4% of the neurons contained somatostatin-like immunoreactivity; the majority of these cells also contained neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity, characteristic of a subset of striatal interneurons. Although 10-15% of cultured striatal neurons showed moderate or intense immunoreactivity for calbindin-D28k, the majority of neurons with somatostatin-like immunoreactivity did not contain calbindin-D28k-like immunoreactivity; parvalbumin immunoreactivity was absent from the culture preparation. A highly sensitive radioimmunoassay was used to examine the actions of depolarizing agents and excitatory amino acids on the release of endogenous somatostatin-like immunoreactivity from striatal interneurons. During a 15 min incubation period, 47 +/- 10 fmol of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity were released from 14 days in vitro striatal neurons, cultured in 35 mm dishes. Depolarization with 56 mM KCl or 10 micrograms/ml veratrine resulted in an additional 105 +/- 9 and 56 +/- 5 fmol, respectively, of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity released; the release evoked by veratrine was blocked by 1 microM tetrodotoxin. In the presence of 100 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate, 112 +/- 21 fmol of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity (above basal) were released (+238%); the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release was dose-dependent (EC50, 20 microM), attenuated in the absence of added Ca2+, potentiated in the absence of added Mg2+ and unaffected by the presence of 1 microM tetrodotoxin. The selective antagonists 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (100 microM) and MK-801 (1 microM) blocked the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity; KCl-evoked release was unaffected. Kainate was slightly more effective, yet five-fold less potent (EC50, 100 microM), than N-methyl-D-aspartate in evoking somatostatin-like immunoreactivity release; quisqualate was marginally effective. The results of this study suggest that N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate receptors are present on striatal somatostatinergic interneurons in primary culture.
We employed the whole cell patch-clamp technique to examine the ionic currents induced via activation of kainate/quisqualate receptors on striatal neurons in primary culture when N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors were blocked by selective antagonists. Bath perfusion of 10 microM-1 mM each of quisqualate, glutamate, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (a selective quisqualate agonist) or kainate, induced only a sustained current, but more rapid application by pressure ejection of each of the first three agonists (but not kainate) also activated a rapidly desensitizing current. The current induced by a near-saturating concentration of kainate (1 mM) was, on average, 16-fold larger than the maximum sustained current induced by quisqualate (10 microM), or 7.5-fold larger than that induced by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (100 microM) or glutamate (100 microM). When kainate (100 microM-10 mM) was co-applied with each of the agonists (1 microM-1 mM), the sustained current was not the algebraic sum of the currents activated by kainate or the other agonist alone; rather, the kainate-induced current was increasingly occluded by co-application with increasing concentrations of another agonist. The potency to occlude kainate-induced current had a rank order of quisqualate greater than alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate approximately glutamate; although at sufficiently high concentrations all three agonists could occlude the kainate-induced current completely. When kainate and quisqualate were co-applied during the continued presence of quisqualate, the onset of the kainate-induced sustained current was dramatically slowed. However, the steady-state occlusion by quisqualate could be abolished when the ratio kainate to quisqualate was raised to 100:1; therefore, the occlusion appears to involve a competition between kainate and quisqualate at some shared receptor binding sites which have a higher affinity for quisqualate than kainate.
Patterns of immunoreactivity for calcium-binding protein, tyrosine hydroxylase and four neuropeptides in the ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle and ventromedial parts of the caudate nucleus and putamen) were compared to patterns of these markers in the dorsal striatum (the majority of the neostriatum) in rhesus monkey. The striatal mosaic was delineated by calcium-binding protein and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivities. Both markers were found preferentially in the matrix of the dorsal striatum. The mosaic configurations of tyrosine hydroxylase, but not calcium-binding protein immunoreactivity, were similar in dorsal and ventral striatal regions. Substance P and leucine-enkephalin were not distributed homogeneously; distinct types and the prevalence of patches of substance P and leucine-enkephalin immunoreactivity distinguish the dorsal striatum from the ventral striatum and distinguish the caudate nucleus from the putamen. In the dorsal striatum, substance P and leucine-enkephalin patches consist of dense islands of immunoreactive neurons and puncta or clusters of immunoreactive neurons marginated by a dense rim of terminal-like puncta; the matrix was also enriched in leucine-enkephalin-immunoreactive neurons but contained less substance P-immunoreactive neurons. Patches were more prominent in the caudate nucleus than in the putamen. In the caudate, compartments low in tyrosine hydroxylase and calcium-binding protein immunoreactivities corresponded to cytologically identified cell islands and to patches enriched in substance P and leucine-enkephalin. These patches had a discrete infrastructure based on the location of substance P and leucine-enkephalin-immunoreactive neurons and terminals. In the ventral striatum, patches that showed low levels of substance P and leucine-enkephalin immunoreactivities were embedded in a matrix rich in immunoreactive cell bodies, fibers and terminals. In the accumbens, regions showing little tyrosine hydroxylase were in spatial register with patches low in substance P and leucine-enkephalin. Neurotensin- and somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons or processes were also compartmentally organized, particularly in the ventral striatum. Neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons were present predominantly in the nucleus accumbens but not in the dorsal striatum. Some regions enriched in neurotensin immunoreactivity were spatially registered with zones low in tyrosine hydroxylase, substance P and zones enriched in leucine-enkephalin. Areas enriched in somatostatin-immunoreactive processes overlapped with both tyrosine hydroxylase-rich and -poor regions in the ventral striatum. Our results show that the chemoarchitectonic topography of the striatal mosaic is different in the dorsal and ventral striatum of rhesus monkey and that the compartmental organization of some neurotransmitters/neuropeptides in the ventral striatum is variable and not as easily divisible into conventional patch and matrix regions as in the dorsal striatum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Long-term potentiation induced by high-frequency stimulation of Schaffer collaterals in slices of rat hippocampus is accompanied by protein cross-linking by the Ca(2+)-dependent enzyme transglutaminase. This conclusion was drawn from the accumulation of the &quot;isodipeptide&quot; epsilon(gamma-glutamyl)lysine in the proteolytic digests of tetanized, but not of control, slices. The isopeptide bond is formed by transglutaminase between glutamyl-gamma-CONH2 and lysyl-epsilon-NH2 groups of proteins. It is suggested that the Ca(2+-induced covalent cross-linking of neuronal, probably dendritic, proteins may be part of the mechanism of long-term plastic changes via stabilization of newly formed supramolecular protein assemblies at the synapse.
The effect of treatment with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) and carbidopa for five weeks on the survival of rat fetal dopaminergic ventral mesencephalon cells implanted into the denervated striatum of rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine nigrostriatal lesions was assessed. Rats receiving unilateral nigral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions followed by sham striatal grafts (Groups A and B) showed no recovery of (+)-amphetamine- or apomorphine-induced motor asymmetry. Rats in Group B (receiving treatment with L-DOPA and carbidopa) showed an increase in apomorphine-induced contralateral rotation and stereotypy. Animals receiving unilateral nigral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions followed by fetal striatal dopamine grafts (Groups C and D) showed complete recovery of (+)-amphetamine-induced rotation and a decrease of apomorphine-induced contralateral rotation. Treatment of animals in Groups B and D with L-DOPA (200 mg/kg per 24 h) and carbidopa (25 mg/kg per 24 h) by mouth for five weeks had no effect on the behavioural response to (+)-amphetamine. In the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned animals there was loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area of greater than 97% and to 66%, respectively, compared to the intact side. The number and morphology of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in the intact substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area was not altered by treatment with L-DOPA and carbidopa. In the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned striatum of rats receiving a sham graft (Group A) or a sham graft and treatment with L-DOPA and carbidopa (Group B) there were no tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells or fibres visible.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Single neurons from the substantia nigra of the adult guinea-pig were dissociated. Two morphological types of neurons were identified: (i) large multipolar neurons (20-40 microns greatest diameter) and (ii) small fusiform neurons (less than 20 microns diameter). Neurons of both types showed catecholamine fluorescence and were retrogradely labelled by rhodamine-conjugated microspheres injected into the striatum. Two types of neuron (Type A and Type B) were also identified electrophysiologically in perforated patch recordings of membrane potential and whole-cell current. Type A neurons had a low spontaneous firing frequency (5 Hz) broad action potentials (4 ms) and a threshold of approximately -45 mV. They were inhibited by the dopamine D2 receptor agonist, quinpirole. Type B neurons were characterized by a faster firing frequency (25 Hz), shorter action potential duration (1.5 ms) and a threshold of approximately -50 mV. These cells were unaffected by quinpirole. Large multipolar neurons were usually found to be of the A type and small fusiform, neurons of the B type. The properties of the large multipolar, Type A neurons suggest that they form part of the nigrostriatal, dopaminergic population of the pars compacta.
The Ca(2+)-dependent release of the neurotransmitter glutamate from purified nerve terminals (synaptosomes) of the rat hippocampus was studied in a rapid perfusion apparatus. The response of the terminals was investigated with respect to the kinetics and duration of the release of endogenous glutamate upon brief and sustained stimulation and upon repetitive stimulation. The synaptosomes were stimulated by sustained chemical depolarization (0.5-3 min 30 mM K+). The cellular levels of glutamate, free Ca2+ and ATP in the nerve terminals were measured. The Ca(2+)-dependent release of glutamate showed an immediate elevation upon K(+)-depolarization. When the stimulation was maintained, a prolonged phase of glutamate release was observed. After 3 min, the Ca(2+)-dependent release stopped, although K(+)-depolarization was still effective. When synaptosomes were stimulated again after a relatively short stimulation period (30 s), the second response was similar to the previous one. After a longer stimulation period, maintained until termination of release, the second response did not show the immediate initial elevation of Ca(2+)-dependent glutamate release. Only 30 s after stimulation the release developed with a time profile comparable to the first response. This initial lack of response was not due to low cytosolic levels of glutamate or ATP or to changes in cellular Ca(2+)-buffering. It can be concluded that the capacity to release glutamate after brief depolarizations is fully restored during the repolarization period. However, if stimulation periods are of long duration (until termination of release), this capacity is no longer fully restored, especially with respect to a fast component of release. New glutamate is recruited only during the subsequent depolarization and with a delay.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the pilocarpine model of epilepsy, dopamine can either inhibit (via D2 receptors) or facilitate (via D1 receptors) the spread of limbic motor seizures. The anticonvulsant action of D2 receptor activation has been localized to the anterior striatum, but disappears if excessive damage is caused to the overlying cerebral cortex. This study examines the possibility that the corticostriatal projection is involved in the anticonvulsant response to striatal D2 receptor stimulation, by comparing the seizure-protecting efficacy of intrastriatal trans-(+)-4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-propyl-2H-pyrazolo-(3,4-g)quinol ine hydrochloride (LY 171555) in control rats, and in rats bearing discrete bilateral kainic acid lesions of the cerebral cortex. The results show that neurotoxin injection induces a punctate lesion of the primary motor area of the cortex in each hemisphere, with no injury to the underlying caudate-putamen, or to more distant structures such as the hippocampus. The lesion, however, was sufficient to abolish the protective effect of intrastriatal LY 171555 against pilocarpine challenge. To explain these findings, an interplay between nigrostriatal dopaminergic and corticostriatal glutamatergic neurons is proposed, in which the anticonvulsant tendency of the excitatory amino acid is accentuated by dopamine, probably by acting on D2 receptors which facilitate the release of glutamate from axon terminals.
Fluids were collected from the rabbit neocortex during a tetanic stimulation of the cortical surface. When these samples from the neocortex were applied on the guinea-pig hippocampal slices, only those fractions containing substances with molecular weights less than 3000, 3000-10,000 and greater than 50,000 and not with other molecular weights, could induce long-term potentiation of population spikes in the CAI area in response to stratum radiatum stimulation. Intracellular recordings from the CAI neurons revealed that the long-term potentiation-inducing substances increased the excitatory postsynaptic potential without changing the membrane potential and the input resistance of these cells. A pretreatment of the rabbits with MK-801 prevented the release of the long-term potentiation-inducing substances. 2-Amino-5-phosphonovalerate was unable to block the long-term potentiation-inducing action of the substances from the rabbit neocortex. Gel-electrophoresis of the substances collected from the rabbit neocortex revealed the presence of an acidic peptide with a molecular weight of about 69,000. These results indicate that tetanic stimulation of rabbit neocortex results in a release of substances with molecular weights of less than 3000, 3000-10,000 and greater than 50,000 that could induce long-term potentiation in guinea-pig hippocampal slices. The release, but not the long-term potentiation-inducing action, of these substances appears to depend on the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. The long-term potentiation-inducing substance in the greater than 50,000 mol. wt fraction may be an acidic peptide with a molecular weight of about 69,000.
In a previous work, we have shown that GABA inhibits the release of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-melanotropin) from hypothalamic neurons through activation of GABAA receptors [Delbende et al. (1989) Brain Res. 497, 86-93]. Since GABA-gated channel activity can be allosterically modulated by a variety of compounds including benzodiazepines, we have investigated the effect of benzodiazepines in the control of alpha-melanotropin release by the rat basal hypothalamus. This study was conducted in vitro using perifused rat hypothalamic slices and the amount of alpha-melanotropin release was monitored with a sensitive and highly specific radioimmunoassay. Infusion of clonazepam (50 microM), a selective agonist for central-type benzodiazepine binding sites, induced an inhibition of KCl (50 mM)-evoked alpha-melanotropin release. The inhibitory effect of clonazepam was rapid and reversible. Administration of Ro 15-1788 (100 microM), a specific antagonist for central-type benzodiazepine receptors or SR 95531, a GABAA receptor antagonist, completely reversed the inhibitory effect of clonazepam. In addition, Ro 15-1788 and SR 95531 both enhanced the amplitude of the response observed during prolonged KCl infusion on alpha-melanotropin neurons, suggesting the existence of a tonic inhibitory effect of endogenous GABA and/or benzodiazepines in the release of alpha-melanotropin by hypothalamic neurons. To investigate further the effect of benzodiazepines in the regulation of alpha-melanotropin neurons, rats were treated in vivo with clonazepam (5 mg/kg) or the non-selective benzodiazepine receptor agonist diazepam (3 mg/kg). Both compounds caused a significant increase in the content of alpha-melanotropin and beta-endorphin in the rat hypothalamus within 3 h.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Firing patterns, action potential characteristics and some active membrane properties of guinea-pig medial septum/diagonal band neurons were studied in an in vitro slice preparation. A comparison was made between several types of cells classified according to either extracellularly recorded (n = 130) or intracellularly recorded (n = 30) electrophysiological characteristics. Using multi-barrel extracellular electrodes, three principal cell types were distinguished: slow rhythmic firing cells (29%), fast rhythmic firing cells (65%) and burst-firing cells (6%). Most slow firing cells could also be distinguished from other cell types by their relatively longer action potential duration and a characteristic cadmium-sensitive &quot;hump&quot; in the repolarization phase of the action potential. These characteristics of slow firing cells matched well with the characteristics of cholinergic, slow afterhyperpolarization cells previously identified with intracellular recordings. The action potential shape, firing rate and firing pattern characteristics of about 60% of extracellularly recorded fast rhythmic firing cells matched those of previously identified non-cholinergic fast afterhyperpolarization cells. The remaining extracellularly recorded, rhythmic firing cells (about 10% of slow firing and 40% of fast firing cells) had a mixture of characteristics which precluded unequivocal classification as to cholinergic or non-cholinergic cell type. Using intracellular recording, the bee venom toxin, apamin, was shown to attenuate the characteristic post spike slow afterhyperpolarization of cholinergic cells and greatly enhanced their firing rate to depolarizing pulses. Apamin often attenuated a smaller and more transient afterhyperpolarization found in identified non-cholinergic cells, but firing rate was increased only slightly. Extracellular recordings from slow and fast rhythmic firing cells in the presence of apamin showed that excitability of slow firing cells was enhanced significantly more than fast firing cells. The apamin data support the hypothesis that extracellularly recorded slow firing cells are cholinergic. We conclude that extracellularly recorded medial septum/diagonal band cells characterized by broad action potentials, slow rhythmic firing under microiontophoresed glutamate and a signature &quot;hump&quot; in the falling phase of the action potential are cholinergic cells. Extracellularly recorded fast rhythmic firing cells with a narrow action potential and no &quot;hump&quot; in the action potential are likely to be non-cholinergic cells. This extracellular electrophysiological &quot;fingerprint&quot; for cholinergic medial septum/diagonal band cells in vitro may now be extended to studies in vivo where controversy remains as to the neurochemical identity of basal forebrain cells involved in control of hippocampal slow rhythmic activity.
We have previously shown that stimulation of striatal D1 receptors affects dopaminergic nigrostriatal terminal excitability, which is thought to be an index of biophysical events resulting from the activation of receptors on the presynaptic membrane. The experiments presented here further examine the locus and bases of these D1 effects in the rat. We now report that striatal administration of the D1 receptor selective antagonist R-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazapine+ ++-7-ol-HCl (SCH 23390) produces a paradoxical agonist-like decrease in dopaminergic terminal excitability. This effect is blocked by pretreatment with the dopamine synthesis inhibitor, alpha-methyl-paratyrosine, suggesting that the action of SCH 23390 is dependent upon endogenous dopamine. Further, haloperidol pretreatment also prevents the SCH 23390-induced decrease in terminal excitability, confirming that dopamine, acting through a dopamine receptor, is responsible for this agonist-like action. Striatal application of the active R-(+) enantiomer of the dopaminergic D1-selective agonist 1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydrol-(1H)-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol-HCl (R-SKF 38393) decreases terminal excitability in the alpha-methyl-paratyrosine pretreated animal, indicating that dopamine is not required for the agonist action. In an effort to ascertain the presynaptic or postsynaptic location of these actions, an extensive destruction of postsynaptic neurons in the neostriatum was produced by local administration of the neurotoxin, kainic acid. It was observed that the neurotoxin-induced neostriatal neuronal loss did not disrupt the action of R-SKF 38393 nor its reversal by SCH 23390.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Injection of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist quinolinate, or N-methyl-D-aspartate itself, into the rat brain produces neurodegeneration which can be prevented by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists administered up to 5 h after excitotoxin injection. The present study was designed to investigate aspects of the mechanisms involved in this delayed form of neurodegeneration. Following its injection into the rat striatum, extracellular levels of [3H]quinolinate were monitored using a microdialysis probe located 1 mm from the site of injection. Peak concentrations were observed 10-20 min after injection and [3H]quinolinate levels decayed in a biexponential fashion, the initial component having an apparent t1/2 of 13.7 +/- 5.2 min (n = 3). Estimations of the extracellular concentrations of quinolinate after an injection of 200 nmol indicated a peak level of 13.7 +/- 6.0 mM (n = 3) at 10-20 min which declined to 1.2 +/- 0.13 mM (n = 3) by 2 h and substantial levels were present up to 5 h, the period over which N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists are effective in this model. Administration of dizocilpine at 1, 2, 3 or 5 h after injection of 100, 200 or 400 nmol quinolinate resulted in a similar temporal profile of neuroprotection, as assessed by measuring the activities of choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase in striatal homogenates, which was independent of the degree of neurodegeneration produced by the different excitotoxin doses. Overall, these results suggest that the neuronal degeneration caused by quinolinate in vivo is critically dependent upon events occurring after the initial peak of excitoxin levels in the extracellular space.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The ontogeny of somatostatin receptors in the rat visual system was studied by auto-radiography, using [125I-Tyr0,DTrp8]S14 as a radioligand. The binding sites showed high affinity for somatostatin and somatostatin analogues, and were regulated by GTP as early as day 16 of fetal life (E16), indicating that they represent functional somatostatin receptors. The density of somatostatin receptors was quantified by computerized image-analysis of film autoradiograms, and by grain counting on emulsion-coated slides. During fetal life, somatostatin receptors were observed in the retina, optic nerve, optic chiasma, optic tract, and lateral geniculate nucleus. The highest densities of somatostatin receptors were measured from E16 to E18 in the retina and primary optic pathways. During the first postnatal days, the density of somatostatin receptors decreased dramatically in the retina. In both the optic pathways and dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, somatostatin receptors gradually disappeared, and the levels of somatostatin receptors were almost undetectable at postnatal day 21 (P21). Conversely, the density of somatostatin receptors remained stable in the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus during the early postnatal life (P0-P7). The timing of expression and the localization of somatostatin receptors in the developing visual system suggest that the immature ganglion cells are responsible for the expression of these evanescent somatostatin receptors. After eye opening, the distribution patterns of somatostatin receptors in the retina and the lateral geniculate nucleus were similar to those observed in adults. In particular, from P14 onwards, somatostatin receptors were concentrated in the inner plexiform layer and, to a lesser extent, in the ganglion cell and photoreceptor layers. In the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus, a heterogeneous distribution of somatostatin receptors was noted, the highest densities being found in the intergeniculate leaflet and the medial zone limiting the parvo-magnocellular interface. The distribution of somatostatin receptors in the retina and the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus after the second postnatal week, together with the presence of somatostatin-like immunoreactive elements in these structures, provide support for the involvement of somatostatin as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator in the visual system of the adult rat. Conversely, the transient expression of somatostatin receptors observed before maturation and complete organization of the optic pathways suggests that somatostatin plays a trophic role during development of the visual system.
Somatostatin receptor subtypes were labeled with the somatostatin analogs [125I]CGP 23996 and [125I]MK 678 and the distribution of these receptors in rat brain was investigated using quantitative autoradiographic techniques. [125I]CGP 23996 and [125I]MK 678 specifically label different populations of somatostatin receptors in rat brain. In a number of brain regions striking differences in the distribution of the somatostatin receptor subtypes labeled by each peptide were observed. High levels of binding sites for both [125I]CGP 23996 and [125I]MK 678 were present in the cerebral cortex, CA1 region and subiculum of the hippocampus. In contrast, high levels of [125I]MK 678 binding were found in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus while few [125I]CGP 23996 binding sites were observed in this brain region. [125I]CGP 23996 binding was detected in the central region of the interpeduncular nucleus whereas the dorsal and lateral subnuclei of this brain area expressed mainly somatostatin receptors with high affinity for MK 678. The locus coeruleus and regions of the superior colliculus and hypothalamus selectively express [125I]MK 678-sensitive somatostatin receptors. Furthermore, limbic structures such as the lateral septum, the nucleus accumbens and ventromedial striatum had much higher levels of [125I]MK 678 binding sites than [125I]CGP 23996 binding sites. Differences in the expression of the somatostatin receptor subtypes were also detected in the substantia nigra. [125I]CGP 23996 binding was present in the pars reticulata but not the pars compacta whereas the reverse distribution for [125I]MK 678 binding sites was observed. The differential distribution of [125I]CGP 23996 and [125I]MK 678 binding sites in rat brain supports the hypothesis that these peptides selectively label different somatostatin receptor subtypes in the central nervous system.
In the present work we characterized the kinetic properties of [125I]somatostatin pericellular binding sites in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus of the rat by quantitative high-resolution light microscopic radioautography. In order to determine whether these pericellular binding sites corresponded to functional receptors, their properties were compared with those of previously well-characterized [125I]somatostatin binding sites present on neuronal processes on the same sections in the stratum radiatum of the CA1 of the hippocampus. Radiolabelled sections were analysed by densitometry using a Biocom image analysis system coupled with a Leitz orthoplan microscope. The linear relationship between optical densities and radioactive standards allowed us to quantitate [125I]somatostatin-specific binding. Binding was time- and temperature-dependent, and saturable and specific in the arcuate nucleus as in the CA1 of the hippocampus. Saturation experiments indicated a single receptor population of binding sites with KD values of 0.2 +/- 0.1 nM in the arcuate nucleus and 0.6 +/- 0.4 nM in the CA1. In both structures, displacement curves obtained with somatostatin 14 and somatostatin 28 were monophasic, but shallow, while the somatostatin analogue SMS 201-995 induced a biphasic displacement, suggesting two populations of binding sites. In both regions binding was GTP-dependent. Desaturation procedures (in vivo by cysteamine and in vitro by preincubating with GTP) resulted in an increase in the number of measurable binding sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In order to determine whether the cholinergic fibres that innervate the substantia nigra make synaptic contact with dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta, a double immunocytochemical study was carried out in the rat and ferret. Sections of perfusion-fixed mesencephalon were incubated first to reveal choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity to label the cholinergic terminals and then tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity to label the dopaminergic neurons. Each antigen was localized using peroxidase reactions but with different chromogens. At the light microscopic level, in confirmation of previous observations, choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive axons and axonal boutons were found throughout the substantia nigra. The highest density of these axons was found in the pars compacta where they were often seen in close apposition to tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cell bodies and dendrites. In the ferret where the choline acetyltransferase immunostaining was particularly strong, bundles of immunoreactive fibres were seen to run through the reticulata perpendicular to the pars compacta. These bundles were associated with tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive dendrites that descended into the reticulata. The choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive fibres made &quot;climbing fibre&quot;-type multiple contacts with the tyrosine hydroxylase positive dendrites. At the electron microscopic level the choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive axons were seen to give rise to vesicle-filled boutons that formed asymmetrical synaptic specializations with nigral dendrites and perikarya. The synapses were often associated with sub-junctional dense bodies. On many occasions the postsynaptic structures contained the tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreaction product, thus identifying them as dopaminergic. It is concluded that at least one of the synaptic targets of cholinergic terminals in the substantia nigra are the dendrites and perikarya of dopaminergic neurons and that in the ferret at least, the dendrites of dopaminergic neurons that descend into the pars reticulata receive multiple synaptic inputs from individual cholinergic axons.
In an attempt to resolve experimental discrepancies regarding the mode of action of D2 receptor regulation following denervation or chronic receptor blockade, rats with extensive unilateral destruction of the mesotelencephalic dopaminergic projections induced by intracerebral 6-hydroxydopamine were injected daily for 21 days with either saline or the potent, selective D2 antagonist eticlopride (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.). Four days after the last injection of eticlopride or saline, rats were killed, and brain sections through the caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens septi were incubated with [3H]spiroperidol or (R)-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5- phenyl-1H-3-benzazepin-7-ol ([3H]SCH 23390) to assay D2 and D1 receptors, respectively. Autoradiographic analysis revealed that chronic eticlopride treatment increased the density of D2 sites in the intact hemisphere for all regions examined without further augmenting the already increased density of D2 receptors seen in the dopamine-denervated hemisphere. D2 receptor density was independent of functional sensitivity as evidenced by the fact that rats treated chronically with eticlopride rotated contralateral to the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion following systemic administration of the selective D2 agonist quinpirole during the neuroleptic wash-out period, despite the fact that D2 receptor binding was not significantly different in the left and right hemispheres of these subjects. D1 receptor density was not affected by eticlopride treatment but was significantly reduced reduced in the dopamine-denervated hemisphere. [3H]Mazindol labeling of high-affinity DA uptake sites indicated that the extent of dopamine denervation was greater than 97% in both saline- and eticlopride-treated rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The roles of acetylcholine and dynorphin (1-13) in the presynaptic control of the release of [3H]dopamine continuously synthesized from [3H]tyrosine were examined in a prominent striosomal enriched area and in an adjacent matrix enriched area of the cat caudate nucleus. This was achieved using microsuperfusion devices applied vertically onto coronal slices of cat brain. These devices were placed in a striosomal enriched area located in the core of the structure (acetylcholinesterase-poor zone) and in an adjacent matrix enriched area (acetylcholinesterase-rich zone). [3H]Tyrosine was delivered continuously to each microsuperfusion device and [3H]dopamine released was estimated in the superfusate. As previously shown, in the presence of tetrodotoxin (1 microM), acetylcholine (50 microM) induces a prolonged stimulation of [3H]dopamine release in both compartments through an interaction with muscarinic receptors. Our present study indicates that both dynorphin 1-13 (1 microM) and the selective kappa agonist trans-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexyl]benzeneace tamine (U50488) (1 microM) inhibit the tetrodotoxin-resistant acetylcholine-evoked release of [3H]dopamine, these effects being slightly more pronounced in the matrix than in the striosomal enriched area. Naloxone (1 microM) reversed the inhibitory effect of U50488 in both areas. These results suggest that dynorphin exerts an inhibitory presynaptic control of dopamine release through kappa opioid receptors located on dopamine nerve terminals in the striosome as well as in the matrix. However, the presynaptic cholinergic control of dopamine release is much more complex in the matrix than in the striosomal enriched area. Besides its tetrodotoxin-resistant stimulatory effect, acetylcholine exerts two opposing tetrodotoxin-sensitive effects on [3H]dopamine release, one facilitatory and the other inhibitory. We demonstrate here that in the superfused matrix enriched area, the indirect acetylcholine inhibitory response is mediated by dynorphin-containing neurons. Indeed, the short-lasting stimulatory effect of acetylcholine on [3H]dopamine release was converted into a long-lasting response in the presence of naloxone (1 microM), and, in this latter condition, the co-application of dynorphin 1-13 (1 microM) restored the short-lasting stimulatory effect.
Excitatory amino acid agonists and antagonists were evaluated for their ability to affect the concomitant release of endogenous L-glutamate and dynorphin A(1-8)-like immunoreactivity from guinea-pig hippocampal mossy fiber synaptosomes. Previous work in this laboratory demonstrated that L(+)2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate inhibits the potassium-evoked release of these endogenous neurotransmitters from guinea-pig but not rat hippocampal mossy fiber synaptosomes. Therefore, the present study was conducted to evaluate excitatory amino acid agonists as indices to the functional properties of this L(+)2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate-sensitive glutamatergic autoreceptor on mossy fiber terminals. Low micromolar concentrations of quisqualate, but not kainate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, nor RS-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoazole-propionic acid, significantly inhibited the potassium-evoked release of both L-glutamate and dynorphin A(1-8)-like immunoreactivity. Quisqualate-induced inhibition of L-glutamate release from mossy fiber terminals was antagonized by the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. In contrast, high concentrations of kainate enhanced the potassium-evoked release of L-glutamate and dynorphin A(1-8)-like immunoreactivity, and this potentiation was blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Kainate (1 mM) was the only agonist which significantly enhanced the basal release of L-glutamate, whereas the spontaneous efflux of dynorphin A(1-8)-like immunoreactivity was not affected by any of the agonists tested. The results presented in this paper suggest the existence of inhibitory and excitatory presynaptic glutamatergic autoreceptors that act to modulate the release of endogenous L-glutamate- and prodynorphin-derived peptides from guinea-pig hippocampal mossy fiber terminals. These inhibitory and excitatory autoreceptors, which are sensitive to quisqualate/L(+)2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate or kainate, respectively, may play an important role in regulating synaptic activity at glutamatergic synapses throughout the central nervous system.
Type 1 astroglia have been reported to exhibit in excess of 20 different neuroligand receptors in vitro. The aim of this study was to determine if astroglia, like neurons, are heterogeneous with respect to their ability to respond to different neuroligand receptor agonists. Type 1 astroglia were loaded with the calcium indicator dye fura-2 and the influence of six different neuroligands on their intracellular calcium levels was examined using a video-based imaging system. Each of the six different neuroligands tested increased calcium levels in a subpopulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunopositive cells (astroglia). The percentage of cerebral cortical type 1 astroglia responding to a given neuroligand varied with the agonist and generally followed the order: 2-methylthio-ATP greater than phenylephrine greater than carbachol = serotonin greater than glutamate = histamine. The results also indicate that a single astroglial cell can respond to one agonist with a sustained rise in calcium levels and to an alternate agonist with oscillations in calcium levels. The pharmacological heterogeneity evident among astroglia does not appear to depend on cell proliferation or association with neurons. The results of our studies indicate that cultures of cerebral cortical type 1 astroglia are composed of distinct subsets of cells that can be distinguished by qualitative differences in their ability to respond to specific neuroligands with a rise in intracellular calcium.
The spontaneous and the electrically evoked release of [3H]GABA were studied in vitro on slices of rat medial prefrontal cortex. The slices were preincubated with [3H]GABA and then superfused with a Krebs' solution. The superfusion with a Ca(2+)-free medium progressively increased the spontaneous [3H]GABA release and strongly decreased the electrically evoked release of [3H]GABA (-65%). The effects of three dopaminergic D2 receptor agonists (RU24926, lisuride and LY171555) were studied on both the spontaneous and the electrically evoked [3H]GABA release. The spontaneous release of [3H]GABA was increased by exposure to each of these three D2 agonists. RU24926 produced a dose-dependent increase from 10(-9) to 3 x 10(-8) M and the maximal effect was totally abolished by the dopaminergic D2 receptor antagonist sulpiride (10(-5) M). With lisuride a progressive increase of [3H]GABA release was observed and a plateau value was reached with concentrations between 10(-7) and 10(-6) M. These effects were totally reversed by 10(-5) M sulpiride. The dose-response relation for LY171555 was bell-shaped, with a maximal effect being obtained with 10(-9) M) LY171555. This effect decreased with a higher concentration (10(-8) M) and finally was no longer observed for 10(-7) M LY171555. The maximal increase induced by LY171555 was totally abolished by 10(-5) M sulpiride. In contrast, the electrically evoked release of [3H]GABA was inhibited by these three D2 agonists. The IC50 value of the inhibition was 4.1 x 10(-8) M for RU24926 and 2 x 10(-7) M for lisuride. Sulpiride (10(-5) M) totally abolished the effect of 10(-7) M RU24926. In the concentration range of lisuride examined, a 50% reduction of the lisuride inhibition was obtained in the presence of sulpiride (10(-5) M). The dose-response curve obtained with LY171555 had a U-shape, with a maximal inhibition reached with 10(-8) M, whereas no effect was observed with 10(-6) M. The inhibition induced by 10(-8) M LY171555 was completely antagonized by 10(-5) M sulpiride. The D2 agonist-induced inhibition of the electrically evoked release of [3H]GABA was mimicked by dopamine endogenously released by 10(-5) M amphetamine. This effect was reversed by 10(-5) M sulpiride. Our data provide further evidence for a dopaminergic control of GABA interneurons in the prefrontal cortex. This regulation implies the activation of D2 dopaminergic receptors. The possible mechanisms underlying the opposite effects of D2 agonists on the spontaneous and the electrically evoked release of [3H]GABA are discussed.
The distribution and level of labeling for the messenger RNA encoding preprosomatostatin was studied in the striatum and entopeduncular nucleus of rats with and without a selective destruction of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway. 6-Hydroxydopamine was injected unilaterally in the substantia nigra and the animals were killed 2 or 3 weeks after the lesion. Preprosomatostatin messenger RNA was visualized with a 35S-labeled RNA or DNA probe in frontal cryostat-cut sections by in situ hybridization histochemistry. The number of labeled cells as well as the intensity of labeling overlying each cell were measured on radioautograms developed before saturation of the emulsion. In rats with a 6-hydroxydopamine lesion, the number of labeled cells and the intensity of labeling over each cell were decreased in the striatum ipsilateral to the lesion compared to the contralateral side and to both striata of control rats. In the same sections, the number of cells in the cerebral cortex was lower in the ipsilateral side of the lesion but the difference was only significant in the frontoparietal cortex. In contrast, a massive increase (+300%) in the number of labeled cells and in the intensity of labeling per cell was observed in the entopeduncular nucleus and the adjacent lateral hypothalamus on the side ipsilateral to the lesion when compared to the contralateral side and to control rats. The results suggest that dopamine exerts opposite effects on somatostatin gene expression in neurons of the striatum and the entopeduncular nucleus/lateral hypothalamus, effects which are likely to be of importance for the control of basal ganglia output activity. In addition, the dramatic changes observed in the somatostatinergic neurons of the lateral hypothalamus, an area involved in the control of food and water intake, may be related to some aspects of the symptomatology of Parkinson's disease.
Neuronal dense-core vesicles provide a mechanism whereby peptide messengers are secreted in discrete quanta. Here we report on the capacity of rat hypophysiotrophic corticotropin releasing factor-41 neurons to alter the peptide content as well as the size of dense-core vesicles after removal of glucocorticoid negative feedback by adrenalectomy. We demonstrate, using quantitative immunoelectron microscopy, that long-term adrenalectomy induces a progressive increase in the ratio of vasopressin to corticotropin releasing factor-41-immunoreactive sites in the dense-core vesicle compartment. The intravesicular concentration of vasopressin appeared to be the variable parameter while that of the corticotropin releasing factor-41 remained stable at all survival times after adrenalectomy. Moreover, observations for up to 5 weeks indicate that adrenalectomy results in a progressive increase in the mean volume of dense-core vesicles to about three times normal. These results suggest that the quantal size and the composition of dense-core vesicles are subject to long-term modulation. The capacity of corticotropin releasing factor-41 neurons to alter dense-core vesicles could enhance or diminish the efficacy of the hypothalamohypophyseal communication underlying physiological adaptation to stress, as well as pathological changes.
The purpose of this study was to determine if ambigual oesophageal motoneurons of the rat possess functional nicotinic cholinoceptors. In urethane anaesthetized rats, acetylcholine (20-50 pmol) delivered micropneumophoretically from multibarrelled pipettes to the compact formation of the nucleus ambiguus produced either synchronous or propulsive oesophageal contractions which were fully and reversibly blocked by dihydro-beta-erythroidine (8-10 pmol) but were resistant to D-tubocurarine and hexamethonium (10-20 pmol). 1,1-Dimethyl-4-phenyl-piperazinium but not muscarine (8 pmol) exerted an analogous agonist action. Ejection of glutamate at the same sites produced similar oesophageal responses which were, however, resistant to dihydro-beta-erythroidine. Acetylcholine applied 5-15 s prior to glutamate transiently facilitated the glutamate-evoked response. The facilitatory effect of acetylcholine was replicated by 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenyl-piperazinium but not muscarine and inhibited by dihydro-beta-erythroidine. Physostigmine, applied either intra-ambigually (10-20 pmol) or by intravenous injection (0.15-0.3 mumol/kg), enhanced both acetylcholine and glutamate-evoked responses. In brainstem transverse slices, application of acetylcholine and glutamate to quiescent ambigual neurons of the compact formation resulted in a rapid membrane depolarization associated with an increased membrane conductance and spiking. Under voltage clamp, both acetylcholine and glutamate elicited a net inward current. The depolarizing response of these neurons to acetylcholine was blocked by dihydro-beta-erythroidine (0.5-2 pmol), hexamethonium (0.2 mM) and D-tubocurarine (10 microM) and persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin (10(-6) M) or Mn2+ (5 mM) in the bathing medium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The limbic system-associated membrane protein is a glycoprotein selectively associated, in the adult, with dendrites and cell bodies of neurons of the limbic system and related brain regions. In the present study, the distribution of the limbic system-associated membrane protein was studied by immunohistochemistry in the caudate nucleus and substantia nigra of the cat to determine how its expression relates to the compartmentalization of these areas. In all areas of the caudate nucleus, the pattern of limbic system-associated membrane protein immunoreactivity was highly heterogeneous, labeling zones that were in register with areas expressing neurochemical markers that classically identify striosomes. The extrastriosomal matrix exhibited low levels of staining. The results show that the limbic system-associated membrane protein is expressed by neurons within the target areas (striosomes) of subsets of limbic afferents (originating mainly from the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex), whereas regions of the caudate nucleus (extrastriosomal matrix) receiving inputs from other subdivisions of the limbic system, such as the cingulate cortex and the ventral tegmental area, contain relatively low levels of limbic system-associated membrane protein immunoreactivity. Thus the expression of this antigen may reflect the targeting of specific groups of limbic afferents to regions that are intimately associated with distinct components of the limbic system. The presence of limbic system-associated membrane protein in neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta does not appear to be related to the presence or absence of the protein in their striatal target areas.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
There is now good evidence that amino acids act as neurotransmitters in primary afferent neurons of dorsal root ganglia. Glutamate is the primary candidate for such a role, and there are reasons to believe that release of glutamate may be accompanied by the release of other neuroactive substances. Using immunocytochemical techniques, we have tested the hypothesis that some dorsal root ganglion neurons contain elevated levels of aspartate as well as glutamate. Antisera raised against conjugates of aspartate or glutamate were used for this purpose. Blocking experiments confirmed that these antibodies were specific to their antigens in cryostat sections of dorsal root ganglia. Aspartate immunoreactivity was found in approximately 30% of neurons in cervical dorsal root ganglia. The relation between cell size and staining intensity for aspartate was examined using quantitative video microscopy; the great majority of cells immunopositive for aspartate were small (15-30 microns in diameter); about 85% of these cells stained for aspartate, although staining intensities varied over a wide range. By reacting consecutive sections with anti-aspartate and anti-glutamate it was shown that elevated levels of aspartate were found in the same cells which contained elevated levels of glutamate. By measuring the staining intensity of individual cells for both aspartate and glutamate, it was also shown that there was a positive correlation between staining intensity and, presumably, concentration of the two amino acids. The presence of high levels of aspartate in terminals located in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn was verified by pre- and post-embedding immunocytochemistry with the electron microscope. Aspartate was demonstrated in scalloped terminals, including dark scalloped terminals believed to be associated with unmyelinated fibers of nociceptors. This evidence supports the hypothesis that aspartate as well as glutamate is present in the cell bodies and terminals of nociceptive primary afferents, and may be released by the terminals of these afferents to activate neurons in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn.

Sucrose gap techniques recorded dorsal root potentials evoked by supramaximal dorsal root stimulation in in vitro, hemisected frog spinal cords. In 0 mM Mg2+ large (mean 13.0 mV), long lasting (mean 8.1 s) dorsal root potentials were recorded which consisted of two components: (1) an early component sensitive to picrotoxin, bicuculline, and low [Cl-]o and presumably produced by activation of GABAA receptors; and (2) a long-duration second component enhanced and lengthened by picrotoxin, bicuculline and low [Cl-]o and thought to result from increased interneuron discharges resulting from depression of GABA-mediated pre- and postsynaptic inhibition. Both the early and late components were reduced by over 90% in amplitude and duration by 20 mM Mg2+ or by kynurenate and bicuculline. The early component of the dorsal root potential may depend mainly upon activation of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Thus, the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist D-(-)-2-amino-5- phosphonovalerate caused only a modest reduction in the amplitude of the early dorsal root potential component while the non N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione caused a much more substantial reduction. Exposure of the spinal cord to a &quot;physiological&quot; concentration of Mg2+ (1.0 mM) greatly reduced the duration and somewhat reduced the amplitude of the dorsal root potential. The reduction of dorsal root potentials by 1.0 mM Mg2+ appears to be caused by both pre- and postsynaptic factors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Postnatal changes of [3H]L-glutamate binding sites in mouse cerebellum were studied by in vitro autoradiography. These sites were already present at birth, their density globally increased until postnatal day 25, and at all ages it was higher when Cl- and Ca2+ were present in the incubation buffer. At birth, these binding sites were diffused through the whole cerebellar mass, but became distinctly concentrated in the molecular and the internal granular layers by postnatal day 10. From this age on, binding site sensitivity to ions and glutamate analogues takes a different course in each layer. The external granular layer and the white matter never displayed significant amounts of binding. In the molecular layer the Cl-/Ca2+ effect increased during ontogeny until, in adults, the ion-dependent binding was threefold higher than the ion-independent binding. Quisqualate-sensitive sites accounted for 80% of the total binding sites already at postnatal day 15, while displacement by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic and ibotenic acids attained the maximum (68%) at postnatal day 60. N-Methyl-D-aspartate displaced glutamate binding (50%) only in the presence of Cl- and Ca2+. Starting from postnatal day 15, binding site density in the molecular layer of lobules VIb and VII of the vermis was lower than in other lobules. In the internal granular layer, the Cl-/Ca2+ effect observed in young animals decreased during development. These transient binding sites were sensitive to quisqualic and ibotenic acid. In adults, the majority of glutamate binding sites were ion-independent and mainly sensitive to D,L-amino-5-phospho-valeric acid and N-methyl-D-aspartate. Throughout development and in both layers, sites displaced by kainate were present at low density and sites displaced by D,L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid were not detected. The localized postnatal changes of the [3H]L-glutamate binding sites were correlated with the events occurring during growth and maturation of cerebellar structures. The increase of the Cl-/Ca(2+)-dependent binding in the molecular layer is simultaneous with the growth of Purkinje cell dendrites and of parallel fibres and with the formation of the synapses between them. This suggests that these binding sites are localized in these synapses. The changing pattern of sensitivity to different agonists during development might correspond to the maturation of these synapses. The low density of [3H]L-glutamate binding in the molecular layer of lobules VIb and VII probably indicates the presence of specific nerve projections to these areas.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Changes in endogenous somatostatin after quinolinic and kainic acids were investigated by measuring somatostatin-like peaks by in vivo voltammetry and by assessing the distribution of somatostatin-positive neurons by immunocytochemistry. Kainic acid (0.19 nmol/0.5 microliter) or quinolinic acid (120 nmol/0.5 microliter) in doses inducing comparable electroencephalographic seizure patterns, were injected into the hippocampus of freely moving rats. Somatostatin-like peaks were measured every 6 min for 3 h by a carbon fiber electrode implanted in the proximity of the injection needle. Kainic acid kept somatostatin-like peaks significantly higher than saline from 48 min after the injection till the end of the recording. Somatostatin-like peaks were dramatically elevated by quinolinic acid, reaching a maximum of 482% 60 min after the injection. Three days later, administration of kainic acid resulted in selective degeneration of CA3 pyramidal neurons but did not affect the number of somatostatin-positive cells, while quinolinic acid induced cell loss in all pyramidal layers and complete degeneration of somatostatin-positive cells in the whole hippocampus. Thus, the quantitative difference in somatostatin release in response to doses of kainic and quinolinic acids inducing comparable electroencephalographic seizure patterns was reflected in a substantial difference in the neurodegenerative consequences. In both models, the release of somatostatin in response to seizures may be interpreted as a &quot;defense&quot; mechanism aimed at reducing the spread of excitation in the tissue.
A novel mechanism for regulating dopamine activity in subcortical sites and its possible relevance to schizophrenia is proposed. This hypothesis is based on the regulation of dopamine release into subcortical regions occurring via two independent mechanisms: (1) transient or phasic dopamine release caused by dopamine neuron firing, and (2) sustained, &quot;background&quot; tonic dopamine release regulated by prefrontal cortical afferents. Behaviorally relevant stimuli are proposed to cause short-term activation of dopamine cell firing to trigger the phasic component of dopamine release. In contrast, tonic dopamine release is proposed to regulate the intensity of the phasic dopamine response through its effect on extracellular dopamine levels. In this way, tonic dopamine release would set the background level of dopamine receptor stimulation (both autoreceptor and postsynaptic) and, through homeostatic mechanisms, the responsivity of the system to dopamine in these sites. In schizophrenics, a prolonged decrease in prefrontal cortical activity is proposed to reduce tonic dopamine release. Over time, this would elicit homeostatic compensations that would increase overall dopamine responsivity and thereby cause subsequent phasic dopamine release to elicit abnormally large responses.
Spontaneous and evoked transmitter release activity was studied during selective application of Ca2+ in proximal (near the first contact of the axon on the muscle fiber) and distal regions of the frog neuromuscular junction. A new technique called &quot;Microperfusion&quot; was developed, which allowed us to apply a 30-microns-wide Ca2+ stream from an external pipette. The spread of this Ca2+ stream was monitored by adding Blue Dextran (40 mg/ml) to the Ca2+ solution. Microperfusion with a Ca2(+)-free Ringer containing Blue Dextran did not affect the miniature endplate potential frequency or amplitude. Changes of spontaneous transmitter release were studied either during microperfusion of Ringer containing 5 mM Ca2+ or during microperfusion of 2 mM Ca2+ simultaneously with the stimulation of the motor nerve. This second procedure also permitted study of the characteristics of evoked release. Microperfusion of Ca2+ induced a larger and more rapid increase in the miniature endplate potential frequency in proximal than in distal regions. The time required for the miniature endplate potential frequency to return to the control value after Ca2+ microperfusion was longer than the time needed to increase the frequency and this decay period was longer in the proximal region than in the distal one. Moreover, miniature endplate potentials produced in proximal regions, were typically larger and more variable than those produced in distal regions. In five experiments, the endplate potentials produced by 100-200 pulse pairs (interval of 15 ms at every 2 s) were recorded intracellularly during the microperfusion. The quantal content of the first endplate potential of the pair (EPP1) was systematically smaller in distal regions than in proximal regions. The percentage of failures and the coefficients of variation were higher in distal than in proximal regions, indicating a larger variability of quantal content. The frequency facilitation was not different between the two regions, but, however, the second stimuli of the pair usually produced a net increase of transmitter release which was greater in proximal than distal regions. Our experiments demonstrate that both the spontaneous and the evoked release are more responsive to Ca2+ application in the proximal than in the distal regions of the frog neuromuscular junction.
The localization of [Met5]enkephalin, [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivities was studied in the submandibular gland of adult Sprague-Dawley and Wistar rats using the indirect immunofluorescence technique. Immunoreactivities for [Met5]enkephalin and [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8, a proenkephalin A-derived octapeptide, showed identical distributions. A large number of enkephalin-immunoreactive nerve fibers were detected around secretory acini, along intercalated ducts, convoluted granular tubules, intra- and interlobular ducts, as well as in close contact with blood vessels. The submandibular ganglia contained several enkephalin-immunoreactive neurons and nerve fibers. In the superior cervical ganglion numerous enkephalin-immunoreactive neurons and nerve fibers were also detected. Immunohistochemical co-localization studies indicated that [Met5]enkephalin and [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 immunoreactivities co-exist with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in a subpopulation of neurons of the rat submandibular ganglia, in nerve trunks along the salivary ducts of the gland, and in nerve fibers around the acini. Uni- or bilateral superior cervical ganglionectomies for 1-4 weeks resulted in a complete disappearance of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the glandular parenchyma, while moderate tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was seen in some neurons of the submandibular ganglia. Abundant [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8-immunoreactive nerve fibers were still seen around the acini and blood vessels, as well as close to salivary ducts. These operations did not affect the [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8-immunoreactive neurons in the submandibular ganglia. Many principal neurons in the superior cervical ganglion contained both [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. Nerve ligation experiments indicated that [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8-immunoreactive sympathetic fibers project along the external carotid nerve. Accordingly, nerve fibers were found around the acini and blood vessels as well as in nerve trunks along the salivary ducts of the submandibular gland, showing co-localization of [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 and tyrosine hydroxylase. Taken together, these observations suggest that the nerve fibers of the rat submandibular gland containing proenkephalin A-derived peptides are of both sympathetic and parasympathetic origin.
The anatomical and functional characteristics of dopamine neuron-rich grafts implanted into rat pups were compared with those of identical grafts implanted into adult hosts. The host nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway was unilaterally destroyed by an intrahypothalamic injection of 6-hydroxydopamine. This was followed five days later by the implantation of a cellular suspension obtained from rat embryonic mesencephali. Identical operations were carried out on adult and infant (PD3) rats. The survival rate of implanted tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells was lower in the neonates. On the other hand, in the neonate hosts, surviving immunoreactive cells migrated extensively throughout the host striatum coursing preferentially below the corpus callosum and towards the subependymal zone. The structural integrity of the host parenchyma was well maintained after the neonatal implantation, in contrast to that observed in the adults. Despite a difference in the cell survival rate, there was no major difference in reinnervation density between the two types of host. The functional capacities of the implants were evaluated by measuring the rotational responses of the animals to dopaminergic agonists. The implants compensated the lesion-induced contralateral rotational response to the mixed agonist apomorphine and the D1 agonist SCH-38393 in both neonates and adults. However, the response to the D2 agonist LY-171555 was not significantly attenuated by the implant. The ipsilateral rotational response to amphetamine observed in the lesioned animals was also compensated and even reversed by the graft. It is concluded that with respect to rotational behavior, similar functional benefits were observed following adult stage or neonatal implantation, despite differences in their anatomical development.
Fetal nigral neurons from 16 and 17 gestational days were transplanted into the intact striatum of adult rat. On different post-transplantation days (30-360 days), the structural and immunohistochemical details of the transplants were studied. The grafted neurons matured and showed phenotypical characteristics comparable to that of normal nigral neurons in adult rats until 180 days. Tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons were seen not only in the transplant but also in the adjacent host striatum. Tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibres were also seen extending for a short distance into the host striatum. A large number of synapses in the transplants were of asymmetric type, containing clear round vesicles. These synapses resembled the few intrinsic type present in the normal substantia nigra. On the other hand, the predominant type 2 synapses with pleomorphic vesicles in the normal nigra were infrequently encountered in the transplants. On the 300th day, the cytoplasm of a few of the neurons showed ageing changes in the form of clear spaces, paucity of organelles especially rough endoplasmic reticulum, membrane-bound vacuoles and increase in the lipofuscin population. In addition, localized thickening of the soma and the dendrites were seen in relation to randomly distributed neurons. By 360 days, more than one quarter (26%) of the total neurons showed these changes indicating ageing. The number per unit volume of normal neurons decreased significantly when compared to the transplants on 60 and 90 days. In the substantia nigra of age-matched control, except for an increase in the lysosomal population, other ageing changes were not detectable. The neurons of intact substantia nigra of the host rat, chronologically 4-8 months older than the transplanted neurons, also appeared normal but for lipofuscin granules. The present study provides morphological evidence for rapid ageing of neurons in the long term nigral transplants. These observations raise fresh doubts regarding permanent survival of grafted neurons in the host brain. Studies so far conducted are after prior nigral lesions. Trophic factors following lesions of the host tissue may have influenced the long term survival of the transplanted neurons. On the other hand, such changes may have been missed since no detailed morphological investigations of the long term transplants have been done so far.
Using in vitro quantitative autoradiography and [125I]Tyr0-D-Trp8SRIF 14 as radioligand, we characterized the detailed distribution of somatostatin binding sites in human hypothalamus of both infants and adults. Guanosine triphosphate pretreatment, before incubation, allowed us to detect higher [125I]Tyr0-D-Trp8SRIF 14 binding site densities in hypothalamic structures such as preoptic and anterior hypothalamic areas and ventromedial and dorsomedial nuclei. In contrast, guanosine triphosphate was without effect in the other hypothalamic regions. The regional effects of guanosine triphosphate pretreatment were not different in infant and adult hypothalamus. Scatchard analysis showed that in a guanosine triphosphate-sensitive region (preoptic area) and a guanosine triphosphate-insensitive area (infundibular nucleus), [125I]Tyr0-D-Trp8SRIF 14 bound to a single class of binding sites. Affinities were similar in both regions, not modified by guanosine triphosphate pretreatment and not different in the adult (1.5 +/- 1.2 nM vs 3.2 +/- 2.1 nM for preoptic area and infundibular nucleus, respectively) and infant (0.9 +/- 0.5 nM vs 2.4 +/- 1.7 nM for preoptic area and infundibular nucleus). [125I]Tyr0-D-Trp8SRIF 14 binding sites were widely distributed in the anterior, mediobasal and posterior hypothalamus. Somatostatin 28 was twice as potent as somatostatin 14 to displace [125I]Tyr0-D-Trp8SRIF 14 binding in the preoptic area and infundibular nucleus. However, IC50s were 30 times lower in the preoptic area as compared with the infundibular nucleus. In adult as well as in infant, high densities were found mainly in the diagonal band of Broca, preoptic area and infundibular nucleus. Intermediate densities were localized in the anterior hypothalamic area, ventromedial, dorsomedial and lateral mammillary nuclei. The dorsal hypothalamic area, the paraventricular and medial mammillary nuclei displayed low but measurable densities. The only marked difference in the distribution of [125I]Tyr0-D-Trp8SRIF 14 binding sites in adult vs infant was observed in the medial and tuberal nuclei where the concentrations were seven-fold higher in adult hypothalamus.
The distributions of the alpha 1-adrenoceptor and its subtypes (alpha 1A and alpha 1B) in human and rat hippocampus are analysed by quantitative receptor autoradiography. alpha 1-Adrenoceptors are labelled by [3H]prazosin. The alpha 1A subtype is visualized by [3H]prazosin after irreversible blockade of alpha 1B adrenoceptors with chloroethylclonidine or directly by [3H]5-methyl-urapidil. The alpha 1B subtype is investigated by [3H]prazosin binding in the presence of the alpha 1A antagonist 5-methyl-urapidil. Considerable differences in the regional and laminar patterns of alpha 1-adrenoceptors are found between rat and human hippocampi. The rat hippocampus is characterized by a low overall density and a rather homogeneous regional and laminar distribution. This is in contrast to the human pattern, which shows a much higher overall level of alpha 1 receptor density and a restriction of alpha 1 receptors to the CA3 region of Ammon's horn and the dentate gyrus. Moreover, alpha 1A and alpha 1B receptors of the human hippocampus are differentially distributed with the alpha 1A subtype concentrated in the hilus and lucidum layer of CA3, and the alpha 1B subtype concentrated in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Additionally, the distribution of alpha 1 receptors is compared with the distribution of 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A receptors. The subtype specific pattern is correlated with the distribution of glutamatergic systems in the human (but not in the rat) hippocampus. alpha 1A Receptor localization coincides with the target area of the mossy fibre system, and alpha 1B receptors are preferentially localized in the target area of the hippocampal associational fibres and partly of the perforant pathway. This result points to possible interactions between noradrenaline- and glutamate-mediated neurotransmission differentiated by topographically segregated alpha 1-adrenoceptor subtypes.
During development, the differentiation of ameboid microglia (brain macrophages) into ramified microglia is marked by a loss of macrophage-like properties and the extension of thin cytoplasmic projections. We have studied the influence of two extracellular matrix proteins, laminin and fibronectin, on microglia differentiation, using cell cultures. Brain macrophages were isolated from primary glial layers derived from embryonic rat brain and further cultured in serum-free medium. The addition of fibronectin induced the transformation of round or spindle-shaped brain macrophages into cells displaying a reduced cell body and extending thin and long processes. This morphological transformation was associated with a reorganization of the vimentin network, including a condensation of dispersed filaments into thick bundles and a modification of the phosphorylation state of vimentin monomers. In addition, compared to brain macrophages, the process-bearing microglia lost the ability to engulf zymosan particles, and showed reduction in non-specific esterase activity and superoxide anion generation. In contrast, laminin reduced the spontaneous transformation of brain macrophages into process-bearing cells. Moreover, laminin and serum induced a reverse transformation of process-bearing cells when added to cultures pretreated with fibronectin. Altogether these results demonstrate antagonist effects of fibronectin and laminin on the in vitro differentiation of brain macrophages towards a &quot;resting&quot; phenotype, which shares several properties with the ramified microglia present in the adult brain. We suggest that fibronectin and laminin regulate the differentiation of microglial cells, which takes place during development or following various types of lesions in the adult brain.
Endothelins are a novel group of potent vasoconstrictor peptides originally isolated from cultured porcine endothelial cells. We and others have previously reported the presence of endothelin receptors in the central nervous system, and this study was designed to further characterize endothelin receptors and their transduction mechanism in cultured neurohybrid NG108-15 cells. Specific binding of [125I]endothelin-1 to NG108-15 cells reached saturation within 60 min at 22 degrees C and was only partially reversible. Scatchard analysis of the saturation binding revealed the presence of one class of high-affinity binding sites with an apparent dissociation constant of 160 pM and a maximal binding capacity of 3.3 x 10(4) sites/cell. Unlabeled endothelin analogues competitively inhibited [125I]endothelin-1 binding to NG108-15 cells and the apparent dissociation constant values obtained from the competition curves correlated well with the EC50 values obtained for inducing elevation of intracellular free Ca2+ level. Endothelin stimulated phosphoinositide metabolism in a dose-dependent manner with an EC50 value of 5.4 nM for inositol trisphosphate formation. The protein kinase C-activator phorbol ester dose-dependently inhibited endothelin-induced phosphoinositide turnover and intracellular free Ca2+ increase, suggesting the involvement of protein kinase C in the regulation of endothelin-induced responses. Neither endothelin-induced phosphoinositide hydrolysis nor endothelin-induced increase in intracellular free Ca2+ were affected by pertussis toxin. These data indicate that endothelin receptors are present on NG108-15 cells and the G protein coupled to endothelin receptor for inducing activation of phospholipase C and increase of free intracellular Ca2+ is insensitive to pertussis toxin.
The distribution and levels of messenger RNAs encoding the alpha 1, beta 1, beta 2, beta 3, and gamma 2 subunits of the GABAA receptor in the developing and adult rat brain were investigated using quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry and subunit-specific probes. Regional localization of the subunit messenger RNAs was determined with film autoradiography and expression in identified neuronal cell populations was examined using higher resolution techniques. Each of the GABAA receptor subunit messenger RNAs exhibits a distinct pattern of localization in the developing and adult brain. Of the subunits examined, the alpha 1, beta 2, and gamma 2 are the most abundant and are found in many brain regions, including the olfactory bulb, cortex, hippocampus, thalamic nuclei, and inferior colliculus. In addition, these subunit messenger RNAs are prominent in the cerebellum where virtually all cells of the deep cerebellar nuclei and Purkinje cell layer are labeled. The levels of most of the subunit messenger RNAs, with the exception of that encoding the beta 1 subunit, increase during postnatal development. While the alpha 1, beta 2, and gamma 2 subunit messenger RNAs rise in parallel in many regions and identified cell populations, different subsets of receptor subunit messenger RNAs are co-ordinately expressed at other sites. The greatest increases in subunit messenger RNA levels occur in the cerebellar cortex during the second postnatal week, a period coincident with cerebellar maturation. The co-distribution of different GABAA receptor subunit messenger RNAs in various regions of the developing and adult nervous systems supports the hypothesis that multiple receptor compositions exist. Moreover, that different subunit messenger RNAs exhibit coordinate changes in expression in different regions and cell populations suggests that receptor gene expression is modulated by cell type-specific signals. The temporal changes in subunit messenger RNA levels in the cerebellum raise the possibility that synaptogenesis may play a role in receptor gene regulation in this brain region.
We have determined the concentration of free fatty acids in membranes of slices prepared from the dentate gyrus following the induction of long-term potentiation in the anaesthetized rat. Compared to unpotentiated tissue, there was a significant increase in the concentration of free arachidonic acid 2.5 min, 45 min and 3 h after induction of long-term potentiation. There was no corresponding increase in oleic, stearic or palmitic acids. To account for the increase in free arachidonate, the activities of phospholipase A2, phospholipase A1 and phospholipase C were determined at the same three time intervals in control and potentiated tissue. Two-and-a-half minutes after the induction of long-term potentiation, activity of phospholipase A2 was enhanced, while at 45 min, and at 3 h phospholipase C activity was increased. These results suggest that the liberation of free arachidonate is due initially to phospholipase A2 activity, but that at later stages of long-term potentiation, control switches to phospholipase C. Subcellular fractionation experiments revealed an increase in free arachidonate in the postsynaptic density fraction 45 min after induction of long-term potentiation, without significant changes in synaptosomal- or glial-enriched fractions. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that arachidonic acid, released from a postsynaptic site, acts as a trophic retrograde synaptic signal in long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus.
The magnitude and duration of spontaneous and of potassium-stimulated dopamine release were electrochemically measured in striatum and nucleus accumbens of chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats following [D-Pen2-D-Pen5]enkephalin, a delta opioid receptor agonist, or [Tyr-D-Ala-MePhe-Gly-ol], a mu opioid receptor agonist, microinjected directly into the voltammetric recording sites. The data show that delta receptor activation potentiated potassium-stimulated dopamine efflux in striatum and in nucleus accumbens but had no effect on spontaneous dopamine release in either region, whereas mu receptor activation produced unreliable effects in both regions, either having no effect or inhibiting stimulated dopamine efflux without affecting basal levels of extracellular dopamine in either region. The data suggest that some delta opioid receptors in the caudate-putamen and in the nucleus accumbens presynaptically enhance impulse-dependent dopamine release from nigrostriatal and mesolimbic dopamine terminals.
The distribution of opioid receptors in the developing human cerebellum was determined by tissue autoradiography using [3H]naloxone. In infants, opioid receptors were heavily concentrated in the external granular layer, a matrix of germinal cells, and were substantially less concentrated in the internal granular layer, differentiating progeny of external granular cells. In the mature internal granular layer of the child and adult, opioid receptors were negligible. Thus, in the human cerebellum, opioid receptors localize to a population of germinal cells and are negligible in their mature progeny. These data support the idea that endogenous opioids play a role in human brain development and may function as receptor-mediated growth factors. The cerebellum provides a model site to examine abnormal opioid effects upon human brain development, particularly in infants exposed to narcotics in utero.
Recently we demonstrated that [3H]dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate binds specifically to two populations of sites in rat brain membranes [Majewska et al. (1990) Eur. J. Pharmac. 189, 307-315]. As an extension of this work, we studied the biochemical and pharmacological properties of [3H]dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate binding to brain membranes and the effects of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate on GABA-induced currents in cultured neurons. [3H]Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate binding depended upon incubation time, pH, protein concentration, and incubation temperature. Thermal denaturation or pretreatment of the membranes with protease or phospholipase A2 reduced the binding by 54-85%. The higher affinity [3H]dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate binding sites appeared to be associated with protein and with the GABAA receptor complex. Among substances known to interact with the GABAA receptor complex, pregnenolone sulfate, pentobarbital, and phenobarbital inhibited the binding of [3H]dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate. High micromolar concentrations of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate inhibited [3H]muscimol and [3H]flunitrazepam binding to rat brain membranes, primarily by reducing the binding affinities. Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate also produced a concentration-dependent block of GABA-induced currents in cultured neurons from ventral mesencephalon (IC50 = 13 +/- 3 microM). The results of this study are consistent with an action of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate as a negative noncompetitive modulator of the GABAA receptor. Because concentrations of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate in the brain undergo physiological variations, this neurosteroid may play a vital role in regulation of neuronal excitability in the central nervous system.
In anaesthetized rats, recordings were made from nociceptive dorsal horn neurons with convergent input from the skin and deep somatic tissues. The results of a previous study have shown that in these neurons the input from deep nociceptors is subjected to a much stronger tonic descending inhibition than is the input from cutaneous nociceptors. The aim of the present study was to find out whether at supraspinal levels opioidergic, adrenergic, or serotoninergic transmitters are involved in this quite specific inhibition of deep nociception. Injections of naloxone, phentolamine, and methysergide into the third ventricle showed that only naloxone is capable of abolishing the tonic inhibition of the deep nociceptive input to spinal neurons. The input from cutaneous nociceptors to the same cells was largely unaffected by naloxone. Thus the effects of intracerebroventricular injection of naloxone resembled those obtained with a spinal cold block in a previous study; with the exception that the increase in background activity--which is prominent during cold block--was missing after the injection of naloxone. The present results demonstrate that the tonic descending inhibition of the deep nociception operates with opioidergic synapses at the supraspinal level. In contrast, supraspinal adrenergic and serotoninergic mechanisms do not appear to contribute to the tonic inhibition. The data confirm and extend previous results which suggested that a particular portion of the descending antinociceptive system may act mainly on the input from deep nociceptors. Pharmacologically, this particular portion seems to be opioidergic in nature.
Extracellular recording of the pre- and postjunctional electrical activity in guinea-pig or mouse vas deferens or rat tail artery was employed to study the mechanisms by which the K+ channel blockers, tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine and the Ca2+ channel blockers, Cd2+, Mn2+ or nifedipine influence the nerve stimulation-induced release of adenosine 5'-triphosphate as a sympathetic co-transmitter. The K+ and Ca2+ channel blocking agents examined had no effect on the spontaneous quantal release of adenosine 5'-triphosphate. However, addition of tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine inside the recording electrode broadened the nerve terminal action potential and caused it to become more resistant to local application of tetrodotoxin, and dramatically increased the magnitude and tetrodotoxin resistance of adenosine 5'-triphosphate release within the patch. Surprisingly, tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine were equally effective when added outside the recording electrode; now they did not increase the duration of the nerve terminal action potential inside the patch but increased its resistance to locally applied tetrodotoxin and dramatically increased the magnitude as well as the tetrodotoxin resistance of adenosine 5'-triphosphate release from sites inside the patch. Both tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine contributed to these effects, with a strong potentiating interaction. Nifedipine was without effect, but application of 1-100 microM Cd2+ or 1-5 mM Mn2+ either inside or outside the recording electrode blocked adenosine 5'-triphosphate release inside the patch. The results indicate: (i) that the nerve terminal action potential is generated by activation of voltage-gated, regenerative Na+ channels but also has a small component carried by influx of Ca2+ and that it is &quot;normally&quot; terminated by activation of voltage- as well as Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channels; (ii) that the release probability is tonically depressed by the resting K+ efflux, and promoted by the resting Ca2+ influx, &quot;upstream&quot; of the release sites; and (iii) that the upstream control of the release probability may involve both changes in properties of ionic channels in the nerve terminal membrane, and effects on the cytoskeleton leading to changes in the availability of releasable quanta in varicosities within the patch.
Imipramine did not significantly inhibit the noradrenaline or isoproterenol-induced cyclic AMP accumulation in rat cerebral cortical slices, but inhibited the potentiation of this response by protein kinase C activator, a phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol 13-acetate. In low concentrations (0.1-1 microM) it prevented the inhibitory effect of the phorbol ester on accumulation of inositol phosphate induced by noradrenaline, while in higher concentrations it inhibited the response by itself. Imipramine did not bind to beta-adrenoceptors but was an effective blocking agent of alpha 1-adrenoceptors (Ki = 38.1 nM). The data suggest that imipramine acts within the noradrenergic cyclic AMP generating system on two targets: inhibiting protein kinase C and blocking the alpha 1-adrenoceptor; both actions may reduce the alpha-adrenoceptor potentiation of beta-adrenoceptor-mediated cyclic AMP generation.
The properties of the cyclic-GMP-activated conductance in the plasma membrane of bovine rod outer segments were studied in excised membranes. Multiple-channel and single-channel currents were recorded by the patch-clamp technique in symmetrical NaCl solutions which were free of divalent cations. The current-voltage relationship for the current, recorded when a large population of channels was activated, exhibited outward rectification. Rectification decreased as the concentration of cyclic-GMP was increased, and the concentration of cyclic-GMP required for half maximal activation of the channel decreased with depolarization. At a concentration of 1-3 microM cyclic-GMP, single-channel activity could be observed from these excised patches. The conductance of the open channel was 6 pS and was independent of the membrane potential. These results are consistent with the interpretation that under these conditions, the mechanism responsible for the outward rectification is due to an increase in the probability of an open channel as the membrane is depolarized. The cyclic-GMP-activated current could be blocked by L-cis-diltiazem. Block was voltage and time dependent. The time constant for the onset of block and its steady state level increased with depolarization. The extent of block by diltiazem was not enhanced as the cyclic-GMP concentration was increased, suggesting that the channel is not required to be open for block to occur. Complete block was never attained even for high concentrations of diltiazem. However, the diltiazem-resistant component of the cyclic-GMP-activated current could be blocked by tetracaine.
In an earlier report, we demonstrated that subcutaneous injection of formalin in the rat hindpaw evokes a characteristic pattern of expression of the fos protein product of the c-fos protooncogene in spinal cord neurons, and that systemic morphine reversed the fos-like immunoreactivity in a dose-dependent, naloxone-reversible manner. The present study compared the effects of intracerebroventricular administration of the mu-selective opioid ligand [D-Ala2, NMe-Phe4, Gly-ol5] enkephalin, on the pain behavior and spinal cord fos-like immunoreactivity produced by subcutaneous formalin. Formalin injection produced a biphasic pain behavioral response which lasted about 1 h. There was a significant correlation between the formalin pain score and overall fos-like immunoreactivity in the lumbar enlargement. The greatest numbers of labeled cells and most intense fos-like immunoreactivity were found in laminae I, IIo and V of the L4-5 segments, ipsilateral to the formalin-injected paw. Considerable staining was also found in the ipsilateral ventral horn laminae VII and VIII. [D-Ala2, NMe-Phe4, Gly-ol5]enkephalin produced a dose-related, naloxone-reversible inhibition of both the formalin-evoked pain behavior and fos expression in the cord. The behavioral response to formalin, however, could be completely blocked without eliminating the expression of fos in spinal neurons. Moreover, subpopulations of neurons were differentially regulated. Thus, 100% inhibition of pain behavior was produced at a dose of [D-Ala2, NMe-Phe4, Gly-ol5]enkephalin which reduced fos-like immunoreactivity in the superficial laminae by only 64% and in the neck and ventral cord by 85%. Furthermore, the dose of [D-Ala2, NMe-Phe4, Gly-ol5]enkephalin which produced approximately 50% inhibition of fos-like immunoreactivity in the neck and ventral regions of the spinal cord was without effect in the superficial dorsal horn. Since the potencies for inhibition of pain behavior and fos-like immunoreactivity in the neck and ventral horn were comparable, these data suggest that the activity of neurons in these regions is directly related to the pain behavior produced by nociceptive inputs. Finally, we found that bilateral, midthoracic lesions of the dorsal part of the lateral funiculus blocked both the antinociception and fos suppression produced by intracerebroventricular [D-Ala2, NMe-Phe4, Gly-ol5]enkephalin. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the analgesic action of supraspinally administered opiates results from an increase in descending inhibitory controls that regulate the firing of subpopulations of spinal cord nociresponsive neurons.
The right sciatic nerve in NMRI mice was frozen under anaesthesia 13 times at three-week intervals for a total period of 8.5 months. During this period, but not afterwards, one sub-group of these mice had access to running wheels in which the animals ran several kilometres per night, thereby actively or passively training reinnervated or denervated leg muscles, as well as the intact contralateral muscles. A number of distinct effects persisted for as long as 14-18 weeks after the termination of this &quot;endurance training&quot;. In reinnervated soleus muscle, tetanic force was significantly higher (37%) in the trained muscles as was muscle weight (36%); in general, negative effects of the nerve damage persisted. In the reinnervated extensor digitorum longus, tetanic force and muscle weight were significantly smaller in the trained animals (by 11 and 16%, respectively) which are considered typical effects of endurance training. The resistance of the soleus neuromuscular junction to block by both curare and Mg2+ was depressed on the damaged side but this property was not influenced by the training; in extensor digitorum longus the pattern was similar. It is concluded that training during the period of repeated cycles of denervation-reinnervation produced significant effects which impressively outlasted the training period. The possible nature of these effects is discussed.
The calmodulin-dependent cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase represents an important junction between the Ca2+ and the cyclic AMP/cyclic GMP second messenger systems. In brain it is a major cyclic nucleotide-degrading activity and is selectively expressed in the soma and dendrites of regional output neurons [Kincaid et al. (1987) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 84, 1118-1122]. In this study the subcellular localization of this enzyme in cerebral cortex, hippocampus and inferior colliculus of rat brain was analysed by electron microscopic immunocytochemical methods using affinity-purified antibodies. The immunoreactivity was found exclusively within neurons whereas glial cells were unstained; preabsorption of antibody with phosphodiesterase eliminated this reactivity, demonstrating the specificity of immunostaining. In the neuronal cell bodies, deposits of immunoreaction product occurred as sparse patches in the cytoplasm and were often associated with organelles such as mitochondria, Golgi-complex and endoplasmic reticulum; nuclei, however, were free from immunoreaction product. In the neuronal processes immunoreactivity was found within dendrites and dendritic spines, whereas the myelinated axons and axon terminals were immunonegative. The postsynaptic densities of asymmetric synapses were associated with especially high concentrations of immunoreaction product. However, the immunopositive synaptic profiles appeared to be quite selective, comprising only a small percentage of the total number of synapses in the neuropil. Our results indicate that the calmodulin-dependent cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase is concentrated at postsynaptic sites in specific classes of neurons. This finding supports other morphological evidence indicating a primary role for cyclic nucleotide action in postsynaptic and not presynaptic structures. Furthermore, since this enzyme is regulated by Ca2+, this interface between second messenger systems seems to play a significant role in the postsynaptic integration of Ca(2+)-mediated neuronal inputs.
The effects of the isoquinolinesulfonamide protein kinase inhibitors 1-(5-isoquinolinylsulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine (H-7) and N-(2-guanidinoethyl)-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide (HA1004) on CA1 responses in hippocampal slices of the rat were examined to clarify their mode of action, and also to further define the role of Ca(2+) -dependent kinases in long-term potentiation. Initially, the inhibitory potencies of H-7 and HA1004 against both protein kinase C and type II Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase were examined in standard in vitro phosphorylation assays. The apparent Ki values of H-7 and HA1004 for protein kinase C were 9 and 57 microM, respectively. In contrast, the Ki values of H-7 and HA1004 for type II calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase were 156 and 13 microM, respectively. These results indicate that H-7 is a more effective inhibitor of protein kinase C, whereas HA1004 is a more effective inhibitor of type II calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase. Following the induction of long-term potentiation, addition of 50 microM H-7 or HA1004 substantially increased the amplitude of the population spike in a control pathway, while producing no change or a slight increase in the spike amplitude in a previously potentiated long-term potentiation pathway. Moreover, H-7 (50 microM), but not HA1004, produced multiple population spikes in both pathways. Addition of a higher concentration of H-7 (300 microM) reduced the amplitude of the initial population spike but still produced multiple spikes. HA1004 (300 microM) typically produced effects similar to those observed with 50 microM H-7, increasing the amplitude of the control population spike and producing multiple spike activity in both pathways. In contrast to the differential concentration-dependent effects of H-7 on the population spike responses, qualitatively similar effects were observed at both low (50 microM) and high (300 microM) concentrations with regard to synaptic field responses. The initial slope of the population excitatory postsynaptic potential was significantly reduced by H-7, to a similar degree in both pathways. HA1004 produced a modest, but insignificant reduction in both pathways. These results, in conjunction with other reports, suggest that H-7 and HA1004 exert complex concentration-dependent effects with synchronously affect both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission. We hypothesize that reduction of the population excitatory postsynaptic potential and spike (300 microM H-7) is due to reduction of excitatory inputs, whereas enhancement of the population spike amplitude (50 microM H-7) and the production of multiple spikes are due to the reduction of GABA-mediated inhibitory inputs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Free radicals have been implicated in a number of pathological conditions. To evaluate the neurophysiological consequences of free radical exposure, slices of hippocampus isolated from guinea-pigs were exposed to hydrogen peroxide which reacts with tissue iron to generate hydroxyl free radicals. Long-term potentiation, a sustained increase in synaptic responses, was elicited in field CA1 by high frequency stimulation of an afferent pathway. We found that 0.002% peroxide did not directly affect the responses evoked by stimulation of the afferent pathway but did prevent maintenance of long-term potentiation. Short-term potentiation and paired-pulse facilitation were not affected by peroxide treatment. Peroxide was less effective if removed following high frequency stimulation and was ineffective if applied only after high frequency stimulation. Input/output analysis showed that the increase in synaptic efficacy was reduced with peroxide treatment. Changes in the enhanced ability of the synaptic potential to generate a spike were less apparent. These data show that the interference of free radicals with long-term potentiation may contribute to pathological deficits. It is possible that intracellular calcium regulation is disrupted by peroxide treatment. A number of second messenger systems involved with long-term potentiation are potential targets for free radical attack.
The membrane potential responses and firing patterns of rat thalamic neurons evoked by iontophoretically applied excitatory amino acids were recorded in vivo. All excitatory amino acids, including N-methyl-D,L-aspartate, evoked a membrane depolarization and a repetitive, regular pattern of action potential firing in the thalamus. Both non-nociceptive and nociceptive thalamic neurons responded to all agonists tested. Iontophoretic application of magnesium ions selectively antagonized responses to N-methyl-D,L-aspartate but did not convert the repetitive firing pattern into a burst firing pattern. In contrast, in the hippocampus, N-methyl-D,L-aspartate evoked a burst pattern of action potential firing associated with rhythmic depolarizing membrane potential shifts, similar to those seen by other workers in the hippocampus and in other brain regions. These findings are discussed in relation to the possibility that the regular firing pattern of spikes evoked by excitatory amino acids in the thalamus is primarily determined by the intrinsic membrane properties of thalamic neurons.
Nerve growth factor receptor distribution in the skin of the adult rat was studied by immunocytochemistry with the use of the monoclonal antibody 192-IgG. Immunoreaction occurred in a patchy pattern in the epidermis and outer root sheaths of hair follicles, as well as in nerves and in capsulated and non-capsulated sensory receptors. Electron microscopic analysis revealed that the areas of patchy epithelial immunostaining corresponded to the plasma membrane of groups of keratinocytes, which were always associated with intra-epithelial nerve fibres. Immunostaining was also associated with Merkel cells, hair follicle receptors, and the capsular cells of capsulated receptors. In the nerves, immunostaining was detected in perineurial cells and axons. After sensory denervation of the skin, immunostaining decreased considerably in the epithelia, as well as in the small nerves, although short segments of increased staining were observed in the latter. In larger nerves, immunostaining was markedly increased and mainly associated with newly formed Schwann cell processes. After sympathetic denervation, the pattern of immunostaining was identical to controls, except for augmented immunoreactivity in short segments of degenerating nerves around blood vessels and smooth muscle fibres. From these observations, it is suggested that the epithelial and perineurial cells synthesize and express nerve growth factor receptors, while receptors present in nerve fibres originate from the nerve cell bodies in the gasserian ganglion.
Several recent studies have suggested that the neurohypophyseal peptide oxytocin may have a role within the brain to mediate various forms of affiliative behavior. As the regulation of oxytocin function may be largely determined by the number and distribution of its membrane bound receptor, we investigated oxytocin receptor distribution in two Peromyscus species selected for differences in affiliative behavior. Using in vitro receptor autoradiography with the selective oxytocin receptor ligand [125I]d(CH2)5[Tyr(Me)2,Tyr-NH9(2)]OVT ([125I]OTA), we compared Peromyscus maniculatus, a polygamous species, to Peromyscus californicus, a monogamous species. Marked species differences in the distribution of [125I]OTA were apparent in several brain areas, including olfactory pathways, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, amygdala, dorsal lateral septum, and several cortical regions. In addition, gender differences in the binding pattern were evident in several regions, mostly due to sexually dimorphic patterns in the polygamous species, P. maniculatus. To further compare these species, the binding of a [3H]arginine-vasopressin antagonist was assessed in alternate sections from those used for [125I]OTA. Relative to oxytocin receptors, binding to arginine-vasopressin receptors showed fewer species differences, although the monogamous species appeared to have more arginine-vasopressin receptors in the neocortex and lateral septum. The striking differences in oxytocin receptor distribution are consistent with earlier studies in other rodents, suggesting that oxytocin may have an important role for mediating species-typical patterns of social affiliation.
The present study was carried out to investigate the role of corticosteroids in the dexamphetamine-induced sensitization of the mesolimbic, noradrenergic system. The experimental design of adrenalectomy and hormone replacement was chosen for exploration of this question. The dexamphetamine-induced sensitization of mesolimbic, alpha 1 adrenergic receptors in the ventral striatum was studied by administering intra-accumbens injections of the alpha 1 agonist, phenylephrine (10 micrograms), given 24 h after a priming injection of intra-accumbens administered dexamphetamine (10 micrograms), which itself elicits an increase in locomotor activity. In this paradigm phenylephrine produces an increase in locomotor activity, an effect which does not occur in rats which are not sensitized by dexamphetamine. Adrenalectomy produced a slight, but significant, attenuation of the response to the priming injections of dexamphetamine. Replacement treatments (500 micrograms/kg per drug) with corticosterone or deoxycorticosterone, agents which preferentially bind with mineralocorticoid receptors, did not affect the dexamphetamine response, whereas replacement treatment with dexamethasone, which preferentially binds with glucocorticoid receptors, strongly potentiated this response. In view of the fact that the adrenalectomy-induced fall in corticosteroids can produce an up-regulation of glucocorticoid receptors, but not mineralocorticoid receptors, these data led to the conclusion that glucocorticoid receptors which are present in the cell bodies of noradrenergic, serotonergic and dopaminergic neurons are critical for the dexamphetamine response in drug-naive rats. The phenylephrine response was also strongly enhanced in adrenalectomized rats treated with dexamethasone. Since the magnitude of the dexamphetamine response is known to determine the magnitude of the phenylephrine response, the role of glucocorticoid receptors in the dexamphetamine-induced sensitization of the phenylephrine response remains to be established. Conversely, adrenalectomy nearly completely abolished the dexamphetamine-induced sensitization of the phenylephrine response. The latter response was reinstated by replacement treatment with corticosterone or deoxycorticosterone. These data show that mineralocorticoid receptors, which are present among others in the ventral striatum, are critical for the dexamphetamine-induced sensitization of mesolimbic, alpha 1 adrenergic receptors in the ventral striatum. The present study opens the perspective that secretion of corticosteroids in response to stressful stimuli--be it pharmacological or environmental--is the key to the question of why dexamphetamine and environmental challenges are interchangeable in the development of sensitization of mesolimbic, alpha 1 adrenergic receptors.
The localization of glycine receptors in the rat brain was examined by means of in situ hybridization histochemistry using an oligonucleotide probe to the sequence of the alpha 1 subunit. Strongly- or moderately-labeled neurons were found in the cranial nuclei, sensory nuclei such as the spinal trigeminal nucleus, principal trigeminal nucleus, gracile and cuneate nuclei, dorsal and ventral cochlear nuclei, superior olivary nucleus, medial and lateral trapezoid nuclei, lateral lemniscus and vestibular nuclei, red nucleus, parabrachial area, cerebellar nuclei, dorsal tegmental nucleus, reticular formation and parafascicular nucleus. This study thus demonstrated the localization of neurons which are regulated by glycine via strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors in the rat brain.
Previous studies have shown that several distinct but related polypeptides can serve as alpha subunits of functional GABAA receptors. Furthermore, the diversity of these polypeptides at least partially accounts for the functional heterogeneity of GABAA receptors. In this paper, we report the results of in situ hybridization studies using probes derived from our recently reported cDNAs for alpha 1, alpha 2, and alpha 4 GABAA receptor polypeptides. We show that the mRNAs that encode these isoforms have distinct regional and cellular distributions and are present at widely varying levels within the rat brain. In addition, our Northern blot analyses indicate that each of these three alpha mRNAs has a distinct pattern of ontogenetic regulation. Differential regulation of alpha polypeptide isoforms may lead to changes in GABAA receptor function during ontogeny as well as to distinct cellular responses to GABA and GABA-related drugs.
Recent studies in the rat have suggested that hippocampal norepinephrine can regulate the amount of damage seen after transient forebrain ischemia. We used the gerbil to study the role of norepinephrine in ischemic damage. Using tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry and chemical measurements of norepinephrine, we determined that the gerbil hippocampus has a similar but topographically different norepinephrine innervation than the rat. Brains from gerbils treated with 100 mg/kg of N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-methyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP4) had 60% less norepinephrine than saline-treated controls, similar to the effect of the drug in rats. We administered DSP4 to gerbils two weeks before exposing them to 5 min of bilateral carotid artery occlusion. Animals treated with DSP4 and subjected to ischemia had worse pyramidal cell loss in the CA3 and CA4 regions than saline-treated ischemic controls. CA1 pyramidal cell loss (about 90%) was severe in both the saline- and DSP4-treated animals. These data provide further evidence that norepinephrine can regulate the neuronal death in the hippocampal formation after transient forebrain ischemia. Furthermore, this is the first demonstration of that regulation in the gerbil and suggests that noradrenergic input to the hippocampus may be important in ischemia in other species besides the rat.
The projections from the Ammon's horn to the cholinergic cell groups in the medial septal and diagonal band nuclei were investigated with anterograde tracing of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin combined with immunocytochemical detection of choline acetyltransferase, in the rat. Tracer injections were placed into various fields of the septal and temporal parts of the Ammon's horn (CA1-3). These injections revealed differential distributions of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin-labeled projections in both the lateral septal area and the medial septum-diagonal band complex. In addition to the labeling of dense axonal networks in the lateral septal area, significant numbers of arborizing fibers were labeled in the medial septal and diagonal band nuclei, in particular after tracer injections into the fields CA2-3. The distributions of the projections to the medial septum-diagonal band complex arising from the septal portion of fields CA1 and CA2-3 are similar. In contrast, the septal part and temporal portion of field CA3 project in a topographically differentiated manner to the medial septum and nuclei of the diagonal band. The septal pole of the Ammon's horn innervates the dorsal and medial parts of the medial septal nucleus and the anterior and dorsal parts of the vertical limb of the diagonal band. Axons of the temporal pole of the hippocampus reach the lateral and ventral parts of the medial septum and the intermediate, caudal and ventral parts of the vertical limb of the diagonal band. These results demonstrate direct feedback projections of the Ammon's horn to the medial septum-diagonal band complex, which show a topographic organization mainly as a function of the septotemporal level of the hippocampus. Within the medial septal and diagonal band nuclei, the labeled varicosities are formed in close proximity to the cell bodies and dendrites of the cholinergic neurons.
Preproenkephalin metabolism, in the rat, was studied in primary striatal neurons maintained in a chemically defined medium. Acute treatment (30 min) with forskolin (10(-5) M) or phorbol 12 myristate 13 acetate (10(-7) M) resulted, respectively, in a two- and seven-fold increase in methionine-enkephalin secretion. Chronic treatment with forskolin or phorbol 12 myristate 13 acetate (24 h) induced a 100% increase in methionine-enkephalin content (forskolin) and on the other hand a 50% decrease in methionine-enkephalin (phorbol 12 myristate 13 acetate). Both treatments increased preproenkephalin mRNA levels in a time-dependent manner, this augmentation being observable after 180 min by Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization. These data indicate that under chronic stimulation, with either forskolin or phorbol 12 myristate 13 acetate, proenkephalin turnover is accelerated. However, after stimulation with phorbol 12 myristate 13 acetate, the more potent methionine-enkephalin secretagogue, increased peptide synthesis is not sufficient to replenish methionine-enkephalin intracellular stores. Preproenkephalin gene transcription was analysed by introducing the preproenkephalin gene promoter fused to the bacterial acetyl chloramphenicol transferase reporter gene into primary neurons. Chronic stimulation (48 h) by forskolin (10(-5) M) or phorbol 12 myristate 13 acetate (10(-7) M) of striatal neurons transfected with this fusion gene increased chloramphenicol acetyltransferase activity six-fold and the two effects were additive. These data suggest that the cyclic AMP and the protein kinase C pathways directly activate preproenkephalin gene transcription.
For approximately the first two weeks of life, dense serotonin immunoreactivity closely matches the pattern of thalamocortical axons innervating both the granular portion of the primary somatosensory cortex and area 17 in rodents [D'Amato et al. (1987) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. 84, 4322-4326; Fujimiya et al. (1986) J. comp. Neurol. (1986) 246, 191-201; Rhoades et al. (1990) J. comp. Neurol. 293, 190-207]. This serotonin immunoreactivity is not contained in thalamocortical axons [Rhoades et al. (1990) 293, 190-207] but its source has never been demonstrated. In the present study, a variety of approaches were used to address this issue. The combination of electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry showed that all serotonin immunoreactivity in the developing cerebral cortex was contained in axons and that the terminals of many of these fibers made synapses with the dendrites of cortical cells. Treatment with fluoxetine, a specific inhibitor of serotonin uptake, did not result in a loss of the cortical pattern of serotonin immunoreactivity, indicating that immunoreactive fibers were not labeled solely as a result of serotonin uptake. The combination of retrograde tracing from the primary somatosensory cortex and area 17 with immunocytochemistry demonstrated numerous double-labeled cells in nucleus raphe dorsalis and the median raphe nucleus. Smaller numbers of double-labeled neurons were located in the B9 cell group and the region of the lateral midbrain tegmentum. Large electrolytic lesions that included most of the nucleus raphe dorsalis and median raphe nucleus, but which left the B9 group and more caudal serotoninergic cells undamaged, caused either a substantial reduction in density or complete disappearance of the serotonin pattern in both hemispheres. Unilateral electrolytic lesions of the medial forebrain bundle resulted in a loss of the pattern only on the side of the damage. Injection of the neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine directly into the mesencephalon either abolished or substantially reduced the density of the cortical serotonin immunoreactivity. Injections that produced substantial cell loss in the median raphe nucleus, but only minor cell loss in the nucleus raphe dorsalis had little effect upon the cortical pattern of serotonin immunoreactivity. These results indicate that the dense serotonin immunoreactivity which appears transiently in the visual and somatosensory cortices of perinatal rodents is contained in serotoninergic axons that arise from cells in the nucleus raphe dorsalis and perhaps also the median raphe nucleus.
One day after intraplantar inoculation of Mycobacterium butyricum into the right hind-paw, unilaterally inflamed and control rats were implanted subcutaneously with osmotic mini-pumps delivering naloxone at 0.16 or 3.0 mg/kg/h or vehicle. As determined three days after implantation, 0.16 mg/kg/h of naloxone completely antagonized the antinociceptive action of the mu-agonist, morphine, but did not affect antinociception evoked by the kappa-agonist, U69,593. In contrast, at 3.0 mg/kg/h, naloxone blocked both morphine- and U69,593-induced antinociception. Thus, 0.16 mg/kg (&quot;low dose&quot;) and 3.0 mg/kg (&quot;high dose&quot;) of naloxone block mu, or mu- plus kappa-opioid receptors, respectively. Pumps were removed one week following their implantation. Inoculation was associated with a sustained hyperalgesia of the inflamed paw to noxious pressure, and elevation in resting core temperature, a loss of body weight, hypophagia, hypodipsia and a reduction in mobility. These parameters were differentially modified by the high as compared to the low dose of naloxone. Two days following implantation of pumps delivering the high dose of naloxone, the hyperalgesia of the inflamed paw was potentiated: by six days, this effect was lost. Further, one day after removal of pumps yielding the high dose, the inflamed paw showed a normalization of thresholds, that is a &quot;rebound antinociception&quot;. One day later, this effect had subsided. In distinction, at no time did the low dose of naloxone modify nociceptive thresholds. The high dose of naloxone enhanced the reduction in body weight and food intake shown by unilaterally inflamed rats whereas the low dose was ineffective. Neither dose affected the reduction in water intake or hypothermia of unilaterally inflamed animals. The high dose of naloxone reduced the mobility of unilaterally inflamed rats whereas the low dose was ineffective. Finally, by 10 days following pump removal, pathology had transferred to the contralateral paw. In rats which had received the high but not the low dose, this transfer was blocked. It is concluded that blockade of kappa-opioid receptors with a high dose of naloxone experts pronounced functional effects in unilaterally inflamed rats. In distinction, selective blockade of mu-receptors with a low dose is ineffective. The changes seen include not only an enhancement of the hyperalgesia of the inflamed tissue, but also an exacerbation of variables (body weight, food intake and motility) which reflect pain states.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The distribution and relative abundance of gene transcripts for diverse GABAA receptor subunits (alpha 1-3,5, beta 1-3, gamma 2) in neurons of the rat cervical spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia were determined by in situ hybridization histochemistry using 35S-labeled 60mer oligonucleotide probes. The receptor proteins (mapped by benzodiazepine receptor radioautography and immunohistochemistry with [3H]flumazenil and a monoclonal antibody for the beta 2 + beta 3 subunits, respectively) were most abundant in the dorsal horn (layers II and III) and in layer X around the central canal. Although diverse receptor subunit mRNAs were detected (to varying degrees) in neurons throughout layers II-X of the spinal cord, motoneurons in layer IX were particularly strongly labeled. The gamma 2 mRNA was the most ubiquitous and abundant of the subunit variants investigated. The labeling of motoneurons in layer IX was particularly strong for alpha 2, moderate for beta 3 and gamma 2 and extremely weak for alpha 1 and alpha 3. In layers VII, VIII and X the beta 3 and gamma 2 transcripts were moderately expressed whereas the alpha 1 and beta 2 transcript levels differed markedly among the cells of these layers. Although the mRNAs of all subunit variants could be detected in layers IV-VI, only alpha 3, alpha 5, beta 3 and gamma 2 hybridization signals were observed in layers II and III. In the dorsal root ganglia, whereas alpha 2 transcripts were abundant in virtually all large sensory neurons and to a much lower degree in the small diameter cells, gamma 2 transcripts were confined to a subpopulation of large and small neurons. Furthermore, beta 2 and alpha 1 transcripts were even more restricted in their distribution. The findings provided a basis for the mediation of synaptic inhibition in the spinal cord by diverse GABAA receptors and further strong evidence for the long-established view that presynaptic inhibition of inter- and motoneurons, via axoaxonic synapses between GABAergic interneurons and primary afferent terminals, is mediated by GABAA receptors. The physiological roles and pharmacological implications of this receptor diversity have yet to be determined.
Angiotensin converting enzyme is localized in the monkey (Macaca fascicularis) brain by in vitro autoradiography using the radiolabelled inhibitor, [125I]351A. This radioligand binds with high affinity and specificity to monkey cortical sections. Specific inhibitors of converting enzyme, lisinopril and perindoprilat complete for the radioligand binding to monkey cortex sections with inhibitory constants of 10 nM. High concentrations of angiotensin converting enzyme occur in most components of the basal ganglia including the caudate nucleus, putamen, the internal and external globus pallidus, nucleus accumbens, ventral pallidum and the reticular part of the substantia nigra. The distribution of converting enzyme in the caudate nucleus and putamen is heterogeneous, with prominent patches of higher activity. The patches in the caudate nucleus correspond closely with the acetylcholinesterase-poor striosomes. In the hypothalamus, very high levels of angiotensin converting enzyme occur in the median eminence and the pituitary stalk and high concentrations occur in the supraoptic and suprachiasmatic nuclei. Moderate, diffuse binding is observed in the median preoptic nucleus, the medial preoptic area, and in the anterior, lateral, ventromedial, posterior and arcuate nuclei. In the circumventricular organs, the subcommissural and subfornical organs exhibit high levels of angiotensin converting enzyme. The organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and the pineal body display moderate enzyme activities whereas the area postrema is devoid of labelling. The interpeduncular nucleus and, in the hippocampal formation, the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus are also intensely labelled. High levels of angiotensin converting enzyme activity are also detected throughout the cerebral cortex with laminations of higher activity corresponding to cell dense layers of the cortex. Layered binding is also present in the cerebellar cortex, with the most intense labelling in the molecular layer. Moderate concentrations of converting enzyme also occur in the paraventricular, medial habenula, lateral habenula and central median nuclei of the thalamus, the amygdala, the central gray, the locus coeruleus, the parabrachial nucleus and dorsal tegmental nucleus. The dorsal vagal complex, inferior olivary nucleus and the caudal subnucleus of the spinal trigeminal nucleus all display high levels of binding. Moderate, diffuse labelling is found throughout the reticular region and is also present in the gracile and cuneate nuclei. Although the overall distribution of angiotensin converting enzyme in the monkey brain resembles that in the rat, there are some striking differences. These include the high levels of binding throughout the monkey cerebral cortex and in the interpeduncular and suprachiasmatic nuclei.
The distribution of 12 different binding sites for acetylcholine, L-glutamate, GABA, 5-hydroxytryptamine, dopamine and noradrenaline was measured with quantitative receptor autoradiography in four regions of the rat basal forebrain (medial septal nucleus including vertical and horizontal limbs of the diagonal band of Broca, magnocellular preoptic nucleus, substantia innominata and basal nucleus of Meynert, ventral pallidum). L-Glutamate binding sites represent the largest portion of the analysed receptors in all regions, followed by muscarinic2, 5-hydroxytryptamine1 and GABAA receptors. Muscarinic1, dopamine1, dopamine2 and 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors and alpha 1-, alpha 1A- and alpha 1B-adrenoceptors represent the minor receptor populations. The largest portion of the dopamine receptors is represented by the dopamine1 subtype, and the alpha 1B subtype dominates the alpha 1-adrenoceptor group. A heterogeneity of the distribution patterns of the different receptors throughout the basal forebrain regions is found. A comparison of the patterns shows that alpha 1-adrenoceptors have a similar regional distribution to that of the muscarinic2 receptors, but both receptor types have reciprocal distributions compared with the 5-hydroxytryptamine1 receptors. The results indicate that one transmitter may exert different effects in the basal forebrain regions depending on the densities of the respective receptor subtypes. Moreover, similar or reciprocal distribution patterns of some, but not all, analysed receptors point to a non-random association (co-distribution) of the different transmitter systems in the basal forebrain regions.
The subcellular location of nerve growth factor receptor in the ventromedial portion of rat globus pallidus was investigated with affinity-purified monoclonal 192-IgG following the unlabelled antibody peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunocytochemical procedure. At the light microscopic level, punctate immunoreaction product was observed in the perinuclear region and in the plasma membrane of large, probably cholinergic neurons. Examination in the electron microscope of these neurons confirmed that nerve growth factor receptor-stained cells were basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. Within these cells, immunostaining occurred in the Golgi apparatus, in multivesicular bodies and, occasionally, in rough endoplasmic reticulum cisternae and the nuclear envelope. Moreover, patches of immunoreactivity were observed associated with the outer surface of the plasma membrane of the soma and their proximal dendrites and also with the plasma membrane of distal dendrites showing scarcity of synaptic input. Positive immunostaining was never observed in synaptic clefts, but filled the space between the plasma membranes of immunoreactive neurons and those of thin glial processes in their vicinity. The location of membrane nerve growth factor receptor in close apposition to membranes of neighbouring astrocytes rather than near synaptic complexes, suggests that glial cells may be a physiological source of nerve growth factor.
We have previously shown that the sex steroid progesterone plays a modulatory role in amino acid physiology by suppressing excitatory responses of cerebellar Purkinje cells to glutamate and augmenting inhibitory responses of these neurons to GABA. In the present study using the rat, progesterone effects on neuronal responses to the specific excitatory amino acid agonists quisqualate, kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate were tested using iontophoretic, extracellular single unit recording techniques. In addition, the effect of systemic administration of progesterone on quisqualate-evoked excitation was evaluated in the presence of the GABAA blocker bicuculline. Progesterone consistently attenuated excitatory neuronal responses to local application of all three excitatory amino acids by 40-51%, but exerted variable effects on combined administration of quisqualate and N-methyl-D-aspartate which were dependent on temporal and dose-related factors. Progesterone-induced attenuation of the quisqualate response was found to be mediated primarily by a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. In addition, bicuculline application did not block progesterone effects on quisqualate excitation, suggesting that the observed steroidal modulation of excitatory amino acid function is not secondary to progesterone-induced potentiation of GABA inhibition.

Experiments were performed in the superfused retina-eyecup of mudpuppies using intracellular electrophysiological techniques to evaluate the effects of serine on amacrine and ganglion cells. Serine was found to have a dose-dependent inhibitory effect mediated by the opening of chloride channels. Serine appears to act on a glycine receptor based on the observations that: (1) serine's effect is blocked by strychnine but not by bicuculline or picrotoxin, (2) in the presence of saturating glycine concentrations serine had no effect on membrane voltage or conductance, and (3) cells inhibited by serine were always sensitive to glycine, but not always sensitive to GABA. High pressure liquid chromatography measurements disclose that there is a high concentration of extracellular serine in the retina. The data indicate that serine could act as an inhibitory neurotransmitter.
[3H]Taurine-specific binding to membranes from retinal pigment epithelium was demonstrated. A single saturable system was found, with KB = 237 nM and Bmax = 2.8 pmol/mg protein. Binding to freshly prepared membranes showed partial Na(+)-dependence while in frozen/thawed membranes, binding remained unchanged in the absence or presence of this ion. A 30-40% increase in binding was observed at physiological temperature (37 degrees C) compared to 4 degrees C in fresh but not in frozen membranes. Accumulation of taurine was followed during differentiation in vitro; results showed that changes in uptake and receptor binding to frozen membranes are not parallel, discarding the possibility of an interaction with uptake sites. Pharmacology of these binding sites suggests that they could be common to other amino acids, since displacement experiments showed that glycine, beta-alanine and strychnine were as potent as taurine itself in displacing [3H]taurine. Our data open the possibility of taurine being involved in the communication between the retina and the retinal pigment epithelium through an interaction with specific receptors.
The behavioral effects of excitatory amino acid-induced basal forebrain lesions have been conventionally attributed to the loss of cholinergic neurons innervating cortical areas. However, comparative examinations of quisqualic acid- and ibotenic acid-induced lesions to this region have suggested that the behavioral consequences of ibotenate-induced lesions may not be exclusively related to the loss of cholinergic neurons [Etherington R. et al. (1987) Neurosci. Res. Commun. 1, 135-143; Robbins T. W. et al. (1989) Neuroscience 28, 337-352]. These findings prompted the present investigation of the effects of quisqualic acid- and ibotenic acid-induced basal forebrain lesions on cortical cholinergic fiber density and cytochrome oxidase activity. Parallel brain sections from rats with unilateral lesions produced by each toxin were examined for cytochrome oxidase activity and acetylcholinesterase-positive fiber density, at a period of four, eight and 20 days postlesion. Quisqualic acid-induced lesions resulted in a greater loss of cortical acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers than did ibotenic acid-induced lesions, but the latter lesions produced a greater reduction in cytochrome oxidase activity. These results suggest that the loss of cortical cholinergic afferents does not contribute to the cortical metabolic decrease induced by infusions of ibotenic acid into the basal forebrain. Thus, the behavioral and metabolic consequences of ibotenic acid-induced lesions may be due to the destruction of an additional, noncholinergic pathway.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide is a putative neurotransmitter of central and peripheral nervous systems which coexists with acetylcholine in motor nerve terminals and exerts multiple effects on skeletal muscle, suggesting a trophic role for this neuropeptide. Using radiolabeled calcitonin gene-related peptide as a probe in a specific binding assay, we have characterized calcitonin gene-related peptide binding sites on chick skeletal muscle membranes. Binding is time-dependent, saturable and reversible. Scatchard analyses revealed two classes of sites: high-affinity sites with a KD value of 62 pM, and low-affinity sites with a KD value of 3.3 nM. The maximal number of sites is, respectively, 22 and 155 fmol/mg protein for high- and low-affinity binding sites. Specific binding was not affected by the presence, in excess, of other neuropeptides such as salmon calcitonin or somatostatin or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Affinity of the binding site for calcitonin gene-related peptide was decreased in the presence of 5'-guanylyl-imidodiphosphate, suggesting a physiological coupling of calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor to a GTP binding protein. In a developmental study of chick muscle, we found the highest activity of calcitonin gene-related peptide binding sites in 11-14 day embryos, following a pattern of evolution similar to that of acetylcholine receptors (constant ratio of 12 acetylcholine receptors per calcitonin gene-related peptide binding site). However, both receptors appear differentially regulated: while the number of acetylcholine receptors increases 5-16-fold after denervation, calcitonin gene-related peptide binding sites slightly diminish in number. These results are discussed in terms of the physiological significance of calcitonin gene-related peptide binding sites on chick skeletal muscle membrane.
A patch-clamp study was conducted in order to investigate the effects of dopamine on the ionic currents in cultured frog melanotrophs. Brief applications of dopamine (1 microM) hyperpolarized the cell and inhibited the spontaneous action potentials. The hyperpolarization was accompanied by an increase in membrane conductance. Under voltage clamp, dopamine evoked a net outward current. The dopamine-induced outward current was negligible at the equilibrium potential for potassium ions. It was also observed that dopamine increased the intensity of a voltage-dependent outward potassium current monitored by constant depolarizing pulses. In addition, voltage-dependent L- and N-like calcium currents and sodium current were reduced. In the cell-attached configuration, two distinct channel types were activated and one channel type was blocked by dopamine exposure to the extrapatch membrane, which indicates the involvement of an intracellular factor in the signal transduction pathway. A higher conductance channel (100 pS) was characterized by a very low basal activity which rapidly increased upon dopamine application. A lower conductance channel (30 pS) displayed a basal activity with frequent opening events, and a delayed (30-40 s) increase of activity in response to dopamine. Both currents reversed at a deduced potential corresponding to the equilibrium potential for potassium ions. The channel type inhibited by dopamine had a low conductance of 15 pS. The inhibition of the electrical activity induced by dopamine was totally blocked by the D2 receptor antagonist S(-)-sulpiride (1 microM) but was not affected by the D1 receptor antagonist SKF-83566 (1 microM). It is concluded that dopamine activates potassium channels and inhibits calcium and sodium channels in frog melanotrophs. The results also indicate that stimulus-response coupling is mediated by intracellular messenger system(s).
The recent introduction of live viruses as intra-axonal tracing agents has raised questions concerning which central neurons are transneuronally labelled after application of the virus to peripheral organs or peripheral nerves. Since the central connections of the vagus nerve have been well described using conventional neuronal tracing agents, we chose to inject Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1 into the cervical vagus of the rat. After survival times of up to 3 days the rat brains were processed immunohistochemically using a polyclonal antiserum against herpes simplex virus. Two days after injection of the virus we observed viral antigen in the area postrema and in the nucleus tractus solitarius and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (dorsal vagal complex), principally ipsilaterally. At this survival time the viral antigen in the dorsal vagal complex was largely confined to glial cells. After 3 days the viral antigen was localized both in glia and in nerve cells within the dorsal vagal complex and in brain regions previously demonstrated, using conventional tracing procedures, to contain neurons with axonal projections to the dorsal vagal complex. This was true for medullary, pontine, midbrain and hypothalamic regions and for telencephalic regions including the amygdala, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and the insular and medial frontal cortices. Many of the nerve cells containing viral antigen were displayed in a Golgi-like manner, with excellent visualization of the dendritic tree. Axonal processes, in contrast, were not visualized. We used co-localization studies to confirm previous findings concerning monoamine neurotransmitter-related antigens present in medullary and pontine neurons projecting to the dorsal vagal complex. After 3 days there were many Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1-containing glial cells along the intra-medullary course of the vagal rootlets. However, no viral antigen was found in brain regions containing neurons whose axons pass through the region of glial cell-labelled rootlets. Glial cells containing viral antigen were particularly numerous in brain regions known to receive an input from neurons in the area postrema and the dorsal vagal complex. Taken together with our observation concerning the early appearance of viral antigen within glial cells in the dorsal vagal complex, this suggests that when the virus reaches the axon terminal portion it is transferred to nearby glial cells and possibly enters central neurons by way of these structures.
Endothelin binding sites in rat brain were mapped by quantitative in vitro autoradiography employing [125I]endothelin-1 as radioligand. [125I]Endothelin-1 bound with high affinity and specificity to rat cerebellar sections and was potently displaced by unlabelled endothelins (endothelin-1 greater than endothelin-2 = endothelin-3) and sarafotoxin 6B. The highest densities of endothelin binding sites were found in the cerebellum (especially Purkinje cell layer), choroid plexus and median eminence. High densities were found in the supraoptic and paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei, anterior hypothalamic area, ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, mammillary nuclei and glomerular layer of olfactory bulb. Moderate densities were found in many thalamic nuclei, the pretectal region, interpeduncular nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus, raphe nuclei, tegmental nuclei, olfactory ventricle, red nucleus, subthalamic nucleus, central gray, reticular nuclei, vestibular nuclei, oculomotor and trochlear nuclei, hypoglossal nucleus, motor trigeminal nucleus, nucleus of the trapezoid body and lateral cerebellar nucleus. Low but detectable densities of endothelin binding sites were found in medial geniculate nucleus, fields of Ammon's horn, caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, substantia nigra, anterior commissure, internal capsule, anterior pituitary, median preoptic nucleus, septohypothalamic nucleus, superior colliculus and area postrema. These patterns were completely abolished by 1 microM unlabelled endothelin-1, -2 and -3 and sarafotoxin S6B. Brain endothelin binding sites show high affinity for endothelin-1, -2 and -3 and sarafotoxin 6B with highest affinity for endothelin-1. Endothelin binding sites show a non-vascular pattern of distribution in the brain, suggesting that the peptide may have widespread functions as a modulator of neuronal function.
In the rat, neonatal irradiation produces a destruction of dentate granule cells and prevents the development of the mossy fibre-CA3 pyramidal cell synapse. The developmental increase of high affinity kainate binding sites in the stratum lucidum was reduced on the irradiated side as compared with the control side. This suggests that a proportion of high affinity kainate binding sites is associated with mossy fibres. In contrast, the developmental profile of N-methyl-D-aspartate binding sites, which are associated with associational and commissural synapses in CA3, was not affected by irradiation. The role that afferent fibres may play in the development of pyramidal cells is discussed in connection with the modulatory effects of glutamate receptors on the development of neurons.
Histochemical detection of cytochrome oxidase activity has been widely used to deduce patterns of neuronal electrical activity in the CNS. Here we investigated the utility of cytochrome oxidase localization by immunohistochemistry and compared immunostaining with histochemical staining patterns in dorsal root ganglia of the rat. In addition, a limited survey of cytochrome oxidase immunostaining density within what are thought to be highly active parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons was conducted. The immunohistochemical approach produced granular cytoplasmic immunolabelling in neuronal cell bodies and allowed identification of individual labelled cells in all brain regions including those within dense immunoreactive networks of neuropil. Neuronal somata exhibited a wide range of staining densities which were particularly evident in the hippocampus and dorsal root ganglia. The distribution of neurons intensely immunoreactive for cytochrome oxidase within various structures was consistent with previous histochemical descriptions of enzyme activity. Densitometric measurements of immunohistochemical reaction product in individual neurons of hippocampus, substantia nigra, cerebellum and dorsal root ganglia showed that the rate of product deposition was linear with time under conditions chosen for comparisons of staining density. Quantitative analysis of cytochrome oxidase immunohistochemical and histochemical staining densities within the same cells in adjacent sections of dorsal root ganglion gave a correlation coefficient of r = 0.75 (P less than 0.001). In sections processed immunohistochemically for both cytochrome oxidase and parvalbumin, most but not all parvalbumin-containing cells displayed dense cytochrome oxidase immunolabelling. Conversely, many examples were found of neurons that were densely stained for cytochrome oxidase, but lacked parvalbumin. Immunohistochemistry for cytochrome oxidase reveals the enzyme in neuronal cell bodies with a clarity not usually seen with the histochemical method. Combination of this immunohistochemical approach with simultaneous immunolabelling of other neuronal markers, as shown here in the case of parvalbumin, is expected to assist the elucidation of patterns of activity in neurochemically identified cell types and anatomically defined neural systems.
The optic tectum of teleosts contains high concentrations of nicotinic and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and receives putative cholinergic innervation from both nucleus isthmi in the tegmentum and a population of intrinsic tectal cells. Using in vitro preparations of goldfish brain, we have examined the effects of cholinergic antagonists and stimulation of nucleus isthmi on the tectal response to optic nerve stimulation. Our results show that: (1) a long latency component of the retinotectal field potential is polysynaptic in origin and occurs in isolated tectum; (2) this component can spread across the tectum from a beam of stimulated fibers and can appear in areas where the monosynaptic response is small or absent; (3) both monosynaptic and long latency components of the field potential are enhanced by prior stimulation of nucleus isthmi or the tectobulbar tract (15-300 ms); (4) both the long latency component of the field potential and the effects of stimulation of nucleus isthmic or tectobulbar tract are blocked by low concentrations of nicotinic antagonists; and (5) in deeper tectum a second polysynaptic response uncovered by pharmacological block of inhibition is not blocked by nicotinic antagonists. These results indicate that the cholinergic neurons intrinsic to tectum have a role in the spread of retinotectal excitation by nicotinic actions, and that stimulation of nucleus isthmi or tectobulbar tract facilitates activity in this system. There is in addition a separate recurrent excitatory circuit in tectum.
The mechanisms underlying the severe urinary retention induced by acrylamide intoxication were studied in detail in the rat. Subcutaneous treatment with acrylamide monomer (50 mg/kg daily for 10 days) almost completely impaired the micturition reflex, resulting in urinary retention. In fact, the ability to eliminate an oral water load was virtually abolished, while bladder filling with saline (transvesical cystometrogram) failed to activate reflex micturition. Instead, a picture of overflow incontinence resulted in urethane-anaesthetized rats, which was not reversed by intravenous administration of 4-aminopyridine. The nerve-mediated contractile response to field stimulation (0.1-20 Hz, 0.5 ms, 60 V) of the isolated bladder was unaffected, thus suggesting the integrity of bladder efferent innervation, and no evidence was found from in vitro experiments that the myogenic contractility of the bladder was depressed by acrylamide treatment. Conversely, the sensory nerve-mediated response to capsaicin was abolished and sensory nerve fibres of the bladder were selectively depleted of their content of substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity following acrylamide treatment. In fact, concentrations of the same neuropeptides in other organs, including the adjoining ureters, were unaffected. As to the urethral segment, including the striated sphincter, the D-tubocurarine (0.2 mM)-sensitive urethral response to electrical stimulation (0.1 Hz, 0.1 ms, 20 V) was significantly reduced in acrylamide-treated animals. At the same level, neurofilament protein immunostaining revealed striking accumulations of neurofilament protein-like material in motor end-plates, thus indicating that neuromuscular junctions of the urethral striated sphincter were severely affected. Thus, the afferent arm of the micturition reflex was shown to be severely deranged by acrylamide intoxication, especially in its capsaicin-sensitive component. Since twitch-like contractions of the urethral striated sphincter are probably involved in promoting bladder voiding, a decreased efficiency of this mechanism could participate in the picture of urinary retention induced by acrylamide.
Inward currents in the somatic membrane of rat dorsal root ganglion neurons have been studied in three groups of animals (8-10, 45-50 and 90-100 days of postnatal development) by intracellular perfusion and voltage clamp techniques. Altogether, 228 neurons have been examined (76 in each age group). Four components have been identified in the inward current: fast tetrodotoxin-sensitive (IfNa) and slow tetrodotoxin-insensitive (IsNa) sodium, low threshold (IlCa) and high threshold (IhCa) calcium currents. The existence of certain types of inward currents in the somatic membrane allowed the heterogeneous population of all the investigated neurons to be divided into six homogeneous subpopulations. A significant decrease in the percentage of neurons was found, demonstrating four types of inward currents (IfNa, IsNa, IlCa, IhCa) during postnatal ontogenesis. The percentage of cells in the subpopulation showing only IfNa and IhCa increased from 26% in the first age group to 43% in the second and 62% in the third age groups. Correlations between densities of various types of inward currents were studied. A linear relationship was found between the densities of IhCa and IsNa in subpopulations of neurons with IsNa. An inverse dependence was observed between the densities of IfNa and IhCa in cells showing only two current components. In all cells studied a &quot;washout&quot; of IhCa was observed during intracellular dialysis with saline solutions. Recovery of calcium conductance produced by intracellular application of an cAMP-ATP-Mg2+ complex was different in neurons with various inward current combinations. Intracellular introduction of cAMP-ATP-Mg2+ failed to restore IhCa in most cells of the second and third age groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Human brain microglia may play a central role in immunopathogenesis of CNS diseases including HIV infection, multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. In order to investigate the possible relationship between microglia and the mononuclear phagocyte system, human brain microglia were isolated from 14-18-week-old fetal brains, and maintained in in vitro culture. Enriched fetal brain microglia were stained for different monocyte/macrophage and glial cell markers. Fresh dissociated brain cells lacked macrophage surface markers. Isolated microglial cells stained positive for complement receptor C3bi, Class II [human leukocyte antigen-DR (HLA-DR)] antigen and with the lectin Ricinus communis. Microglia also share several functional properties with monocyte/macrophages, which include generation of superoxide anion and histochemically demonstrable intracellular acid phosphatase and non-specific esterase. Primary human dissociated brain cultures were maintained in culture for at least 28 weeks. Although microglia were not observed above the astrocyte cell layer after 5 weeks in culture, microglia-like cells appear below the astrocyte layer after 12 weeks in culture. These cells stained positive for non-specific esterase and displayed oxidative burst activity upon activation with phorbol myristate acetate. Thus, we have successfully isolated an enriched population of microglia from human fetal brain and have demonstrated that these cells possess markers and properties which are characteristics of mononuclear phagocytes.
The immunoperoxidase technique was used on adjacent sections of guinea-pig brain to compare precisely the distribution of estrogen receptor-immunoreactive cells and progesterone receptor-immunoreactive cells in the supraoptic nucleus and the paraventricular nucleus. Only estrogen receptor-immunoreactive neurons were found in the supraoptic nucleus. A large number of estrogen receptor-positive cells were observed in the periventricular magnocellular groups throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the paraventricular nucleus, whereas only a few progesterone receptor-immunoreactive cells were scattered in the anterior portion of this region. We used a combination of axonal tracing with double immunocytochemical detection to determine whether estradiol acts directly on the oxytocin-immunoreactive neurons which project to the neurohypophysis. Oxytocin-immunoreactive cells were found in the supraoptic nucleus, ventrally to the optic pathways, in subchiasmatic and retrochiasmatic areas, and in the anterior hypothalamic area. These cells were also retrogradely labeled by Granular Blue when this tracer was injected intravenously. In the paraventricular nucleus, the Granular Blue/oxytocin-positive cells were observed in the periventricular magnocellular groups whereas Granular Blue labeled neurons were found in both parvocellular and magnocellular components. We found that almost all the oxytocin-immunoreactive cells revealed estrogen receptor immunoreactivity. In conclusion, the comparative study of distribution of estrogen receptors and progesterone receptors in the guinea-pig supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei indicates that, in the supraoptic nucleus, only estrogen receptors are present and that, in the paraventricular nucleus, they are far more numerous than progesterone receptors. The present findings demonstrate that the magnocellular cells which contain estrogen receptors are oxytocinergic. In addition, these cells are retrogradely labeled pointing to a neurohypophysial projection. It is likely that estradiol controls the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial oxytocin system by direct action on the magnocellular neurons.
Sub-types of fast-activating, voltage-dependent K+ channels were localized in rat brain using the specific probe, alpha-dendrotoxin, in conjunction with the putative K+ channel ligands, delta-dendrotoxin and beta-bungarotoxin. Sheet-film autoradiography of brain sections labelled with radioiodinated delta-dendrotoxin showed that its acceptors occur in most synapse-rich and gray matter regions, and nerve tracts; all of this labelling was abolished by alpha-dendrotoxin or its homologue, toxin I. Other structurally related peptides from mamba snake venom, beta- and gamma-dendrotoxin, were much less effective in preventing delta-dendrotoxin labelling. In common with the sites for alpha-dendrotoxin and beta-bungarotoxin, delta-dendrotoxin acceptors were enriched in cerebral cortex, thalamus and molecular layer of both the cerebellum and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. However, delta-dendrotoxin failed to show significant binding to the Purkinje cell layer of the cerebellar cortex and stratum lacunosum moleculare of the hippocampal formation, areas labelled prominently by the other two probes. Evidence of this apparent heterogeneity in the toxin-binding proteins was consolidated by the observed inability of delta-dendrotoxin to inhibit 125I-labelled alpha-dendrotoxin or beta-bungarotoxin binding to these specified regions. Thus, delta-dendrotoxin, like beta-bungarotoxin, discriminates between sub-types of alpha-dendrotoxin acceptors but in different fashions. Whilst beta-bungarotoxin interacts preferentially with a sub-population in synaptic areas, delta-dendrotoxin distinguished sub-types in certain synaptic and gray matter regions and, in this, resembles mast cell degranulating peptide, a ligand known to block an alpha-dendrotoxin-sensitive K+ current.
The efferent projections of the periaqueductal gray in the rabbit have been described by anterograde tract-tracing techniques following deposits of tritiated leucine, or horseradish peroxidase, into circumscribed sites within dorsal, lateral or ventral periaqueductal gray. No attempts were made to place labels in the fourth, extremely narrow (medial), region immediately surrounding the aqueduct whose size and disposition did not lend itself to confined placements of label within it. These anatomically distinct regions, defined in Nissl-stained sections, corresponded to the same regions into which deposits of horseradish peroxidase were made in order for us to describe afferent projections to the periaqueductal gray. In this present study distinct ascending and descending fibre projections were found throughout the brain. Terminal labelling was detected in more than 80 sites, depending somewhat upon which of the three regions of the periaqueductal gray received the deposit. Therefore, differential projections with respect to both afferent and efferent connections of these three regions of the periaqueductal gray have now been established. Ventral deposits disclosed a more impressive system of ramifying, efferent fibres than did dorsal or lateral placements of labels. With ventral deposits, ascending fibres were found to follow two major pathways from periaqueductal gray. The periventricular bundle bifurcates at the level of the posterior commissure to form hypothalamic and thalamic components which distribute to the anterior pretectal region, lateral habenulae, and nuclei of the posterior commissure, the majority of the intralaminar and midline thalamic nuclei, and to almost all of the hypothalamus. The other major ascending pathway from the periaqueductal gray takes a ventrolateral course from the deposit site through the reticular formation or, alternatively, through the deep and middle layers of the superior colliculus, to accumulate just medial to the medial geniculate body. This contingent of fibres travels more rostrally above the cerebral peduncle, distributing terminals to the substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area and parabigeminal nucleus before fanning out and turning rostrally to contribute terminals to ventral thalamus, subthalamus and zona incerta, then continuing on to supply amygdala, substantia innominata, lateral preoptic nucleus, the diagonal band of Broca and the lateral septal nucleus. Caudally directed fibres were also observed to follow two major routes. They either leave the periaqueductal gray dorsally and pass through the gray matter in the floor of the fourth ventricle towards the abducens nucleus and ventral medulla, or are directed ventrally after passing through either the inferior colliculus or parabrachial nucleus. These ventrally directed fibres merge just dorsal to the pons on the ventral surface of the brain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The optimum management strategies for painful neuromas and neuromas-incontinuity are still unknown. Basic research and clinical development in this area is potentially rewarding and exciting. Neurosurgeons have the necessary basic and clinical neuroscience background to contribute significantly to this field and are trained in the requisite microsurgical techniques. Only by careful and thoughtful approach to individual cases can we hope to make future progress in these extraordinarily difficult pathologic conditions.
We developed a method for a determination of the amount of retrogradely transported HRP in the rat masseteric motoneuron using a modification of Mesulam's HRP histochemical protocol and an image processing system combined with a light microscope and a television camera. To test the validity and reproducibility of the new method, a quantitative comparison of the amount of dark blue granules of HRP-product in the cell body of masseteric motor neurons was performed between the right and left trigeminal motor nuclei of 70 rats, which resulted in no significant difference. An additional study used the method was made of the effects of administration of five dopamine receptor antagonists with different biochemical and pharmacologic properties on retrograde transport of HRP in the rat masseteric motoneuron. As a result, chlorpromazine, haloperidol, SCH 23390, and sulpiride significantly enhanced retrograde transport of HRP as against domperidone which showed no significant change in the transport. A possible regulatory system for retrograde transport of HRP in the masseteric motoneuron was discussed in relation to the action of the dopamine receptor.



This paper provides an overview of research on the nervous system of parasitic platyhelminths. We have emphasized studies concerned with the physiological, pharmacological and biochemical nature of the major small molecule neurotransmitters of these parasites. We have attempted to provide a critical review of the work by focusing on important unresolved issues. Finally, we have focused on some recent work in our laboratory, using patch-clamp recording techniques and quantitative fluorescence cytometry, as an example of newer methods that will hopefully resolve some of the unanswered questions concerning the nervous system of these parasites.
In this study, the developmental proliferation of human brain vessels, from the fetal to the adult stage, was analyzed by immunohistochemical methods using antitype IV collagen, antilaminin, and antifibronectin antibodies. Examination of the frontal lobe indicates that these antibodies bind to the vessels, both arteries and veins. During cortical angiogenesis, the density and diameter of vessels increase rapidly from about 26 weeks gestation and peak at 35 weeks; after 35 weeks, the density and diameter of vessels are the same as those in adult brain. The white matter demonstrates no major changes in vessel density, although the pattern of the changes in vessel diameter resembles that of the cortex. Small immunopositive spots suggesting neovascularization reveal the same developmental tendency as the density of vessels in the cortex and white matter; therefore, it appears that neovascularization in the fetal brain during development is more rapid than cortical expansion and is equal to the growth of white matter. Neovascularization may be closely related to normal brain development and may play an undefined role in perinatal cerebrovascular insults.
Headaches, vomiting and altered sensorium can be seen in patients with migraines as well as in patients with shunt malfunctions. This is a report of 10 patients with hydrocephalus and CSF shunts who presented with headache, vomiting, varying degrees of impairment of consciousness, and coma. Various diagnostic considerations were made: shunt malfunction, slit ventricle syndrome and low pressure (overshunting). Repeated operative procedures were performed in all. 7 of 10 patients had a family history of migraines when the diagnosis of migraine was entertained, 8 patients improved on propranolol therapy, 1 failed with this therapy but responded to verapamil. In the remaining 2 patients, after a transient response to propranolol, compartmentalized hydrocephalus became obvious and improvement followed with shunt procedures. It is concluded that in those patients with hydrocephalus and small ventricles on neuroimaging and a family history of migraines, and in the face of documented adequate shunt function, the diagnosis of migraines be entertained before further operative interventions.
This study was aimed at further documenting the effects of collicular lesions in exploratory activity in the hamster. Following habituation to a set of four objects placed in an open field, collicular and sham-operated hamsters were confronted to a change in the initial situation in which one object was replaced by a new one in a familiar location or in a new location, or a familiar object was moved to a new location, or was left in the same location (control condition). Hamsters sustaining lesions of the superior colliculus and sham-operated hamsters were found to habituate at the same rate. The surgical treatment modified the reactions to the spatial change. Intact hamsters reacted selectively to the new object, whatever its location. In contrast, collicular animals did not react to the familiar object when it was in a new location. Nevertheless, they were able to detect the new object when it replaced a familiar object at the same location. However, when the new object was at a new location, there was only a tendency in collicular hamsters to react to this change. When no change was made in the initial situation, no change in exploratory activity was observed in either group. These results, together with others, suggest that the rodent's superior colliculus is not directly involved in object discrimination, but plays a crucial role in the attentional components of spatial behavior.



The segmentation of visual scenes is a fundamental process of early vision, but the underlying neural mechanisms are still largely unknown. Theoretical considerations as well as neurophysiological findings point to the importance in such processes of temporal correlations in neuronal activity. In a previous model, we showed that reentrant signaling among rhythmically active neuronal groups can correlate responses along spatially extended contours. We now have modified and extended this model to address the problems of perceptual grouping and figure-ground segregation in vision. A novel feature is that the efficacy of the connections is allowed to change on a fast time scale. This results in active reentrant connections that amplify the correlations among neuronal groups. The responses of the model are able to link the elements corresponding to a coherent figure and to segregate them from the background or from another figure in a way that is consistent with the so-called Gestalt laws.


The olfactory neuroepithelium exhibits neurogenesis throughout adult life, and in response to lesions, a phenomenon that distinguishes this neural tissue from the rest of the mammalian brain. The newly formed primary olfactory neurons elaborate axons into the olfactory bulb. Thus, denervation and subsequent reinnervation of olfactory bulb neurons may occur throughout life. This unique ability of the olfactory neuroepithelium to generate new neurons from a population of precursor cells present in the basal cell layer of this tissue makes it a valuable model in the study of neural development and regeneration. The molecular processes underlying the neurogenic properties of the olfactory neuroepithelium are poorly understood. Here we have reviewed our studies on the expression of B50/GAP43 during ontogeny of the olfactory system and following lesioning. This analysis includes the characterization of the expression of OMP, a protein expressed in mature olfactory neurons, as well as PKC and calmodulin. The latter two molecules are of particular interest to the function of B50/GAP43 since the degree of phosphorylation of B50/GAP43 appears to determine B50/GAP43's ability to bind calmodulin (see also Storm, chapter 4, this volume). In the mature olfactory epithelium B50/GAP43 expression is restricted to a subset of cells located in the basal region. Since the expression of B50/GAP43 is high in developing and regenerating nerve cells we are confident that the B50/GAP43 positive cells are new neurons derived from the stem cells in the basal region of the epithelium. B50/GAP43 is absent from the stem cells themselves and also from the mature OMP-expressing neurons. On the basis of the patterns of B50/GAP43 and OMP expression two stages could be discriminated in the regeneration of the olfactory epithelium. First, as an immediate response to lesioning a large population of B50/GAP43 positive, OMP negative neurons are formed. Subsequently, during the second stage, these newly formed differentiating neurons mature as evidenced by a decrease in B50/GAP43 and an increase in OMP expression. The second stage in the regeneration process is only manifested if the regenerating neurons can reach their target cells in the olfactory bulb. Hence, bulbectomy results in the arrest of the reconstituted olfactory epithelium in an immature state. The differential patterns of B50/GAP43 expression following peripheral lesioning and bulbectomy suggest the existence of a target derived signal molecule involved in the down-regulation of B50/GAP43 expression in olfactory neurons that have established synaptic contacts in the olfactory bulb (see also Willard, chapter 2, this volume, &quot;the suppressor hypothesis&quot;).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Monoamine systems have been shown to be an important part of an endogenous analgesic system of the central nervous system. Some aspects of the anatomical basis of monoamine modulation of nociceptive input were investigated in these studies. Two sites examined where monoamine systems are known to impinge on the pain transmission system included the grey matter of the somatosensory thalamus and the spinal cord. In particular, the connections of noradrenergic systems with these regions were emphasized. In the ventral posterolateral nucleus of the thalamus the presence of a sparse innervation by both noradrenergic and serotonergic fibers was confirmed by electron microscopy. Boutons containing markers for either serotonin or norepinephrine were observed contacting dendrites and somata in this region. The origins of these projections were determined, by retrograde transport studies, to be primarily in the locus coeruleus and the dorsal raphe. Also examined was noradrenergic innervation of the spinothalamic tract neurons which relay information related to pain from the spinal cord. Some catecholamine boutons were observed to contact spinothalamic neurons directly. These included spinothalamic tract neurons of the wide dynamic range and the high threshold category. The presence of noradrenergic elements in the somatosensory thalamus and, in particular, the direct connection with spinothalamic tract neurons at the level of the spinal cord clearly provides an anatomical substrate for influencing sensory mechanisms related to pain.

There is considerable evidence from biochemical studies that the transmitter-depleting action of drugs and neurotoxins which act upon central noradrenergic (NA) axon terminals is not uniform in different brain regions. Among NA axons, those originating in the locus coeruleus (LC) have been proposed to be most susceptible to the action of NA neurotoxins such as N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4). The studies described here were conducted to determine whether this differential susceptibility to DSP-4 reflects a pharmacological heterogeneity between different populations of NA axons. To determine whether DSP-4 acts selectively upon LC axons, we have characterized the effects of this drug on NA axons in different brain regions, by using noradrenaline and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (D beta H) immunohistochemistry. Following systemic administration of DSP-4, there was an almost complete loss of noradrenaline and D beta H staining in brain regions innervated by LC axons. No effects of the drug treatment were detected in brain regions innervated primarily by non-coerulean NA axons. These results demonstrate that both the transmitter-depleting and the neurodegenerative action of DSP-4 are restricted to NA axons originating in the LC. To explore the basis for this selectivity, noradrenaline uptake studies were conducted using synaptosomes from brain regions in which NA axons differ in their response to DSP-4. The results reveal a significant difference in the affinity of DSP-4 for the noradrenaline uptake carrier in cortical and hypothalamic synaptosomes. This finding is compatible with the hypothesis that the noradrenaline uptake carrier is pharmacologically distinct in LC and non-coerulean NA axons. This heterogeneity in noradrenaline uptake raises the question whether other drugs may also have differential actions on LC and non-coerulean NA neurons.
Early anatomical studies of the projections of central noradrenergic (NA) neurons led to the widely accepted view of NA cells as a class of diffusely projecting neurons. This view greatly influenced the formulation of numerous hypotheses about the functional role of these neurons in the central nervous system (CNS). With the introduction of transmitter-specific retrograde and anterograde transport methods, two powerful tools became available to rigorously re-examine whether the projections of NA neurons are diffuse or topographically organized. This article summarizes some of the results of these studies in which retrograde transport of fluorescent tracers and anterograde transport of the lectin Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L), respectively, were combined with immunohistochemical identification of NA neurons and their projections. The results of these studies revealed a remarkable degree of specificity in the projections of different subgroups of NA neurons. In the rat CNS, the differential distribution of NA axons of the locus coeruleus (LC) and non-coerulean NA cells is particularly striking in the spinal cord and brainstem. In these regions, NA axons of the LC are primarily distributed to sensory nuclei while NA axons of non-coerulean NA neurons are distributed to motor nuclei. The results support the proposition that NA neurons can be divided into subgroups which differ in their connections and hence represent separated anatomical entities with different functional capacities.
Primary dissociated cultures of embryonic locus coeruleus (LC) neurons were established. Norepinephrine (NE) uptake was used as an index of maturation of the noradrenergic (NA) neurons from the LC. When LC cells were cocultured with a low density of hippocampal target cells, NE uptake was stimulated. However, increasing the concentration of hippocampal cells resulted in a significant decrease in NE uptake. The target stimulatory effect was mediated by both neurons and glia, whereas the inhibitory effect was mediated by direct contact between target glia and LC neurons and detected only in the presence of serum. In addition to the effect of target, we also tested the effect of elevated intracellular cAMP levels on NE uptake versus GABA uptake. GABA uptake was an index of development of non-NA cells. Increasing intracellular cAMP resulted in selective stimulation of NE uptake. These studies illustrate the potential of dissociated LC cultures in studying the regulation of NA axonal outgrowth.
Acting at postsynaptic alpha 1- and beta 1-receptors, norepinephrine (NE) exerts a complex action in rat hippocampus. It is currently believed that beta 1-receptor activation enhances excitability of recorded neurons, whereas alpha 1 activation suppresses reactivity to afferent stimulation. These reported effects of alpha-agonists are not consistent with alpha 1 effects found elsewhere in the brain. We have conducted experiments in the anesthetized rat and found that an amphetamine-induced increase in the dentate gyrus population spike can be blocked by a beta-antagonist but also by an alpha 1-antagonist. We have conducted experiments in the brain slide preparation and found that an alpha-agonist, phenylephrine (PHE), selectively enhances responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) but not to quisqualate. We propose that the product of activation of both alpha- and beta-receptor types will enhance reactivity of hippocampal cells to afferent stimulation.


To date, a number of different growth factors (e.g. nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, ciliary neurotrophic factor, and fibroblast growth factor) have been shown to act as a neurotrophic and/or neurotrophic agents on distinct neuronal populations within the peripheral and central nervous system. Knowledge as to how most of these factors influence the development and regeneration of growth factor-sensitive neurons has been obtained from in vitro examination. A new approach that can be used to assess the effects of growth factors on neuronal groups in vivo is the combined use of gene transfer and intracerebral grafting techniques. The present article explores the potential use of grafting genetically modified fibroblasts within the nervous system as a delivery method for growth factors.


This review deals with notions of shape, sizes, numbers, densities and orientation in space, all basic concepts in stereology. With the initiation by Delesse in 1847, but mainly since the beginning of the XXth century, many stereological methods have been published allowing us to relate two-dimensional measurements easily obtainable on flat histological images with three-dimensional characteristics of the structure analysed. Looking at these methods, the neurobiologist, generally impermeable to concepts of sampling, statistical bias, efficiency, cost of effort and distribution-free, is discountenanced and continues old laboratory usages and customs. Furthermore, for the last ten years, the advent of a plethora of new powerful tools, considered as assumption-free and more efficient than the previous ones, increase the risk proportionately the disarray of the potential user. The purpose of this review is to present synthetically all traditional and actual aspects of stereology in order to guide the reader in the labyrinth of this speciality. The necessarily short exposition is compensated by many references to which the beginner or the initiated can refer.
1. Treatment of patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) with arecoline, a muscarinic cholinergic receptor agonist, reportedly improves performance on a picture recognition memory task, but not on other memory measures. To examine further possible performance improvements following arecoline treatment, patients with DAT were treated with a 30 min intravenous infusion of arecoline (5 mg). 2. Psychometric testing was done at five time points (two before and three following the infusion). Patients were tested on a memory task (Buschke selective reminding) and a test of visuo-spatial performance (figure copying). 3. No net change from baseline was seen in mean scores following arecoline infusion. However, the changes in performance on the two tasks were correlated (p less than 0.02) over subjects at 10 min but not at 1.5 or 5.5 hr following the infusion. 4. This result suggests that although individual patients vary in their response to a given dose of arecoline, their responses are consistent across types of tasks. Thus the lack of a mean drug effect may be due to individual differences in response rather than to a lack of response.
1. The present study was undertaken to examine whether or not 5-HT-induced inositol monophosphate (IP-1) accumulation in human platelets is mediated by 5-HT-2 receptors and to assess 5-HT-2 receptor function as measured by 5-HT-stimulated IP-1 accumulation in platelets from normal controls and depressed patients before drug treatment. 2. In platelets prelabeled with 3H-myo-inositol, in Ca ion free HEPES buffer containing 10 mM LiCl, 5-HT caused a dose-dependent accumulation of IP-1 during 15 min incubation. A maximal increase in IP-1 formation was observed at 30 microM of 5-HT and its EC50 value was 4 microM. 3. Ketanserin, a selective 5-HT-2 antagonist, was a potent inhibitor of 5-HT-stimulated IP-1 accumulation with a Ki value of 12 nM, but (-)propranolol (10 microM), a 5-HT-1 antagonist, failed to block the 5-HT response. 4. The potencies of various compounds tested to inhibit 5-HT-stimulated IP-1 accumulation in human platelets correlated positively with the affinities to 5-HT-2 receptor as defined by radioligand binding in rat cerebral cortex. 5. In a group of unmedicated patients with major depressive disorder matched for age with normal control group, we found a significant increase in 5-HT (100 microM)-induced accumulation of IP-1 (150 +/- 7% of basal for depressed patients, 132 +/- 3% for controls).
1. This study examines the effect of subchronic parachlorophenylalanine (PCPA) treatment upon serotonin (5-HT)-stimulated inositol monophosphate (IP-1) accumulation in rat hippocampal slices and also the effect of antidepressants upon this 5-HT response in the hippocampus from rats treated with or without concurrent administration of PCPA. 2. For high dose PCPA treatment, animals were injected intraperitoneally with 300 mg/kg daily for the first 5 days and then 100 mg/kg for 5 days, while for low dose PCPA treatment animals were injected for 10 days at a dose of 100 mg/kg. Imipramine or iprindole (15 mg/kg i.p.) was given once daily for 10 consecutive days. 3. 10-Day treatment with high dose of PCPA resulted in a significant increase in 5-HT-stimulated IP-1 accumulation, whereas low dose of PCPA had no significant effect upon the 5-HT response as compared to vehicle. 5-HT-stimulated IP-1 accumulation in rat hippocampus was not affected by subchronic treatment with imipramine or iprindole. The enhancement of the 5-HT response induced by high dose of PCPA was not attenuated by repeated antidepressants treatment.
Bowlby considers attachment as a universal bond. It is based on internal models which are often viewed as subject to transmission. Representations of attachment nonetheless must be described together with representations of the object. Intersubjective relationship can be described on a neuro-biological basis but constitution of the Self is also determined by representations and fantasies produced by the mother's mental scripts.
This article examines individual and group manual lateralization in nonhuman primates as a function of task's demands. It is suggested to distinguish low- from high-level manual activities with respect to the novelty variable and to the spatiotemporal scale of the movements. This review shows that low-level tasks lead to (a) symmetrical distributions of hand biases for the group and (b) manual preferences that are not indicative of the specialization of the contralateral hemisphere. In contrast, behaviors expressed in high-level tasks (a) show asymmetrical distribution of hand biases for the group and (b) seem to be related to a specialization of the contralateral hemisphere. Two types of lateralization, handedness and manual specialization, correspond to the 2 levels of tasks that are distinguished.
Developmental language and learning disabilities in children can take many different forms and can result from a variety of causes. Research to date has focused primarily on specific disabilities in learning, which are characterized by a significant delay or disorder in one aspect of learning against a background of otherwise normal development. Learning disabilities affecting language and/or reading acquisition (developmental dysphasia and dyslexia) have been studied most thoroughly. Verbal learning disabilities occur more frequently in boys than in girls, and there is a higher than expected incidence of left-handedness among affected children. Although there are many reasons why a child may have delayed or disordered language development, differential diagnosis of specific developmental language or reading disorders calls for ruling out mental retardation, peripheral auditory or visual dysfunction, autism, frank neurological impairments such as hemiplegia or seizure disorder, and severe social deprivation or lack of educational opportunity. The typical profile of a developmentally dysphasic or dyslexic child is one who shows a marked discrepancy between nonverbal (performance) IQ and verbal IQ, with a history of delayed or disordered speech, language and/or reading development. Such a child usually performs quite normally on visual spatial tasks, while demonstrating severe deficits in tasks of auditory temporal processing, motor sequencing, phonological processing and memory, language, reading and spelling. This characteristic neuropsychological profile may suggest left hemisphere dysfunction or a failure to develop normal cerebral lateralization. The etiology of these developmental learning disorders is unknown, but there is evidence of familial aggregation, indicating a potential genetic basis. Although these children respond to remediation, longitudinal studies have shown that the symptoms often persist into adulthood (see Tallal, 1988, for a more detailed discussion).
This review is centered on anatomical sex differences in neuronal organization in parts of the rat nervous system that are associated with &quot;cognitive&quot; rather than reproductive function: the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex, including the corpus callosum. All three of these structures exhibit sexual dimorphism at the cellular level. It is notable that there is a dissociation between the gross size of a structure and the underlying cellular dimorphism. For example, no sex differences were detected in the size of the splenium of the corpus callosum, but female rats had more axons in this area than did male rats. These &quot;cognitive&quot; regions of the brain are susceptible to the nature of the postweaning environment; the degree and even direction of sex differences was influenced by the environment. There is evidence that testosterone plays a role in the dimorphism of the hippocampus.
To assess the utility of plasma cyclic AMP (cAMP) as a sensitive physiological index of an animal's arousal level, we exposed male hamsters to various intensities (0.0-2.0 mA) of a footshock stressor. The plasma cAMP response was directly related to stimulus intensity. Ratings of behavioral arousal were positively correlated with plasma cAMP values. We conclude that plasma cAMP may be a useful index of arousal.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is accompanied by depletion of cholinergic markers in the central nervous system. In an attempt to improve cognitive function in AD, arecoline (a muscarinic cholinergic receptor agonist) was given to patients with probable or possible AD in a two-phase design, and verbal memory function was examined. First, escalating doses of arecoline, range .5-40 mg/day, were administered by continuous intravenous infusion over a 2-week period. Based on neuropsychological test performance, an optimal dose of arecoline was identified, and this dose then was infused continuously for 5 days in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, counter-balanced trial. Long-term recall on a selective reminding task was significantly improved (from 11.8 to 20.1 words, p less than .05) during dose finding by arecoline at 4 mg/day. Two of eight patients were nonresponders; that is, they showed no improvement at any dose during the dose-finding study. Responders demonstrated significant improvement on total recall (p less than .05) during the double-blind study. These results indicate that some patients demonstrate reliable improvements of verbal memory during arecoline treatment.
Unlike other antidepressant drugs, tianeptine, when administered to cats at doses ranging from 1.2 to 5 mg/kg, produces an increase in arousal associated with longer sequences of immobile attentiveness. The present study analyses tianeptine-induced effects on visuomotor performance. Cats were trained to perform a pointing movement towards a randomly moving spot of light. Following tianeptine treatment (5 mg/kg), visuomotor performance was totally disrupted. When 2.5 mg/kg tianeptine was used, the accuracy of performance was unaffected, whereas the latency of movement onset was considerably and consistently increased. On a number of occasions the movement took also longer to perform. Following lower doses (0.6-1.2 mg/kg), performance was rarely impaired; in contrast, an improvement of visuo-motor scores was observed. This improvement was mostly characterized by an increased accuracy and could be associated with shorter latencies of movement onset or shorter movement times. Desipramine, another antidepressant drug having few sedative effects, induced a clear delay of movement onset when first administered. Further injections did not produce any changes in the visuo-motor performance. These results are discussed in relation with other effects of tianeptine, in particular its facilitatory effect on attentional processes.
Previous studies have suggested that repeated exposure of rats to the drug or to the experimental environment is necessary to observe nicotine-induced locomotor stimulation. In the present study the role of habituation to the experimental environment on the stimulant effect of nicotine in rats was examined. In addition, the role of dopamine receptors in mediating nicotine-induced locomotor stimulation was investigated by examining the effects of selective D1 and D2 dopamine receptor antagonists on activity induced by nicotine. Locomotor activity was assessed in male Sprague-Dawley rats tested in photocell cages. Nicotine (1.0 mg/kg) caused a significant increase in locomotor activity in rats that were habituated to the test environment, but had only a weak and delayed stimulant action in rats that were unfamiliar with the test environment. The stimulant action of nicotine was blocked by the central nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine but not by the peripheral nicotinic blocker hexamethonium, indicating that the response is probably mediated by central nicotinic receptors. Nicotine-induced hyperactivity was blocked by the selective D1 antagonist SCH 23390, the selective D2 antagonist raclopride and the D1/D2 antagonist fluphenazine. Pretreatment with the D2 agonist PHNO enhanced nicotine-induced hyperactivity, whereas the D1 agonist SKF 38393 had no effect. The results indicate that acute nicotine injection induces a pronounced hyperactivity in rats habituated to the test environment. The effect appears to be mediated by central nicotine receptors, possibly located on dopaminergic neurons, and also requires the activation of both D1 and D2 dopamine receptors.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is the decrease in a startle response that occurs when the startling stimulus is preceded by a weaker stimulus or &quot;prepulse&quot;. Schizophrenic patients exhibit abnormally low levels of PPI when the prepulse precedes the startle stimulus by less than 500 ms. A similar deficit in sensorimotor gating can be demonstrated in rats after stimulation of D2 dopamine (DA) receptors by systemic administration of DA agonists or by infusion of DA directly into the nucleus accumbens. We now demonstrate that carbachol infusion into the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation disrupts PPI in the rat. This disruption of sensorimotor gating occurs when the startling stimulus is either acoustic or tactile. Carbachol infusion into the neocortex has no effect on PPI. While pretreatment with the D2 DA receptor antagonist spiperone reverses the disruption of PPI caused by systemic administration of apomorphine, this pretreatment fails to reverse the disruption of PPI induced by carbachol infusion into the hippocampus. These results demonstrate that pharmacologic stimulation of the hippocampus disrupts sensorimotor gating in the rat by a mechanism distinct from that of DA agonists. Prepulse inhibition of the startle reflex is an animal model in which pharmacologic stimulation of the hippocampus mimics the deficits in sensorimotor gating observed in schizophrenic patients.
Behavioral effects of (+)MK-801 (0.03-0.32 mg/kg) and (-)MK-801 (0.32-3.20 mg/kg) were evaluated in rats using a multiple fixed-ratio, fixed-interval (FR20, FI2) schedule of food presentation. Both enantiomers produced dose-dependent decreases in response rate under the FR20 and in this respect (+)MK-801 was approximately ten times as potent as (-)MK-801. Under the FI2 schedule component, the (+) enantiomer produced substantial increases as well as decreases in response rate whereas the (-) enantiomer produced only decreases. When 0.178 mg/kg (+)MK-801 and 1.78 mg/kg (-)MK-801 were administered for 11 consecutive days, tolerance developed to the decrease in response rate under the FR20 schedule component. Tolerance to the effects of the (+) enantiomer under the FI2 schedule component was indicated by progressively larger increases in response rate than those observed during acute administration. These results support potential therapeutic applications of MK-801.
Peripheral glucose administration enhances memory in rodents and humans. Recent findings suggest that glucose may affect behavior, in part, by augmenting central cholinergic functions and by attenuating central opiate functions. The present experiments examined interactions between an opiate antagonist, naloxone, and cholinergic agents to determine whether the effects would parallel those found with glucose. Three behavioral measures were assessed: tremors, hyperactivity, and spontaneous alternation. Naloxone (1 mg/kg) significantly augmented tremors elicited by physostigmine (0.3 mg/kg). Naloxone (1 mg/kg) also attenuated increases in locomotor activity and impairments in spontaneous alternation performance elicited by scopolamine (1 and 3 mg/kg for activity and alternation measures, respectively). Thus, across three diverse measures, naloxone produced effects similar to those previously reported for glucose. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that release of cholinergic activity from opiate inhibition may contribute to glucose effects on behavior.
The effects of the cholinesterase inhibitors physostigmine and tetrahydroaminoacridine (THA) on memory and performance deficits induced by scopolamine were studied using an operant delayed non-matching to position task. No effect was seen on the performance of rats when treated with either physostigmine (0.1 mg/kg IP) or THA (1 mg/kg IP) alone. However, the performance deficits induced in the task by scopolamine (0.03 mg/kg SC) were reversed by the same doses of the cholinesterase inhibitors.
The abuse of benzodiazepines by narcotic addicts has been well documented. However, the pharmacological basis of this abuse is not clear. In this study the effects of different benzodiazepines (flunitrazepam: 0.5, 1 and 2 mg/kg; nitrazepam: 0.5, 1, 2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg; diazepam: 0.5, 1, 2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg; chlordiazepoxide: 0.5, 1, 2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg; and triazolam: 0.5, 1 and 2 mg/kg) on the morphine withdrawal syndrome in mice have been compared. Drugs were administered 30 min before naloxone-induced withdrawal. All benzodiazepines tested induced similar changes in some of the signs of morphine abstinence: decreased jumping behavior and increased wet dog shake frequency. Jumping behavior was particularly decreased by triazolam and wet dog shakes were mainly increased by flunitrazepam and nitrazepam. Forepaw treading was reduced by flunitrazepam, diazepam and triazolam, increased by nitrazepam and not changed by chlordiazepoxide. Tremor was effectively reduced by diazepam but less reliably by the other benzodiazepines. Teeth chattering was reduced by flunitrazepam and diazepam. These results indicate that benzodiazepines can interfere with the expression of the morphine withdrawal syndrome.
The effect of the psychomotor stimulant, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, &quot;Ecstasy&quot;), upon integrated cerebral function was measured in rats using the quantitative [14C]deoxyglucose autoradiographic technique. Animals were injected with MDMA (20 mg/kg sc) twice daily for 4 days. Fourteen days after the final administration, [3H]-paroxetine binding to 5HT uptake sites was reduced by 89% in membranes prepared from tissue samples of frontal cortex. In the same rats [3H]-paroxetine binding autoradiography revealed heterogeneity in the regional distribution of 5-HT uptake site depletion within neocortex (0-92%) and hippocampus (30-95%). Despite these profound reductions in 5-HT uptake sites no significant alterations were found in glucose utilisation in any area of neocortex examined. However, significant increases in glucose use were found in subregions of the hippocampus, most notably within the pyramidal cell layer of CA2 and CA3 (25-35%). This study provides direct evidence that the loss of 5-HT innervation caused by exposure to MDMA results in lasting functional changes in hippocampus.
A simple and rapid method for detecting the behavioral effects of phencyclidine and related dissociative anesthetics is described. Dissociative anesthetics such as phencyclidine (PCP) and dizolcipine, which bind with high affinities at N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) coupled cation channels (&quot;PCP receptors&quot;), produced a dose-related increase in the percentage of mice that fell from a 1.5 cm deep circular arena mounted on a 60 cm platform. A similar behavior was not manifest by other classes of compounds examined including competitive NMDA antagonists, an antagonist at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors, and sigma-receptor ligands with moderate to low affinities for PCP receptors. Pretreatment of mice with glycine reduced in a dose-dependent manner the percentage of falls elicited by a maximally effective dose of dizolcipine. This simple procedure may prove useful for both the rapid detection of dissociative anesthetics and evaluation of putative PCP antagonists.
The mismatch negativity (MMN) is an event-related brain potential elicited by infrequent, physically deviant sounds in a sequence of repetitive auditory stimuli. Two dichotic listening experiments that were designed to optimize the selective focusing of attention provided a strong test of Ntnen's proposal that the MMN is unaffected by attention and reflects the operation of a strongly automatic mismatch detection system. In Experiment 1, tones were presented at intervals of 120-320 ms, and the deviant tones (intensity decrements) in both the attended and unattended ears elicited negative waves consistent in waveshape, latency, and distribution with previously described MMNs. In contrast to previous reports, however, the MMN elicited by the unattended-channel deviant was markedly reduced (peak amplitude of less than 1 microV) relative to the corresponding negative wave elicited by the attended-channel deviants (3-4 microV), as well as relative to previously reported MMNs (3-6 microV) elicited by comparable deviations in stimulus intensity. In Experiment 2, which employed interstimulus intervals of 65-205 ms, the unattended-channel MMN elicited by the deviant fainter tones was barely discernible, whereas the corresponding attended-channel negativity was again about 3-4 microV. These findings call into question the assertion that the auditory mismatch detection process and the associated MMN wave are wholly independent of attentional influence. Rather, these data provide evidence that the processing of stimuli in unattended channels can be attenuated or gated at an early sensory level under conditions of highly focused auditory selective attention.
During the decade since the first reports of functional effects of substantia nigra (SN) transplantation in animal models of Parkinson's disease, the procedure has progressed to human clinical trials. There is evidence that SN grafts can produce some alleviation of the manifestations of SN lesions in animal models, and by several measures these grafts appear to function in a manner similar to the normal SN. There do, however, appear to be limitations on the efficacy of SN allografts in rodent models, that may be related to an inability of fetal SN transplants to fully integrate into the host brain structure. No method of overcoming this limitation has yet been found. Studies of transplantation of human fetal SN to immunosuppressed rat hosts suggest that human donor tissue exerts proportionately greater effects than rat tissue, and is similarly effective when transplanted as solid tissue fragments or as dissociated cells. Only recently, a few controlled studies have obtained evidence for positive effects of SN grafts in primate models of Parkinson's disease. In the few clinical studies reported thus far, there are indications that some clinical improvements can be produced by SN grafts, although there is little or no evidence that the clinical changes found so far are larger than the changes that have been seen after adrenal medulla grafts. The possibility of a role of striatal injury in the clinical changes has not been resolved. It is noteworthy that nearly all of the studies of SN transplantation in rodents, primates, and humans have employed methodologies similar to those developed in the course of the first few reports on SN transplantation, and that the effects obtained by these methods are limited, even in rats. The possibility is raised that fundamental advances in SN transplantation techniques may be important for the development of a more efficacious clinical procedure.
Grafts of fetal ventral mesencephalon/substantia nigra cell suspensions into the dopamine-denervated striatum have been shown to reduce many of the behavioral alterations associated with striatal dopamine depletion. In this report, the behavioral response to amphetamine, apomorphine, the D1 receptor agonist SKF82958, and the D2 receptor agonist LY171555 were tested before and after intrastriatal grafts of fetal substantia nigra, of fetal striatum or no implantation procedure in animals with unilateral dopamine denervation. Grafts of fetal substantia nigra tissue were associated with significant behavioral recovery, as indicated by decreased turning induced by amphetamine (P  0.005), SKF82958 (P &lt; 0.005), and LY171555 (P &lt; 0.002). These effects were significantly different from the response in animals that did not receive grafts (P &lt; 0.05) and occurred in the absence of decreased apomorphine-induced turning. These data suggest that the response to selective D1 or D2 dopamine receptor agonists is diminished following grafts of fetal dopaminergic tissue and that this behavioral effect is dissociable from the phenomena of behavioral supersensitivity to apomorphine. In a subset of substantia nigra grafted animals, it was found that D1 or D2 dopamine receptor antagonists administered 30 min prior to apomorphine could significantly reduce apomorphine-induced turning.
Blood-brain barrier permeability was measured using [14C]-labelled a-aminoisobutyric acid (AIB) quantitative auto-radiography in rats which had previously received unilateral ibotenate-induced lesions of the nucleus basalis followed by intracortical implantation of foetal basal forebrain cell suspensions. The permeability characteristics of intracortical transplants were found to be dependent upon the site of implantation. Superficial transplants were invariably associated with AIB transfer constants (Ki) 3- to 4-fold higher than those in corresponding contralateral host cortex. In transplants sited deep in host neocortex, Ki values were not significantly different from those measured in surrounding host brain tissue.
We have previously shown that motoneurone-like cells from embryonic grafts survive and migrate into the host neuropil of adult rat spinal cord, depleted of some of its own motoneurones. We moreover demonstrated that a muscle, when connected at the site of the graft to the spinal cord of the host by its own nerve, was reinnervated by motoneurones that could be identified by retrograde labelling with HRP [11]. However, it was not clear whether these retrogradely labelled motoneurones were of graft origin. In this study we combined the use of an embryonic marker with retrograde labelling to demonstrate that grafted neurones of embryonic origin can indeed innervate a soleus muscle implant. Embryonic donor cells were labelled with bromodeoxyuridine (BrDU) by its incorporation into replicating DNA during neurogenesis. The nuclei of grafted cells were then identified in host cords by immunocytochemistry, visualising the BrDU positive nuclei with the fiuorophore Texas Red, while the fluorescent dyes Fast Blue and Diamidino Yellow were used for retrograde labelling. Examination of frozen spinal cord sections by fluorescence microscopy, at wavelengths appropriate to each fiuorophore, showed that about 12% of the neurones innervating the muscle implant also contained detectable amounts of BrDU and therefore were of graft origin.
In this paper the cognitive and psychiatric impairments associated with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and related disorders are reviewed. It is concluded that while acute mononucleosis and infection with Epstein-Barr virus occasionally result in impaired cognition, such changes have not yet been objectively verified in patients with CFS. However, when patients with CFS are carefully studied, concurrent or premorbid psychiatric disorders are revealed at a greater than chance level. Finally, some suggestions are offered regarding improved neuropsychological assessment of fatigue, concentration, and attention for patients with CFS. The findings to date, while suggesting that psychological predisposition may play a role in the expression of CFS, are still inconclusive regarding the etiology of CFS.
This paper analyzes the main difficulties encountered in cochlear implants in children. Neurophysiological data indicate that cochlear implants should be put during the first 3-4 years of life. The principal controversies concern: the indications of cochlear implants, the type of implant (mono or multichannel), surgical problems, problems of implant set-up, strategy of rehabilitation.
Genetically determined diseases with neurological expression are frequent. Recent progress in molecular biological techniques, particularly the availability of markers distributed throughout the whole human genome, has given birth to the concept of reverse genetics, with consists in localizing the gene responsible for a disease, then identifying it and its corresponding protein. This approach is illustrated by the studies that led to the localization of the gene responsible for Huntington's chorea on the short arm of chromosome 4 and the identification of dystrophic, the abnormal gene product in Duchenne's and Becker's muscular dystrophies. These discoveries have medical repercussions, leading to predictive tests or new therapies. However, predictive medicine raises ethical issues that are largely debated.
Defects of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation are important causes of disease. Defects of pyruvate dehydrogenase may present in early childhood with severe CNS changes or, as lactic acidosis or later with ataxia. Defects of fatty acid oxidation may present with hypoglycaemic coma, myopathy, liver disease with encephalopathy, cardiomyopathy or sudden infant death. The investigation of both these groups of disorders is difficult and depends upon a combination of biochemical and molecular biology techniques.
The goal of this paper is to show the paralelism between the objectives of both, neurosciences and philosophy. First, a historical review of the common works on both fields of study is made; next, the implications of the brain-mind relationship and how the use of a cerebral function theory that help us to solve the problem are discussed. Finally, the social implications of cooperation between neurosciences and philosophy are analyzed.
Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was introduced in the 1960s to detect breakdowns in the blood-brain barrier and was replaced by x-ray computed tomography in the mid-1970s. The development of the deoxyglucose (DG) technique to measure regional cerebral glucose metabolism by employing either autoradiography, using 14CDG, or positron emission tomography (PET), using 18FDG, added a major dimension to the investigation of brain function. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, the FDG-PET technique was widely used to examine a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders. It soon became apparent that functional imaging was more sensitive than anatomic imaging in detecting abnormalities of the brain related to aging, dementia, tumors, seizures, cerebral vascular accidents, and psychiatric problems. Because of its complexity and the cost involved, PET was used in a limited number of centers in the United States. However, the success of PET resulted in the resurgence of interest in SPECT as an alternative technology after almost a decade. This became possible because of the synthesis of iodine 123- and technetium 99m-labeled radiopharmaceuticals to determine regional cerebral blood flow. Since blood flow and metabolism are coupled in most pathological states, patterns of abnormality noted on SPECT were similar to those seen on PET in many disorders. Since the introduction of high resolution SPECT imaging instruments, the role of SPECT has been further enhanced. The successful synthesis of both positron and single emitting radioligands to image dopamine and other receptors has started a new era in neurosciences and will have a far-reaching impact on the day-to-day practice of neuropsychiatry.
Menstrual attitudes were studied in a group of 48 Indian women using the Menstrual Attitude Questionnaire, modified and adapted for Indian background. Attitudinal factors of menstruation being a natural, bothersome and debilitating event were studied, as also denial of the event and healthy/unhealthy attitudes. High rating was seen in menstruation being perceived as a natural event and least as a debilitating one. Older women considered menstruation as a natural event. Relating premenstrual experiences to attitudes, it was observed that distressful symptoms correlated significantly with debilitating and unhealthy attitudes. Similarly, premenstrual well-being correlated highly with naturalness attitudes, thereby suggesting that the personal experiences are likely to influence the menstrual attitudes.
Fifty subjects were interviewed to determine the items or issues which they considered as reflecting quality of life and how important these items were in the event of a serious illness. Peace of mind, spiritual satisfaction and social satisfaction were considered to be very important by nearly 2/3 of the subjects. Individual's functioning and level of physical and psychological health were given much less significance. Level of satisfaction was valued much higher than the level of functioning.
One hundred and forty-eight subjects drawn from urban and rural settings who had been hospitalized for any medical problem within the previous three years were interviewed using a semi structured interview schedule to understand their opinion and experiences of informed consent. Sixty medical officers providing primary care in both urban and rural areas were concurrently interviewed to gather their opinion. Results revealed that respondents were dissatisfied with the information they had received about the different aspects of their illness. Both the doctors and the patients felt the need for providing adequate information to utilizers of health services. The two groups identified certain constraints, like illiteracy, in obtaining informed consent. Doctors compared to patients more often thought that illiterates could not understand the information. Patients more often felt that information about nature of investigations and about prognosis need not be routinely revealed.
Recently, an age-related increase in the number of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells was reported in adult rats. This suggests neurogenesis of adult primary afferent neurons, which would be an extremely important phenomenon if it occurred. Other evidence is not compatible with this idea, however, so the issue is not settled. The primary point of contention concerns the counts of DRG cells in relation to age. In our opinion, these disagreements arise, at least in part, because different counting methods give different results for the same material. Thus, any method for determining DRG cell numbers should be calibrated. We previously calibrated some of the common methods used to count DRG cells and found that an empirical method gave accurate cell counts. In the present study, we have used this method and asked whether an age-related increase in the number of lumbar DRG cells can be demonstrated in adult rats. Our data indicate that DRG cell numbers remain essentially constant from 3 to 22 months of age. Most ancillary evidence is consistent with the hypothesis that mammalian DRG cell numbers do not change during adult life. Thus, we feel that the evidence does not support the hypothesis that there is neurogenesis of adult rat primary afferent neurons.


Yawning is a common physiological phenomenon, induced by hunger, sleepiness or impersonation. Its behavioral aim seems to be an effort to vigilance. There are numerous pathological reasons explaining yawning, as for example global (infectious, metabolic and toxical) or focal neurological diseases. The modification of yawning in pathology where a dopaminergic dysfunction is to be found, as well as some data of animal experimentation, support when it takes place the dopaminergic system's implication. The pre-synaptical receptor's role had been suggested for a long time but actually yawning seems to be linked with a D1-D2 cooperation. The cholinergic system probably control a final effective pathway. We also imply the peptidergic, serotoninergic, androgine and opiace systems. If the localization of a putative center of yawning is impossible, the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway, the paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus and the pituitary gland play a major role. Yawning can be used as a functioning index of the dopaminergic system in vivo in the human being.
Appropriate conditions were developed for primary sustained culture of olfactory neurons of the spiny lobster Panulirus argus. Neurons were cultured in a modified Liebowitz L15 media supplemented with Panulirus salts, basic minimal essential (BME) vitamins, L-glutamine, low dextrose, and either fetal calf serum (FCS) or lobster haemolymph. Neurite outgrowth and cell viability was strongly affected by choice of adherent substratum, presence of serum, and length of animal captivity. Neither nerve growth factor 7s (NGF-7s), HEPES, nor preconditioned media from the target organ, the olfactory lobe, had any gross effect on either longevity or neurite outgrowth. Five morphologically distinct neuronal cell types (8-16 mum soma diameter) could be defined based on their number and type of processes. All of these cells were electrically excitable (N = 50), and many (56%) produced either inward or outward currents in response to stimulation with single odors. The proportion of cells responding to odors increased (80%) when 10 cells were sequentially presented with a series of 3-5 odors. The finding that cultured cells maintain responsiveness to odors yet are morphologically more compact than their counterparts in situ, argues for the prospect of using these dissociated cultured olfactory receptor neurons to study signal transduction in olfaction.
Progress in migraine research has been rapid in recent years, from both the basic science and the clinical perspectives. A new internationally accepted headache classification with operational diagnostic criteria was published in 1988, eliminating much diagnostic uncertainty. More than a decade of study of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) has gradually shown a pathognomonic pattern of abnormalities, probably reflecting spreading cortical depression. Recently it has been shown that pain probably arises from excitation of perivascular pial arterial nociceptors. The innervation and receptor mechanisms of pial and extracranial arteries have been worked out in detail both in animal and humans. Involvement of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) during migraine attacks has been demonstrated. A new and specific 5-HT1D receptor agonist has proved to be highly effective in treating migraine. Therefore, major research efforts recently have been concentrated on discovering the location and function of 5-HT1D receptors, extra- and intracranially. Thus, it is now possible to formulate useful neuroscientific research strategies aimed at clarifying migraine mechanisms.
Transmitter release at nerve terminals is triggered by voltage-gated calcium influx upon arrival of an action potential. Changes in coupling between axonal impulse discharge and depolarization of the nerve ending might therefore regulate exocytotic secretion. In the magnocellular neurosecretory system of the rat, the pattern of electrical activity can modify the duration of action potentials within individual nerve endings, and alter the spatial spread of excitation into the branching terminal field of neurohypophysial axons. The observed effects are consistent with the effects of firing rate and pattern on peptide release, indicating that activity-dependent changes in axon-terminal coupling may modulate secretion in this neuroendocrine system.
The collapse of the communist regime in Czechoslovakia revealed not only the disastrous state of the Czechoslovak economy but also the serious problems that Czechoslovak science faces. Understanding the present situation and determining the best way to improve it requires careful analysis of the development of science during the past 40 years.
Recent molecular cloning studies have identified several genes encoding alpha and beta subunits of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. These genes have distinct, although overlapping, patterns of expression in the brain and peripheral ganglia. Multiple nicotinic receptors with distinct pharmacological and functional properties can be made in oocytes by pairwise combination of different alpha-type subunits with different beta-type subunits. Both alpha and beta subunits contribute to the pharmacological and functional diversity. Evan Deneris and colleagues explain how oocyte expression studies, in concert with immunological and electrophysiological analysis in vivo, are beginning to reveal the subunit compositions of different neuronal nicotinic receptor subtypes.
The striate cortical contribution to the surface pattern-reversal visual evoked potential (VEP) was investigated in awake monkeys during performance of a visual fixation task, by examining laminar profiles of VEP, current source density (CSD) and concomitant multiunit activity (MUA) in Area 17, recorded simultaneously at incremental depths using multicontact electrodes. Stimuli were black/white bar gratings centered on the fixation point. The typical surface pattern-reversal VEP over striate cortex consists of a prominent positivity peaking at 50-70 msec (P60), followed by a large negativity peaking at approx. 80 msec (N80), and then by a late broad positivity, peaking between 120 and 150 msec (P125). P60 is often preceded by a small negativity peaking at 45-55 msec (N50), and on rare occasions a small positivity (P40) is also observed. N50 is generated primarily by current sinks in Lamina 4C. P60 arises from large current sources in the supragranular laminae. N80 and P125 appear to be composite waveforms reflecting complex contributions from local activity and from activity occurring outside of the foveal/immediate parafoveal representation in Area 17. The basic physiologic sequence elicited by patterned stimulation is similar to that elicited by diffuse luminance or by electrical stimulation, but is characterized by more prominent supra- and infragranular activation. It is consistent with the cellular and synaptic anatomy of Area 17: initial activation of the thalamorecipient subdivisions of Lamina 4C, followed by activation of mid/upper Lamina 4 and of supra- and infragranular laminae. Our results suggest the possibility of differentiating synaptic stages and cellular processes reflected in the human VEP, based on homologies with simian VEP components.
We examined the perception of structure in a family of visual textures whose second-order correlation structure is flat. These textures were generated by two-dimensional recursion rules, in a manner which extends the construction of Julesz, Gilbert and Victor (1978; Biological Cybernetics, 31, 137-140). Textures generated by some recursion rules elicited a visually salient percept of structure, while textures generated by other recursion rules did not. Textures whose statistical structure was visually salient produced evoked responses which differed from the response evoked by completely random textures. The size of this VEP difference correlated well with psychophysical measures. Since the textures were constructed to have identical global spatial frequency spectra, models for the extraction of visual structure must be essentially nonlinear. Models based on symmetry, information content, or simple spatial extent (but not pattern) of correlation fail to explain the observed results. Models based on the cooperative interaction of pairs of nonlinear subunits provide a reasonable qualitative account of the findings. The critical model features are (i) the presence of multiple nonlinear subunits, and (ii) a second nonlinearity, such as a threshold, at the stage of combination of subunit signals.
In order to determine the relative contributions of pre-neural and neural factors to areal summation in the fovea, measurements of Ricco's area were made. These were compared to the results of an ideal-observer analysis which incorporated only pre-neural factors, up to the level of the photoreceptor. The comparison indicated that Ricco's area in the fovea is largely (if not completely) accounted for by pre-neural factors. Thus, our results, in agreement with the recent analysis of contrast sensitivity by Banks, Geisler and Bennett (1987; Vision Research, 27, 1915-1924), are consistent with the hypothesis that a neural pathway exists which consists of units whose center mechanisms sum over only a single cone or a single row of cones. Our results also imply that the quantum efficiency for detection is constant for test areas up to 256 min2, once the effects of the optics and receptor aperture are factored out.



A. Ukhtomski is one of those Russian naturalists of the beginning of the 20th century (K. Tsiolkovski, V. Vernadski, K. Timiriazev, I. Pavlov), whose scientific work is characterized by a combination of the valuable contribution to a specific field of science and deep philosophical conceptualizations. Ukhtomski enriched modern neurophysiology by the ideas on dominant--a stable focus of enhanced excitability, determining the organism reactions to the environmental stimuli. Unlike artificial experimental models, natural dominant--vector of the goal-directed behaviour--represents the needs of immediate satisfaction, dominating at the present moment. Formation of needs hierarchy, characteristic of the given personality, occurs during the process of people communication. Namely, another man serves to the subject a mirror, looking into which he realizes himself as a human being (K. Marx). By his teaching on the dominant, Ukhtomski has revealed the dual nature of the personality's self-consciousness in the process of its perception of the surrounding people. He showed that involuntary projection of its dominating vital and social needs (motives, intentions) to the image of another man makes the latter only the &quot;double&quot; of the observer, which does not promote the development and enrichment of personality. Actually productive is only the perception which is motivated by the ideal need of learning another personality, sincere interest in him, what makes another person a &quot;well-deserved colocutor&quot;, a source of new knowledge about people and himself. The ideas of Ukhtomski on the nature of human &quot;self&quot; are close to ideological searchings of L. Tolsto and F. Dostoevski.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Synaptophysin, an integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles in nerve terminals and a class of small translucent vesicles in neuroendocrine cells, was detected in intact rabbit platelets by immunoblotting, immunofluorescence staining and immuno-electron microscopy. In a highly purified preparation of serotonin organelles isolated from rabbit platelets, synaptophysin was enriched approximately 10-15-fold over platelet homogenate. About 80% of total platelet synaptophysin was present in this purified fraction. The apparent molecular mass (approximately 38 kDa) and the extent of glycosylation of platelet-derived synaptophysin was more similar to the neuronal than to the neuroendocrine form of the protein. Immunofluorescence microscopy revealed that synaptophysin was compartmentalized in intact rabbit platelets and immuno-electron microscopy of subcellular fractions showed that it was localized exclusively to the membrane surface of serotonin organelles. No synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity was detected in platelets from other species such as human, guinea pig and rat. Another integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles, p65, and a family of synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoproteins, the synapsins, were not detected in platelets of any species tested. These results provide evidence that serotonin organelles from rabbit platelets share a subset of protein components with synaptic vesicles from neurons. Synaptophysin in serotonin organelles from rabbit platelets, as suggested for small synaptic vesicles in neurons, might play a role in the formation of protein channels for the exocytotic release of serotonin.
A conjugate of the high affinity benzodiazepine receptor ligand Ro 15-1788 and the fluorescent 7-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazol-4-yl (NBD) moiety was synthesized. This novel compound (BD 623) exhibited excitation and emission maxima at 486 and 542 nm, respectively, and possessed fluorescent properties that are dependent upon the polarity of its environment. BD 623 bound reversibly to benzodiazepine receptors in the central nervous system with an apparent affinity (K(i) 5.7 nM) comparable to the parent imidazobenzodiazepine (K(d) 2.8 nM). Addition of BD 623 to a suspension of brain membranes resulted in a time-dependent quenching of its fluorescence. Fluorescence quenching of this compound was readily reversed by specific benzodiazepine receptor ligands but not by a variety of other substances. Moreover, inactivation of benzodiazepine receptors by photoaffinity labeling with Ro 15-4513 resulted in a reduction in the fluorescence quenching of BD 623 consistent with the reduction in density of benzodiazepine receptors measured using a radioreceptor assay. Monitoring of fluorescence/dequenching of BD 623 in real time permitted a quantitative characterization of the ligand-receptor interaction, with both the K(d) of BD 623 (13.9 nM) and K(i) of Ro 15-1788 (5.7 nM) comparable with the estimates obtained using radioreceptor techniques. These results indicate that application of fluorescence quenching techniques with BD 623 could prove a useful adjunct for the study of benzodiazepine receptors. BD 623 may serve as a prototype for the development of other fluorescent ligands to study ligand-receptor interactions.



Cerebral blood flow and glucose utilisation were measured in rats using [14C]iodoantipyrine and [14C]2-deoxyglucose quantitative autoradiography respectively following repeated exposure to the serotonergic neurotoxin methylenedioxyamphetamine. In both control and treated animals blood flow and glucose use were similarly correlated but the ratio was increased following lesion. Some focal increases in flow were greatly in excess of metabolic demand. These results are consistent with a cerebrovascular vasoconstrictor role for serotonin.
Therapeutic efficacy of calcium channel blockers in stroke remains controversial, but previously used agents bind almost exclusively to L-type calcium channels. The newly-discovered N-type calcium channel is specific to neurons, and therapy involving blockade of this site has not been previously attempted. We assessed the neuroprotective effect of omega-conotoxin GVIA (CgTx), a blocker of N-type calcium channels, using both in vitro hypoxic injury to rat cortical neurons and an in vivo model of reversible spinal cord ischemia in the rabbit. In cell cultures, CgTx inhibited hypoxia-induced 45Ca accumulation and neuronal injury minimally, compared to the NMDA antagonist ketamine. In vivo, the duration of spinal cord ischemia which produced permanent paraplegia in 50% of control animals (ET50) was 24.0 +/- 2.6 min. Animals treated 2 h prior to ischemia with 0.5 nmol CgTx in the subarachnoid space had an ET50 of 26.9 +/- 1.8 min (P = 0.36). Animals treated 24 h prior to ischemia (all had persistent systemic tremor) had a ET50 of 28.9 +/- 1.8 min (P = 0.13). We conclude that pharmacologic modulation of the N-type calcium channel does not provide a significant protective effect against neuronal hypoxic-ischemic injury.
The density of neurotensin immunoreactivity (NT-IR) was dramatically decreased in 6 of 12 amygdaloid nuclear subregions in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) compared to age-matched normals. Diminution of NT-IR was most pronounced in amygdaloid regions containing the greatest number of senile plaques. This contrasts to our previous findings of little, if any, loss of substance P or somatostatin immunoreactivity within these same regions. The present findings corroborate biochemical reports of a decrease in NT-IR in the AD amygdala and suggest that this peptide may be selectively affected relative to other neuropeptides.
Two experiments were conducted to investigate the basis of the spatial impairment displayed by rats with lesions to the medial frontal cortex, using a three-table Y-shaped apparatus. In both experiments, animals were first given an exploratory experience of the maze, followed by a short feeding experience on one of the tables, and were then required to return to the location where they had just been fed. In Expt. 1, a spatial working memory procedure was used in which the location of the goal table was varied from day to day. When compared to normal animals frontal rats showed a marked impairment, despite the addition of (a) distinctive visual cues on the tables and their associated runways, or (b) a conspicuous visual pattern placed directly above the goal. Expt. 2 used a spatial learning procedure, in which the spatial location of the goal table remained constant over days. However, the whole apparatus was daily rotated so that animals could not learn to associate the goal table with specific cues located behind it. This procedure did not prevent frontal animals from learning the consistent location of the food by using the spatial relationships of the environment. These results, together with previous ones, suggest that frontal animals suffer from a specific (though not restricted to the domain of spatial information) working memory deficit, and their spatial reference memory is not impaired.
In zebrafish, as in Xenopus, the well-orchestrated cell movements of gastrulation can be dissected into several components, including epiboly, involution, convergence and extension. Embryos homozygous for the recessive lethal mutation spt-1(b104) or 'spadetail' have a complex set of defects in the trunk of the embryo that may arise secondarily after loss of one of these movements, convergence, from those precursors that would normally have given rise to trunk somitic mesoderm. We have now tested this hypothesis by transplanting cells between wild-type and mutant embryos, to identify the cells that spt-1 affects directly. Our results show that the mutation autonomously affects only those mesodermal precursors located along the lateral margin of the early gastrula blastoderm. Other mesodermal cells and all ectodermal precursors seem not to require function of the wild-type gene. Our findings reveal an unexpectedly delicate genetic control of vertebrate gastrulation.
The influences of the visual background on the spontaneous and evoked activity of neurons in the striate cortex (V1) of the awake and behaving macaque were investigated using uniform (dark and bright) and textured (dynamic random-dot) large fields (10 degrees) centered on the receptive field of the cell under study. Rhesus monkeys were trained to fixate a small target while visual patterns were presented on monitor displays and the impulse activity of single cortical neurons recorded extracellularly with metal microelectrodes. The discharge rates of the ongoing, spontaneous activity of the vast majority of V1 neurons, as well as their responses to optimally adjusted bar stimuli, were not significantly influenced by the luminance of a uniform background. On the other hand, the activity of more than 50% of V1 neurons was clearly affected by a textured background. Comparison of the effects of a uniformly dark background and a background of dynamic random dots showed that the neuron's spontaneous discharge rate was typically higher in the presence of the textured background, while the evoked response was often reduced in amplitude or even suppressed. The opposite effects were observed in only a few neurons. These findings indicate that neurons in area V1 are highly sensitive to a textured background of dynamic random dots which exert on them an activating effect, chiefly by stimulation of the neuron's receptive field, with consequent increase in the ongoing discharge and a reduction of the dynamic range of impulse activity, leading to a reduction in the amplitude of the response evoked by a contrast stimulus.
The activity of prolyl endopeptidase was markedly decreased during incubation of intact murine erythroleukemia cells at 45 degrees C, but not during incubation of sonicated cells or during incubation at 42 degrees C. The thermal inactivation of prolyl endopeptidase in situ required neither the synthesis of proteins and polynucleotides nor the synergistic activation of inhibitors. Moreover, inhibition of lysosomal proteinases and calpains or depletion of ATP did not affect the thermal inactivation of prolyl endopeptidase. This specific inactivation of prolyl endopeptidase was also observed following the addition to the culture medium of menadione or diamide, compounds known to increase intracellular oxidized glutathione levels. The activity of prolyl endopeptidase in the cell lysate was also dose-dependently decreased by the addition of glutathione disulfide and the decrease of the activity was prevented by coexistence of reduced glutathione. Furthermore, the level of intracellular oxidized glutathione was increased during incubation at 45 degrees C for 15 min, but not at 42 degrees C for 30 min. These results strongly suggest that the activity of prolyl endopeptidase is regulated by changes in the intracellular redox potential.
RNA from a partial cDNA clone containing the entire protein coding sequence of Drosophila melanogaster acetyl-CoA:choline O-acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.6; choline acetyltransferase) can be translated into active enzyme. This is unusual since this partial cDNA clone contains no appropriate ATG (AUG) initiation codon. In this study we use in vitro deletion and point mutants to identify GTG as the starting codon for protein translation. We also report the sequence of a full length Drosophila choline acetyltransferase cDNA and demonstrate that RNA produced by this clone is translated into active choline acetyltransferase but at a significantly reduced efficiency when compared to the partial cDNA clone. These results indicate that translational control may be an important regulatory step in production of Drosophila choline acetyltransferase.
The striatopallidal projection originating in the nucleus accumbens was investigated by using anterograde transport of PHA-L in combination with peptide immunohistochemistry in order to localize the injection sites and transported lectin with respect to neurochemically defined subterritories in the nucleus accumbens and subcommissural ventral pallidum. The results reported here supplement our previous observations, which indicated that the subcommissural ventral pallidum of the rat comprises two immunohistochemically defined subterritories (Zahm and Heimer, '88: J. Comp. Neurol., 272:516-535) which give rise to dichotomous downstream projection systems (Zahm, '89: Neuroscience, 30:33-50). The present data indicate that the neurotensin immunoreactivity-rich ventromedial district of ventral pallidum receives its accumbal input almost exclusively from the shell district of the nucleus accumbens. The accumbal core, alternatively, projects to the dorsolateral ventral pallidal subterritory that lacks appreciable neurotensin immunoreactivity and in many other respects more resembles the adjoining striatopallidal components of the caudate-putamen. In addition to direct topographic relationships in the frontal plane among the accumbal injection sites and ventral pallidal terminations, it was observed that more caudally placed core injections resulted in patches of striatopallidal terminations that were more caudally located in ventral pallidum. Shell injections, in contrast, produced columns of terminations that extended continuously from the rostralmost level that they appeared to the caudal end of ventromedial ventral pallidum. The accumbal shell, its exclusive projection to the ventromedial subterritory in the subcommissural ventral pallidum, and the previously reported, almost exclusive projection of that pallidal subdistrict to the mesencephalic ventral tegmental area are discussed in terms of a number of other neurochemical and hodological features that serve to distinguish them sufficiently to suggest that they represent a uniquely specialized part of the basal ganglia.

A reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic (RP-HPLC) method for the separation of tryptophan and ten metabolites of tryptophan pyrrolase pathway has been developed by sequential optimization of mobile phase, by adjusting the pH, the concentration of triethylamine and the gradient elution. The baseline resolution of the compounds, by this optimized procedure, is obtained with an analysis time, including the re-equilibration period, of less than 30 min. We believe this is the first RP-HPLC method that can separate tryptophan and ten of its metabolites in a single chromatographic run.

When ganglion cell responses were recorded from optic axons in the superficial layers of the chicken optic tectum, the responses recorded are predominantly ON-OFF transient, with some ON transient, and rare OFF transient responses. Several weeks after excitotoxic lesion of the retina with 40 nmol of kainic acid injected intravitreally, only ON transient responses could be recorded from the contralateral optic tectum. ON response latency and threshold were not affected. At low light intensities responses in the kainic acid-lesioned retinas showed a sustained component which was not detected in control retinas, but at high light intensities, the sustained component disappeared and the responses were extremely transient. The disappearance of the OFF responses seems to be due to elimination of the OFF component of the responses of cells which are normally ON-OFF transient, rather than the silencing of these cells, leaving only the normally ON transient cells. Morphological evidence suggests that approximately two thirds of the bipolar cells and most amacrine cells are destroyed by the kainic acid lesion (Ingham and Morgan, Neuroscience, 9 (1983) 165-181), and pharmacological logic (Morgan, Prog. Retinal Res., 2 (1983) 247-266) suggests that the missing bipolar cells should be OFF bipolar cells. These results therefore suggest that ON-OFF transient cells receive direct input from bipolar cells, which determines their basic response type. These results also suggest that amacrine cells have little if any role to play in the generation of the basic centre responses of these ON-OFF transient ganglion cells, and that while amacrine cells may have a role in the generation of transient responses in the inner plexiform layer, transient responses can be generated without the intervention of amacrine cells, particularly at high intensities.
By a highly sensitive enzyme immunoassay we measured the level of nerve growth factor (NGF) in the cerebellum and cerebrum of the neurologically mutant mice, weaver, reeler and Purkinje cell degeneration (PCD). A significant decrease in NGF level was observed in both cerebellum and cerebrum of weaver and reeler mutants of either sex. However, there was no such difference between normals and mutants in the case of the PCD mice. These results show that weaver and reeler mice have abnormalities of NGF synthesis and/or degradation not only in the cerebellum but also in the cerebrum.
Pharmacological, physiological, and behavioral studies suggest that inhibitory GABAergic neurons influence the projection from the midbrain periaqueductal gray matter to the medullary nucleus raphe magnus. The present study used electron microscopic immunocytochemical techniques to examine the morphology and synaptic relationships of GABA-immunoreactive terminals in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. These putative GABAergic terminals comprise almost 40% of all axon terminals in the periaqueductal gray. GABA-immunoreactive terminals contain small, clear, pleomorphic or round, vesicles, and 46% also contain some dense-cored vesicles. In some experiments we also used a colloidal gold-conjugated retrograde tracer to label periaqueductal gray neurons that project to the nucleus raphe magnus. About half of the synaptic inputs onto the cell bodies and proximal dendrites of retrogradely labeled neurons are GABA-immunoreactive; these putative GABAergic synapses, which directly control activity in neurons projecting from the periaqueductal gray to the nucleus raphe magnus, might mediate the antinociception-related effects of exogenous GABAA receptor ligands.
The fact that GABA receptor agonists and antagonists influence nociceptive thresholds when microinjected into the rostroventral medulla or in the spinal cord may reflect the involvement of GABAergic neuronal elements in endogenous antinociceptive pathways. In the present study we used immunocytochemistry and retrograde tract tracing to investigate the contribution of GABAergic projection neurons to the antinociceptive network linking the midbrain periaqueductal gray matter (PAG), the nucleus raphe magnus (NRM), and the spinal cord dorsal horn. The tracer, WGAapoHRP-Au was injected into either the NRM or the spinal cord and the distribution of labeled neurons in sections of the PAG and medulla, respectively, was studied. The same sections were immunostained to demonstrate GABA-immunoreactive neurons. Although GABA-immunoreactive neurons were abundant in the PAG, only 1.5% were retrogradely labeled from the NRM. Similarly, very few GABA-immunoreactive neurons within the cytoarchitectural boundaries of the NRM were retrogradely labeled from the spinal cord. A much higher proportion of GABA-immunoreactive neurons in the region lateral to the NRM, however, were retrogradely labeled from the spinal cord. Eighteen percent of GABA-immunoreactive neurons were retrogradely labeled in the nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis; conversely, 15% of the retrogradely labeled neurons in this region were GABA-immunoreactive. These results indicate that GABAergic projections constitute a very minor component of the PAG-NRM-spinal cord pathway; however, there is a significant contribution of GABAergic neurons to the spinal projections that originate lateral to the NRM. The majority of GABAergic neurons in the PAG and NRM are presumed to be inhibitory interneurons that directly or indirectly regulate activity in efferent pathways from these regions.
N-Acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase (NAALA dipeptidase) is a membrane-bound metallopeptidase that cleaves glutamate from the endogenous neuropeptide N-acetyl-L-aspartyl-L-glutamate. In this report, we have solubilized NAALA dipeptidase activity from synaptosomal membranes with Triton X-100 and purified it to apparent homogeneity by sequential column chromatography on DEAE-Sepharose, CM-Sepharose, and lentil lectin-Sepharose. This procedure resulted in a 720-fold purification with 1.6% yield. The purified ezyme migrated as a single silver-stained band on a sodium dodecyl sulfate gel with an apparent molecular weight of 94 kDa. Using an enzymatic stain to visualize NAALA dipeptidase activity within a gel matrix, we have confirmed that the 94-kDa band is, indeed, NAALA dipeptidase. The purified enzyme was characterized and found to be pharmacologically similar to NAALA dipeptidase activity described previously in synaptosomal membrane extracts. Using the purified NAALA dipeptidase as antigen, we have raised specific and high titer polyclonal antibodies in guinea pig. Immunocytochemical studies show intense NAALA dipeptidase immunoreactivity in the cerebellar and renal cortices.
The tergotrochanteral muscles (TTM) in the second thoracic segment of the fruitfly, Drosophila melanogaster, power the jump-escape response. The cell bodies of the motoneurons innervating these muscles, located in the thoracico-abdominal ganglion, have prominent posterior and medial neurites. While in wildtype flies of the Canton-S (C-S) and Oregon-R (O-R) strains, the medial neurite of a TTM motoneuron rarely crossed the midline (C-S: 0/17; O-R: 2/8), in heterozygous flies with a deficiency at the base of the X-chromosome, Df(1)16-3-22, the medial neurite frequently crossed the midline (Df(1)16-3-22/C-S: 7/12; Df(1)16-3-22/O-R: 18/22).
alpha-MSH, ACTH and beta-endorphin were measured by radioimmunoassay in samples of amniotic fluid collected from the 32nd to the 38th gestational week and at labour from normal pregnancies and pregnancies complicated by gestosis. In normal pregnancies, the concentration of alpha-MSH, ACTH and beta-endorphin remained relatively constant during the last 7 gestational weeks, but increased at labour above the values of the 38th week by 88, 143 and 96%, respectively. A positive correlation between beta-endorphin and alpha-MSH (r = 0.92) or ACTH (r = 0.76) levels was found when labour values were considered in the regression analysis. In contrast, when labour values were excluded, only a poor positive correlation between beta-endorphin and alpha-MSH (r = 0.52) was found. In complicated pregnancies, alpha-MSH and ACTH concentrations were similar to those found in normal pregnancies: on the other hand, the level of beta-endorphin, was found to be 130% higher than normal. As in normal pregnancies, alpha-MSH, ACTH and beta-endorphin levels increased at labour, but only by 46, 44 and 23%, respectively. In contrast to in normal pregnancies, the correlation between beta-endorphin and alpha-MSH or ACTH was not significantly modified by labour values. The present results confirm and extend previous studies showing that beta-endorphin may be considered a marker of fetal distress and that the fetal pituitary is capable of reacting to stressful stimuli in normal and suffering fetuses.

It has been known since the time of Claude Bernard that the &quot;function makes the organ&quot; and ensures its development. However, it took Planas to discover that the masticatory function is the principal factor related to the development of the jaw! Nonetheless, this function only attains its objective if it is physiologically normal, grinding of food taking place by alternative laterality, which can only occur according to Gysi with a balanced occlusion, in conformity with Hanau's rules: opening-closing type mastication as a result of another type of occlusion leads to maxillo-alveolar sub-development and lack of sufficient space. Neuro-Occlusal Rehabilitation (N.O.R.) attempts to detect the type of mastication and occlusion at an early age, to correct it as from the age of 3 years by selective grinding in order to establish alternative laterality: true prophylaxis. If the grinding function is not adequate because it has been corrected too late, Planas appliances are used. Post-orthodontic stability is remarkable as the treatment uses natural and normal means of development.
Applying the relatively new technique of laser confocal imaging, vibratome sections which were double immunolabeled for amyloid beta protein and the presynaptic terminal marker synaptophysin were examined. It was found that while synaptic density was generally diminished in Alzheimer's disease (AD) cortical neuropil as compared to controls, the reduction was no greater within the diffuse plaques than outside them. Synapse loss was accentuated, however, within immature and mature plaques. These findings suggest that the pathogenetic process in AD might commence with synapse loss and neurodegeneration rather than with deposition of amyloid beta protein.
Ba2+ currents through voltage-dependent Ca channels and basal prolactin secretion were measured in single, cultured lactotropes by the combined use of whole cell patch-clamp recording and the reverse hemolytic plaque assay. Measurements of plaque area, a cumulative index of the relative amount of prolactin released by a cell per unit time, indicate that lactotropes can be grouped in two main subpopulations that differ in basal secretory activity: small-plaque (SP) cells and large-plaque (LP) cells. Analysis of Ba2+ currents indicates that both SP and LP lactotropes express two types of Ca channels: low-threshold, inactivating, slowly deactivating (SD) channels and high-threshold, noninactivating, fast deactivating (FD) channels. Ba2+ current amplitude is smaller in SP cells than in LP cells. Plaque area, and thus prolactin release, is positively correlated with the density of Ba2+ current through FD channels, but not with that through SD channels. The results suggest that the surface density of functional FD Ca channels in the plasma membrane is a major factor that determines the rate of basal prolactin secretion in single lactotropes.
The components of protein phosphorylation systems (protein kinases, protein phosphatases, and their phosphoprotein substrates) are highly enriched in neuronal cells compared with other cell types. We exploited this relative neuronal enrichment of protein phosphorylation system components to develop a general assay technique for putative protein kinase substrates (phosphoproteins) in human cerebrospinal fluid. Using this cerebrospinal fluid phosphoprotein assay, we have detected a putative protein kinase C substrate protein of apparent Mr 60 kd in 6 of 14 patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration but not in any of 55 patients with a variety of other neurological diseases. Phosphoproteins in cerebrospinal fluid may provide novel and unique markers for the diagnosis or staging of neuronal diseases as well as offer potential insights into the biochemical characterization of affected neuronal populations.
Multiple sites involved in glutamatergic neurotransmission were examined in the cerebellar cortex of 6 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 6 age-matched control patients by using quantitative ligand-binding autoradiography. Quisqualate (AMPA) receptor binding was markedly reduced in the molecular layer of the cerebellum from patients with Alzheimer's disease (167 +/- 13 pmoles/gm) compared with control patients (280 +/- 13 pmoles/gm). In adjacent sections from the same patients and controls, there was preservation of kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor binding in the cerebellum from patients with Alzheimer's disease compared with control patients. Neuropathological examination of the cerebellar cortex revealed the presence of plaques and preservation of Purkinje cells in the patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Synapsin II (formerly known as protein III) is a synaptic vesicle-associated neuronal phosphoprotein that may be involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter release. Synapsin II was studied in postmortem brain samples from 132 individuals with various neuropsychiatric and medical diagnoses. Molecular weight variants of synapsin II were present in 73% of samples from alcoholic individuals but in only 31% of samples from non-diseased individuals, thus confirming our two previous reports of an association between synapsin II variants and alcoholism. The presence of synapsin II variants was not correlated with age or nutritional state. Synapsin II variants were also present in 56% of samples from individuals with schizophrenia and 41% of samples from individuals with Huntington's disease. Synapsin II variants were present in samples from children and young adults, consistent with the possibility that synapsin II variants may reflect a genetically inherited trait. Synapsin II variants were not found in any of 18 rodent models of alcoholism, aging, or vitamin B deficiency, suggesting that synapsin II variants may be a uniquely human trait.
The course of idiopathic normal-pressure hydrocephalus was studied in a 78-year-old woman with a 4-year history of progressive dementia who underwent neuropsychologic testing, quantitative x-ray computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose F 18 to measure rates of regional cerebral glucose utilization. Preshunt cognitive testing demonstrated progressive deterioration during 2 years, and positron emission tomography showed significant reductions in regional cerebral glucose utilization of 34% to 49% as compared with age- and sex-matched control subjects in frontal, temporal, parietal, and whole brain regions. Periodic testing, carried out during a 2-year period after shunt surgery, showed steady improvement in clinical status. Parallel to the clinical changes, there was a significant reversal in neuropsychologic test scores with increased brain volume and increased regional cerebral glucose utilization in several brain regions. These results documented the considerable potential for recovery of compromised brain function in older subjects even after 4 years of progressive brain disease.
Four patients with the clinical syndrome of primary progressive aphasia and a nonfluent aphasia profile were followed up over a period of 3 to 5 years. Extensive neuropsychological data for three patients revealed a progressive, quantitative decline of language with relative stability of memory, visuospatial skills, and reasoning. Comportment and most activities of daily living were preserved even when speech was unintelligible. Although several aphasia types may be associated with primary progressive aphasia, a nonfluent aphasia profile and phonemic paraphasic errors are most useful in differentiating it from the much more common clinical syndrome, &quot;probable Alzheimer's disease.&quot; The clinicopathological correlates of probable Alzheimer's disease differ from those associated with primary progressive aphasia. Therefore, the clinical distinction between the two syndromes may be important for predicting the underlying pathophysiologic changes during the life of the patient.
T2-weighted (0.5 T) magnetic resonance images were used to study the prevalence of subcortical white matter hyperintensities (WMHIs) in 22 patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT), 20 age-matched older healthy control subjects, and 10 younger healthy control subjects. Exclusionary criteria for all groups included cerebrovascular risk factors. All subjects had Hachinski Ischemic Index scores of less than 2 and computed tomographic scans showing no infarct. The WMHIs were classified as periventricular WMHIs or deep WMHIs and graded 0 through 3 (0 indicated absent, and 3, severe). For the group with DAT and older control subjects, periventricular WMHIs and deep WMHIs were graded 2 or 3 in fewer than 17% and 27% of subjects, respectively, whereas in the younger control subjects, all ratings were grade 1 or less. Serum cholesterol and systolic blood pressure values, although within the normal range, were elevated significantly in older control subjects when compared with those in younger control subjects. No significant differences in WMHI ratings, blood pressure, cholesterol, or triglyceride levels were found between patients with DAT and age-matched control subjects. Systolic blood pressure levels correlated with the severity of periventricular WMHIs only in older control subjects. Age correlated with periventricular WMHIs and deep WMHIs within both the older control subjects and the patients with DAT. There was no significant correlation between WMHIs and the severity of dementia in the group with DAT. These results suggest that, in subjects screened for cerebrovascular risk factors, WMHIs are rare and occur with identical frequency in patients with DAT as in age-matched healthy control subjects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm are involuntary movement disorders that affect the facial muscles. They are classified as cranial dystonias. Their cause is unknown and the underlying pathophysiology is poorly understood. Both dystonias are more common in women than in men. It is the middle-aged group that is most frequently affected. Because of their high visibility, these disorders may cause considerable distress and embarrassment. Affected persons are often mistakenly considered to have psychiatric problems. In addition, both dystonias may result in severe disability. For example, the person with untreated blepharospasm may experience social isolation and functional blindness. Recently, therapy in the form of botulinum toxin became available in larger centers. Repeated injections of the toxin usually relieves symptoms and enable patients to resume a former lifestyle. Neuroscience nurses who are knowledgeable about cranial dystonias and the resources that are currently available can retard progression of disability and help restore the individual's quality of life. Informed neuroscience nurses can also play an important role in case-finding, counselling and referral. Two examples are presented in order to highlight some of the complexities inherent in the diagnosis and treatment of each type of cranial dystonia and to further clarify the nurse's role. These examples are based on the personal and professional experience of the authors.
Rabbits received ibotenic acid lesions of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD) or sham lesions. These animals were compared on 4 sessions of Pavlovian eyeblink and heart rate conditioning, in which a tone was the conditioned stimulus and a paraorbital electrical shock was the unconditioned stimulus. Lesions of MD retarded acquisition of the eyeblink conditioned response and abolished the late-occurring tachycardiac component of the heart rate conditioned response. The data are compatible with previous experiments suggesting that MD participates in the sympathetic control associated with somatomotor learning.
Glutamate (50 mM, 50 nl) injected into the tuberal and posterior hypothalamus was tested for capacity to elicit locomotor stepping. Rats (n = 23) were anesthetized with Nembutal and suspended by a sling in a stereotaxic apparatus such that locomotor stepping rotated a wheel. In 61 of 275 sites tested, stepping was initiated by glutamate injections within 60 s. Positive sites were widespread and contained in the lateral hypothalamus, the perifornical area, the dorsomedial nucleus, and the zona incerta. The perifornical and lateral hypothalamic sites were most likely to have locomotor responses and the shortest latencies. These findings indicate that selective activation of hypothalamic neurons as opposed to fibers of passage can initiate locomotion.
Among rat peripheral tissues examined, Ins(1,4,5)P(3) receptor binding is highest in the vas deferens, with levels about 25% of those of the cerebellum. We have purified the InsP(3) receptor binding protein from rat vas deferens membranes 600-fold. The purified protein displays a single 260 kDa band on SDS/PAGE, and the native protein has an apparent molecular mass of 1000 kDa, the same as in cerebellum. The inositol phosphate specificity, pH-dependence and influence of various reagents are the same for purified vas deferens and cerebellar receptors. Whereas particulate InsP(3) binding in cerebellum is potently inhibited by Ca(2+), particulate and purified vas deferens receptor binding of InsP(3) is not influenced by Ca(2+). Vas deferens appears to lack calmedin activity, but the InsP(3) receptor is sensitive to Ca(2+) inhibition conferred by brain calmedin. The vas deferens may prove to be a valuable tissue for characterizing functional aspects of InsP(3) receptors.
Bovine brain inositol monophosphatase is rapidly cleaved by endoprotease lys-C at a single site in the absence of SDS. Further sites are revealed only after prolonged incubation with high concentrations of protease. The initial cleavage occurs near one end of the enzyme, generating an N-terminally-derived 36-residue peptide, which is blocked, and a large 28 kDa fragment bearing a free N-terminus. The start sequence of this fragment was found to be Xaa-Ser-Pro-Ala-Asp-Leu-Val, consistent with the cDNA sequence, and Lys-36-Ser-37 was identified as the cleavage site. The activity of the cleaved enzyme was markedly decreased to 3% of that of the native enzyme, although its dimeric structure was preserved. The 36-residue peptide was not covalently associated with the large fragment after proteolytic cleavage, although the possibility of non-covalent association could not be excluded. Finally, the epitope for the inhibitory monoclonal antibody G-2A4 [Gee, Howell, Ryan &amp; Ragan (1989) Biochem J. 264. 793-798] was found to lie proximal to the endoprotease lys-C cleavage site. In vitro mutagenesis further mapped the epitope for monoclonal antibody G-2A4 to residues around Cys-8 of the enzyme. These results suggest that the N-terminal region of the enzyme is important for activity.
A series of gross brain linear measurements and cross-sectional surface areas were obtained in a sample of 69 postmortem adult human brains. Data indicate that a subset of these measurements are sexually dimorphic and can be used to discriminate between male and female brains. Results further suggest that studies on gender differences in neuromorphometry can be greatly enhanced if they account for sample variance in brain weight. Using 19 of the gross brain measures delineated in this study, it is possible to accurately predict brain weight. It is believed that the measures obtained in this study will facilitate expanded correlative studies of brain morphology and neuropsychological profiles using either postmortem material or in vivo magnetic resonance imaging scans.
Patients taking oral contraceptive steroids (OCS) are known to suffer contraceptive failure while taking anticonvulsants such as phenobarbitone, phenytoin and carbamazepine. We have studied the single dose kinetics of ethinyloestradiol (EE2); 50 micrograms, and levonorgestrel (Ng); 250 micrograms in groups of women before and 8-12 weeks after starting therapy with phenytoin (n = 6) and carbamazepine (n = 4). The area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) was measured over a 24 h period for each steroid and significant reductions were seen with both anticonvulsants. Phenytoin reduced the AUC for EE2 from 806 +/- 50 (mean +/- s.d.) to 411 +/- 132 pg ml-1 h (P less than 0.05) and for Ng from 33.6 +/- 7.8 to 19.5 +/- 3.8 ng ml-1 h (P less than 0.05). Carbamazepine reduced the AUC for EE2 from 1163 +/- 466 to 672 +/- 211 pg ml-1 h (P less than 0.05) and for Ng from 22.9 +/- 9.4 to 13.8 +/- 5.8 ng ml-1 h (P less than 0.05). These changes are compatible with the known enzyme inducing effects of phenytoin and carbamazepine. Patients taking these anticonvulsants will need to be given increased doses of OCS (equivalent to 50-100 micrograms EE2 daily) to achieve adequate contraceptive effects.
1. Tachykinin-stimulated inositol phospholipid hydrolysis was examined in slices of rat parotid gland, hamster urinary bladder and guinea-pig ileum longitudinal muscle. 2. In the presence of lithium, substance P and other naturally-occurring and synthetic tachykinins induced large, dose-dependent increases in [3H]-inositol monophosphate accumulation. 3. In slices of rat parotid gland, [pGlu6,L-Pro9]SP(6-11) was considerably more potent in stimulating inositol phospholipid hydrolysis than [pGlu6,D-Pro9]SP(6-11). 4. In contrast, in slices of hamster urinary bladder, [pGlu6,D-Pro9]SP(6-11) exhibited greater potency in evoking inositol phospholipid breakdown than [pGlu6,L-Pro9]SP(6-11). 5. The differential selectivity of these C-terminal fragments of substance P suggests that they may be useful tools for distinguishing between NK1 and NK2 receptors. 6. L-659,837 and L-659,874 antagonized eledoisin-stimulated inositol phospholipid hydrolysis in slices of hamster urinary bladder. Neither compound significantly reduced substance-P evoked inositol phospholipid breakdown in slices of rat parotid gland, or senktide-induced inositol phospholipid hydrolysis in slices of guinea-pig ileum. 7. L-659,837 and L-659,874 had no effect on the atropine-sensitive, carbachol-stimulated inositol phospholipid hydrolysis in slices of rat parotid gland. 8. These data further support the notion that L-659,837 and L-659,874 are potent and selective NK2 receptor antagonists.
The effect of exogenous vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) on the accumulation of cyclic AMP in the isolated suprachiasmatic hypothalamus prepared from rats sacrificed at midsubjective day (CT6), subjective dusk (CT12) and midsubjective night (CT18) was determined. VIP (2 microM) caused a transient, 2.5- to 3.4-fold increase in cyclic AMP which peaked 5 minutes after the addition of VIP and returned to prestimulation values by 10 minutes. The effect of VIP was dose dependent between 0.1 and 10 microM. Cyclic AMP content, both before and after VIP stimulation, was slightly but significantly higher in rats sacrificed at CT6 compared to those sacrificed at CT18; however, the degree of stimulation was similar at all three circadian times.
Cationic fluxes resulting from glutamate receptor activity have recently been implicated in neurotoxicity. Immature cortical neurons are insensitive to the toxic effects of glutamate receptor stimulation. However, these neurons are killed by glutamate via a non-receptor-mediated mechanism thought to stem from glutamate's ability to inhibit cystine uptake. To examine the basis for their resistance to receptor-mediated toxicity, we have studied the development of glutamate receptor-mediated inward currents in cortical neurons in culture using the whole-cell voltage-clamp technique. We report that in immature cortical neurons (prepared from day-17 fetal brain and cultured for 1-3 days), N-methyl-D-aspartate, quisqualate, and glutamate are able to evoke only very small inward currents in a low percentage of neurons. After 7 days of culture, greater than 80% of neurons examined exhibited currents activated by these glutamate receptor agonists. Although most neurons expressed glutamate agonist-evoked currents after 7 days in culture, the amplitude of these currents was less than 10% of that observed after 15 days in culture. In contrast to currents activated by glutamate receptor agonists, those activated by gamma-aminobutyric acid reached maximal levels after only 2 days of culture. These results indicate that the delayed development of glutamate receptor-mediated currents accounts for the resistance of immature cortical neurons to glutamate receptor-mediated toxicity.
1. Experimental determinations of blood-brain barrier permeability from measurements of uptake of tracers by brain are limited in two ways. First, there are experimental limitations that are specific to the particular method being used. These limitations include the range of permeability values that a particular method can reliably determine (sensitivity); whether repeated experiments are possible in the same animal; whether regional values can be determined; and to what degree the chemical composition of the perfusate passing through the brain can be controlled. 2. A second set of limitations on permeability determinations is of a more general, physiological nature. These constraints apply to a greater or lesser degree to all experimental determinations, and may limit the accuracy and reliability of the permeability values obtained; although certain reliable upper and lower bounds can be determined. These general factors include: capillary heterogeneity (i.e. variations in capillary lengths, surface areas, blood flows, etc.); the possibility of binding to circulating plasma proteins, especially albumin; and the possibility of capillary recruitment and de-recruitment with changes in cerebral blood flow.
Modern biomedical research spans a variety of clinical and basic medical sciences and may not fit the departmental structure of a traditional medical school, which is determined by patient care and teaching responsibilities. Interdisciplinary research has therefore often been developed in research institutes with limited relationship to regular university departments. This paper outlines the important organizational initiatives which contribute to an integrated model of interdisciplinary research more closely linked with the medical school. The establishment of close working relationships among Department Chairs is essential for the integration of interdisciplinary research with existing clinical and basic medical science departments. Department of Chairs must see the development of interdisciplinary research groups as a means of enhancing research related to their disciplines. It is important to identify priority research areas using broad-based interdisciplinary committees (for example in neuroscience), and to establish guidelines for recruitment of selected research groups which include both Ph.D. and M.D. scientists who maintain appointments in a regular department for teaching and other academic functions. Physical proximity for the group may require reorganization of departmental research space which is maintained under the overall control of the Dean. The ability to maintain and renew interdisciplinary research groups, or to phase them out if necessary, can also be strengthened by using this integrated model.
3-O-Methyldopa (OMD) is the principal circulating metabolite formed from exogenously administered levodopa. We studied the effect of nitecapone (OR-462), a novel inhibitor of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), on OMD formation in cynomolgus monkeys following intravenous levodopa administration. The drug does not cross the blood-brain barrier, and therefore inhibits only peripheral OMD formation. At a dose of 5 mg/kg, nitecapone reduced the area under the OMD concentration-time curve by 50%. Inhibition of OMD production was maximal at 65% following a dose of 10 mg/kg. A dose of 15 mg/kg produced no further inhibition. The plasma pharmacokinetics of carbidopa, levodopa, and OMD in the monkeys were similar to those in humans. No adverse physiological effects of nitecapone were observed. In single-dose studies, OR-462 is an effective peripheral COMT inhibitor.

We have investigated the time course of rod photoreceptor determination in the goldfish retina. Rod precursor cells located in the outer nuclear layer of the mature retina continuously generate rod photoreceptors. In this study, we asked when rod precursor cells begin to express opsin, which would signal their commitment to the rod pathway of differentiation. There are three possibilities: a rod precursor could express opsin while still mitotic, at or shortly after the terminal mitosis but before differentiation, or during differentiation. We used immunocytochemistry with antibodies against bromodeoxyuridine, BrdU (a thymidine analogue) and against opsin to determine when during the mitotic history of a cell the expression of opsin first occurred, taking a double labelled cell to be evidence of commitment to the rod cell fate. We found that the first double labelled cells appeared at 4 days after BrdU injection. The number of double labelled cells increased to peak at 10 days, and then fell. These results support the hypothesis that dividing rod precursor cells are probably multipotent stem cells not committed to the rod cell fate.
The pattern of muscle activation produced by magnetic stimulation over the human motor cortex has been examined in normal subjects. Magnetic stimulation elicited short latency compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) from upper limb muscles contralateral to the stimulus and from lower limb muscles bilaterally. In the upper limb, the hand and forearm muscles had the lowest thresholds for activation and the largest CMAPs. There was little or no activation of the more proximal muscles, biceps and tricepts. In the lower limb the extensor digitorum brevis and tibialis anterior had low thresholds and large CMAPs. There was little or no short latency activation of soleus. This pattern of muscle activation remained the same even when the stimulating coil was moved to various locations within a radius of 3 cm from the vertex. Recordings from individual tibialis anterior and soleus motor units indicated that the differential activation of these muscles reflected the relative amplitudes of the short latency postsynaptic potentials produced by magnetic stimulation in their motoneurons. The 'jitter' in the activation of single muscle fibers by magnetic stimulation suggests that these projections are monosynaptic. It is argued that the pattern of muscle activation reflects the projections from the cortex to motoneurons rather than the projections of afferents onto cortical neurons. We conclude that magnetic stimulation can be used to identify the projections of the corticospinal pathways in man.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM; EC 1.14.17.3) is a granule-associated enzyme that catalyzes the production of alpha-amidated peptides from their glycine-extended precursors, a posttranslational modification often required for full biological activity. PAM activity in crude homogenates of bovine neurointermediate pituitary has an acidic pH optimum for the peptide substrate alpha-N-Ac-Tyr-Val-Gly. During purification, the pH optimum shifts, so that purified bovine (b)PAM exhibits an alkaline pH optimum for this substrate with virtually no activity below pH 6.5. A factor that restores the ability of purified bPAM to produce alpha-amidated products at pH 6 was identified. In rat anterior pituitary this factor (denoted SPAM for stimulator of PAM activity) was a soluble protein with a mol wt of 44 K by gel filtration; its stimulatory activity could be reduced or eliminated by trypsin digestion or boiling. SPAM stimulated PAM activity at acidic pH by increasing the apparent Vmax and decreasing the apparent Michaelis-Menten constant (Km) for the peptide substrate. Like PAM, SPAM activity is localized to the secretory granule. Levels of SPAM activity in various rat tissues correlated closely with levels of PAM activity, with the greatest amount of SPAM activity in atrium, anterior pituitary, and neurointermediate pituitary. The distribution of PAM and SPAM between soluble and membrane fractions also correlated closely. In AtT-20 cell lines transfected with a complementary DNA (cDNA) encoding the full-length bPAM precursor, both SPAM and PAM activities were increased compared to wild type cells; both activities were decreased in a cell line expressing an antisense rat (r)PAM mRNA. In marked contrast, an AtT-20 cell line transfected with a cDNA encoding a truncated, soluble form of bPAM had elevated levels of PAM activity, but levels of SPAM activity were not increased compared to wild-type cells. These results suggest that SPAM activity is closely linked to the expression of full-length PAM. The interaction of PAM and SPAM may represent a site for regulation of the synthesis of bioactive peptides, particularly at low intragranular pH.
The Kubicek thoracic cylinder model of impedance cardiography (IC) for measuring beat-by-beat stroke volume (SV) was evaluated in controlled studies using the electromagnetic flowmeter (FM) as the reference technique. Assuming the validity of the Kubicek equation for stroke volume calculation, IC stroke volume was found to be a linear function of EM values at any one haematocrit over a wide range of SV, but the slope of the relationship fell as haematocrit fell. Experiments using the same equation in dogs, in which blood resistivity in vivo (rho tau) was made the dependent variable, and the EM-derived value was used for stroke volume, showed that rho tau was almost constant over a wide range of haematocrits. These findings were supported by studies in man and rabbit where Fick and thermodilution-derived values were used for stroke volume. When these data were applied to normotensive and hypertensive human subjects with normal hearts and lungs in controlled studies at rest, during tilting, with drug therapy and on exercise, IC measured stroke volume and cardiac output with a variability at least as good as the 9-11% acceptable for clinical use. This conclusion applied to thoracic configurations of different sizes and shapes from adult man to the neonate. In chronic disease states, while assessments of relative changes are valuable, absolute data are questionable. Further research is required under these conditions, as it is also for other models of IC, which are based on different assumptions.
Native methionine enkephalin and methionine enkephalin generated proteolytically from a larger peptide were both identified and quantified from bovine cornea by negative ion fast atom bombardment-mass spectrometry. The corneal peptides were purified initially be reverses-phase high performance liquid chromatography and identified tentatively by radioreceptor assay and/or radioimmunoassay.
Three main directions of neuropharmacology developing at the S. V. Anichkov Department of Pharmacology of the Institute of Experimental Medicine, include the pharmacology of neurogenic damages of visceral organs, the pharmacology of memory disorders and the psychoneuropharmacology. The evolution of the outlook and the main achievements are described. The perspectives are analysed.

The genetic polymorphism of transferrin (Tf) was studied in a sample of 385 healthy unrelated subjects of both sexes resident in the province of Cdiz (southern Spain). Isoelectric focusing was carried out in polyacrylamide gels, followed by staining with Coomassie Blue R250. The gene frequencies obtained were as follows: Tf C1, 0.7922; Tf C2, 0.1883; Tf C3, 0.0195.
First-generation H1-antagonist antihistamines, such as hydroxyzine, have the ability to cross the blood-brain barrier and cause sedation, which limits their usefulness in the treatment of allergic disorders. Cetirizine, a carboxylated metabolite of hydroxyzine, possesses the parent compound's antihistaminic activity but causes less sedation. We compared the activity of cetirizine at central H1 sites with that of hydroxyzine and terfenadine. We also compared the ability of cetirizine and three antihistamines to cross the blood-brain barrier. In each case we found that the drug's potency at H1 receptors in the central nervous system was similar to its activity in displacing H1 receptors in the lung. However, the selectivity for H1 receptors varied widely from drug to drug. Cetirizine did not bind at any of the receptors investigated, except H1 sites, even at concentrations as high as 10 mumol/L. Hydroxyzine and dexchlorpheniramine and, to a lesser extent, terfenadine crossed the blood-brain barrier in significant amounts. Cetirizine passed into the central nervous system only half as readily as terfenadine. These findings suggest that cetirizine's low incidence of sedative effects is most likely caused by its diminished potential to cross the blood-brain barrier and also may be partly the result of its greater selectivity for H1 receptors, compared with its effect at other receptors that may be involved in sedation.
Specific serotonin reuptake inhibitors constitute a new class of psychotherapeutic agents that promote enhanced central serotonergic neurotransmission in animal studies. Sertraline, a member of this class, exhibits considerable potency and specificity in inhibiting serotonin neuronal reuptake in preclinical studies. Thus, it is likely to exert antidepressant activity without significant anticholinergic, cardiovascular, and sedative side effects. Other animal studies demonstrating decreases in food intake and body weight and reduction in voluntary alcohol consumption after sertraline administration suggest a potential for wider clinical application.
The authors examined whether long-term treatment with imipramine would decrease CO2-induced anxiety in 10 patients with panic disorder. The patients underwent CO2 testing after single-blind placebo testing and again after imipramine treatment. Scores on self-rated visual analog mood scales and panic attack symptom scales showed that the anxiogenic effects of CO2 were significantly reduced during long-term imipramine treatment. These results suggest that the mechanisms underlying CO2-induced anxiety may be similar to those involved in the pathophysiology of panic disorder.
A sensitive analytical method based on gel electrophoresis and silver staining was developed to detect PAS-I, a glycoprotein of bovine milk fat globule membrane. Application of the method to samples of milk from individual animals demonstrated that PAS-I is polymorphic and established that it also occurs in the skim milk phase. This polymorphism consisted of two bands showing variable mobility among samples of individual animals. Band patterns for an individual persisted from one lactation to the next. Comparison of 12 dam-daughter pairs for PAS-I patterns indicated that each pair had at least one band matching in mobility. Milk from identical twins had identical PAS-I patterns. Two out of three sets of fraternal twins had one band that did not match. Based on these data and genetics established for a similar protein of human milk, two codominant alleles, one from the sire and the other from the dam, account for the two bands of PAS-I. The PAS-I band patterns may be related to inheritance of milk production and composition factors.
Factors responsible for sexual maturation differ significantly among vertebrate species. In many, age is most important, whereas in others seasonal or social cues play a central role. Here we report that maturation in the African cichlid fish Haplochromis burtoni is socially controlled, and that this control includes regulation of soma growth in a population of preoptic neurons immunoreactive to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (irGnRH). Males reared in aquaria among fish of the same age mature sexually in about 3 months, whereas males reared in the presence of older, more aggressive conspecifics remain immature even at 5 months of age. Immature males display hypogonadism and have conspicuously undersized preoptic irGnRH neurons in comparison to those of mature siblings of the same age. This variable maturation rate increases the likelihood that individual males will survive to an age when they can successfully reproduce.
Recent studies have demonstrated that several transcription factor genes are rapidly activated by neuronal stimulation. For example, we have found that prolonged and repeated seizure activity produced by administration of chemical convulsants induces a rapid and transient increase in mRNA levels of four immediate early genes in rat brain. These genes, zif/268, c-fos, c-jun, and jun-B, encode sequence specific DNA binding proteins thought to act as transcription regulatory factors. To ascertain whether a brief electrically induced seizure discharge of the type utilized in clinical electroconvulsive treatment is sufficient to induce a similar genomic response, we have examined the response of these mRNAs in rat brain following single and repeated electroshock-induced seizures. After electroshock, mRNA levels of each of these genes increase within 15 min, and all except c-jun return to near baseline levels within 4 h. Although this response is most prominent in granule cell neurons of the hippocampus, increases are also apparent in neocortex and pyriform cortex. The rapid mRNA response persists in animals receiving a chronic electroshock protocol similar to that used in clinical electroconvulsive therapy. Intrahippocampal infusion of the sodium channel antagonist tetrodotoxin blocks hippocampal mRNA responses without blocking seizures, indicating a role for electrical excitation in the electroshock-induced mRNA response. By contrast, pretreatment with anticonvulsants or selective NMDA antagonists, which reduce seizure intensity and block hindlimb extension, fails to alter mRNA responses, suggesting that seizure induction, rather than spread, is linked to these mRNA responses. Because electroshock induces robust, highly reproducible mRNA responses, it may be useful to study the neuronal genomic response to stimulation.
The role of endogenous benzodiazepine receptor ligands in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy was studied in humans and in rat models of hepatic encephalopathy. Endogenous benzodiazepine ligands were extracted from rat brain and human CSF by acid treatment and purification by HPLC. Detection and partial characterization of these endogenous benzodiazepine ligands were carried out using both radioreceptor binding assays and radioimmunoassays with anti-benzodiazepine antibodies. Four different benzodiazepine receptor ligands were identified in human and rat tissue, two of which may be diazepam and desmethyldiazepam, based on elution profiles and anti-benzo-diazepine antibody reactivity. Human CSF and serum from patients with hepatic encephalopathy contained approximately 10 times more endogenous benzodiazepine receptor ligand than CSF from controls or nonencephalopathic patients with liver disease. The levels of brain benzodiazepine receptor ligand compounds were also increased approximately 10-fold in rats suffering from fulminant hepatic failure, but not in rats with portacaval shunts, a model of chronic hepatic disease. The increased concentrations of these substances could be behaviorally significant and may contribute to the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy.
In primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells, glutamate, aspartate, and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) induced a dose-dependent release of [3H]arachidonic acid ([3H]AA) which was selective for these agonists and was inhibited by NMDA receptor antagonists. The agonist-induced [3H]AA release was reduced by quinacrine at concentrations that inhibited phospholipase A2 (PLA2) but affected neither the activity of phospholipase C (PLC) nor the hydrolysis of phosphoinositides induced by glutamate or quisqualate. Thus, the increased formation of AA was due to the receptor-mediated activation of PLA2 rather than to the action of PLC followed by diacylglycerol lipase. The receptor-mediated [3H]AA release was dependent on the presence of extracellular Ca2+ and was mimicked by the Ca2+ ionophore ionomycin. Pretreatment of granule cells with either pertussis or cholera toxin failed to inhibit the receptor-mediated [3H]AA release. Hence, in cerebellar granule cells, the stimulation of NMDA-sensitive glutamate receptors leads to the activation of PLA2 that is mediated by Ca2+ ions entering through the cationic channels functioning as effectors of NMDA receptors. A coupling through a toxin-sensitive GTP-binding protein can be excluded.
We studied the effects of aluminum salts on the degradation of human neurofilament subunits (NF-H, NF-M, and NF-L, the high, middle, and low molecular weight subunits, respectively) and other cytoskeletal proteins using calcium-activated neutral proteinase (calpain) purified from human brain. Calpain-mediated proteolysis of NF-L, tubulin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), three substrates that displayed constant digestion rates in vitro, was inhibited by AlCl3 (IC50 = 200 microM) and by aluminum lactate (IC50 = 400 microM). Aluminum salts inhibited proteolysis principally by affecting the substrates directly. After exposure to 400 microM aluminum lactate and removal of unbound aluminum, human cytoskeletal proteins were degraded two- to threefold more slowly by calpain. When cytoskeleton preparations were exposed to aluminum salt concentrations of 100 microM or higher, proportions of NF-M and NF-H formed urea-insoluble complexes of high apparent molecular mass, which were also resistant to proteolysis by calpain. Complexes of tubulin and of GFAP were not observed under the same conditions. Aluminum salts irreversibly inactivated calpain but only at high aluminum concentrations (IC50 = 1.2 and 2.1 mM for aluminum lactate and AlCl3, respectively), although longer exposure to the ion reduced by twofold the levels required for protease inhibition. These interactions of aluminum with neurofilament proteins and the effects on proteolysis suggest possible mechanisms for the impaired axoplasmic transport of neurofilaments and their accumulation in neuronal perikarya after aluminum administration in vivo.
Intracellular free [Ca2+]i was measured using fura-2 in synaptosomes prepared from cerebral cortices of adult male rats (12 weeks). L-(+)-Glutamate, D-(-)-glutamate, and quisqualate produced similar dose-dependent increases in [Ca2+]i, with EC50 values of 0.38 microM, 0.74 microM, and 0.1 microM, respectively, and maximum increases of approximately 40%. Ibotenate showed less affinity (EC50 4.4 microM) but had a greater maximum effect (57%). N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) did not increase [Ca2+]i. The increases in [Ca2+]i induced by quisqualate and ibotenate were not diminished in the absence of extrasynaptosomal Ca2+. L-2-Amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (L-AP4) (1 microM) completely blocked the changes in [Ca2+]i induced by L-(+)-glutamate, D-(-)-glutamate, quisqualate, or ibotenate. The effects of quisqualate and ibotenate on [Ca2+]i were also blocked by coincubation of synaptosomes with L-(+)-serine-O-phosphate (L-SP) (1 mM) (which, like L-AP4, blocks the effects of quisqualate and ibotenate on inositol phospholipid metabolism). 6-Cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) had no effect on agonist-mediated increases in [Ca2+]i when coincubated with either quisqualate or ibotenate. These data are consistent with the existence of presynaptic glutamate receptors (of the excitatory amino acid metabotropic type) which activate phospholipase C leading to the elevation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores.
Axons have generally been represented as straight cylinders. It is not at all uncommon for anatomists to take single cross-sections of an axonal bundle, and from the axonal diameter compute expected conduction velocities. This assumes that each cross-section represents a slice through a perfect cylinder. We have examined the three-dimensional geometry of 98 central and peripheral unmyelinated axons, using computer-assisted serial electron microscopy. These reconstructions reveal that virtually all unmyelinated axons have highly irregular axial shapes consisting of periodic varicosities. The varicosities were, without exception, filled with membranous organelles frequently including mitochondria, and have obligatory volumes similar to that described in other neurites. The mitochondria make contact with microtubules, while the other membraneous organelles were frequently found free floating in the cytoplasm. We conclude that unmyelinated axons are fundamentally varicose structures created by the presence of organelles, and that an axon's calibre is dynamic in both space and time. These irregular axonal geometries raise serious doubts about standard two dimensional morphometric analysis and suggest that electrical properties may be more heterogeneous than expected from single section data. These results also suggest that the total number of microtubules contained in an axon, rather than its single section diameter, may prove to be a more accurate predictor of properties such as conduction velocity. Finally, these results offer an explanation for a number of pathological changes that have been described in unmyelinated axons.
The trigeminal reflexes (corneal reflex, blink reflex, masseter inhibitory periods, jaw-jerk) and far field scalp potentials (nerve, root, brainstem, subcortical) evoked by percutaneous infraorbital stimulation were recorded in 30 patients with &quot;idiopathic&quot; trigeminal neuralgia (ITN) and 20 with &quot;symptomatic&quot; trigeminal pain (STP): seven postherpetic neuralgia, five multiple sclerosis, four tumour, two vascular malformation, one Tolosa-Hunt syndrome, and one traumatic fracture. All the patients with STP and two of those with ITN had trigeminal reflex abnormalities; 80% of patients with STP and 30% of those with ITN had evoked potential abnormalities. The results indicate that 1) trigeminal reflexes and evoked potentials are both useful in the examination of patients with trigeminal pain, and in cases secondary to specific pathologies provide 100% sensitivity; 2) in &quot;symptomatic&quot; and &quot;idiopathic&quot; paroxysmal pain the primary lesion affects the afferent fibres in the proximal portion of the root or the intrinsic portion in the pons; 3) primary sensory neurons of the A-beta fibre group are involved in both paroxysmal and constant pain, but in the latter the damage is far more severe.
A single micro-injection of Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF) or gamma Interferon (IFN-gamma) into the lumbosacral spinal cord of the rat produced meningitis and mononuclear cuffs within the cord, an inflammatory response remarkably similar in pattern to that observed during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a research analog of multiple sclerosis. Rats injected with saline or heat-inactivated cytokine exhibited no such inflammatory response. In other experiments, the accumulation of radiolabeled spleen cells into spinal cord was measured after the injection of various doses of TNF and IFN-gamma, results indicated that both cytokines elicited accumulation of spleen cells in an additive but not synergistic manner. Potentially, the direct injection model offers a new and simplified way of examining mechanisms of early inflammation in the central nervous system, without the need for immunisation with neuroantigen or passive transfer of sensitised cells.
Deleted mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) has been shown to coexist with normal mtDNA (heteroplasmy) in muscles from chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia, including Kearns-Sayre syndrome. In this study, we correlated heteroplasmic mtDNA abnormality with clinical, biochemical and histological findings with the following results: (1) large deletions ranging from 1.8 to 8.8 kb in 22 muscle specimens from 28 patients who had ophthalmoplegia clinically and focal cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) deficiency by histochemistry, (2) no difference in clinical and biochemical findings between patients with and without mtDNA deletions, (3) no relationship between the size, site or populations of deleted mtDNA and respiratory chain enzyme activities in muscles, (4) positive correlation between the number of CCO-deficient fibers and the populations of deleted mtDNA, and (5) higher incidence of CCO-negative fibers in patients with deleted mtDNA than in those with no deletion of mtDNA. These results suggest that deleted mtDNA is, at least in part, responsible for focal CCO deficiency as a phenotypic expression and that the investigation on pathogenetic mechanism of focal CCO deficiency may provide a clue to understanding the underlying pathophysiology in this disorder.
1. The activity of globus pallidus (GP) neurons (n = 1,117) was studied in two monkeys to reexamine the relation of neuronal activity to movement type (slow vs. fast) while they performed both a visually guided step and ramp wrist tracking task. To select neurons specifically related to wrist movements, we employed both a somatosensory examination of individual body parts and a statistical analysis of the strength of temporal coupling of neuronal discharges to active wrist movement. 2. Neuronal responses to somatosensory stimulation were studied in 1,000 high-frequency GP neurons, of which 686 exhibited clear responses to manipulation of body parts. Of the latter, 336 responded to passive manipulation of forelimb joints and 58 selectively to passive flexion or extension of the wrist. 3. In the external segment of GP (GPe), most neurons responding to passive wrist movement were found to be clustered in four to five adjacent, closely positioned (separated by 200 microns) tracks in single coronal planes. The clusters were irregular in shape with a maximal width of 800-1,000 microns. Separate clusters of neurons responsive to passive wrist movement were identified in planes 3 mm apart in one monkey and in planes 500 microns apart in the other. Multiple clusters of neurons were also found for neurons responsive to joints other than the wrist. These findings suggest a more discrete and complex representation of individual joints in the primate GP than previously conceived. 4. During the performance of the wrist flexion and extension task, 92 neurons showed clear and consistent changes in activity. For these neurons we measured, with a statistical method on a trial-by-trial basis, the strength of temporal coupling between the onset of active wrist movement and the onset of change in neuronal discharge rate. Fifteen neurons showed changes in activity time-locked to the onset of active wrist movement. 5. Twelve pallidal neurons were classified as &quot;wrist-related&quot; based on their movement-locked changes in discharge during task performance and their clear responses to passive wrist joint rotation on examination. All of these neurons exhibited statistically significant modulation of their discharge rate during both fast (peak velocity 97-205 degrees/s) and slow (peak velocity 20-62 degrees/s) wrist movements in the task. The amplitudes of modulation were larger during fast wrist movement than slow movement. These results suggest that the basal ganglia motor circuit plays a similar, rather than an exclusive, role in the control of slow and fast limb movements.
1. The depletion of both norepinephrine (NE) and acetylcholine (ACh) in the visual cortex can decrease plasticity. This decrease in plasticity, although dramatic under some circumstances, fails to occur under others. 2. We depleted cortical NE and ACh in 35- to 42-day-old kittens by making a lesion of the white matter behind the cingulate gyrus. One eye was sutured on the day of the lesion. We recorded from the visual cortex 7 days or 2-3 mo later and used the influence of the deprived eye on the cortical cells as a measure of plasticity. 3. We measured NE content by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) and inferred ACh depletion from depletion of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity. NE depletion averaged 60% in the successfully depleted animals. Depletion of ChAT activity was consistent with NE depletion. 4. When recording occurred 7 days after the lesion and the sutured eye was contralateral to the lesion, plasticity was decreased on the side with the lesion; 70% of the cells were driven by the deprived eye. On the control, uninjured side only 15% of the cells were driven by the deprived eye. 5. In two circumstances the lesion did not cause a decrease in plasticity. In animals with suture ipsilateral to the lesion, the cortex remained plastic. In these animals only 26% of the cells in the hemisphere with the lesion were driven by the deprived eye. The cortex also retained its plasticity if the contralateral eye remained sutured for several months after the lesion, even though there was no recovery from NE and ACh depletion. 6. We conclude that depletion of NE and ACh does decrease plasticity; that is, it protects the deprived eye from losing its ability to drive cortical cells, at least for a short period of time. Depletion protects only the normally dominant contralateral pathway; the ipsilateral visual pathway remains plastic. 7. Perhaps the importance of the side of the deprived eye can be explained by assuming that depletion of NE and ACh removes facilitatory input. This would decrease the ability of cortical cells on the side with lesion to potentiate the input from the nondeprived eye relative to the deprived eye; that is, it would decrease the molecular deprivation (MD) effect. A removal of facilitation would also increase the visual input required to drive cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
To make specific synaptic connections, projection neurons extend neurites to regions containing appropriate targets, then form synapses with the correct type and number of target cells. To investigate the mechanisms controlling this process, we have studied the formation of motoneuronal terminal fields in live zebrafish embryos. The primary motoneurons of the zebrafish are identifiable as individuals and innervate neighboring but mutually exclusive territories. To study the first week of their development, which includes embryonic and early larval stages, we labeled identified motoneurons with fluorescent dyes and made sequential observations of the axonal branches of individual neurons. We assessed the roles of competitive interactions and synapse elimination in the formation of specific synapses by identified neurons that innervate neighboring territories. Our results demonstrate that primary motoneurons establish their cell-specific terminal fields primarily by directed outgrowth of branches and formation of neuromuscular junctions almost exclusively on appropriate muscle fibers, rather than by overproduction and selective elimination of inappropriate branches. Retraction of the few branches that are inappropriately placed, though correlated in time with the ingrowth of branches from appropriate motoneurons, occurs independently of the influences of these other cells and when neuromuscular transmission is blocked. We suggest that, similar to the way in which they pioneer peripheral nerve pathways, primary motoneurons establish their cell-specific terminal fields using mechanisms that operate independently of activity and competition. The target or substrate interactions that are likely to instruct directed growth-cone navigation may be similar to the interactions that determine the locations of territorial borders and that instruct the retraction of misplaced branches.
Hypothetical neural codes underlying the sensation of tactile roughness were investigated in a combined psychophysical and neurophysiological study. The stimulus set consisted of plastic surfaces embossed with dot arrays of varying dot diameter and center-to-center spacing. Human subjects explored each surface with the pad of the index finger and reported their subjective sense of roughness magnitude. The same surfaces were scanned across the receptive fields of cutaneous mechanoreceptive afferents in monkeys while recording the evoked action potentials. Hypothetical neural codes for roughness magnitude were computed from the neural response patterns and tested for their ability to account for the psychophysical data. The psychophysical results showed that subjective roughness magnitude is an inverted U-shaped function of dot spacing that peaks near 3.0 mm spacing, and that increased dot diameter produces decreased roughness sensations at all dot spacings. Hypothetical neural codes that do not bear a consistent relationship to roughness magnitude across all of these stimulus conditions can be rejected as the code for roughness. Four types of neural codes were considered. They were based on (1) mean firing rate, (2) general variation in firing rate, (3) short-term temporal variation in firing rate, and (4) local spatial variation in firing rate. Mean firing rate failed to explain the psychophysical results: surfaces that evoked the same firing rate often evoked very different roughness judgments. In contrast, neural codes based on firing-rate variation, especially in slowly adapting afferents, account for the psychophysical results.

A microcomputer based system is described for the acquisition, averaging, displaying, analysis and storage of electrophysiological (EPSP and post-stimulus histogram) data. The system consists of commercially available hardware (IBM-PC AT compatible, 80286 or 80386 based microcomputer, Burr-Brown analog-to-digital (A/D) converter), a custom built interface module, and a combination of commercially available and custom built software packages. The software operates within a Microsoft Windows environment and is comprised of custom built data acquisition and review modules which are linked to Microsoft's Excel program. The system is capable of four channel A/D conversion of EPSP's at a sampling frequency of up to 10 KHz (50 KHz single channel), the averaging of data including the addition and subtraction of various channels, the graphical display of data, the extraction of various data parameters, and the transfer of data to an Excel spreadsheet. The spreadsheet allows for the development of mathematical formulas for statistical analysis of data and presentation of the results in graphical form. Finally, data can easily be output to a laser printer or plotter. A sample experiment, illustrating system operation, is presented.
Numbers of primary afferent neurons underlie important generalizations concerning the organization of primary sensory systems. A major difficulty, however, is that different investigators do not agree on the neuronal counts. The problem, in our opinion, is that the various methods used to determine these numbers do not provide the same results. Thus to be certain that a method provides accurate counts, calibration is necessary. To do this, true numbers of ganglion cells were determined by serially reconstructing significant parts of four rat lumbar dorsal root ganglion cell populations. Then 6 commonly used methods of counting neurons were used to determine neuron numbers for these same populations. The data indicate that the empirical method, using the modifications recommended in this paper, estimates numbers of neurons with the needed accuracy whereas the other 5 do not. Thus, of the tested counting procedures, the empirical method is recommended. If other methods are to be used, they should also be calibrated.
In June of 1988, the Headache Classification Committee of the International Headache Society published new Classification and Diagnostic Criteria for Headache, Cranial Neuralgias, and Facial Pain. A new standard classification for migraine and tension-type headache was established. An assessment form facilitating headache classification by the neuroscience nurse according to the IHS criteria has been developed. The ability to quantify variables included in the new classification offers the opportunity for productive research on headache by neuroscience nurses.
The iron transport protein, transferrin, and the iron storage protein ferritin were examined immunohistochemically along with iron in a number of brain regions from normal and aged humans. Two age groups were examined: a middle-aged group (28-49 years), and an older group (60-90 years). Transferrin, ferritin, and iron are found throughout all brain regions examined, predominantly in the perikaryal cytoplasm of cells that are small and round, fitting the description of oligodendrocytes. These cells are present in the optic nerve and in both the gray and white matter of the cerebral cortex, cerebellum, and olfactory bulb in both age groups. Ferritin is also found in microglial cells in the gray matter of most of these brain regions. In the subcortical regions examined (corpus striatum, hippocampus, amygdala), in addition to oligodendrocytes, astrocytes can frequently be observed that contain transferrin, ferritin, and iron. There is an age-related alteration in cell labeling: astrocytes in both gray and white matter contained transferrin in the oldest age group, whereas in the younger group the subcortical transferrin immunoreactivity was confined mostly to oligodendrocytes. Ferritin in the subcortical brain regions is also present in astrocytes but is primarily confined to those in the gray matter, even in the oldest age group. Iron is found predominantly in oligodendrocytes, although a few iron-positive astrocytes and microglia can be identified. These results indicate that (1) normally oligodendrocytes contain much of the iron and iron-binding proteins found in the brain; and (2) an increase in age is associated with altered cellular distribution of iron-binding proteins, but the altered distribution is specific to glial cells. These results suggest glial cells may have previously undescribed functions related to metal regulation and sequestration.
Positron emission tomography (PET) was used with 18fluorodeoxyglucose to see if gender differences in resting cerebral glucose utilization could be detected. Thirty-two healthy subjects (15 women and 17 men; age range: 21-38 yr) were examined using a high-resolution PET scanner to determine the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRglc) in 65 gray matter regions of interest. Whole brain CMRglc did not differ significantly between the two genders, nor did any of the regional CMRglc values. Only 1 of 65 ratios of regional-to-whole brain CMRglc differed significantly between men and women, which is consistent with chance. These results indicate that there are no differences in resting regional cerebral glucose utilization between young men and women.
A unique case of spontaneous regression of giant arteriovenous fistulae during infancy is described in this report. A female infant, the product of normal labor and delivery, demonstrated severe ventriculomegaly and an intracranial hemorrhage at birth. Cerebral angiography at 5 days of age revealed several large fistulae fed by the anterior and middle cerebral arteries draining into the deep venous system through a dilated internal cerebral vein and ectatic vein of Galen. Two days following the angiogram, a second intracranial hemorrhage occurred. Active hydrocephalus developed over the next 6 months and was treated with ventriculoperitoneal shunting. When the child was 8 months of age, angiography failed to demonstrate the fistulae. It was postulated that pressure effects from the intracranial hematoma and long-standing intracranial hypertension as well as stenosis in the anomalous venous outflow resulted in vascular stasis, venous thrombosis, and selective arterial occlusion. Hydrocephalus was a result of the compression of the intraventricular foramina by dilated embryonic vessels. This anomaly, predominantly involving the anterior circulation, may be homologous to the vein of Galen aneurysm in the posterior circulation.
In an observational study in head-injured patients, cerebrovascular pressure transmission was investigated using a systems analysis approach whereby the blood pressure (BP) waveform was used as a measure of an input stimulus to the cerebrovascular bed (CVB) and the intracranial pressure (ICP) waveform as the response to that stimulus. The transfer function is a measure of how much pressure is transmitted through the CVB at a given frequency and is calculated using Fourier analysis of the pressure waveforms. The transfer function allows quantification of the pressure transmission performance of the CVB, thus providing a basis for comparison between normal and abnormal function. Fifteen hundred samples of ICP and BP waveforms were collected from 30 head-injured patients via microcomputer. Off-line spectral analysis of the waveform database revealed four main classes of transfer function: those with an overall flat transfer function (curve type 1); those with an elevated low-frequency response (curve type 2); those with an elevated high-frequency response (curve type 3); and those exhibiting both an elevated low- and high-frequency response (curve type 4). Curve types 2 and 4 were most often associated with raised ICP (greater than 20 mm Hg), whereas curve types 1 and 3 were most often affiliated with ICP less than 15 mm Hg. Studies of this type may provide insight into the pathophysiology of the CVB and ultimately aid in the prediction and treatment of raised ICP.
The major carotenoid pigments in the plasma and in a common, nonpurified diet of two species of monkeys (Macaca fascicularis and Saimiri sciureus) were measured. The xanthophylls, lutein, zeaxanthin, alpha-cryptoxanthin, and beta-cryptoxanthin, were the principal carotenoids in both the diet and the plasma. Lutein and zeaxanthin were abundant in the all-trans, the 9-cis, and the 13-cis geometrical isomers in the diet, but the 9-cis form was rarely measurable in plasma. However, the 13-cis isomers of lutein and zeaxanthin were found in higher proportions in plasma than in the diet. For both the monohydroxy-xanthophylls, alpha-cryptoxanthin and beta-cryptoxanthin, and the dihydroxy-xanthophylls, lutein and zeaxanthin, the beta, beta structural isomer (beta-cryptoxanthin or zeaxanthin) is less abundant than the beta, epsilon isomer in plasma than in the diet. These results indicate substantial specificity in the absorption or retention of closely related carotenoid isomers in primates. The proportions of different geometrical isomers of lutein and zeaxanthin in the plasma of both species of monkeys were nearly identical and were similar to human values. The hydrocarbon carotenoids, alpha-carotene, beta-carotene and lycopene were usually undetectable in monkey plasma. The monkeys appear to be like humans in their utilization of lutein and zeaxanthin but distinctly different in some other aspects of carotenoid utilization.
The effects of the cholecystokinin antagonist devazepide on analgesia and respiratory depression induced by morphine in squirrel monkeys were examined. Pain thresholds were determined using the tail withdrawal procedure, in which monkeys restrained in chairs kept their tails in cool (35 degrees C) water for at least 20 sec, but withdrew them from warm (55 degrees C) water in less than 4 sec. Morphine produced a dose-related increase in tail withdrawal latencies from warm water. Devazepide (injected i.p. or p.o.) had no effect on tail withdrawal latencies when given alone but enhanced the analgesic effects of morphine. The devazepide dose-response curve for morphine enhancement was bell-shaped with doses of 3, 10, 30 and 100 micrograms/kg injected i.p. increasing morphine analgesia whereas higher and lower dose did not. In a separate group of monkeys, morphine produced dose-dependent decreases in respiratory rate and oxygen tension and increases in carbon dioxide tension. In contrast to its effects on morphine analgesia, devazepide had no effect on the various indices of morphine-induced respiratory depression. These data suggest that devazepide may have therapeutic utility as an adjuvant to morphine analgesia allowing lower dose of the opiate to be used to relieve pain and reducing the risk of opiate-induced respiratory depression.
Pravadoline is a novel cyclooxygenase-inhibiting analgesic with a preclinical profile of activity in vivo clearly distinct from that of other cyclooxygenase inhibitors. The purpose of the present study was to assess the possibility that pravadoline possesses pharmacologic actions in addition to inhibition of cyclooxygenase. The data demonstrate that pravadoline inhibits neuronally stimulated contractions of the guinea pig ileum and mouse vas deferens preparations. These actions of pravadoline are not shared by known cyclooxygenase inhibitors, but are mimicked by close structural analogs of pravadoline devoid of the ability to inhibit prostaglandin formation. Some structural analogs were inhibitory also in the rat vas deferens preparation. The inhibitory effects of pravadoline and a representative noncyclooxygenase-inhibiting analog in isolated tissue preparations are not mediated by an interaction with muscarinic cholinergic, adrenergic (alpha-1 or alpha-2), serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine2 or 5-hydroxytryptamine3), opioid (mu, kappa or delta), purinergic (P1), neurokinin-1, bradykinin (B2) or prostaglandin (E2) receptors. It is concluded that pravadoline and aminoalkylinodole analogs are inhibitory in several bioassay systems via a presynaptic mechanism which does not involve inhibition of cyclooxygenase, or the activation or inhibition of several known receptors. The relevance of this mechanism to aminoalkyindole actions in vivo is the subject of future studies.
The diagnosis of transtentorial brain herniation has long relied on encephalography, then arteriography. Computerized tomography (CT) is a safer method which permits a more precise and earlier visualization of temporal and central herniations and herniation of the culmen cerebelli, which are the three varieties of transtentorial herniation. In an attempt to evaluate the reliability of CT images of herniation, the authors have conducted a study of anatomy-CT correlations, using autopsy specimens of brains with these three types of transtentorial herniation. Temporal herniation was well studied, irrespective of the CT reference plane. Direct visualization of temporal uncus herniation and filling of the homolateral perimesencephalic cistern was regularly obtained. Central herniation was better visualized when the occipito-temporal was used as reference. The disappearance of perimesencephalic cisterns on CT sections through the widest part of the tentorial incisura is the best element of diagnosis. Herniation of the culmen is easily studied on the conventional orbito-meatal plane. Provided CT scans are performed with the technique they recommend, the authors consider that this examination is reliable for the diagnosis of transtentorial herniation. Some variations in the anatomy of the incisura may explain why the clinical consequences of herniation are varied. CT perfectly shows the configuration of this notch and therefore may be helpful in predicting the prognosis.
Fibronectin, an adhesion protein found in blood and tissues, is an important factor in wound repair. Recently, we began studies using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting to compare fibronectin in the fluid of normal and chronic wounds. We found similar fibronectin profiles in suction blister fluid (2 normal volunteers) and mastectomy fluid (5 patients). There was primarily an intact 250 kilodalton fibronectin subunit and in addition some higher molecular mass fibronectin-containing complexes. On the other hand, fibronectin in diabetic ulcer wound fluid (2 patients) was partially degraded, and there was no intact fibronectin in stasis ulcer wound fluid (2 patients). The most prominent degradation products were 93 and 125 kilodalton polypeptides. When intact fibronectin was added back to stasis ulcer wound fluid, fragmentation occurred within 15 minutes at 37 degrees C indicating the presence of protease activity in the wound fluid.
Primary cultures of newborn rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neurons grown in complete serum-free medium have been used to study the regulation of catecholamine and neuropeptide Y (NPY) production. The levels of mRNA for preproNPY and for tyrosine hydroxylase were determined, and the rates of synthesis and accumulation of NPY and catecholamines were measured. Drugs which effectively blocked accumulation of newly synthesized catecholamines (tyramine, reserpine) had no effect on NPY synthesis and accumulation. The catecholamine uptake blocker desipramine and the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor agonist clonidine inhibited accumulation of newly synthesized catecholamines, but only after prolonged exposure to drug; NPY synthesis and accumulation were unaltered by these treatments. The alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor antagonist yohimbine had no effect on catecholamine or NPY synthesis or accumulation, regardless of the time of treatment. The net synthesis and accumulation of catecholamines and NPY decreased in parallel in response to treatment with phorbol esters, and increased in parallel in response to treatment with glucocorticoids; there was no change in the mRNA levels for tyrosine hydroxylase or preproNPY following either treatment. The levels of tyrosine hydroxylase or preproNPY mRNA were increased following treatment with dibutyryl cyclic AMP, with no change in the net synthesis and accumulation of catecholamines or NPY. Thus, the levels of mRNA for preproNPY and tyrosine hydroxylase are not faithful indicators of the rate of catecholamine or peptide production under several treatment conditions. The complex pattern of regulation of catecholamine and NPY production in SCG neurons grown under closely controlled conditions provides an ideal system in which to examine neuronal regulation of neurotransmitter and neuromodulator production.
The distribution and area of label for arginine vasopressin (AVP) mRNA or peptides were studied in rats exposed to cold or novel environments. In situ hybridization histochemistry was employed to detect AVP mRNA in hypothalamic frozen sections with a 45-mer photobiotinylated oligonucleotide probe. The storage of the peptide in both the hypothalamus and the pituitary was determined by immunohistochemistry. Label for mRNA or peptide was then quantified by the Cue-3 color image analysis system. Exposure to 4 degrees C for 30 min caused a 3.5-fold increase in the label for AVP mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) compared with that of control rats. This was correlated with a 2-fold elevation in serum ACTH. In addition, rats exposed to 30 min of a novel, thermoneutral (24 degrees C) environment showed a 1.2- to approximately -2.3-fold enhancement of the label for AVP mRNA in the PVN. In contrast, no changes were seen in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) following exposure to either cold or novel environments. Furthermore, neither stress caused significant changes in the storage of AVP peptide in the PVN, SON, median eminence, and posterior lobe of pituitary. This in vivo study demonstrates that PVN and SON neurons respond differentially to cold and novel environment exposures. The elevation of serum ACTH is correlated with the increased level of label for AVP mRNA in the rat hypothalamus, which suggests that AVP may play a role in the regulation of pituitary-adrenal responses to cold and novel environment stresses.
The amphibian tetradecapeptide bombesin and its mammalian homolog gastrin-releasing peptide are neurotransmitters and paracrine hormones, and are mitogenic for fibroblast and small cell lung carcinoma cell lines. cDNAs encoding the bombesin/gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (BR) expressed by murine Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts were isolated using electrophysiological and luminometric Xenopus oocyte expression assays. Oocytes microinjected with BR transcripts responded to concentrations of bombesin from 1 x 10(-10) to 1 x 10(-6) M. These responses showed homologous desensitization and could be specifically blocked by bombesin antagonists. Sequence analysis showed that the BR has seven membrane-spanning domains and five potential N-linked glycosylation sites. Data base analysis showed that the BR is most homologous to the tachykinin receptors. Although tyrosine kinase activity has been associated with BR function, no tyrosine kinase homologies occur within the BR sequence.
Prenatal plus neonatal administration of methimazole (MMI), a procedure provoking marked hypothyroidism in rats, increased by about 100% the thymic content of oxytocin and severely (by approximately 80%) decreased the thymus weight, compared to euthyroid counterparts. Adult-onset, propylthiouracyl (PTU)-induced hypothyroidism, while provoking thymic involution, or thyroxine (T4) hyperthyroidism, did not affect oxytocin concentrations. Thymic involution and increases in thymus oxytoxin could also be obtained with repeated administration of the potent glucocorticoid dexamethasone. However, since corticosterone, unless subchronically injected at largely supraphysiological doses, was previously shown to have no influence on thymic parameters of young adult rats, a major involvement of the neonatal adrenal axis in oxytocin alterations could be excluded. It is suggested that the ontogenesis of thymic oxytocin production is under thyroid control.
In situ hybridization was used to assess the subcellular distribution of mRNAs encoding several important neuronal proteins in hippocampal neurons in culture. mRNA encoding GAP-43, a protein that is largely excluded from dendrites, was restricted to nerve cell bodies, as were mRNAs encoding neurofilament-68 and beta-tubulin, which are prominent constituents of dendrites and of axons. In contrast, mRNA encoding MAP-2, a protein that is selectively distributed in dendrites and cell bodies, was present in both dendrites and cell bodies. These results demonstrate that different mRNAs are differentially distributed within individual hippocampal neurons. Taken together with previous findings from other laboratories, our results suggest that only a limited set of mRNAs are available for local translation within dendrites.
This study investigated the nature of the cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity (CCKLI) in the dorsal horn of the rat spinal cord. Indeed, using the same antiserum, no variation of radioimmunoassayable CCKLI in the dorsal horn of rats treated neonatally with capsaicin could be seen, whereas the density of immunoreactive CCKLI fibres was greatly reduced in immunocytochemistry (IC). By comparing the technical conditions used in IC and radioimmunoassay (RIA), it could be concluded that the contradictory results obtained by the two techniques were very unlikely due to the fixation of the tissues, but rather to the concentration of the antiserum. First, CCKLI levels in extracts from fresh or 4% paraformaldehyde fixed tissues were not significantly different. Second, glomerular terminals, which are typical terminals of the fine primary afferents were immunoreactive at the surface of the block but unlabelled in its depth, where the concentration of antiserum might gradually reach a value closer to that used in radioimmunoassay. High pressure liquid chromatography analyses of acidic extracts of the dorsal part of the lumbar spinal cord of control rats revealed the presence, besides two major peaks coeluting with sulphated and non-sulphated CCK8, of two minor peaks '1' and '2' accounting for 23% of total CCKLI. Capsaicin treatment resulted in the disappearance of peak 2 and a marked reduction in the proportion of CCKLI in peak 1. Reported data suggested that the CCKLI material present in capsaicin-sensitive neurons, accounting for only about 10% of radioimmunoassayable CCKLI but for a much higher proportion of that detected in IC, was distinct from both genuine CCK and CGRP.
The effects of daily treatment with GM1 ganglioside (30 mg/kg s.c.) from birth to day 30, on striatal pre- and postsynaptic markers of the dopaminergic system in euthyroid- and 32 day-old hypothyroid rats were studied. The purpose was to assess whether GM1 could prevent the extensive, hypothyroidism-provoked impairment of dopaminergic neurotransmission. Neonatal administration of GM1 well counteracted the hypothyroidism-related deficits in striatal synaptosomal uptake of [3H]dopamine and in membrane binding of [3H]tyramine, a putative marker for the vesicular carrier of dopamine. In the hypothyroid striatum, the decrease of concentrations of DOPAC and HVA, the loss of [3H]SCH-23,390-labelled D1-receptors and the decrease of basal- or dopamine-stimulated, D1-mediated activity of adenylate cyclase were not prevented by GM1. Although somatic and neurobehavioural aberrations of hypothyroids were not at all or only partially ameliorated, a slight improvement of the thyroid status was suggested by less decreased levels of serum thyroxine (T4) after treatment with GM1. The ganglioside-driven selective recovery of the transport and storage process of [3H]dopamine might result either from a chronically-exerted stimulation by GM1 on the NA/K- and Mg-ATPase activities, thus reflecting on the ATPase-dependent neuronal and vesicular transport processes of dopamine or from a GM1-promoted maturation of the otherwise retarded functionality of dopaminergic nerve endings in the neonatal hypothyroid striatum.
A signal-detection analysis was applied to performance on two non-verbal recognition memory tasks for 21 subjects with presumed dementia of the Alzheimer type, 19 subjects with presumed multi-infarct dementia, and 19 elderly depressed subjects. Performance was best for the depressed and worst for the Alzheimer subjects. Response bias did not differ significantly among groups. Within the depressed group, more impaired and older subjects were more conservative on one test. Correlations suggested that the sensitivity and response-bias measures may depend on the type of material used and so have limited generality.
We examined Wisconsin Card Sorting Test performance in a large group of brain-damaged patients and controls. No differences were found between patients with frontal lesions only and those with nonfrontal lesions. Patients with left dorsofrontal and anterior temporal lobe lesions committed the most perseverative errors. More analyses regarding requirements for information processing on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test are needed.
Event-related potentials were recorded from young adults during a visual search task in order to evaluate parallel and serial models of visual processing in the context of Treisman's feature integration theory. Parallel and serial search strategies were produced by the use of feature-present and feature-absent targets, respectively. In the feature-absent condition, the slopes of the functions relating reaction time and latency of the P3 component to set size were essentially identical, indicating that the longer reaction times observed for larger set sizes can be accounted for solely by changes in stimulus identification and classification time, rather than changes in post-perceptual processing stages. In addition, the amplitude of the P3 wave on target-present trials in this condition increased with set size and was greater when the preceding trial contained a target, whereas P3 activity was minimal on target-absent trials. These effects are consistent with the serial self-terminating search model and appear to contradict parallel processing accounts of attention-demanding visual search performance, at least for a subset of search paradigms. Differences in ERP scalp distributions further suggested that different physiological processes are utilized for the detection of feature presence and absence.
The functional consequences of cortical focal ischemia and the effect of monosialoganglioside (GM1) treatment on learning/performance of a spatial reversal task were investigated. Cortical focal ischemia was induced by a permanent occlusion of the left common carotid artery and the ipsilateral middle cerebral artery, with a 1-h clamping of the contralateral carotid artery. Twenty-six rats were randomly assigned to three groups: sham controls, a saline-treated ischemic group, and a GM1 ganglioside-treated ischemic group (10 mg/kg/day: IM). Fifteen days after surgery rats were trained on a spatial reversal task in a two-lever operant chamber where food reward was contingent on lever pressing. Training continued from day 15 to day 21 after surgery. Cortical focal ischemia resulted in learning/performance deficits that were reduced by GM1 ganglioside treatment. The cognitive deficits were characterized by a significantly higher number of nonperseverative errors and number of responses to criterion. There was a significant difference between left and right lever performance in the saline-treated ischemic group, which was absent in shams and GM1-treated ischemic rats. On all measures GM1-treated rats were not different from sham controls.
In this article, a systems approach to the development of posture control across the life span and its integration with voluntary tasks such as walking is described. Research shows a clear cephalocaudal gradient in the development of postural responses. Postural muscle synergies develop appropriate temporal organization through experience in each new level of postural skill development. Sensory inputs contributing to posture control influence postural responses very early in development, with responses being elicited by vision alone, or by somatosensory and vestibular cues in isolation. Studies of older adults indicate small, but significant, increases in onset latencies and disruptions in the temporal organization of postural muscle responses when subjects are given external threats to balance. In addition, older adults, like young children, use antagonist muscles more often in coactivation with agonist muscles. Older adults also have more difficulty balancing when sensory inputs are reduced experimentally or pathologically. Ankle dorsiflexor muscle weakness is also a factor in balance dysfunction in the older adult.
Bombesin is a tetradecapeptide originally isolated from frog skin; its mammalian homologue is the 27-amino acid peptide gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP). cDNAs encoding GRP have been cloned from diverse species, but little is yet known about the amphibian bombesin precursor. Mass spectrometry of HPLC-separated skin exudate from Bombina orientalis was performed to demonstrate the existence of authentic bombesin in the skin of this frog. A cDNA library was prepared from the skin of B. orientalis and mixed oligonucleotide probes were used to isolate cDNAs encoding amphibian bombesin. Sequence analysis revealed that bombesin is encoded in a 119-amino acid prohormone. The carboxyl terminus of bombesin is flanked by two basic amino acids; the amino terminus is not flanked by basic amino acids but is flanked by a chymotryptic-like cleavage site. Northern blot analysis demonstrated similarly sized bombesin mRNAs in frog skin, brain, and stomach. Polymerase chain reaction was used to show that the skin and gut bombesin mRNAs encoded the identical prohormones. Prohormone processing, however, differed between skin and gut. Chromatography showed the presence of only authentic bombesin in skin whereas gut extracts contained two peaks of bombesin immunoreactivity, one consistent in size with bombesin and one closer in size to mammalian GRP. Thus the same bombesin prohormone is processed solely to bombesin in skin but is processed to a peptide similar in size to bombesin and to a peptide similar in size to mammalian GRP in stomach.
Little is known about the presence of trophic factors in the hypothalamus and the role they may play in regulating the functional development of hypothalamic neurons. We have investigated the ability of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha) to affect the release of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), the neuropeptide that controls reproductive development. We have also determined whether the genes encoding EGF and TGF-alpha are expressed in the prepubertal female hypothalamus. Northern blot analysis of poly(A)+ RNA utilizing a single-stranded EGF cDNA probe failed to reveal the presence of EGF mRNA in either the hypothalamus or the cerebral cortex at any age studied (fetal day 18 to postnatal day 36). In contrast, both a complementary RNA probe and a double-stranded TGF-alpha cDNA recognized in these regions a 4.5-kilobase (kb) mRNA species identical to TGF-alpha mRNA. The abundance of TGF-alpha mRNA was 3-4 times greater in the hypothalamus than in the cerebral cortex. Both EGF and TGF-alpha (2-100 ng/ml) elicited a dose-related increase in LHRH release from the median eminence of juvenile rats in vitro. They also enhanced prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) release. The transforming growth factors TGF-beta 1 and -beta 2 were ineffective. Only a high dose of basic fibroblast growth factor was able to increase LHRH and PGE2 release. Blockade of the EGF receptor transduction mechanism with RG 50864, a selective inhibitor of EGF receptor tyrosine kinase activity, prevented the effect of both EGF and TGF-alpha on LHRH and PGE2 release but failed to inhibit the stimulatory effect of PGE2 on LHRH release. Inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis abolished the effect of TGF-alpha on LHRH, indicating that PGE2 mediates TGF-alpha-induced LHRH release. The results indicate that the effect of EGF and TGF-alpha on LHRH release is mediated by the EGF/TGF-alpha receptor and suggest that TGF-alpha rather than EGF may be the physiological ligand for this interaction. Since in the central nervous system most EGF/TGF-alpha receptors are located on glial cells, the results also raise the possibility that--at the median eminence--TGF-alpha action may involve a glial-neuronal interaction, a mechanism by which the trophic factor first stimulates PGE2 release from glial cells, and then PGE2 elicits LHRH from the neuronal terminals.
Glutamate, the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, activates at least three types of channel-forming receptors defined by the selective agonists N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), kainate, and quisqualate [or more selectively by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)]. Activation of the NMDA receptor requires glycine as well as NMDA or glutamate. Recent studies have provided evidence that certain polyamines potentiate the binding by NMDA receptors of glycine and the open channel blocker MK-801. To determine whether polyamines alter channel opening, we examined their effects on rat brain glutamate receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Our results demonstrate that spermine potentiates the response of the NMDA receptor but has no effect on responses to kainate and quisqualate. Furthermore, spermine increases the maximum response to NMDA and glycine and acts, at least in part, by increasing the apparent affinity of the NMDA receptor/channel complex for glycine. The present findings and the fact that polyamines are a natural constituent of brain suggest that polyamines may play a role in the regulation of glutamatergic transmission.
Diversity of gamma-aminobutyrate type A (GABAA) receptors has recently been proposed to be achieved by assembly of receptor subtypes from a multitude of subunits (alpha 1-6, beta 1-3, gamma 1-2, and delta) encoded by different genes. Here we report a further mechanism for creating GABAA receptor diversity: alternative RNA splicing. Two forms of bovine gamma 2 subunit cDNA were isolated (gamma 2S and gamma 2L) that differed by the presence or absence of a 24-base-pair (8-amino acid) insertion in the cytoplasmic domain between the third and fourth putative membrane-spanning regions. Polymerase chain reaction from RNA demonstrated that the two forms of gamma 2 subunit are expressed in bovine, human, and rat brain. Sequencing of genomic DNA clones encoding the gamma 2 subunit demonstrated that the 24-base-pair insert is organized as a separate exon. Analysis of the sequence of the 8-amino acid insert revealed that it contains a protein kinase C consensus phosphorylation site. Expression of the large cytoplasmic loop domains of gamma 2S and gamma 2L in Escherichia coli, followed by phosphorylation of the recombinant proteins by protein kinase C, demonstrated that gamma 2L, but not gamma 2S, could be phosphorylated. Thus the two forms of gamma 2 subunit differ by the presence or absence of a protein kinase C phosphorylation site. This mechanism for creating GABAA receptor diversity may allow differential regulation of the function of receptor subtypes.
Recently, several authors have claimed prominent abnormalities in the entorhinal cortex of both patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and schizophrenia. The entorhinal cortex is the origin of the perforant pathway, a major input to granule cells of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. The present study explored the possibility of a lesion in the entorhinal cortex of both AD and schizophrenic patients by quantitating astrocytic markers within the terminal fields of the perforant pathway. An increase in fibrillary astrocytes was found in half (3/6) of the AD patients while none of the schizophrenic (n = 6) or control (n = 7) brains exhibited gliosis. Since the redistribution and hyperplasia of astrocytes within the molecular layer of the partially deafferented dentate gyrus depend on the chronicity of the entorhinal lesion, the abnormalities observed in AD patients are consistent with the progressive course of the illness. Furthermore, the presence of gliosis in the subiculum of three out of six AD patients suggested pathology secondary to projections from the entorhinal region, amygdala, or prepyriform cortex. The absence of similar changes in schizophrenic patients does not disprove previous claims of entorhinal pathology but suggests that the lesion, if it exists, is either static in nature or occurred long before death.
The purpose of this three-phase study was to examine the validity of the nursing diagnosis altered level of consciousness (ALC). The conceptual framework was diagnostic reasoning. In Phase I, 26 content experts certified in neuroscience nursing completed four rounds of a Delphi survey to identify defining characteristics and operational definitions for the nursing diagnosis. The diagnosis was divided into ALC: arousal and ALC: content. In Phase II, 30 staff nurses from two neuroscience intensive care units (NICUs) used the magnitude estimation scaling technique in judging the importance and frequency of occurrence of defining characteristics chosen in Phase I. In Phase III, 60 patients in two NICUs were assessed for frequency of occurrence of the defining characteristics for ALC: arousal and ALC: content. In Phase I, there was greater than or equal to 70% agreement on the appropriateness and clarity of 28 and 24 defining characteristics and operational definitions for ALC: arousal and ALC: content, respectively. In Phase II, there were 7 major defining characteristics identified for ALC: arousal and 6 major defining characteristics identified for ALC: content. In Phase III, there were 13 defining characteristics that occurred with significantly greater frequency in patients with an ALC: arousal and 17 defining characteristics that occurred with significantly greater frequency in patients with an ALC: content.
The gene for Duchenne (DMD) and Becker (BMD) types of muscular dystrophy has been isolated by Kunkel's and Worton's groups and shown to be the largest one over known in human, spanning more than 65 exons distributed over 2,500 kb in P21 region of X-chromosome. Fourteen kb cDNA encodes 427 kD cytoskeletal protein &quot;dystrophin&quot;, supposed to form an anti-parallel homodimer like alpha-actinin and spectrin. The polyclonal antibodies against the synthetic peptides or fusion proteins predicted from dystrophin cDNA disclosed the complete absence of dystrophin at the surface membrane of both skeletal and cardiac muscles of DMD in marked contrast with the continuous and uniform staining in normal muscles. In manifested carriers, the mosaic expression of dystrophin was observed at the surface membrane of the skeletal muscle. BMD, which is thought to be allelic to DMD, revealed a faint or patchy immunostaining along with the abnormal and/or lower amount of dystrophin. In BMD, there is an intimate connection between the amount of dystrophin and the severity of the clinical course. It should be noted that 5 out of 39 patients with clinical diagnosis of limb-girdle (L-G) muscular dystrophy showed a patchy staining pattern, suggesting BMD not L-G. On the basis of dystrophin discovery, a possible therapeutic trial of DMD is discussed.
From the information of nucleotide sequences and deduced amino acid sequences of flaviviruses including JEV, we can postulate processing mechanisms of a polyprotein translated from single long open reading frame of the genome and mechanisms of construction of antigenic structures of structural proteins with biologically active forms after these proteins are translated. The results of comparative analysis of amino acid sequences among flaviviruses and epitope analysis on the E proteins which are the most important antigens for protective immunity suggest that the E protein of flaviviruses may have a similar structure closely related to each other. PrM and E proteins which had predictable signal sequences upstream on the N terminals were expressed with antigenically active form and molecular size the same as the authentic ones by the recombinant viruses. However, the recombinant viruses which had no such signal sequence expressed unprocessed proteins with antigenically denatured forms. These results suggest that normal proteolytic processing is needed to construct biologically active structures of JEV structural proteins. The E proteins which were expressed by the recombinant viruses as antigenically active form could elicit nutralizing and HI antibodies in animals and protective immunity in mice. The recombinant vaccinia viruses which express the E protein could induce strong immunologic memory against the E protein in mice. These results indicate that the development of a new type of vaccine against JEV will become possible in future.
Epidemiologic research has revealed the major risk factors in cerebrovascular disease. This review will concentrate on three important risk factors: elevated blood pressure, the most common and important, since it is responsible for up to 70% of all strokes; raised cholesterol; and smoking. These factors are important not only because they increase the risk of stroke, but also because they are amenable to modification by drugs, diet, or other interventions. Strategies to avoid stroke can either 1) try to produce substantial reductions, usually with drugs, in the level of the risk factor in the few individuals in the population with high levels (the &quot;high-risk&quot; approach), or 2) try to produce modest reductions in the level of the risk factor in every individual in the population, usually not with drugs but with lifestyle modification (the &quot;mass&quot; approach). The prevention of stroke could best be achieved through continuing medical efforts to deal with high-risk individuals and through political strategies to encourage a healthier lifestyle in the population as a whole.

This report describes three patients with spinal epidural abscess diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging and treated nonoperatively. Prior to treatment, one patient was neurologically intact, one patient demonstrated a moderate neurological deficit, and one patient was severely paraparetic with loss of bladder and bowel control. Following identification of the pathogenic organism, antibiotic therapy was continued until the patients demonstrated clinical improvement and radiological resolution of the abscess. All patients remained stable or improved neurologically. Analysis of 33 previously reported patients treated with antibiotics suggests that nonoperative treatment may be a reasonable alternative therapy under certain clinical conditions. These include (1) identification of the pathogenic organism, (2) a stable neurological condition, (3) access to magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography for potentially rapid reevaluation, and (4) appropriate neurosurgical consultation and nursing care. Nonoperative treatment may also be considered as a reasonable alternative for patients who have severe concurrent medical illness.
There has been a dispute about the corticospinal and rubrospinal tracts for about 100 years. Both are descending motor pathways and have remarkably similar functional properties. It has been proposed previously that each system is primarily active in different movement contexts. The corticospinal tract is most involved when a new movements is being learnt, while the rubrospinal tract is preferentially active when automated movements are being executed. However, what structure decides which system should be in use? In this article Philip Kennedy discusses the evidence that the rubro-olivary tract switches between the two systems depending on the context of the movement.

Swimming behaviour was studied in neonate rats by carrying out electromyographic recordings. The study showed that the early swimming pattern was characterized by highly instable temporal parameters. A decrease was found to occur with age in the variability of the instantaneous period in each leg and in that of the antiphase pattern. Moreover, a dissociation occurred during development between the foreleg and the backleg activity. While patterns involving the forelegs always remained extremely instable, a considerable improvement was found to occur with time in the hindlimb activity.

The role of two second messenger systems in alterations of cerebrovascular smooth muscle tone was examined in feline cerebral arteries using an in vitro preparation of vessel segments and cortical pial vessels in situ. Forskolin, which is known to activate adenylate cyclase, elicited a concentration-dependent relaxation of arteries preconstricted with prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF2 alpha) (EC50 was approximately 300 nM). Microapplication of forskolin around individual cortical arteries and arterioles in situ elicited a dose-dependent dilatation. The maximum increase in arteriolar calibre was 54 +/- 4% from pre-injection calibre and EC50 was approximately 100 nM. Phorbol 12,13 dibutyrate (PDBu), which activates protein kinase C, elicited strong contractions of cerebral vessels. In vitro, PDBu contracted vessel segments in a concentration-dependent manner (EC50 was approximately 100 nM). Similarly, PDBu elicited potent dose-dependent constriction of pial arterioles in situ. The maximum response to PDBu was a 37 +/- 5% reduction in arteriolar calibre and the concentration eliciting EC50 was approximately 100 nM. These data provide an assessment to capacity of feline cerebral arteries to dilate and contract in response to adenylate cyclase and protein kinase C activation respectively.
Bilateral infusion of DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (DL-APV) (which is a competitive antagonist for N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor) into the medial frontal cortex of conscious rats increased the amount of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and the DOPAC/dopamine (DA) ratio in the cortical area. Moreover, intra-prefrontal injection of DL-APV, D-APV, DL-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoate and 3-[(+/-])-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonate (which are selective NMDA receptor antagonists), but not the L-isomer of APV and gamma-glutamyl-aminomethyl sulphonate (a relative antagonist for non-NMDA receptors), facilitated prefrontal DA utilization in a NMDA-reversible manner. These findings suggest that NMDA-type excitatory amino acid receptors may be involved in a tonic inhibitory regulation of dopaminergic transmission in the medial frontal cortex in vivo.
This study assessed the possible influence of the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) on the response of subcortical dopamine (DA) systems to subchronic, mild stress. DA and its metabolites as well as noradrenaline were assayed in the nucleus accumbens and corpus striatum, 1 and 7 days after one week of daily intraperitoneal saline injections (Stress) or no handling (No stress), in rats with sham (Sham) or ibotenic acid (IA) lesions of the MPFC. One day after the last saline injection the level of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) was elevated in the nucleus accumbens of IA/Stress rats in comparison to the Sham/No stress, Sham/Stress, and IA/No Stress groups. Levels of mesolimbic DA, DOPAC and homovanillic acid were still elevated 7 days after the last injection in IA/Stress animals in comparison to all other groups. There were no other significant differences between the groups. The data suggest that in rats with MPFC impairment, mild subchronic stress can induce alterations in mesolimbic DA activity that persist beyond the duration of the stress.
The potential antinociceptive effects of the selective cholecystokinin-B (CCK-B) antagonist L-365,260 were examined in the squirrel monkey tail withdrawal test. Pain threshold was measured in 6 male monkeys by recording the latency to remove the tail from a warm (55 degrees C) water bath. L-365,260 at doses of 100 ng/kg to 100 micrograms/kg significantly elevated tail withdrawal latencies throughout a 2 h test period. These data provide the first evidence that blockade of CCK-B receptors induces analgesia in primates.
A tissue culture model was designed to characterize the ability of axonal membranes and detergent extracts of membranes to down regulate nerve growth factor (NGF) receptors on the Schwann cell surface. The findings establish that (i) axons from intact neurons, as well as axonal membrane fragments, and extracts of these axons can down regulate Schwann cell NGF receptor number, (ii) central, as well as peripheral, axons have the ability to affect Schwann cell NGF receptor expression, (iii) cross-species reactivity is evident with this phenomenon, (iv) physical contact is necessary for axons to down regulate Schwann cell NGF receptor, (v) the response of axons is glial specific, and (vi) soluble, truncated NGF receptors elaborated by Schwann cells are also down-regulated by axon components.
The autoradiographic distribution of the selective NK-3 tachykinin agonist [3H]senktide was investigated in rat brain. [3H]Senktide bound with high affinity (KD less than 2.5 nM) and high specificity (greater than 75%) to cerebral cortex and numerous subcortical sites, including the substantia nigra pars compacta. In addition, moderately dense binding was seen in the median but not the dorsal raphe nucleus, and this was disrupted by 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT)-induced destruction of 5-HT neurons. 5,7-DHT lesions did not affect the binding of [3H]senktide to forebrain regions, suggesting that 5-HT terminals are devoid of NK-3 receptors.
Synthetic peptides based on the threonine phosphorylation site and proposed inhibitory site of DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr = 32,000 as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis) were prepared and analyzed as substrates for cAMP-dependent protein kinase and protein phosphatases-1c, -2Ac (the catalytic subunits of protein phosphatase-1 and 2A, respectively) and -2B, and as inhibitors of protein phosphatase-1c. Studies of the kinetics of phosphorylation of the peptides by cAMP-dependent protein kinase indicated an important role in facilitating phosphorylation for the region COOH-terminal to the phosphorylatable threonyl residue. Studies of the dephosphorylation of the phosphopeptides demonstrated that they were effectively dephosphorylated by protein phosphatase-2A and -2B and poorly dephosphorylated by protein phosphatase-1. The active inhibitory region of phospho-DARPP-32 was analyzed by determining the effects of synthetic phosphopeptides on the activity of protein phosphatase-1c. Phospho-D32-(8-48) and phospho-D32-(8-38) inhibited protein phosphatase-1c with IC50 values of 2 x 10(-8) and 4 x 10(-8) M, respectively, compared with an IC50 of 8 x 10(-9) M for intact phospho-DARPP-32. Phospho-D32-(9-38) was equipotent with phospho-D32-(8-38); however, further NH2-terminal deletions resulted in marked reductions in IC50 values. An analog of an active DARPP-32 phosphopeptide containing a phosphoseryl residue in place of the phosphothreonyl residue also exhibited a much reduced IC50. These data identify the essential inhibitory region of phospho-DARPP-32 as residues 9-38, which contains the phosphorylation site (Thr34). This region exhibits extensive amino acid sequence identity with phosphatase inhibitor-1, a distinct inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1. Kinetic studies of the inhibition of protein phosphatase-1c by phospho-D32-(9-38), a potent inhibitor, as well as by phospho-D32-(10-38), a weak inhibitor, indicated a mixed competitive/noncompetitive mechanism of inhibition, as has been previously found for both intact phospho-DARPP-32 and intact phospho-inhibitor-1. These findings support the hypothesis that a 30-amino acid domain in the NH2-terminal region of phospho-DARPP-32 is sufficient for the inhibition of protein phosphatase-1.
Sjgren's syndrome is an autoimmune disease that is characterized by dryness of the mouth and eyes. The loss of salivary and lacrimal gland function is accompanied by lymphocytic infiltration. Because similar symptoms and glandular pathology are observed in certain persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a search was initiated for a possible retroviral etiology in this syndrome. A human intracisternal A-type retroviral particle that is antigenically related to HIV was detected in lymphoblastoid cells exposed to homogenates of salivary tissue from patients with Sjgren's syndrome. Comparison of this retroviral particle to HIV indicates that they are distinguishable by several ultrastructural, physical, and enzymatic criteria.
Habenulopetal catecholamine (CA)-containing neurons were determined using Fluoro-Gold retrograde tracing combined with a CA-fluorescence technique. A robust number of habenulopetal CA neurons were found mainly in the ipsilateral locus coeruleus (LC), while a considerable number of habenulopetal non-CA neurons were found in the LC, subcoeruleus, A5, A4 and A7 areas.
Extensive damage to the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) system initiates a number of compensatory changes that may be involved in counterbalancing the effects of the lesion. In this study, we examined whether changes in the electrophysiological activity of the remaining DA cells play a role in compensating for 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced depletions of striatal DA. DA cell activity in lesioned rats was assessed along three dimensions: (1) the relative proportion of the remaining DA neurons firing spontaneously, (2) their firing rate, and (3) their firing pattern. Histofluorescence studies revealed a sparing of DA neurons in the midbrain of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats relative to the levels of DA remaining in the striatum. With respect to DA cell activity, depletions of up to 96% of striatal DA did not result in substantial alterations in the proportion of DA neurons active, their mean firing rate, or their firing pattern. Increases in these parameters only occurred when striatal DA depletions exceeded 96%. These results suggest that the biochemical and receptor compensations produced in the DA system in response to injury are of sufficient magnitude to allow the DA cells to maintain baseline levels of activity. In this way, the remaining DA neurons would maintain the wide dynamic range of electrophysiological responsivity that may be necessary for the normal function of the extrapyramidal motor system.

A series of 4-alkylcatechols and 1,2-diacetoxy-4-alkylbenzenes (from methyl to butyl) were chemically synthesized for in vitro evaluation as stimulators of nerve growth factor (NGF) synthesis. All compounds were proven to be potent in stimulating NGF synthesis in L-M cells (a mouse fibroblast cell line) and mouse astroglial cells. In a series of 4-alkylcatechols, 4-methylcatechol and 4-ethylcatechol severely affected viability and cell adhesive properties. In a series of 1,2-diacetoxy-4-alkylbenzenes, the concentrations required for the maximal effect and the effective ranges of concentrations were higher than those in the 4-alkylcatechol series, and the cell adhesive properties or viabilities were not affected. Evidence is also presented to indicate that the elevation of NGF synthesis by these compounds was not associated with the cell growth.

Extracellular recordings were made in the C5 segment of the spinal cord of anaesthetised cats from 129 units which showed respiratory phased discharge. The majority of recordings (88%) were thought to arise from the somata of respiratory spinal interneurons. Inspiratory units and expiratory units comprised 42% and 52% of all recorded units. A small number of postinspiratory units were also found (n = 5). Most units did not respond to electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral superior laryngeal (SLN) and phrenic nerves (PN), but a few expiratory (n = 2) and postinspiratory units (n = 1) were excited by SLN stimulation, while 6 inspiratory units had their discharge suppressed by the same stimulus. PN stimulation evoked a long latency (2-7 ms) burst of firing in 2 inspiratory and 1 expiratory interneurons. It is concluded that these respiratory interneurons may provide a segmental input to phrenic motoneurons, in addition to synaptic drives mediated by bulbospinal pathways.
Molecules that determine the specific features of individual muscles in vertebrates are unknown. Antibody labeling studies described here revealed a molecular difference among muscles in the zebrafish head, in that two functionally related jaw muscles (the levator arcus palatini and the dilator operculi), and not other head muscles, expressed engrailed-homeodomain proteins. Expression began in mesoderm-derived muscle-precursor cells in the paraxial mesenchyme and continued during muscle morphogenesis and differentiation. Growth cones of trigeminal motoneurons that innervate these muscles associated with the precursors within a few hours of the time they began to express engrailed. It is proposed that the engrailed proteins in these cells establish muscle identity and neuromuscular target recognition.
Modern monoamine research had its origin in work done in the 1950s and 1960s to elucidate the modes of action of the major groups of psychotropic drugs, since when it has played a spearhead role in neuroscience. For example, it has contributed much to the introduction of the chemical neurotransmission concept in CNS-research. We are now about to reap the harvest of more than three decades of intensive and successful basic research, in the form of more efficacious and safer drugs for the treatment of certain important mental and neurological disorders, and the formulation of research strategies focused on prophylaxis. The paper reviews this development.
Pretreatment with flunarizine (20 mg/kg), a diphenylalkylamine calcium channel antagonist, markedly potentiated cocaine (10 mg/kg)-induced dopamine (DA) output from the ventral striatum, as measured by microdialysis in freely moving rats. Moreover, flunarizine enhanced cocaine-induced motor stimulation. Pretreatment with the D2 receptor antagonist (-)-sulpiride (25 mg/kg) potentiated cocaine-induced DA output but, unlike flunarizine, inhibited cocaine-induced motor stimulation. When added to striatal membrane preparations, flunarizine displaced [3H]spiperone binding with a Ki of about 100 nM. Since recent evidence indicates that the effects of cocaine are calcium-dependent and are prevented by dihydropyridine calcium antagonists, these findings suggest that the paradoxical potentiating effect of flunarizine is probably due to an interaction with the DA system and is not due to its calcium antagonist property.
The effect of different calcium antagonists on cocaine-induced dopamine (DA) release in the striatum, as measured by brain microdialysis in freely moving rats, and on cocaine-induced motor stimulation was studied. While two dihydropyridine calcium antagonists, nimodipine (20 mg/kg) and isradipine (2.5 mg/kg), prevented cocaine-induced DA release and motor stimulation, the diphenylalkylamine-type calcium antagonist flunarizine (20 mg/kg) strongly potentiated both effects of cocaine. Moreover, two calcium antagonists, verapamil (20 mg/kg) and diltiazem (20 mg/kg), were ineffective. The results indicate that various classes of calcium antagonists differ in their interaction with the effects of cocaine in the CNS and suggest that dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonists might be clinically useful for the treatment of cocaine abuse.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) elevated choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activities of mouse septal neurons as well as of cholinergic hybridoma line cells SN6.10.2.2 in vitro. It augmented ChAT activities and neurite extension of interleukin 3-activated cholinergic neurons. Thus, GM-CSF should be added as a trophic factor for central cholinergic neurons.
Multiple unit activity (MUA) was recorded from chronically implanted electrodes in either the mediodorsal (MD) or the intralaminar (IL) nuclei of the dorsal thalamus in separate groups of rabbits during (a) habituation of the cardiac orienting reflex, (b) Pavlovian heart rate (HR) conditioning, and (c) extinction of the HR conditioned response (CR). Other animals with similar recording electrodes received explicitly unpaired presentations of the conditioned stimulus (CS) and unconditioned stimulus (US). The cardiac orienting reflex and the HR CR consisted of bradycardia. However, tone-evoked tachycardia was obtained in animals that received CS/US unpaired presentations. MUA evoked by the CS consisted of a short latency (20-40 ms) increase under all conditions, which reached its maximum 200-300 ms after CS onset. This response habituated greatly during tone-alone pretraining, but was considerably greater in the paired than unpaired group during the later trials of conditioning in animals with MD, but not IL, placements. Instead, a longer latency increase (greater than 500 ms) in MUA occurred in the paired but not in the unpaired animals in the IL group. The MUA increases in both instances, including the early, short latency increase in the MD group, and the longer latency increase in the IL group, were trial-related, and declined to pretraining levels during extinction, indicating that these neuronal changes had an associative basis. These findings suggest that neuronal activity in both MD and IL is related to the early events involved in Pavlovian conditioning, but that the relative roles of these two closely related thalamic nuclei in associative learning must be somewhat different.
A retrospective case-control study was carried out on 230 patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and 230 controls matched for year of birth and sex. The geographical distribution of residence of MS patients and controls was similar. Two peak ages of onset of MS were observed among woman patients (20-24, 30-34 years). There was no difference in histories of infectious diseases and autoimmune diseases between the two groups. A greater number of hairdressers was noticed among the patient group (p less than 0.05) and three patients (no control) had had professional contact with pathology specimens.
The oral administration of 1,4-butanediol (1,4-BD) at doses ranging from 100 to 300 mg/kg, twice daily, produced a dose-dependent reduction (40 to 85%) in the voluntary ethanol intake in rats selectively bred for high preference for ethanol. Treatment with 1,4-BD did not reduce total fluid intake. Repeated 1,4-BD administration (300 mg/kg twice daily for 7 days) suppressed ethanol intake almost completely. After suspension of 1,4-BD treatment, the inhibitory effect on ethanol intake remained significantly low for 2 days. 1,4-BD failed to inhibit aldehyde dehydrogenase to a concentration of 10 mM in rat liver homogenate.
Saposins are small glycoproteins which are required for sphingolipid hydrolysis by lysosomal hydrolases. Each saposin (A, B, C, and D) stimulates a different enzymatic activity. A new simple HPLC method to determine the levels of saposins A, C, and D in tissue was developed. Tissues were homogenized in 20 vol of water, boiled, and centrifuged. The supernatant was lyophilized and redissolved in 5 ml of water. A 1.5-ml sample of the solution was applied to a reverse-phase HPLC column (C4 column) and eluted with an acetonitrile gradient. Most contaminants eluted from the column prior to the saposins, which were eluted later as a cluster of peaks. This cluster was collected and then analyzed by another HPLC system equipped with an AX-300 anion-exchange column using a NaCl gradient. Saposins D, A, and C eluted from the AX-300 column separately and in that order. Quantitation of the saposins was made by measuring the sizes of each peak. Standard curves made from pure saposins showed that quantification was linear over a range from 1 to 5 micrograms. Saposin B was measured by its stimulation activity on pure human liver GM1 ganglioside beta-galactosidase. Stimulation was linear up to 80 micrograms of saposin B. Application of this method to analysis of human tissues for their saposin content is presented.
When skeletal muscle is subjected to stretch it undergoes a rapid increase in muscle mass. However, the effect of stretch on the native myosin isozyme content of muscle has received attention only recently. Using the Japanese quail to investigate stretch-induced hypertrophy, we demonstrated an increase in the expression of fast myosin in the predominantly slow anterior latissimus dorsi muscle (ALD). The fast myosin content of the control quail ALD is not sufficient to be quantified on native myosin pyrophosphate gels. After 33 days of stretch, the fast myosin content (N = 10) averaged 16 +/- 11% in the stretched muscles and reached a maximum of 40%. Mean hypertrophy in the stretched muscle, as indicated by muscle weight, was 247 +/- 91% (range, 168-378%). Fast myosin was consistently expressed in muscles with hypertrophy greater than 250%. Muscle fiber size from the stretched muscles contained a greater number of fibers with small cross-sectional areas than was observed in controls. These results indicate that substantial remodeling occurs in the stretched ALD muscle of the Japanese quail.
The 40-Hz auditory steady-state evoked response (ASSR) is a sinusoidal electrical response of the brain to periodically presented auditory stimuli. It was recorded during anesthesia in 10 elective surgical patients to evaluate its usefulness as a measure of the level of consciousness. The anesthetic agents used were thiopental, fentanyl, and isoflurane with or without nitrous oxide. Recordings were carried out during the period before induction and during induction, surgical anesthesia, emergence, and recovery from anesthesia. The level of consciousness was measured with an auditory stimulus detection task. The electroencephalogram (EEG) was also recorded for comparison with the ASSR. The following indices were analyzed: total EEG power, relative power in the beta, alpha, theta, and delta frequency bands, and the median and spectral edge frequency. The amplitude of the ASSR was reduced significantly at the end of the induction period and decreased below noise levels during surgical anesthesia. It increased significantly during emergence and recovery. The amplitude during recovery remained significantly smaller than the preinduction values. The changes of the ASSR paralleled those of the level of consciousness. The EEG measurements were distorted by the presence of muscle artifacts that were prominent during emergence and recovery. The amplitude of the ASSR appears to provide a more reliable indicator of the level of consciousness than the EEG.
Defects of short-chain acylcoenzyme A dehydrogenase (SCAD) may cause a severe metabolic illness in children or a lipid storage myopathy in adults. The childhood form is associated with low enzyme activity, but the synthesis of a normal-size enzyme protein in cultured skin fibroblasts. We report further biochemical studies on the original patient described with myopathic SCAD deficiency. We show an absence of enzyme protein in skeletal muscle, which both confirms the original diagnosis and suggests that the two forms of SCAD deficiency have a different molecular basis.
A comparison of monozygotic twins discordant for schizophrenia controls for genetic variance and reduces variance due to environmental circumstances, thus serving to highlight differences due to phenotypic-related variables. In this study, we assessed 16 such twin pairs on a wide range of neuropsychological tests. The affected twins tended to perform worse than their unaffected counterparts on most of the tests. Deficits were especially severe on tests of vigilance, memory, and concept formation, suggesting that dysfunction is greatest in the frontotemporal cortex. While manifest symptoms were not highly associated with neuropsychological scores, global level of functioning was. To address the issue of genetic liability, we also compared the sample of discordant unaffected twins with a sample of seven pairs of normal monozygotic twins. No significant differences between the groups were found for any neuropsychological test. In fact, the results suggest that neuropsychological dysfunction is a consistent feature of schizophrenia and that it is related primarily to the clinical disease process and not to genetic or nonspecific environmental factors.
We have previously shown that chronic administration of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptor antagonist, ritanserin (10 mg/kg/day) or the monoamine oxidase type A inhibitor (MAOI), clorgyline (2 mg/kg/day), results in a reduction in 5-HT2 receptor number in rat cerebral cortex. This study investigates the effects of acute and chronic ritanserin administration, on 5-HT2 receptor linked inositol phospholipid hydrolysis in rat cortical slices and compares it with the effect of a chronic clorgyline regimen. [3H]Myo-inositol (50 microCi) was used to label inositol phospholipids. Their subsequent hydrolysis in the presence or absence of 5-HT was determined by the accumulation of [3H]myoinositol monophosphate ([3H]InsP). Addition of 5 nM ritanserin to slices had no effect on basal or 5-HT stimulated [3H]InsP accumulation whereas 100 nM ritanserin blocked the stimulated response by 65%. Acutely, ritanserin (15 mg/kg i.p.) completely blocked 5-HT stimulated [3H]InsP accumulation. Chronic ritanserin or clorgyline treatment had no effect on basal levels of [3H]InsP accumulation compared to controls (mean value 3125 +/- 298 dpm/mg protein). Ritanserin increased 5-HT stimulated [3H]InsP accumulation at 1 microM, 100 microM and 1 mM 5-HT and this effect was significant at 100 microM 5-HT. Clorgyline had no significant or consistent effect on 5-HT stimulated [3H]InsP accumulation at 1 microM, 100 microM and 1 mM 5-HT. Thus the effects of both chronic clorgyline and ritanserin administration on 5-HT2 linked inositol phospholipid hydrolysis do not correlate with their effects on 5-HT2 receptor number (Bmax). The situation is further complicated since ritanserin significantly increases phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns), phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PtdIns4P) and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(4,5)P2) labelling whereas clorgyline significantly increases PtdIns and PtdIns4P labelling. The implications of this are discussed.
1 A novel series of non-quaternary oxadiazole-based muscarinic agonists demonstrated high affinity for muscarinic receptors. 2. These agonists possessed high efficacy in the nanomolar range at muscarinic receptors in the superior cervical ganglion, atrium and ileum but did not show selectivity across the tissue preparations. 3. Two amino oxadiazoles, one from a quinuclidine series (L-660,863) and one from a 1-azanorbornane series (L-670,207) possessed a high ratio of potency for displacing the binding of [3H]-N-methyl-scopolamine ([3H]-NMS) to potency for displacing the agonist [3H]-oxotremorine-M cortex. 4. The two azanorbornane derivatives L-670,548 and L-670,207 stimulated the turnover of phosphatidylinositol in the cortex with a potency higher than that obtained with any other known muscarinic agonist (ED50 0.26 and 0.18 microM respectively). 5. The maximum response obtained with L-670,207 was greater than that observed for carbachol but was comparable to that of the natural ligand acetylcholine. 6. These oxadiazole muscarinic agonists are among the most potent and efficacious non-quaternary muscarinic agonists ever described.
1. The pharmacological properties of the benzodiazepine receptor ligand, FG 8205 (7-chloro-5,6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-3-(5-isopropyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol++ +-3-yl)-4H- imidazol[1,5a][1,4]benzodiazepine) have been examined. 2. FG 8205 potently displaced [3H]-flumazenil binding in rat cortical membranes with a Ki of 3.3 nM, but was inactive at 13 neurotransmitter recognition sites. 3. Consistent with a partial agonist profile, the affinity of FG 8205 for the benzodiazepine recognition site was increased in the presence of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA, 300 microM) by a degree (-log [IC50 in the presence of GABA/IC50 alone] = 0.34) significantly less than found for diazepam (0.46). FG 8205 also potentiated the inhibitory potency of the GABAA-receptor agonist, isoguvacine, on the hippocampal CA1 population spike and, again, the maximum shift (-log dose-ratio = 0.2) was significantly less than that seen with diazepam (0.4). 4. In anticonvulsant studies, the ED50 doses of FG 8205 and diazepam needed to antagonize seizures induced by pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) or by sound in audiogenic seizure prone mice were similar with values of 0.2-0.3 mg kg-1, i.p. However, even high doses of FG 8205 (50 mg kg-1) did not protect against seizures induced by electroshock. 5. FG 8205 released responding suppressed by footshock in a rat operant conditioned emotional response task over the dose range 0.5-50 mg kg-1 (i.p.). Similar doses of FG 8205 had a marked taming effect in cynomolgus monkeys. However, measures of sedation and ataxia (as measured by rotarod in the mouse, climbing behaviour in the rat, and by scoring arousal and co-ordination in primates) were slight and only transiently affected by FG 8205, and FG 8205 significantly antagonized the rotarod performance deficit induced by diazepam in the mouse. 6. While the potentiation by FG 8205 of the response to isoguvacine in the rat hippocampal slice and the anxiolytic-like effects of the compound in both rats and primates were reversed by the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, flumazenil, high doses of the antagonist were able only marginally to block the protective effects of FG 8205 against seizures induced by PTZ in the mouse. 7. Thus, FG 8205 does not show the marked motor impairment characteristic of full agonists at the benzodiazepine receptor, consistent with its partial agonist profile in in vitro assay systems. Nevertheless, the compound has sufficient intrinsic activity to maintain high efficacy in anticonvulsant and anxiolytic tests.
The survival of avian ciliary ganglion (CG) neurons in culture depends upon an exogenous supply of trophic factor(s). Skeletal muscle, a normal ganglionic target tissue, is a well documented provider of survival-promoting activity, although the molecular basis for this ability to foster neuronal survival has not been thoroughly investigated. To identify the source of skeletal muscle support, dissociated neurons were plated into microwells containing either: a basal, trophically deficient medium; live pectoral muscle myotubes; medium conditioned by myotubes; membrane remnants of osmotically lysed myotubes; or, membrane remnants and conditioned medium. Neurons remaining in culture were counted after 1, 2, 5, and 7 days. The results reveal that neuronal survival is supported by both muscle conditioned medium and the membrane remnants of cultured myotubes. Each of these alone provides for only partial survival, while both combine to equal the activity of live myotubes. Treatment of the lysed membranes with either 1.5 M NaCl and/or 15 U heparin removed only 50-60% of the activity, suggesting that multiple factors are involved in the neuronal support obtained from lysed myotubes. This is in contrast to fibroblast remnants, which support some neuronal survival, but whose activity is wholly removed by NaCl. Conditioned medium also contains a heparin binding component which accounts for approximately 60% of its activity. These results indicate that full trophic support from the cultured target tissue requires at least two distinct active agents. The experiments further suggest that the target-derived factors responsible for neuronal survival in culture, and perhaps in vivo, are both soluble and membrane-associated molecules.
In adult rats, alternating stimulations between two limbic sites can result in one site kindling normally, while the other is retarded in an early non-generalized kindling stage. This phenomenon has been named kindling antagonism. In this report, we present data indicating that kindling antagonism does not occur in 16-day-old rats. Instead, 16-day-old rats receiving alternating stimulations in the amygdala and hippocampus develop progressively more severe seizures. Kindling with alternate stimulations is elicited at a much faster rate at the two foci compared to kindling from a single site, either the hippocampus or amygdala. All groups develop generalized seizures including seizure stages 6 and 7, consisting of wild jumping, running with vocalizations and tonus. These seizures appear after relatively few stimulations in the pup, in comparison to the adult. The results indicate that the immature brain is less able to suppress the generalization of seizures than the adult. The age-specific enhanced development of bilateral foci may be due to underdeveloped inhibitory systems and may underlie the propensity of the immature CNS to develop multifocal seizures.
Four-week-old inbred Dahl salt-sensitive (DS/JR) and Dahl salt-resistant (DR/JR) rats were placed on an 8% salt diet with or without a supplemental 2.5% tryptophan (Trp). Blood pressures were monitored for the next 5 weeks. Urine volumes and ion concentrations were measured during the 6th week. Blood pressures of DS/JR rats on control diets elevated rapidly and markedly, whereas pressures of DS/JR rats on the Trp-supplemented diet were not significantly elevated over those of DR/JR rats. Pressures of DR/JR rats were unaffected by Trp supplementation. Urinary sodium was significantly greater in DR/JR rats compared with DS/JR rats and was unaffected by Trp supplementation. This suggests that the antihypertensive effect of Trp was not at the level of the kidney. We conclude that dietary Trp blocks the development of hypertension in DS/JR rats maintained on a high salt diet.
Acetylcholine (ACh) dissolved in seawater and perfused through the isolated gill of the Aplysia californica produced suppression of the gill withdrawal reflex (GWR) evoked by tactile stimulation of the gill. This suppression was reversible upon washout and was blocked by co-perfusion of curare and alpha-bungarotoxin. Co-perfusion of atropine did not block the suppression of the GWR produced by ACh. We concluded that the suppressive effects produced by perfusion of ACh through the gill occur as a result of the action of ACh at the nicotinic-like receptors. The role of ACh suppression in the mediation of gill reflex behaviours is discussed.
This study investigates by electron microscopy the transformational process of the endosomal compartment of the Drosophila nephrocyte, the garland cell, which occurs during endocytotic processing of internalized material. The endosomal compartment of the garland cell consists of a prominent tubular/vacuolar complex in the cortical cytoplasm. When internalization of coated pits is blocked at 29 degrees C using the endocytosis mutant, shibire(ts), the tubules gradually disappear after 7 min at 29 degrees C. By 12 min at 29 degrees C, the vacuoles also disappear. Thus, the endosomal compartment appears to constantly undergo a transformational process that necessitates continuous replenishment by coated vesicles. The data suggest that the tubular component of the endosomal compartment gradually transforms into vacuoles by the expansion of the tubular membrane. The vacuoles then transform by invaginating into themselves, creating flattened cisternae. The electron-lucent substance in the lumina of the vacuoles appears to be extruded into the cytoplasm through the invaginating membrane. No shuttle vehicles such as vesicles or tubules could be identified that might have been involved in the transporting of endocytosed materials and membrane from the endosomal compartment to lysosomes or back to the plasma membrane.
Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) is a potent ACTH secretagogue which activates the release of hypothalamic CRF but is unable to cross the blood brain barrier. Recently, it was reported that IL-1 beta, instilled directly into the hypothalamic median eminence (ME), rapidly induced ACTH secretion. Thus, due to the lack of a blood brain barrier the ME appears to be a site whereby iv IL-1 beta can access the brain to stimulate CRF and, consequently, ACTH secretion. To evaluate the role of central catecholamines in this process, 250 g male rats were lesioned with 6-hydroxy-dopamine instilled into the lateral ventricle. Ten days later, rats received recombinant h-IL-1 beta (10 or 30 ng) into the ME and blood was sampled via indwelling jugular cannulae. The ACTH response to IL-1 beta, 30 ng, was reduced by approximately 50% in the lesioned rats (P = 0.05), and it was abolished in those receiving IL-1 beta, 10 ng (P less than 0.05). Moreover, in rats given iv IL-1 beta (1 microgram), 6-hydroxy-dopamine significantly reduced the ACTH response by more than 50% (P less than 0.001). To determine the effect of acute epinephrine depletion, 2,3 dichloro-alpha-methylbenzylamine (DCMB, 60 mg/kg BW) and SKF64139 (SKF) (100 mg/kg BW), inhibitors of the enzyme which converts norepinephrine to epinephrine, were administered ip 4 h before intra-ME IL-1 beta (30 ng). DCMB reduced the ACTH response by 80% and SKF reduced it to its own baseline. LY 10853, which acutely depletes both norepinephrine and epinephrine, also reduced the ACTH response by 80%. Because of the reported capacities of DCMB and SKF to block alpha 2 adrenoreceptors in vitro, yohimbine, an alpha 2 receptor antagonist, was studied. Intra-ME yohimbine failed to inhibit the ACTH response to intra-ME IL-1 beta. In contrast, a significant (P less than 0.01) dose-dependent reduction in the ACTH response to intra-ME IL-1 beta (30 ng) was observed in rats pretreated with either a nonselective alpha or beta adrenoreceptor antagonist (phentolamine, 2-40 micrograms or propranolol, 2-20 micrograms, respectively, into the ME). In contrast, intra-ME phentolamine, 20 micrograms, failed to reduce the ACTH response to iv CRF, 1 microgram/kg BW. Thus, the secretion of ACTH stimulated by the action of IL-1 beta at the ME depends, in part, on the local secretion of norepinephrine and epinephrine interacting with both alpha and beta adrenergic receptors.
The neuroendocrine basis for short-day induced testicular regression was studied in Syrian hamsters of the LSH/Ss Lak strain. Adult animals were maintained either under long or short days (14:10D or 6L:18D, respectively) and given single, daily ip injections of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) (25 mg/kg BW); control animals received injections of saline. As expected, the testes of the short-day controls had completely regressed to a prepubertal condition within 6 weeks, a change that was associated with significantly reduced mean plasma gonadotropin levels. In contrast, the NMDA-treated hamsters from both the long-day and short-day groups, as well as the long-day controls, all maintained large testes and elevated plasma gonadotropin levels, although plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) was partially suppressed in the short-day group. In a second experiment which lasted 2 weeks, short-day hamsters with completely regressed testes were either transferred to long days, maintained further on short days, or maintained on short days and given a daily ip injection of NMDA (25 mg/kg BW). The short-term exposure to long days caused an expected increase in plasma and pituitary concentrations of follicle-stimulating hormone, pituitary LH, and testicular weight. Similar, but even more marked, changes were observed in the short-day hamsters that were treated with NMDA, including significant increases in plasma LH and serum testosterone concentrations. Moreover, histological examination revealed that the recrudescing testes from this latter group already contained mature spermatocytes and in some individuals even spermatozoa. These results demonstrate that NMDA receptors may play a pivotal role in both the termination and onset of the breeding season in photoperiodic species.
Immunosympathectomy produced by treatment of newborn rats with antibodies to nerve growth factor (NGF) delays ovarian development and disrupts estrous cyclicity. While these alterations have been ascribed to loss of sympathetic neurons innervating the ovary, the treatment also causes partial loss of ovarian sensory innervation. The present experiments were undertaken to determine if selective interference with ovarian noradrenergic/sympathetic action would result in alterations of ovarian development similar to those caused by NGF antibodies (NGF Ab). We have used two approaches to disrupt catecholamine action on ovarian cells: 1) inhibition of beta-adrenoreceptors by local delivery of receptor blockers to the ovaries of juvenile rats; and 2) elimination of the sympathetic innervation by long term postnatal treatment with guanethidine (GD), an adrenergic neuron blocking agent. When GD is administered chronically it produces an autoimmune-mediated destruction of peripheral sympathetic nerves, without affecting cholinergic or sensory neurons. Of the receptor blockers tested, FM-24, a nonreversible antagonist, resulted in a sustained 70% decrease in available receptors throughout the 10-day period studied. In spite of this, the timing of puberty, assessed by the age at vaginal opening and first ovulation, was not delayed, suggesting that activation of the remaining receptors by an intact innervation suffices to maintain a normal noradrenergic influence. GD treatment initiated at the end of the first week of postnatal life and maintained for three weeks slowed the juvenile-peripubertal rate of body growth, delayed the time of vaginal opening and first ovulation, and disrupted subsequent estrous cyclicity, but did not affect the animals' fertility. The ovaries of GD-treated rats exhibited a striking loss of sympathetic (norepinephrine and neuropeptide Y) nerves but a normal sensory innervation (represented by fibers containing calcitonin gene-related peptide). The concentration of beta-adrenoreceptors in granulosa cells was reduced, suggesting follicular immaturity. Direct assessment of this inference by morphometric analysis of the ovaries revealed that follicular development was retarded. The progesterone and estrogen response of juvenile ovaries to gonadotropins in vitro were also reduced. At this time, circulating LH levels were slightly decreased, but neither LHRH content in the median eminence nor the LHRH response to prostaglandin E2 in vitro were affected.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Galanin (GAL), a 29-amino acid peptide originally isolated from porcine intestine, has been shown to be widely distributed not only in the gut, but also in the central nervous system. Several studies have shown that GAL participates in the hypothalamic regulation of PRL, GH, and LH secretion. In this study, we evaluate the effects of rat GAL (rGAL) on LHRH and prostaglandin (PG) E2 release from arcuate nucleus-median eminence fragments in vitro. Fragments were incubated for 30-min periods in Krebs-Ringer bicarbonate buffer containing the different test substances. The addition to the medium of rGAL in concentrations ranging from 5-1000 nM increased the release of both LHRH and PGE2 in a concentration-dependent manner. The ED50 values were approximately 55 and 80 nM for LHRH and PGE2, respectively. rGAL-induced LHRH and PGE2 release were related, as suggested by the finding that the addition to the medium of indomethacin (10 microM), a PG synthesis blocker, completely blocked rGAL-induced LHRH release. In addition, an active catecholaminergic system appears to be necessary for obtaining the stimulatory effect of rGAL. The addition to the medium of the alpha-adrenergic blocker phentolamine or prazosin impaired the ability of rGAL to release both LHRH and PGE2. rGAL-induced stimulation of LHRH and PGE2 release was blocked by phentolamine at doses of 1-10 microM, while prazosin was able to block it at doses as low as 0.1 microM. In summary, rGAL stimulates LHRH and PGE2 release from arcuate nucleus-median eminence fragments in vitro in a dose-dependent fashion. Such an effect is blocked by both indomethacin and alpha-adrenergic blockers, indicating that rGAL-induced stimulation of LHRH secretion is exerted through alpha-adrenergic receptors and requires PGE2 as an intracellular mediator.
This review summarizes basic and clinical research on intracerebral adrenal medulla grafts, emphasizing potential applications to Parkinson's disease. Properties of intraventricular and intraparenchymal grafts are described, and cell survival and functional effects are compared. It is clear that adrenal medulla allografts survive poorly in the parenchyma of the corpus striatum and better in the lateral ventricle. Nerve growth factor (NGF) may improve the survival of adrenal medulla grafts. In the absence of added NGF even adrenal medulla grafts in the ventricle survive irregularly, and the factors required for graft survival in the ventricle are not well understood. In the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat model most evidence suggests, not surprisingly, that adrenal medulla grafts produce functional effects only when they survive. These effects may be related to production of catecholamines by the transplanted cells. In addition, adrenal medulla grafts may produce trophic effects on host brain. These effects are most evident in animals with MPTP-induced damage to dopaminergic systems and may be nonspecific, possibly related in part to the brain injury that is induced by graft implantation. Trophic effects may contribute to the functional effects of adrenal medulla grafts: For intraparenchymal grafts, trophic effects that do not require cell survival may contribute small functional changes, while additional behavioral effects may require substantial chromaffin cell survival. The evidence for direct dopamine-mediated effects as compared to trophic mechanisms of action for these grafts in animal models for Parkinson's disease is presented. Clinical studies of adrenal medulla grafts in human patients are examined and compared in detail. When inspected closely, the various clinical studies are in general agreement on most points, although there are differences in the degree of improvement found, both across different studies and individual patients. It is concluded that some beneficial clinical effects occur, with small to modest changes in most patients and substantial improvement in a minority of patients. There also seem to be larger or more consistent changes in durations of &quot;on&quot; and &quot;off&quot; times in L-dihydroxyphenylalanine-treated patients. There are substantial side effects, and it is not clear that the clinical changes are sufficient to justify performing adrenal medulla transplantation in human patients as a routine procedure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

This investigation examined the nature and frequency of errors in clinical judgment that were displayed by primary health care medical officers before and after short-term training in mental health care. Thirty-nine medical officers who underwent inservice training for 2 weeks were evaluated using standardized case vignettes. Before the training, doctors displayed a sizable percentage of major and minor errors, which dropped significantly following training. Errors were not unique to psychiatric presentations alone, but occurred with respect to vignettes representing physical disorders as well. The results on the whole demonstrate a satisfactory gain in clinical skills of medical officers following the training and highlight the need for continuation of a program of this nature.

Data regarding open-label treatment with fluoxetine following failure to respond to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) or intolerance of TCA side effects, suggest a response rate between 51.4% and 62.1%, depending on the definition of TCA refractoriness employed. Double-blind study of this issue would extend these findings. Fluoxetine is well tolerated in patients unable to tolerate TCAs. Within this population, more than 80% of patients unable to tolerate TCAs found fluoxetine acceptable. Fluoxetine, as an alternative to polypharmaceutical augmentation, may represent a logical choice as the next step in therapy for a patient who has initially been treated with a TCA and has proven refractory or intolerant.
We found six groups of proteins, A0-A5, besides dystrophin itself in a dystrophin preparation obtained by the reported method [Campbell, K.P. &amp; Kahl, S.D.(1989) Nature 338, 259-262] with some modifications. Their molecular weights were 94, 62, 52, 43, 36, and 24 kDa, respectively. Their molar ratios to dystrophin were 0.14, 2.2, 0.88, 0.90, 1.7, and 0.34, respectively. Each of A1, A3, and A4 was split into several bands. But each group of bands except A3 seemed to behave like the same kind of protein. The doublet of A3 was subdivided into A3a and A3b in the decreasing order of molecular weight. All the A-proteins except A2 were cross-linked with dystrophin molecule by a cross-linker, bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate, suggesting them to be dystrophin-associated proteins. When dystrophin preparation was treated with KI, which is known to break membrane cytoskeletal interactions, as described by Campbell and Kahl, A2, A3, and A4 were absorbed by wheat germ lectin (WGL) Sepharose, but the dystrophin molecule and A1 were not absorbed. On the other hand, A2 and A3b reacted with biotinyl WGL but A3a and A4 did not in blotting analysis. This apparent discrepancy can be explained if we postulate that A3a and/or A4 would associate with A2 and/or A3b. On the basis of these results including stoichiometric considerations, we are of the opinion that the complex of A2.A4 among various possible ones is the most important to anchor dystrophin to sarcolemma. In this A2.A4 complex, A4 but not A2 is directly associated with dystrophin.
Electrical burns or ischemia (induced by vascular ligation) were produced in the legs of 15 anesthetized dogs to study evolution of tissue changes compared with impedance alterations. After the application of 1-ampere currents at 60 Hz, animals were monitored from 1 to 4 days. Muscle impendance was measured with frequency sweeping to determine tissue destruction. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (phosphorus 31) was used to assess metabolic activity, and results were compared to impedance measurements. In burned limbs, 70% reduction in muscle impedance was seen, which corresponds to decreased metabolic activity (absent organic phosphates) and suggests necrosis. Visually viable tissue had impedance decreases of 25% and levels of organic phosphates slightly lower than normal. Relaxation frequencies in dogs with severe burns exceeded 80 kHz; in viable tissue, 30 to 40 kHz (normal: 30 kHz). In ischemic muscle, organic phosphates decreased rapidly (1 to 2 hours); impedance changes evolved more slowly (1 day), but they ultimately reached the same degree of severity. Measurement of impedance may be a valuable adjunct in the evaluation of electrical burns, since significant changes strongly suggest nonviability.
The effect of nimodipine pretreatment on CBF and brain edema was studied in conscious rats subjected to 2.5 h of focal cortical ischemia. An infusion of nimodipine (2 micrograms/kg/min i.v.) or its vehicle, polyethylene glycol 400, was begun 2 h before the ischemic interval and was continued throughout the survival period. Under brief halothane anesthesia, the animals' right middle cerebral and common carotid arteries were permanently occluded, and 2.5 h later, they underwent a quantitative CBF study ([14C]iodoantipyrine autoradiography followed by Quantimet 970 image analysis). Nimodipine treatment improved blood flow to the middle cerebral artery territory without evidence of a &quot;vascular steal&quot; and reduced the volume of the ischemic core (cortex with CBF of less than 25 ml/100 g/min) and accompanying edema by approximately 50% when compared with controls (p = 0.006 and 0.0004, respectively). Mild hypotension induced by nimodipine did not aggravate the ischemic insult. The ischemic core volumes, however, were 50-75% smaller than the 24-h infarct volumes generated in a similar paradigm that demonstrated 20-30% infarct reduction with continuous nimodipine treatment. These results suggest that nimodipine pretreatment attenuates the severity of early focal cerebral ischemia, but that with persistent ischemia, cortex surrounding the ischemic core undergoes progressive infarction and the early benefit of nimodipine treatment is only partly preserved.
Knowledge of the circuitry of chemically identified systems in primate prefrontal cortex is limited. Although cholecystokinin is very abundant in prefrontal cortex (Geola et al.: Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism 53(2):270-275, 1981; Taquet et al.: Neuroscience 27(3):871-883, 1988), the organization of cholecystokinin-containing structures in primate prefrontal cortex has not been investigated. Using immunohistochemical and retrograde transport techniques, we characterized the cholecystokinin innervation of prefrontal cortex in macaque monkeys. The use of two antibodies directed against different portions of the cholecystokinin molecule revealed that distinct forms of the molecule were differentially localized in the same cortical neurons. These small, nonpyramidal cholecystokinin-positive neurons had a variety of somal morphologies and the density of labeled cells did not differ among cytoarchitectonic regions. Labeled neurons had a distinctive laminar distribution with the greatest density of cells present in layers II-superficial III. Labeled fibers also had a distinctive laminar pattern of distribution that differed from that of the immunoreactive neurons. In granular prefrontal cortex, terminal fields were evident in layers II, IV, and VI, with the greatest density in layer VI. Agranular area 24 exhibited a bilaminar pattern of immunoreactivity with a band in layer II and a very dense terminal field in layers V-VI. A high density of cholecystokinin-binding sites has been found in layers III-IV of prefrontal cortex and other association areas in the monkey; this finding has been attributed to possible cholecystokinin-containing afferents from the thalamus (Kritzer et al.: Journal of Comparative Neurology 263:418-435, 1987). The mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus is known to be a source of afferents which terminate in layer IV of prefrontal cortex. However, combined retrograde transport and immunohistochemical techniques failed to reveal the presence of cholecystokinin-positive neurons in the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus that project to prefrontal cortex. These findings, and other observations, suggest that the terminal field in layer IV is formed by descending axons that arise from cholecystokinin-containing neurons in layers II and superficial III. This study demonstrates that the cholecystokinin innervation of prefrontal cortex has a laminar specific organization that is preserved across cytoarchitectonic regions. This distribution of immunoreactive structures suggests a distinctive role of cholecystokinin in cortical circuitry that is common to every region of prefrontal cortex.
A simple method for the lectin histochemical visualization of rat microglial cells is described. Advantages include ease of fixation of brain tissue using paraformaldehyde, and rapidity of tissue processing by vibratome sectioning. Furthermore, in addition to providing good structural preservation, the method achieves improved lectin binding, resulting in complete labeling of all microglial cells and in superior visualization of cellular processes. The lectin histochemical technique for rat microglia has the potential to be adapted to any mammalian species, and should prove valuable for neuroscientists interested in studying this glial cell type.


DARPP-32, a dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein of Mr 32,000, is phosphorylated in vitro by casein kinase II at a site which is also phosphorylated in intact cells. In the present study, we show that a protein kinase activity, present in caudate-putamen cytosol, phosphorylates DARPP-32 on a seryl residue located on the same thermolytic peptide that is phosphorylated by purified casein kinase II. This DARPP-32 serine kinase was indistinguishable from casein kinase II on the basis of a number of biochemical criteria. Excitotoxic lesions of the caudate-putamen and immunocytochemistry revealed the presence of casein kinase II in the medium-sized striatonigral neurons which are known to contain DARPP-32. Casein kinase II activity was high in all rat brain regions studied, and casein kinase II-like immunoreactivity was detected in most brain neurons, although some neuronal populations (e.g., cortical pyramidal cells and large striatal neurons) were stained more intensely than others. In rat caudate-putamen, 45% of the total casein kinase II activity was in the cytosol and 20% in the synaptosomal fraction. In mouse cerebral cortex and caudate-putamen, casein kinase II activity was high at embryonic day 16, and remained elevated during development. In addition to DARPP-32, several major substrates for casein kinase II were observed specifically in brain, but not in liver extracts. The high activity of casein kinase II in brain from the embryonic period to adult age and the existence of a number of specific substrates suggest that this enzyme may play an important role in both developing and mature brain, possibly in modulating the responsiveness of target proteins to various extracellular signals.
The twitcher mutant mouse, the animal model of Krabbe disease (human globoid cell leukodystrophy), is characterized by apparent deficiency of galactosylceramide beta-galactosidase activity. Saposin A and C, the heat-stable small sphingolipid activator glycoproteins, stimulate the activity of galactosylceramide beta-galactosidase as well as glucosylceramide beta-glucoside. The role of these saposins in the twitcher mutation was investigated. Boiled supernatant fractions, which contained saposins, were prepared from homogenates of twitcher brain, liver, kidney, and spleen. These preparations showed an almost identical effect on the activity of purified glucosylceramide beta-glucosidase (measured by hydrolysis of 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-glucoside) with similar preparations from control tissues. The effect on the activity of galactosylceramide beta-galactosidase as well as 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-glucoside beta-glucosidase in the twitcher brain and liver homogenates by authentic saposin A and C was similar to that in control tissues. These results suggest that the twitcher mutation does not affect the concentrations of saposin A or C or their interaction with galactosylceramide beta-galactosidase.
[3H]WIN 35,065-2 binding to striatal membranes was characterized, primarily by centrifugation assay. Like [3H]cocaine, [3H]WIN 35,065-2 binds to both high- and low-affinity sites. [3H]WIN 35,065-2, however, exhibits consistently higher affinities than [3H]cocaine. Saturation experiments indicate a low-affinity binding site with an apparent KD of approximately 160 nM and a Bmax of 135 fmol/mg of tissue. A high-affinity site has also been identified with an apparent KD of 5.6 nM and a Bmax of 5.2 fmol/mg of tissue. The specific-to-nonspecific binding ratios with [3H]WIN 35,065-2 were higher than with [3H]cocaine in both centrifugation and filtration assays. Pharmacological characterization suggests that [3H]WIN 35,065-2 binds to the dopamine transporter. Mazindol, GBR 12909, nomifensine, and (-)-cocaine are potent inhibitors of [3H]WIN 35,065-2 binding. In contrast, the norepinephrine transporter ligand desipramine is a weak inhibitor, and the serotonin transporter ligand citalopram does not inhibit binding. The effect of sodium on binding was examined under conditions in which (a) the low-affinity site was primarily (87%) occupied and (b) approximately 50% of both sites were occupied. The results indicate that both sites are sodium dependent. Injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the striatum results in a significant loss of both high- and low-affinity sites, a finding suggesting that both sites are on dopaminergic nerve terminals. Taken together, these data are consistent with the presence of multiple cocaine binding sites associated with the dopamine transporter.
Among the myelin basic protein (MBP)-specific T-cell clones mediating experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), which were established from SJL/J mice, one clone was found to have lost its encephalitogenicity during long-term passages in vitro, although the clone keeps its specific reactivity to the encephalitogenic determinant lying in the sequence of guinea pig MBP 89-101. To clarify the difference between the encephalitogenic T-cell clone (4b.14a) and non-encephalitogenic T-cell clone (4b.14a/n), we examined various lymphokines secreted into the culture media of 4b.14a and 4b.14a/n. The results show that the activities of lymphotoxin, interferon-gamma or interleukin-2 were not different between encephalitogenic clones and 4b.14a/n, whereas the activity of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, possibly secreted from antigen-presenting cells, was higher in culture media of 4b.14a/n. Moreover, the culture fluid of both 4b.14a/n and 4b.14a revealed suppressive effect on the proliferation of 4b.14a stimulated by MBP 89-101, but the effect was not different between the two clones. Thus, it is suggested that neither production of lymphokines examined so far nor soluble suppressive substance is related to the loss of encephalitogenicity of the T-cell clone.
1. In the companion paper the gain of the stretch reflex in the ankle extensor muscles of normal cats was shown to increase after decerebration. The objectives of this study were 1) to identify the origin of the increased reflex and 2) to evaluate the contribution from afferents other than ankle extensor muscle afferents to the short-latency reflex. 2. Six cats were trained to stand unaided on four pedestals. Three cats were also trained to control the force exerted with the left hindlimb. The left soleus (SOL) and lateral gastrocnemius (LG) electromyogram (EMG), length, force, and temperature were recorded by chronically implanted electrodes and transducers. Measurements were taken before and after decerebration at the premammillary level. After decerebration limb temperature was returned to its normal range by the use of radiant heat. 3. Reproducible ramp-and-hold stretches and releases of the ankle extensor muscles were produced by a servo-controlled motor that rotated the left rear pedestal about the ankle joint. The length of the ankle extensor muscles changed by 2-3 mm within 30-35 ms after the onset of a ramp perturbation. Reflex responses before and after decerebration were compared at matched background values of muscle length and force. 4. In both the SOL and LG muscles, a short-latency EMG burst appeared 8-12 ms after stretch onset and lasted approximately 20 ms. After decerebration the onset of the rectified and smoothed EMG burst remained unchanged, but its area was increased by 36-89%. 5. The lateral gastrocnemius-soleus (LG-S) electroneurogram (ENG) was chronically recorded in two cats with a nerve cuff recording electrode implanted on the LG-S nerve. LG-S ENG activity started to increase soon after stretch onset and remained high during the entire ramp phase. The stretch-evoked LG-S ENG burst started approximately 8 ms earlier than the short-latency SOL and LG EMG bursts. It was interpreted to reflect mainly an increase in the activity of Group Ia and Ib muscle afferents, caused by increases in both muscle length and muscle force during the stretch. After the cats were decerebrated, for matched postural conditions, the area of the stretch-evoked LG-S ENG burst was increased by 29-35%. Because the length and force changes sensed by the muscle receptors before and after decerebration were similar, this suggests that the sensitivity of muscle spindles was increased as a consequence of altered activity in fusimotor neurons after decerebration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The objective of this study was to evaluate the action of the stretch reflex on the ankle extensor muscles of normal and decerebrate cats. 2. Experiments were performed on nine freely standing, unrestrained cats and repeated after decerebration at the premammillary level. The length, force, and electromyograph (EMG) of the soleus (SOL) and lateral gastrocnemius (LG) muscles were recorded with the use of implanted transducers and electrodes. 3. The left ankle joint was unexpectedly and reproducibly dorsiflexed by briefly stimulating the common peroneal (CP) nerve with electrodes within an implanted nerve cuff. The ensuing twitch contractions of the ankle dorsiflexor muscles stretched the ankle extensor muscles by 0.3-2.0 mm. Lidocaine was infused into another nerve cuff proximal to the stimulation site, to reversibly block the central propagation of evoked volleys in the CP nerve. 4. Reflex action before and after decerebration was measured from the responses to perturbations of similar amplitude and duration delivered at approximately matched background values of muscle length and force. In most cats the temperature of the hindlimb was monitored with an implanted thermistor and was restored to normal values with radiant heat after decerebration. 5. A stretch imposed on the tonically active ankle extensor muscles immediately caused a considerable rise in the force recorded from the triceps tendon. Within 30-40 ms the triceps force peaked, reaching a value 10-20 N greater than background, and then rapidly declined while the extensor muscles were still lengthening. The initial rise in force preceded any change in triceps EMG. It was attributed to the intrinsic viscoelasticity of the stretched muscles and tendons. After decerebration the magnitude and timing of the initial force peak did not change. 6. A short-latency reflex EMG burst was typically recorded from both the SOL and LG muscles, starting 11-17 ms after stimulus onset. After decerebration the area of the reflex EMG burst increased in all nine cats, typically by a factor of 2 or 3. 7. After decerebration a second, smaller increase in force was typically observed starting 60-80 ms after onset of stretch. This later force rise, interpreted to be of reflex origin, was rarely apparent in normal cats. 8. Decerebration introduced consistent modifications in postural behavior that were revealed by pushing down on the back of quietly standing cats. In normal cats, after brief pushes that stretched the ankle extensor muscles by 1-2 mm, the EMG, force, and length quickly stabilized near their initial values.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
NGF is a protein that promotes survival, differentiation, and process extension of selected neuronal populations during development and, in some cases, in the mature organism. Previous lesion and aging studies in the rat have shown that intracerebroventricular NGF infusions can prevent degenerative changes in basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. We sought to determine whether salutory effects of NGF occur in the primate brain. Cholinergic fibers of the septohippocampal projection in the primate were surgically transected, followed by infusion of either a vehicle or an NGF solution into the ventricular system for a 4-week period. Quantification of cholinergic neurons in the medial septal nucleus at the end of the infusion period demonstrated that only 45 +/- 5% of cholinergic neurons could be identified after fornix lesions in vehicle-infused animals, whereas 80 +/- 6% of neurons were visible in NGF-treated animals. Thus, NGF substantially reduced lesion-induced cholinergic neuronal degeneration in the adult primate brain. This finding may be relevant to the hypothesis that NGF has potential use as a cholinergic &quot;neurotrophic-factor therapy,&quot; given that loss of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons is common in Alzheimer's disease.
Traumatic injury to the adult mammalian CNS results in the formation of an astroglial-mesenchymal scar that seals the wound site but blocks axonal regeneration in the process. The mechanism that leads to this inhibition of axon outgrowth has been proposed to be either a physical barrier blocking the advancement of the growth cone or chemical factors actively inhibiting axon outgrowth. At present, it is unknown whether one or both of these mechanisms are responsible for the inhibitory nature of the glial scar in vivo. Using a model of CNS trauma that allows for removal of an adult rat glial scar intact on a nitrocellulose support and placement in vitro with the upper surface exposed, we addressed the question of whether the inhibitory effects could be accounted for by chemical components at the scar surface. A purified population of rat hippocampal neurons was seeded onto the scar explants as well as onto explants taken from neonatal rat cerebral cortex, and the extent of neurite outgrowth was compared. We found that the glial scar, at best, stimulates only minimal neurite outgrowth over its surface when compared to the immature environment explanted in the same manner. This growth-inhibitory state cannot merely be explained by neuronotoxic factors or fibroblasts preventing astrocyte-mediated neurite outgrowth. The inhibition is more probably due to the expression of molecules on the surface of the adult scar that either directly inhibit growth cones or inhibit them indirectly by occluding neurite-promoting factors in the extracellular matrix or on the astrocyte surface.
Parafollicular (PF) cells of the thyroid gland are neural crest derivatives. These cells remain plastic even in adult animals and can be induced to exhibit neural properties when exposed to NGF in vitro. A human cell line derived from PF cells, medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), has previously been shown to synthesize and store 5-HT, a serotonin-binding protein (SBP), and several neuropeptides; moreover, when grown in impoverished media, MTC cells display neural properties. The purpose of the current study was to utilize MTC cells as a neurally relevant model system to investigate factors involved in mediating 5-HT secretion. Electron microscopic immunocytochemistry revealed that secretory vesicles of MTC cells costore immunoreactive 5-HT with SBP and calcitonin. The cAMP derivative, N6-2'-O-dibutyryl-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (dibutyryl-cAMP; 1.0 mM) increased the concentration of 5-HT in MTC cells and almost doubled the rate of synthesis of 5-HT from L-tryptophan. Dibutyryl-cAMP also significantly increased the secretion of 5-HT. Cycloheximide (20 micrograms/ml) and anisomycin (20 microM) inhibited the dibutyryl-cAMP-induced increase of 5-HT release, suggesting that this action of dibutyryl-cAMP requires protein synthesis. Cholera toxin (1.0 microgram/ml) and forskolin (0.05 mM) in the presence of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (1.0 mM) both increased 5-HT biosynthesis and secretion. Attempts were made to identify a ligand that stimulates cAMP-mediated secretion of 5-HT. Both thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH: 50 mU/ml) and elevated [Ca2+]e (7.0 mM), each of which acts as a secretogogue for PF cells, stimulated the secretion of 5-HT. The effect of TSH was Ca2(+)-dependent. Immunocytochemistry with monoclonal antibodies to the TSH receptor confirmed that these receptors are present on MTC cells. Neither TSH nor elevated [Ca2+]e elevated cAMP levels. Measurements of Fura-2 fluorescence, however, indicated that both TSH and elevated [Ca2+]e increased cytosolic calcium ([Ca2+]i), as did elevation of [K+]e. It is concluded that exocytosis can be triggered in MTC cells by multiple signal transduction mechanisms. Either cAMP or elevated [Ca2+]i can stimulate secretion; however, a secretogogue that increases cAMP has yet to be identified.
Synthetic fragments of galanin 1-29 were administered intraventricularly or into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus for analysis of the critical amino acid sequence necessary to stimulate feeding behavior in rats. Galanin 1-29 and galanin fragment 1-16 significantly increased feeding at doses of 6 nmol microinjected into the lateral ventricles and 1 nmol microinjected into the hypothalamus. There was no significant effect of D-TRP2 galanin 1-16 microinjected into the hypothalamus, and no significant effect of galanin fragments 1-9, 10-20, 12-29, 17-29, or 21-29 microinjected intraventricularly, on food consumption. Synthetic fragments of galanin 1-29 were assayed for displacement of 125I-galanin 1-29 binding to rat hypothalamic membranes. The efficacies of the galanin fragments in the feeding paradigm were consistent with the relative affinities of these fragments for the hypothalamic galanin receptor in equilibrium binding experiments. The first 16 N-terminal amino acids appear to contain galanin agonist activity on increasing food consumption and to bind to the galanin receptor in the rat hypothalamus.
Calcium ions serve as intracellular messengers in 2 activities of hair cells: in conjunction with Ca2(+)-activated K+ channels, they produce the electrical resonance that tunes each cell to a specific frequency of stimulation, and they trigger the release of a chemical synaptic transmitter. Our experiments indicate that both of these functions are conducted within a region that extends a few hundred nanometers around each presynaptic active zone. In focal electrical recordings from the plasma membranes of isolated anuran hair cells, we found nearly all of a cell's Ca2+ channels and Ca2(+)-activated K+ channels clumped at a fixed ratio in an average of 20 clusters on the basolateral membrane surface. Because serial-section electron microscopy indicated that each hair cell has approximately 19 afferent synaptic contacts with a similar distribution upon its basolateral surface, we conclude that the channel clusters coincide with synaptic active zones. Ensemble-variance analysis of current fluctuations indicated that each cell has a total of approximately 1800 Ca2+ channels and approximately 700 Ca2(+)-activated K+ channels; if these are uniformly divided, we estimate that each channel cluster contains approximately 90 Ca2+ and approximately 40 Ca2(+)-activated K+ channels. Freeze-fracture electron microscopy demonstrated an average of 133 large intramembrane particles in the presynaptic membrane at each active zone, an observation that suggests that the particles are the clustered channels. We used the K+ channel's sensitivity to intracellular Ca2+ to assay the concentration of free Ca2+ in the presynaptic cytoplasm, which we found to vary between 10 microM and 1 mM over the physiological range of membrane potentials. The inferred concentrations agreed with the values predicted for free diffusion of Ca2+ away from Ca2+ channels scattered randomly within a 300-nm-diameter synaptic active zone. The close association among Ca2+ channels, Ca2(+)-activated K+ channels, and synaptic active zones is necessary both for the rapid activation of K+ currents required in electrical resonance and for the transmission at afferent synapses of information about the phases of high-frequency stimuli.
A simple programmable stepping motor circuit for controlling two independent stepping motors has been designed. The circuit is compatible with the IBM personal computer and needs only slight modification to work with virtually any other microcomputer. The motors can either be programmed by the host personal computer for remote operation, controlled directly by a joystick interface provided in the circuit, or a combination of the two procedures. Independent microprocessors control each stepping motor and can be easily programmed by the host computer via Input/Output ports designed into the circuit. A basic understanding of the circuit demonstrates some commonly used techniques for controlling microcomputer electronics through computer programming. The circuit will likely have many uses, although the implementation of a computerized microscope is explicitly described. The circuit is currently used in a neuroanatomical and neurochemical computer charting system at the University of Iowa.
We are reporting on the evolutionary conservation of carbohydrate epitope families from vertebrate to leech. 1) The sulfated L2/HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope (Abo T, Balch CM (1981): J Immunol 127:1024-1029; Kruse J, Mailhammer R, Wernecke H, Faissner A, Timpl R, Schachner M (1984): Nature 311:153-155) is detected on glycoproteins of leech neurons using monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) L2 (336) and HNK-1. 2) Three rat mAbs, L3, L4, and L5, bind to leech nerve and muscle. The L3, L4, and L5 epitopes are localized to a group of mannosidic leech glycoproteins originally identified through mAbs Lan3-2 (Hogg N, Flaster M, Zipser B (1983): J Neurosci Res 9:445-457 and Laz6-189 (McRorie JW III, Zipser B (1988): &quot;Cell Culture Approaches to Invertebrate Neuroscience.&quot; London: Academie Press, pp 33-52. MAb Lan3-2, which binds to a mannosidic epitope of the 130 kD sensory protein, has recently been shown to perturb the penetration of sensory afferents into the synaptic area of the central neuropile (Zipser B, Morell R, Bajt ML (1989): Neuron 3:621-630). The L3, L4, and L5 mAbs have been described to recognize different mannosidic epitopes on glycoproteins, some of which have been identified as neural cell adhesion molecules, and on astrocyte-specific proteoglycan from mouse brain (Kcherer A, Faissner A, Schachner M (1987): J Cell Biol 104:1597-1602; Fahrig T, Schmitz B, Weber D, Kcherer-Ehret A, Faissner A, Schachner M (1990): Eur J Neurosci 2:153-161; Streit A, Faissner A, Gehrig B, Schachner M (1990): J Neurochem In Press). The superposition of five different mannosidic epitopes on the axons of sensory afferents suggests complex, concerted participation of mannosidic epitopes in neuronal pathfinding and target recognition.
In evaluating positron-emitting analogs of dopamine (DA) as imaging agents for visualizing tissue sympathetic innervation and function, we assessed the metabolic fate of systemically injected [3H]-6-fluorodopamine [( 3H]-6F-DA) in plasma, in sympathetically innervated tissues (left ventricle, spleen and salivary glands) and in excretory organs (liver and kidney) of rats. By 5 min after intravenous bolus injection of a physiologically inactive amount (450 ng, 10 microCi) of [3H]-6F-DA, 3H was concentrated in all the organs compared with that in blood or plasma. In the sympathetically innervated organs, most of the radioactivity was in [3H]-6F-DA and [3H]-6-fluoronorepinephrine [( 3H]-6F-NE), whereas in the blood, plasma and excretory organs most of the radioactivity was in noncatechol compounds such as O-methylated and conjugated metabolites. In sympathetically innervated organs, tissue/blood ratios exceeded 1.0 at all time points between 5 and 120 min after injection of [3H]-6F-DA and increased progressively (from 8 to 60 in myocardium), whereas the tissue/blood ratios in the kidney and liver increased by less than 2-fold during this interval. In all the studied tissues, the proportion of total tissue 3H that was due to [3H]F-NE increased progressively while that due to [3H]F-DA declined, consistent with conversion of [3H]F-DA to [3H]F-NE in vesicles in sympathetic nerve endings.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Cyclic GMP was introduced into isolated salamander rods through a tight-seal electrode attached to the inner segment while the outer segment was held in a suction electrode; nucleotide-induced membrane current was recorded by both electrodes. After 3-15s of nucleotide exposure the cells were stimulated with intense, brief flashes, which suppressed 90-95% of the induced membrane current. 2. The magnitude of the induced light-sensitive current depended little on the pipette cyclic GMP concentration in the range 10-20 nM: the mean whole-cell current magnitude was 1256 +/- 160 pA (mean +/- 2 S.E.M., n = 41). 3. Experiments and analyses addressed hypotheses about the nature of the magnitude limitation on the induced current. It was shown that the spatial distribution of nucleotide, the residual series resistance of the whole-cell electrode, and the diminution of the ion gradients driving the induced current did not limit the current magnitude by more than 20%. 4. In contrast, the hypothesis that outer segment internal longitudinal resistance severely limits the magnitude of the cyclic GMP-induced current was supported by experiments in which various lengths of the outer segment were drawn into the suction electrode. These showed that the ratio of nucleotide-induced light-sensitive current collected by the suction electrode to that collected by a whole-cell electrode decreased steeply as a function of outer segment length excluded from the suction electrode, having an apparent space constant of 5-7 microns. 5. A cable model of the rod was developed and used to analyse the magnitude of the nucleotide-induced currents. The data are consistent with an outer segment longitudinal resistance of 1-4 M omega microns-1, and a maximum (space-clamped) light-sensitive current density of 313 pA microns-1, equivalent to a total induced current of 7200 pA (23 microns outer segment). 6. A diffusion model was developed and combined with the non-linear cable model to provide an account for the time course of the induced membrane currents. The results are consistent with an effective longitudinal diffusion coefficient of cyclic GMP in the outer segment of 3-10 microns2 s-1, and Hill coefficient of 2-3 for the cyclic GMP gating of the light-sensitive conductance. 7. 8-Bromo-cyclic GMP also caused the light-sensitive membrane current to increase to about the same magnitude as did cyclic GMP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
All aspects of POMC biosynthesis exhibit tissue-specific regulation. The single copy gene is highly expressed in anterior lobe (AL) corticotrophs and intermediate lobe (IL) melanotrophs of the pituitary gland and in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. POMC gene transcription in corticotrophs is induced by hypothalamic CRH and vasopressin and inhibited by adrenal glucocorticoids, while in melanotrophs it is predominantly regulated by beta-adrenergic neural input and dopamine. To identify the rat POMC (rPOMC) gene sequences necessary and sufficient to target expression and hormonal regulation in corticotrophs and melanotrophs, we generated 13 transgenic mice carrying rPOMC fusion genes. The genes consisted of 706 or 480 basepairs of rPOMC 5' flanking sequences ligated to either the E. coli LacZ gene encoding beta-galactosidase or the K1 mutant of the SV40 large T-antigen gene. Overall, half of the transgenic lines had reporter gene expression in their AL and IL in a pattern indistinguishable from ACTH immunohistochemistry. In three of these lines, beta-galactosidase or K1 T-antigen was localized by double immunofluorescence exclusively to ACTH-positive corticotrophs and melanotrophs. Transcriptional regulation of the rPOMC-LacZ fusion gene in response to hormonal manipulation was quantified by a fluorescence assay for beta-galactosidase enzyme activity in pituitary extracts. There was a 15-fold increase in AL enzyme activity after adrenalectomy and a 3-fold increase in IL activity after haloperidol treatment. X-gal histochemistry of pituitaries from hormonally treated mice confirmed the cellular specificity of these effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In primary cultures of rat cerebellar neurons, a brief stimulation of glutamate receptors results in coordinated activation of a programmed early gene response involving increases in the amount of c-fos, c-jun, jun-B, and zif/268 mRNAs. Each of these genes was induced to a different extent and showed a temporal pattern characterized by either a monophasic &quot;early&quot; response, occurring within 30 min of glutamate addition, or a biphasic response (c-jun), lasting for up to 6 to 8 hr after the initial stimulus. The early phase of the glutamate-induced gene expression was prevented by 3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid, a highly selective isosteric antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-sensitive glutamate receptor (NMDA receptor). The second phase of the c-jun response was not blocked when the NMDA receptors were completely inhibited after the initial pulse of agonist or when the quisqualate-kainate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione was added, suggesting that a brief NMDA receptor stimulation triggers a cascade of events critical for the manifestation of the delayed c-jun expression. Furthermore, gel retardation assays demonstrated that NMDA receptor activation results in a prolonged increase in nuclear DNA-binding activity specific for the AP-1 transcriptional regulatory element. Protein immunoblot analysis showed that the composition of this nucleoprotein complex changes as a function of time, reflecting a cascade that involves an increased translation of Fos and several Fos-related proteins. The coordinated induction of several different transcription factors and the variations in transcriptional complex formation initiated by NMDA receptor stimulation may be a key mechanism in the orchestration of specific target gene expression that underlies various aspects of neuronal function, including plasticity responses.

Cognitive facilitation by physostigmine and tetrahydroaminoacridine (THA) was compared in two primate models. Disruption of spatial delayed response performance by scopolamine (0.03 mg/kg) was fully reversed by coadministration of 5 doses of physostigmine in the range 0.03-0.08 mg/kg, but by only one dose (4.0 mg/kg) of THA; partial reversal of some effects of scopolamine was observed at 1 and 3 mg/kg of THA. Visual recognition memory was enhanced following treatment with 4 doses of physostigmine in the range 0.001-0.03 mg/kg. The effect of THA across the group of animals was not significant but performance tended to improve using a dose of 0.8 mg/kg. Our findings indicate that THA does not have a superior profile to physostigmine as a cognitive enhancer in primates.
We have measured the steady state levels of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT, EC 2.3.1.6) mRNA during different developmental stages of Drosophila melanogaster using a ChAT specific cRNA probe. ChAT mRNA was first detected approximately 6-7 h after oviposition, increased until the 1st-2nd larval instar, decreased into early pupal stages and increased again during late pupation, reaching a maximum in adults. Northern analysis showed a major RNA band with a Mr of 4.7 kilobases and Western analysis also showed a single major 75 kD protein band at all developmental stages. Our results support the hypothesis that a major point of regulation of ChAT expression may be at the transcriptional level.
In membranes of rat striatum, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), a potent activator of Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase, enhanced adenylate cyclase activity by counteracting the inhibition elicited by GTP. Exposure to pertussis toxin caused a similar alteration of the GTP-regulation of the enzyme activity and largely prevented the PMA effects. PMA treatment increased by threefold the GTP requirement of acetylcholine-induced inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity but did not affect the GTP-dependence of the enzyme stimulation by dopamine. The hydrolysis of GTP by membrane-bound high affinity GTPase was significantly inhibited by PMA (IC 50 10 nM) in a Ca2(+)-dependent manner. Like PMA, phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate inhibited the GTPase activity, whereas the biologically inactive 4-beta phorbol 13-acetate and 4-beta phorbol were without effect. These results suggest that activation of Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase by PMA stimulates adenylate cyclase activity by impairing the activity of the GTP-dependent inhibitory protein, possibly through a reduction of the GTP-GDP exchange.
Pharmacological studies have suggested that neurotransmitter activity impinging on steroid-concentrating cells can affect the steroid receptor system within those cells, modifying behavioral responses to the hormone. The present experiments revealed that the alpha 1-noradrenergic antagonist prazosin, administered to ovariectomized rats at the time of each of two pulses of estradiol, inhibited the appearance of sexual receptivity. Prazosin also substantially reduced the levels of estrogen receptors within hypothalamic cell nuclei following an injection of estradiol. Manipulation of noradrenergic inputs into the hypothalamus by lesioning brain stem norepinephrine cell groups with 6-hydroxydopamine (6OHDA) also reduced the level of nuclear estrogen receptors following an injection of estradiol. Although this effect of 6OHDA lesions was observed in two separate experiments, in other experiments 6OHDA had no effect on estrogen receptors. In some instances, there was a positive correlation between nuclear estrogen receptor levels in the hypothalamus and the levels of norepinephrine. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that brain stem inputs to the hypothalamus are able to modulate neural responses to steroids and specifically that noradrenergic inputs are able to modulate neural responses to estradiol. However, there are additional undiscovered variables that preclude statements of a simple relationship between norepinephrine levels and estrogen receptor levels.
A 19-year-old woman with mild myopathic symptoms from age 6 and fasting intolerance presented with a Reye-like syndrome and a myopathy. Investigations disclosed a lipid storage myopathy, type II glutaric acidemia, and carnitine deficiency in skeletal muscle. Riboflavin and carnitine treatment corrected the metabolic abnormalities and she improved clinically. She later died from pulmonary complications secondary to aspiration. Subsequent studies established electron transfer flavoprotein: ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF:QO) deficiency (fibroblast ETF:QO activity was 2.9 mU/mg, normal range is 14.1 +/- 3.8 mU/mg) as the cause of her illness. This is the first documented case of ETF:QO diagnosed in an adult.

Intracerebral dialysis was used to monitor the change of extracellular concentration of striatal cAMP in rats anaesthetised with chloral hydrate. Forskolin (1-10 microM), an activator of adenylate cyclase, caused a concentration-dependent increase in efflux of cAMP, which was decreased by (+)PHNO (10 microM), an effect probably mediated by D2 sites, since (-)-sulpiride, a D2 receptor antagonist prevented these effects. Dopamine (1-100 microM) also increased the efflux of cAMP but only when the activity of monoamine oxidase and reuptake of dopamine were concomitantly blocked. The D1 receptor agonist SKF 38393 (1-100 microM) caused a concentration-dependent increase in efflux of cAMP, which was blocked by the D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (1-100 microM), but was unaffected by the D2 receptor antagonist sulpiride (10 microM) or by depletion of the concentration of striatal dopamine after pretreatment with 6-hydroxydopamine. Taken together, these results indicate that intracerebral dialysis may be used to monitor the interaction of drugs with post-synaptic dopamine receptors in vivo.
In adult cats, after section of extraocular muscle proprioceptive (EOMP) afferents during the 'critical period', most cortical area 17 cells loose their ability to discriminate changes in binocular spatial disparity. After unilateral section this loss depends on whether or not cortical cells modulate their responses to the presentation of sinusoidal gratings linearly. For 'modulated cells', this loss is due to a reduction of binocular suppression while for 'unmodulated cells', it is due to a selective increase in the variability of the binocular response. These permanent neural dysfunctions show that balance in EOMP inflow plays a crucial role in cortical processing of binocular depth discrimination.
Microscopic fluorometry of cultured rat hippocampal neurones revealed that the intracellular concentration of Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) rises in response to the activation of excitatory amino acid receptor (EAA-R), which included not only N-methyl-D-aspartate subspecies but also kainate and quisqualate subspecies of EAA-R. Each EAA-R mediated [Ca2+]i rise consisted of the components dependent on and independent of the activity of the voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel. The receptor-mediated voltage-independent [Ca2+]i rise may be related to the modulation of synaptic transmission efficacy.
Neurophysiological studies were performed on 8 patients with group A xeroderma pigmentosum during early childhood. EEG, ABR and NCV were normal during this period. In contrast, various sleep parameters detected by polysomnography showed abnormal findings even in the neurologically normal patient. Decreased % sleep REM was seen in a case, and decreased frequency of REMs were seen in another. Body movements were extremely high or low in frequency in 3 cases in whole night sleep. The distribution of body movements were abnormal; in control subjects, the frequency was higher in SREM and stage 1 than in slow wave sleep; in 7 cases, it was higher in slow wave sleep than in stage 1 or 2, or body movements were extremely frequent. Neurological examination revealed soft signs in various systems in early childhood. All cases except one showed hypotonia. Many cases were slow in learning to walk and the gait was unstable. Speech delay and decreased deep tendon reflexes, especially of patella, were seen in most cases. Since the neural deficits in XP may be related to the DNA repair defect, these findings indicate the possibility that some endogenous compounds distributing all over the nervous system might produce the DNA damages. Because the body movements during sleep are controlled by the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, present data indicate that the basal ganglia might be one of the earliest degenerative systems in the CNS. Recently, some studies have suggested the possibility that oxygen radical mechanisms might be involved in the development of the dopamine neurodegenerative process in Parkinson's disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Schizencephaly is a regional disturbance of cerebral hemisphere formation occurring at 3-5 months gestation; neonatal presentation is uncommon. Three neonates with schizencephaly were evaluated with cranial ultrasonography (US), unenhanced computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examinations. Common findings in US, CT, and MRI include parasylvian and midline clefts, size asymmetries of the basal ganglia and thalamus, cerebral parenchymal volume loss, ventriculomegaly, ventricular diverticula, and absence of the septum pellucidum. MRI and CT were superior to US in detecting calcification, gyral and sulcal abnormalities, and parasylvian clefts. MRI alone demonstrated homolateral absence of the sylvian vasculature, small medullary pyramids, low position of the fornix, and the thinning of the corpus callosum. Although US appears adequate as a screening test, MRI best defines the precise pathoanatomic findings of neonatal schizencephaly and allows for the prediction of neurologic outcomes in affected newborns.
A group of children and adolescents with infantile nephropathic cystinosis underwent cognitive testing and were examined for cortical atrophy using magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography. Ten of 11 patients demonstrated cortical atrophy. A consistent pattern of lower cognitive performance was found in patients with greater atrophy; however, only the relationship between atrophy and short-term memory approached statistical significance. In addition, evidence for greater impairment of visual memory than of other cognitive functions was observed. This latter observation did not appear to be related to the degree of atrophy.
The actin cores of hair-cell stereocilia were tested as a substrate for the movement of myosin-coated beads in an in vitro assay. Large numbers of stereocilia from bullfrog sacculi and semicircular canals were isolated by blotting onto coverglasses and were demembranated to expose the polar actin tracks of their cytoskeletal cores. Silica or polystyrene beads, coated with thick filaments of chicken skeletal muscle myosin, were added to this core preparation in the presence of ATP. Myosin-coated beads could reach some of the cores by diffusion alone, but the efficiency and precision of the assay were improved considerably by the use of &quot;optical tweezers&quot; (a gradient-force optical trap) to deposit the beads directly on the cores. Beads applied in this fashion bound and moved unidirectionally at 1-2 microns/s, escaping the retarding force of the trap. Actin filaments within the stereocilia are cross-linked by fimbrin, but this did not appear to interfere with the motility of myosin. Beads coated with optic-lobe kinesin were also tested for movement; these bound and moved unidirectionally at 0.1-0.2 microns/s when applied to microtubule-based kinociliary cores, but not when applied to actin-based stereociliary cores. Our results are consistent with, and lend support to, a model for hair cell adaptation in which a molecular motor such as myosin maintains tension on the mechanically gated transduction channels. Optical tweezers and video-enhanced differential interference contrast optics provide high efficiency and improved optical resolution for the in vitro analysis of myosin motility.
Grafts of fetal and nonfetal brain tissues have been successfully implanted into the mammalian central nervous system (CNS). The functional effects of neural grafting in the CNS of rodents and nonhuman primates in a variety of situations are reviewed. Research areas discussed included the effects of dopamine-rich grafts in animal models of Parkinson's disease and acetylcholine-rich grafts in animals with lesions of the cholinergic pathways to the neocortex and hippocampus. Graft effects also are examined in aged animals and genetic mutants. In addition, the effects of neural grafts on circadian rhythmicity, reproductive functions, and conditioned taste aversion are discussed. The beneficial functional effects of neural grafts and the possible mechanisms and implications for these effects are discussed, including the possibility that the CNS exhibits a regional biochemical specificity that influences the outcome of neural graft procedures.
The behaviour of normal rats and rats with lesions of the septum was compared on a variety of alternate route variations of the three-table problems. In all variations of the task, septal rats were impaired on test trial performance when they displayed stereotypic body turn responses and demonstrated a strong preference for the most direct route between tables both during exploration and testing in all conditions. Normal rats displayed a similar route choice tendency in the simplest situations but shifted route choice behaviour in the most complex configuration, when they chose the inner, but longer, path. The use of the inner path may have allowed delayed-choice, single-point reference orientation, or reduction in the number of available alternatives. It is concluded that normal rats form a cognitive representation that allows them to identify environmental factors likely to facilitate solution, whereas septal rats rely on &quot;taxon&quot;-type strategies that can combine guidances and orientational responses.
In two patients with human T lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-I)-associated myelopathy (HAM) and a non-HAM HTLV-I carrier, T-cell lines were generated and characterized from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) lymphocytes and peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL). In total, 62 T-cell lines were established using direct plating technique for expanding human T lymphocytes. Sixty three percent of the T-cell lines were CD4+, CDw29+ and HTLV-I gag+. CD8+T-cell lines were also established and they were gag-. Proliferation in the absence of additional antigens and exogenous interleukin 2 (&quot;autoproliferation&quot;) was observed in 61% of the T-cell lines and significantly correlated with HTLV-I antigen (gag) expression. In addition, some T-cell lines from HAM patients exhibited proliferative response to self PBL, and the magnitude of their responses was diverse according to the phenotypes of stimulating cells. Therefore, the spontaneous lymphoproliferation observed in patients with HAM is generated by three components; HTLV-I-infected T cells and T cells reactive against HTLV-I and against self antigens. Since most gag+ T-cell lines produced lymphotoxin (LT)/tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha), it is suggested that those T cells are playing important roles in the pathogenesis of HAM.
Pro-ACTH/endorphin (also called proopiomelanocortin) synthesis in corticotropes and melanotropes continues to serve as a model for investigating the series of enzymatic steps that convert inactive preprohormones to product peptides during transit of the molecules from the rough endoplasmic reticulum through the Golgi and into secretory granules. The complexity of the biosynthesis of bioactive peptides is increased by the widespread occurrence of tissue-specific and developmentally regulated posttranslational processing. Transfection of cDNAs encoding wild-type and mutant preproneuropeptide Y into AtT-20 corticotrope tumor cells revealed the importance of primary sequence in determining the extent of cleavage of the peptide precursor. The purification and cloning of several peptide-processing enzymes, including KEX-1, KEX-2, carboxypeptidase E, and peptidyl-glycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase, have provided important information about intracellular peptide processing, and are beginning to provide information about the sorting of soluble and membrane-associated components of secretory granules.

ATP dependent Ca2+ accumulation into oxalate-loaded rat brain microsomes is potently inhibited by thapsigargin with an IC50 of 2 nM and maximal inhibition at 10 nM. Approximately 15% of the total A23187-releasable microsomal calcium store is insensitive to thapsigargin concentrations up to 100 microM. Inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) maximally inhibits 40% of the net Ca2+ accumulation by whole brain microsomes. Its effects are non-additive with thapsigargin suggesting that the IP3-sensitive Ca2+ pool is a subset of the thapsigargin sensitive Ca2+ pool. Marked regional differences occur in Ca2+ transport rates and sensitivity to both thapsigargin and IP3.
In order to clone the third subtype of human alpha-2 adrenergic receptor, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was employed. Primer pairs corresponding to the conserved sequences in transmembrane domains III and VI were used to selectively amplify the adrenergic receptor genes of the alpha-2 type from human genomic DNA. Sequence data obtained from a clone PCRA2, 885 bps in length, revealed the presence of significant (80%) homology with the known alpha-2A and 2B subtypes of human in the transmembrane domains, whereas distinct variations were noted in the third cytoplasmic loop. When compared with a recently reported alpha-2 receptor gene of rat, essentially identical sequences were found in the transmembrane domains III-VI, except one amino acid in domain VI. As high as 65% homology was also found in the third cytoplasmic loop. We suggest this in vitro amplified fragment represents the partial gene of the third subtype of alpha-2 adrenergic receptor in human.
We examined the expression of dystrophin mRNA and the protein in the developing rat heart with polymerase chain reaction, immunoblotting and immunohistochemical analyses. Dystrophin mRNA was detectable on and after the 10th embryonic day, while the protein became detectable during the perinatal period.
The expression of telencephalin in visual cortex of cat and monkey was studied immunohistochemically. In adult cats and monkeys, immunoreactivity to a polyclonal antibody raised against telencephalin was especially low in layer IV, which receives massive afferent input from the thalamus. In kitten visual cortex, the antibody bound both layer IV and other cortical layers during the most sensitive period for ocular dominance plasticity. Outside the sensitive period, the staining of layer IV was selectively reduced. These findings suggest that the expression of telencephalin is developmentally regulated during the early period and may play a role in regulating plasticity during the sensitive period.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is characterized, among other pathological alterations, by an extensive synapse loss. Brain spectrin is a membrane skeleton protein found in synapses, and its immunoreactivity has been shown to increase in the rat model of denervation. In order to test the hypothesis that there is an increase in brain spectrin immunoreactivity in relation to the synapse pathology in AD, we studied brain sections and homogenates from AD and control cases and found increased anti-brain spectrin immunostaining of neurons, fibers, and plaques, with a relative decrease in the granular pattern of neuropil immunoreactivity. Western blot analysis showed a 25% increase in the 150 kDa bands (degradation products) in the cytosolic fraction and a decrease in the 240 kDa band (intact brain spectrin) in the particulate fraction. Altered immunostaining of brain sections and Western blot was not observed with an antibody against red blood cell spectrin demonstrating the specific change of brain spectrin. These results support the contention that increased brain spectrin immunoreactivity is a marker of synapse or neuronal loss and further supports the concept of synapse pathology in AD.
The neuroprotective potential of an antagonist (7-chlorokynurenic acid (7-CIKYNA)) and a low efficacy partial agonist (HA-966) for the glycine modulatory site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex has been examined using a neuronal cell culture/hypoxia model of neurodegeneration. Their effects were compared to those of the potent uncompetitive NMDA antagonist, MK-801. Hypoxic cell injury was assessed visually and quantified by measuring the appearance of two cytosolic enzymes, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and neurone specific enolase (NSE), in the culture medium. MK-801 prevented the hypoxia-induced cell mortality in a concentration-related manner with an IC50 of 15 nM against increases in LDH levels. HA-966 and 7-CIKYNA also produced concentration-related protective effects with IC50s of 175 and 18 microM, respectively. Although both glycine antagonists were considerably weaker than MK-801 their maximum neuroprotective effects were comparable to that produced by MK-801, i.e. complete protection. This indicates that the level of NMDA receptor activation which can take place in the presence of the partial agonist HA-966 is insufficient to cause permanent neuronal damage. Concentration-effect curves were similar when NSE was used as the marker enzyme, supporting previous observations that the increases in LDH levels accurately and specifically reflect neuronal cell death. These results provide further evidence that hypoxia-induced injury to cortical neuronal cultures is mediated by an excessive stimulation of NMDA receptors and that glycine-site antagonists and partial agonists may have therapeutic potential in conditions where pathologically high levels of NMDA receptor activation are thought to occur.
As a first step in understanding the function of the 68-kDa Alz-50 antigen (A68) in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we have reexamined preliminary observations in our laboratory (Wolozin and Davies, 1986) of a protein kinase activity associated with crude preparations of the protein. This study was undertaken to determine whether the kinase activity is an inherent property of the Alz-50 antigen, or is a property of an associated protein. Phosphorylation was therefore examined by incubating A68-enriched preparations with radiolabelled ATP. This resulted in the appearance of a labelled 68-kDa phosphoprotein, comigrating with the Alz-50 reactive A68 protein. The labelling of this 68-kDa protein occurred in the presence of 2% SDS, suggesting that it is more likely to represent an autophosphorylation than a transfer of phosphate mediated by another kinase. Upon further inspection, it was found that the autophosphorylated 68-kDa protein was not localized to regions of AD brain where A68 was detectable, but displayed a more ubiquitous distribution. In addition, this phosphoprotein was also observed to be present in similar preparations from normal brain, which lacked the Alz-50 antigen (Wolozin et al, 1986). These findings indicate that the auto-kinase activity at 68 kDa is not closely associated with the A68 protein, but with a comigrating contaminant in the preparation. Other experiments in this study indicate that A68 is not a substrate for in vitro phosphorylation. Following incubation of A68 preparations with radiolabelled ATP, immunoprecipitation of the antigen did not reveal any phosphate transfer to the protein. These results were unaffected by a prior incubation with alkaline phosphatase, even when the subsequent phosphorylation reactions were conducted in the presence of protein kinase activators. Incubation with alkaline phosphatase did not produce any alterations in electrophoretic mobility of A68, nor did it affect the binding of antibodies directed against phosphatase-sensitive epitopes with A68. Thus, despite the suggestion that A68 is a modified form of tau, the antigen exhibits remarkable differences from tau with regard to its sensitivity to kinases and to alkaline phosphatase.
In a previous study, we demonstrated that cholera toxin-A subunit, as well as the whole toxin, selectively blocks opioid-induced prolongation of the Ca2+ component of the action potential duration (APD) in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, indicating mediation of this excitatory effect by Gs-linked opioid receptors. The present study shows that pretreatment of DRG neurons with the B subunit of cholera toxin (1-10 ng/ml; greater than 15 min) can also block mu/delta and kappa opioid-induced APD prolongation, but not shortening. Since the B subunit binds selectively to GM1 ganglioside located on the cell surface, these results suggest that this ganglioside may regulate Gs-linked excitatory opioid receptor functions in DRG neurons. Possible contamination of purified B subunit preparations of cholera toxin with traces of the more potent A subunit was eliminated by heating the stock solution to 56 degrees C for 20 min. Exposure of DRG neurons to an affinity-purified anti-GM1 antiserum also blocked opioid-induced APD prolongation, providing further evidence that GM1 ganglioside may play an essential role in excitatory opioid modulation of the action potential of these cells. The blockade by cholera toxin-B subunit and anti-GM1 antibodies of opioid-induced APD prolongation is best accounted for by the following hypothesis: CTX-B interferes with an endogenous GM1 ganglioside component of the excitatory, but not inhibitory, opioid receptor complex on DRG neurons that may allosterically regulate coupling of the receptors via Gs to adenylate cyclase/cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent ionic conductances.
Nitric oxide (NO), apparently identical to endothelium-derived relaxing factor in blood vessels, is also formed by cytotoxic macrophages, in adrenal gland and in brain tissue, where it mediates the stimulation by glutamate of cyclic GMP formation in the cerebellum. Stimulation of intestinal or anococcygeal nerves liberates NO, and the resultant muscle relaxation is blocked by arginine derivatives that inhibit NO synthesis. It is, however, unclear whether in brain or intestine, NO released following nerve stimulation is formed in neurons, glia, fibroblasts, muscle or blood cells, all of which occur in proximity to neurons and so could account for effects of nerve stimulation on cGMP and muscle tone. We have now localized NO synthase protein immunohistochemically in the rat using antisera to the purified enzyme. We demonstrate NO synthase in the brain to be exclusively associated with discrete neuronal populations. NO synthase is also concentrated in the neural innervation of the posterior pituitary, in autonomic nerve fibres in the retina, in cell bodies and nerve fibres in the myenteric plexus of the intestine, in adrenal medulla, and in vascular endothelial cells. These prominent neural localizations provide the first conclusive evidence for a strong association of NO with neurons.
Treatment of pain in the locomotor system is one important goal of physiotherapy. To suit this need electrotherapy provides different approaches. Electric impulses in the range of microseconds and a potential of up to 500 Volts are in use for several years. This article deals preferentially with neurophysiologic aspects on the effects of high-voltage-therapy. They may serve the physician as basis for a more conscious selection of indications.
Between 1973 and 1985, total age-adjusted cancer incidence in the United States (all races, men and women) rose by 10.7%, with an average annual percentage change of +0.9%. Analysis of reported age-specific incidence of primary malignant brain tumors over the same years demonstrates that incidence rates increased dramatically between 1973/1974 and 1985. In 1985, incidence rates for persons aged 75-79, 80-84, and 85 years of age and over were 187%, 394%, and 501%, respectively, of rates in 1973/1974. Similar increases were found in both men and women, analyzed separately and combined. Average annual percentage changes in primary brain tumor incidence were +7.0%, +20.4%, and +23.4% in these age ranges, respectively. Reported incidence in younger persons varied little over the same period of time. The most common histologic type of primary brain tumor in the elderly was of glial origin, predominantly the glioblastoma multiforme and astrocytoma. These tumors are highly malignant and invariably fatal. Two possible causes may explain the increased incidence in the elderly: the introduction and extensive use of x-ray computed tomography since 1973 and/or a true increase in incidence occurring independently of diagnostic advances.
The existence of long-term effects of dark-rearing on visuo-motor coordination is still controversial. In this study 2 dark-reared (DR) cats were trained, after 5-6 years of recovery, to perform a reaching movement towards a stationary or a moving target. The accuracy, and the reaction and movement times were evaluated. The scores obtained by the DR cats were compared to those of normal subjects after a similar period of training. The results showed that while the accuracy of DR cats was not impaired, the performance of their reaching movements was slower than normal and its triggering was delayed. These data are discussed with regards to electrophysiological and behavioural data obtained on analogous DR cats after long-term recovery.
Conantokin-G is a 17 amino acid peptide isolated from the venom of the fish-eating snail Conus geographus which produces hyperactivity when injected into the brains of adult mice. We show that this peptide is a selective N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist based on its ability to block NMDA-induced elevation of cGMP in rat cerebellar slices in vitro (IC50 = 171 nM), but not kainic acid-induced elevations. This inhibition could not be overcome by increasing the NMDA concentration, indicating non-competitive inhibition. Conantokin-G displayed no affinity for binding sites for thienylcyclohexylpiperidine, various glutamate subclasses or those for several other neurotransmitters/neuromodulators. This peptide, however, enhanced [3H]glycine binding to rat forebrain membranes but not to spinal cord membranes. The activity profile of the peptide in various assays indicates that it is a novel type of non-competitive NMDA antagonist.

The carbachol and adrenaline-mediated accumulation of inositol monophosphate isomers in rat cortical prisms has been studied using a commonly employed experimental protocol involving preincubation with myo-[2-3H]-inositol and subsequent incubation with agonists in the presence of 10 mM LiCl. Inositol phosphate isomers have been analysed by HPLC and identified by comparison of their elution characteristics with those of commercially available standards and the degradation products of authentic Ins 1,3,4-P3 and Ins 1,4,5-P3. Incubation of prelabelled cortical prisms for 1 hr with 10 mM LiCl alone gives rise to accumulation of radioactivity in two inositol monophosphate peaks which co-elute with Ins 1-P and Ins 4-P and one major bisphosphate peak which co-migrates with Ins 1,4-P2. Most of the monophosphate radioactivity is recovered in the Ins 4-P peak (Ins 1-P/Ins 4-P labelling ratio 0.68). Both carbachol and adrenaline produce dose-dependent increases in the labelling of Ins 1-P and Ins 4-P which are antagonized by atropine and prazosin respectively. However, carbachol produces a larger stimulation of accumulation of both monophosphates and also gives rise to a larger selective increase in the accumulation of Ins 1-P (Ins 1-P/4-P labelling ratio 1.40 in the presence of 1 mM carbachol, 0.98 in the presence of 1 mM adrenaline). Kinetic studies of the carbachol-stimulated increases in inositol mono- and bisphosphate labelling have revealed that, in the early period following carbachol addition (0-5 min), Ins 4-P and Ins 1,4-P2 are labelled more rapidly than Ins 1-P, whereas the reverse is true at later periods (15-60 min) of the incubations. These observations, coupled with the low levels of labelling of the major Ins 1,3,4-P3 breakdown products (Ins 1,3-P2 and Ins 3,4-P2) compared with that of Ins 1,4-P2, suggest that large-scale production of Ins 1-P is a comparatively late feature of carbachol-mediated inositol phospholipid metabolism and that, if the Ins 1-P is derived from breakdown of Ins 1,3,4,5-P4 via Ins 1,3,4-P3, the turnover of Ins 1,3-P2 + Ins 3,4-P2 must be approximately one order of magnitude greater than that of the Ins 4-P precursor, Ins 1,4-P2.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) responses were recorded intracellularly in layer V neocortical neurons in in vitro slices taken from young (4-6 months) and aged (27-29 months) Fischer 344 rats. Increasing amounts of NMDA produced membrane depolarizations in both groups of cells. The regression analysis showed significantly reduced sensitivity to NMDA in old neurons compared to young. A significant long-term potentiation of the field potential evoked by subcortical white matter stimulation was present in young but not in old slices. These results suggest that aging results in a decreased sensitivity to NMDA and impaired synaptic plasticity in the neocortex.
The avian wulst, a laminated &quot;bulge&quot; in the dorsal telencephalon, contains several distinct regions. The posterolateral portion (visual wulst) has been proposed to be an avian equivalent of the mammalian striate cortex. The present study examines specific neurotransmitters and neuropeptides within the visual wulst by immunohistochemical techniques. Antisera and monoclonal antibodies against choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), serotonin (5-HT), glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), gamma-aminobutyric acid A receptor (GABAAR), cholecystokinin (CCK), substance P (SP), leucine-enkephalin (L-ENK), neurotensin (NT), neuropeptide Y (NPY), somatostatin (SRIF), corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) were used. Somata and neuropil displaying specific immunoreactivity were generally distributed in accordance with the laminar cytoarchitectonic organization of the wulst. The superficial layer of the wulst, the hyperstriatum accessorium, contained the highest densities of TH-, 5-HT-, SP-, NPY-, SRIF-, CRF-, and VIP-positive neuropil in the wulst, whereas the highest density of CCK- and NT-staining was found in the deepest layer of the wulst, the hyperstriatum dorsale. In addition to the traditionally defined four laminae of the wulst, the immunoreactive staining revealed several subregions within each lamina. The most dorsolateral portion of the wulst contained the highest densities of ChAT- and L-ENK-stained fibers in the wulst, as well as moderately dense staining of neuropil for 5-HT-, TH-, SP-, and CCK-like immunoreactivity. The nAChR-immunoreactivity was faint and distributed rather uniformly throughout the wulst. The results suggest that the wulst consists of multiple regional variations within layers comparable to laminar variations found within different cytoarchitectonic areas of the mammalian neocortex.
Most rhythmic behaviors such as respiration, locomotion, and feeding are under the control of networks of neurons in the central nervous system known as central pattern generators (CPGs). The respiratory rhythm of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis is a relatively simple, CPG-based behavior for which the underlying neural elements have been identified. A three-neuron network capable of generating the respiratory rhythm of this air-breathing mollusk has been reconstructed in culture. The intrinsic and network properties of this neural ensemble have been studied, and the mechanism of postinhibitory rebound excitation was found to be important for the rhythm generation. This in vitro model system enables a better understanding of the neural basis of rhythm generation.

Although a number of muscarinic agonists have been used in clinical trials for Alzheimer's Disease, many of these compounds are low in potency and have only limited intrinsic efficacy. The present study describes four non-quaternary oxadiazole based muscarinic agonists from a quinuclidine and a 1-azanorbornane series. These displayed up to 1000 fold higher affinity than arecoline and were efficacious muscarinic agonists at cortical receptors. All four compounds produced peripherally mediated salivation and centrally mediated hypothermia at doses 50-50,000 fold lower than arecoline. The most potent was L-670,548, the methyl oxadiazole in the 1-azanorbornane series, which had an ED50 of 0.0016 mg/kg on the hypothermia model. This derivative was also the most potent compound in ex vivo binding studies (ED50 0.0069 mg/kg) and showed excellent brain penetration (3.8% of the administered dose). These derivatives are the first non quaternary efficacious agonists which show good penetration into the CNS (central nervous system), and will prove useful tools in understanding the role of muscarinic receptors in CNS function.
Schizophrenia may be interpreted as a group of conditions with various etiologies and pathogeneses but with common clinical features. In chronic forms with negative symptoms, CT scanning reveals atrophy of the brain. Other imaging techniques such as MR and PET confirm these findings and neurochemical, physiological and anatomical investigations demonstrate, similarly, that organic changes in the brain occur in patients with schizophrenia. The changes are probably due to a developmental defect and not to tissue degeneration. The results of the numerous neuroscientific investigations suggest that the therapeutic contributions for schizophrenia should have altered priorities. Medical therapy and psychotherapy must be supplemented by neuropsychological and social rehabilitation. Prophylaxis and early diagnosis will probably be possible in the near future so that the poor prognosis of this disease may be altered. Danish psychiatry is still characterized by development in neuroscience to a limited extent on account of marked technological delay. Establishing of a neuropsychiatric speciality now opens an interesting future perspective.
Dystrophin is the protein product of an X-linked locus which is disrupted to yield the phenotypes of Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies. Recently an autosomal transcript was identified (Love, D. R., Hill, D. F., Dickson, G., Spurr, N. K., Byth, B. C., Marsden, R. F., Walsh, F. S., Edwards, Y. H., and Davies, K. E. (1989) Nature 339, 55-58) with a carboxyl-terminal sequence similar to dystrophin. We have isolated part of this chromosome 6-encoded cDNA by polymerase chain reaction cloning and expressed it as a recombinant bacterial protein. Antibodies against this recombinant protein detected a large protein that exactly co-migrates with dystrophin yet is detectable in patients suffering from Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies. This protein of similar size to dystrophin may play a functional role similar to dystrophin, but unlike dystrophin, the protein is detected in tissues other than muscle and nerve. This newly identified protein is presumably a member of the spectrin/alpha-actinin/dystrophin family of proteins.
Complementary DNA clones corresponding to the 70- and 82-kDa subunits of soluble guanylate cyclase of rat lung have been isolated. Blot hybridization of total poly(A)+ RNA from rat tissues detected mRNA of about 3.4 kilobases for the 70-kDa subunit and about 5.5 kilobases for the 82-kDa subunit. Messenger RNA levels of both subunits were abundant in lung and cerebrum, moderate in cerebellum, heart, and kidney, and low in liver and muscle, consistent with previously described enzyme activities in these tissues. Southern blot analysis of high molecular weight genomic DNA from rat liver indicated that the genes for the 70- and 82-kDa subunits are different. The carboxyl-terminal region of the 70- and 82-kDa subunits showed a high degree of homology and also had a partial homology with the putative catalytic domain of particulate guanylate cyclase and adenylate cyclase, indicating that both the 70- and 82-kDa subunits have catalytic domains. The cDNAs were subcloned to an expression vector and transfected to L cells. The cells transfected with cDNA of the 70-kDa subunit or the 82-kDa subunit showed no guanylate cyclase activity, whereas the cells transfected with both the 70- and 82-kDa subunit cDNAs showed significant guanylate cyclase activity that was activated markedly by sodium nitroprusside. These data suggest that both subunits are required for both the basal catalytic and regulatory activity of soluble guanylate cyclase. Presumably both catalytic subunits must be present and interactive to permit synthesis of cyclic GMP and nitrovasodilator activation.
The functional competence of extrageniculate visual pathways in hemianopic humans was demonstrated by showing that distractor signals in the blind half of the visual field could inhibit saccades toward targets in the intact visual field. This inhibitory effect of unseen distractors in patients occurred only when distractors were presented in the temporal half of the visual field, was specific to oculomotor responses, and did not occur in normal subjects. These results show that a peripheral visual signal activates retinotectal pathways to prime the oculomotor system and that these pathways can mediate orienting behavior in hemianopic humans.
Agonist-induced turnover or release of inositolphosphates (IP) was studied in the dorsal and the ventral hippocampus 24 h, 1 month, and 3 months after the last electrical stimulus of kindled rats. A significant increase in acetylcholine (ACh)-stimulated IP turnover was observed in dorsal, but not ventral, hippocampus 24 h and 1 month after the last electrical stimulus. However, this effect was not evident 3 months after kindling. The excitatory amino acids (quisqualic acid and ibotenic acid) at the concentrations used, however, failed to produce any change in receptor-stimulated release or turnover of IP. Thus the changes in ACh-induced IP release, although long-term, are not permanent and do not appear to be released to the neurobiological alterations associated with the long-term maintenance of the kindling phenomenon.
CNS availability of compounds with neurological or nonneurological indication, CNS bioequivalence of different compounds/formulations, and CNS drug interactions can be estimated reliably in man by application of quantitative EEG procedures in controlled experimental conditions. Mapping approaches increase the visibility of drug-mediated EEG modifications with limited or selective scalp distribution, thus increasing the control on individual variability and allowing the study of interactions between drugs effect and background EEG pattern, including EEG concomitants of pathological substrata. Correlative structural/functional studies (EEG, CT, NMR, rCBF) are made possible. The pharmaco-EEG potentialities are therefore incremented in the study of compounds of new generation and in nontraditional clinical/therapeutic conditions (cognitive impairments, brain aging, dementia, epilepsies).
As the summary presentation of a symposium on prenatal alcohol-induced brain damage and long-term postnatal consequences, this paper proposes the establishment of two main research priorities--to begin to correlate long-term behavioral effects with alterations in underlying neural substrates, and to explore the mechanisms of neuroteratogenicity. To reach these goals, three objectives are described. First, animal and human research must become more interrelated. Second, experimental observations should be integrated into formal models that incorporate both neural structure and function. Third, researchers should choose well-defined dependent measures that are derived from models of brain function based on modern concepts of cognitive neuroscience. Examples of neuropsychological tests that may serve as the bases for structure/function relationships are presented. Incorporating these objectives into future research will facilitate understanding of the fundamental issues concerning prenatal alcohol exposure and will begin to provide the bases for rational intervention or treatment.
Interobserver variability for six coma scales was assessed prospectively on a sample of 15 comatose children, by two physicians, in a double-blind fashion. The six scales were the Glasgow Coma Scale, the Simpson and Reilly Scale, the Children's Coma Score, the Children's Orthopedic Hospital and Medical Center Scale, the Jacobi Scale, and the 0 to IV Scale. Interobserver variability was measured by using disagreement rate and the kappa statistic. The results from both methods were generally concordant. The disagreement rate for the various items in the different scales ranged from a high of 0.20 to a low of 0.03. The disagreement rate was greater than 0.10 for verbal responses in the Children's Coma Score and Glasgow Coma Scale and for both items in the Children's Orthopedic Hospital and Medical Center Scale. The disagreement rate was 0.10 or less for the 0 to IV Scale and for all items in the Simpson and Reilly and Jacobi scales. The relatively high interobserver agreement for these scales makes them more suitable for the pediatric setting than the other three scales, since good agreement is essential for interpreting data reliably, both in clinical practice and for research.
The author examines four major turning points in twentieth-century American psychiatry, emphasizing the movement during the post-World War II period toward a psychotherapeutic/psychoanalytic approach and the emergence of biological psychiatry, neuroscience, and logical positivism during the 1970s and 1980s. He discusses the impact of Adolf Meyer during the mid-twentieth century and his ongoing influence. The final turning point involves a prediction of a late twentieth-century change, including new directions in nosology, emphasis on combined pharmacotherapeutic/psychotherapeutic treatments, efforts to create alternatives to full inpatient care, better outcome data for psychiatric treatments, and beginning resolution of major boundary problems of current practice.

Upon completion of left amygdaloid kindling, 4 cats underwent long-term phenobarbital administration during the subsequent 5- to 9-month rest period. Plasma phenobarbital levels were maintained above 15 to 20 micrograms/ml and were restimulated following plasma phenobarbital washout. Three cats served as nonmedicated controls. All 7 cats were subjected to repeated 6-hour sleep monitoring for observation of interictal discharges, which were observed most often in the immediate postictal period. Their frequency decreased gradually throughout the experiment in both the medicated and control animals, but they never completely disappeared except from the contralateral amygdala in 1 medicated animal. Upon primary site restimulation, all of the medicated animals responded with a generalized convulsion once the afterdischarge was induced. When these animals underwent secondary-site amygdaloid kindling, 3 showed a positive transfer effect. The findings suggest that although phenobarbital is a potent anticonvulsant, it has little effect on the acquired seizure susceptibility of previously amygdaloid kindled cats.
We studied the effect of botulinum-A toxin on spasticity of the leg adductors in 9 patients who were either chair-bound or bed-bound with chronic stable multiple sclerosis. We injected botulinum toxin (400 mouse units) or placebo into the adductor muscles in a randomized, crossover, double-blind design. Two physicians, who were unaware of the treatment order, used an objective rating scale and independently assessed the patients; interobserver correlation was excellent (r = 0.93-0.81). We found that botulinum toxin produced a significant reduction in spasticity (p = 0.009) and a significant improvement in the ease of nursing care (p = 0.009). There were no adverse effects during this short-term trial. This is the first demonstration of the beneficial effect of botulinum toxin on focal spastic muscle contractions.
The number of motor units in the thenar muscle group was calculated by dividing the surface electromyogram and twitch force, in maximal stimulation of the median nerve, by estimates of the average electromyogram and twitch force from single units. The following three techniques were used to estimate the average electromyogram from single units: spike-triggered averaging from units recorded with a needle electrode, intramuscular microstimulation of motor nerve branches, and graded whole nerve stimulation at the wrist. The first two techniques also provided independent estimates of motor unit numbers based on the average force generated by single units. The five estimates (three based on the electromyogram and two on force) ranged from 116 to 170 motor units in the thenar group. Correcting for cancellation when unit responses sum to form the compound action potential or twitch increased the estimated number of units, which ranged from 130 to 179. The estimates were not statistically different from one another but were substantially lower than some previous electrophysiological estimates based on graded whole nerve stimulation. The recruitment pattern of single units during whole nerve stimulation was recorded and simulated mathematically. The most likely reason for the higher estimates in previous studies using graded whole nerve stimulation is shown to be alternation of motor units. Potential errors in all the techniques are discussed and compared.
Inherent asymmetries of the gravity-sensitive otolith organs of the inner ear may be well-compensated in ordinary 1 G, but rendered unstable in novel gravitational states. Several aspects of ocular counterrolling and spontaneous eye torsion, reflexes governed by the otoliths, were examined during the hypo- and hypergravity in parabolic flight on the NASA KC-135 aircraft. Among the subjects were two astronauts, one who had suffered space motion sickness during his mission and one who had not. Using an observed separation of scores of torsional instability at 0 G as the criterion, we divided our 10 subjects into the 5 highest and 5 lowest scorers, reminiscent of the approximately 50% who do and the 50% who do not experience space motion sickness (SMS). The astronaut who had had SMS was in the high group; and the one who had not was in the low group. At 1.8 G, the groups defined at 0 G were significantly different in the instability measure. They were also significantly different at both 0 G and 1.8 G in another measure, that of torsional variability. There were no differences between the groups in amplitude of eye torsion in 0 G or 1.8 G. None of the tests were significantly different in 1 G. The results suggest that these tests of eye torsion on the KC-135 might differentiate those who would experience SMS from those who would not. Proof of this speculation awaits replication of the study using only astronaut subjects.
Lactating rats that were given free access to sodium-deficient food, water, and 0.51 M NaCl solution showed no evidence of sodium appetite. The estimated daily loss of 1-2 mEq Na in milk was replaced by basal daily intake of 2-5 ml of saline. Sodium loss in urine was minimal, but milk sodium concentration was unchanged, and pups grew normally. Saline intake was enhanced when lactating rats that had been maintained on standard laboratory chow were injected with 30% polyethylene glycol solution to reduce plasma volume but no more so than when virgin female rats or male rats were similarly colloid-treated. Lactating rats markedly increased their intake of NaCl solution after simply depriving them of dietary sodium for 4 days, whereas male and virgin female rats did not. These findings indicate that pronounced sodium appetite does not invariably accompany lactation in rats, although it can occur whenever such animals become hypovolemic or sodium deficient.
Combined [3H]thymidine autoradiographic and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-immunocytochemical techniques were used to answer questions concerning the generation of specific classes and subclasses of cholinergic neurons in rat brainstem. First, the generation of rostrally and caudally located neurons of the same class (i.e. somatic efferent oculomotor and hypoglossal nuclei, respectively) were compared. Results indicated that, although embryonic day 11 (E11) was the peak birthday for both nuclei, hypoglossal neurons were generated significantly earlier than oculomotor neurons, indicating a caudorostral generation gradient for brainstem somatic motor nuclei. Second, the generation patterns of 3 different subclasses of motor neurons at the same brainstem level were compared; namely those of the somatic efferent hypoglossal nucleus (XII), the general visceral efferent dorsal nucleus of the vagus (X), and the predominantly special visceral efferent nucleus ambiguus. All 3 subclasses of cholinergic cells had the same peak day (E11) and overall period of generation (E11-12). However, statistical analyses indicated a precocious generation of nucleus ambiguus, but no developmental differences between N, XII and N. X. It is suggested that nucleus ambiguus is formed earlier than N. XII and N. X, due to its more ventral location within a ventrodorsal neurogenetic gradient. Third, the generation patterns of different classes of large cholinergic neurons were examined. Specifically, the birthdays of cholinergic non-motor projection neurons of the pedunculopontine-laterodorsal tegmental nuclei (PPT-LDT) were contrasted to those of the cholinergic brainstem motor neurons. The peak birthdays of both rostrally and caudally located motor neurons were two days earlier than those of the PPT-LDT neurons. Thus, large cholinergic cells projecting to peripheral targets are born significantly earlier than those projecting within the CNS, even though the former are located more rostrally on the caudorostral neurogenetic gradient. This represents an apparent exception to the emerging rule that cholinergic neurons obey the general gradients of neurogenesis manifest in the regions of the central nervous system where they reside.
Adrenergic innervation of rat tibial and vagus nerves was studied in male Fischer-344 rats between 1 and 84 days of age, using sucrose-phosphate-glyoxylic acid (SPG) histochemistry and the formaldehyde-induced fluorescence (FIF) method. Adrenergic nerve fibers were found in epi-perineurial blood vessels of the vagus nerve at one day of age, whereas blood vessels in the tibial nerve received the first adrenergic nerve fibers at 3 days. A few adrenergic nerve fibers were seen in the endoneurium of both tibial and vagus nerves at 7 days. The densities of adrenergic innervation increased gradually during the first 4 postnatal weeks, and at 21 days the distributions of adrenergic innervation in both nerves resembled those in adult animals. The results suggest that development of adult adrenergic innervation in rat peripheral nerves occurs during the first postnatal month and that sympathetic innervation becomes available to regulate nerve blood flow within this period.
During emergence from anaesthesia, transient neurological signs that would usually be considered pathological may appear. The objective of this randomized, patient (n = 30) and observer-blinded study was to compare prospectively the incidence and duration of post-anaesthetic neurological abnormalities in healthy patients undergoing minor elective procedures following thiopentone and succinylcholine induction, and enflurane-N2O or isoflurane-N2O anaesthesia. Patients were studied for 60 min after anaesthesia. Arousal state, muscle tone, deep tendon reflexes, plantar reflex, sustained clonus, shivering, intense muscular spasticity and temperature were assessed. Results of neurological examination were correlated with the patient's state of arousal. Transient emergent neurological abnormalities occurred more frequently following enflurane-N2O anaesthesia than isoflurane N2O anaesthesia. This was statistically significant (P less than 0.05) for quadriceps hyperreflexia, upgoing toes (positive Babinski reflex) and intense muscular spasticity. Neurological abnormalities occurred most commonly 5-20 min after anaesthesia and all abnormalities resolved within 60 min. Following enflurane anaesthesia, as patients became more alert the incidence of abnormalities declined, while the arousal state did not affect the incidence of abnormalities after isoflurane. There was no significant difference between axillary temperatures of those patients who shivered and those who did not. In conclusion, temporary emergent neurological abnormalities occurred more often following enflurane-N2O than after isoflurane-N2O anaesthesia.


Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation was carried out in an 81-day-old Portuguese water dog with GM1 gangliosidosis using a DLA identical sibling as donor. Engraftment was complete and beta-galactosidase activity in leukocytes of the transplanted dog were similar to those in the donor. Over the next 2.5 months neurological deterioration in the transplanted dog was similar to that in untreated dogs with GM1 gangliosidosis. Cerebral ganglioside GM1 concentrations were not diminished by bone marrow transplantation and cerebral beta-galactosidase activity was negligible. We conclude that allogeneic bone marrow transplantation early in life is ineffective in canine GM1 gangliosidosis.
We examined the ability of L-DOPA to induce dyskinesias in MPTP-treated and normal squirrel monkeys to establish whether the underlying neuropathology associated with parkinsonism is an absolute requirement or merely promotes the development of drug-induced dyskinesias. Administration of L-DOPA (5-40 mg/kg p.o., following a 60 min pretreatment with carbidopa 2.5-20 mg/kg p.o.) induced a range of dopamine-mediated behaviours including locomotor activity, stereotyped scratching, and climbing in both lesioned and nonlesioned animals. However, the dose-response curves showed a marked (three- to fourfold) shift to the left in lesioned animals, indicating behavioural supersensitivity. In contrast, L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias were only observed in MPTP-treated monkeys. Doses required for induction of dyskinesias were lower than those required to induce climbing. These findings provide further evidence that nigrostriatal damage is essential for the genesis of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias.

In zebrafish, many nerve pathways in both the CNS and periphery are pioneered by a small and relatively simple set of 'primary' neurons that arise in the early embryo. We now have used monoclonal antibodies to show that, as they develop, primary neurons of several functional classes express on their surfaces the L2/HNK-1 tetrasaccharide that is associated with a variety of cell surface adhesion molecules. We have studied the early labeling patterns of these neurons, as well as some non-neural cells, and found that the time of onset and intensity of immunolabeling vary specifically according to cell type. The first neuronal expression is by Rohon-Beard and trigeminal ganglion neurons, both of which are primary sensory neurons that mediate touch sensitivity. These cells express the epitope very strongly on their growth cones and axons, permitting study of their development unobscured by labeling in other cells. Both types initiate axogenesis at the same early time, and appear to be the first neurons in the embryo to do so. Their peripheral neurites display similar branching patterns and have similar distinctive growth cone morphologies. Their central axons grow at the same rate along the same longitudinal fiber pathway, but in opposite directions, and where they meet they appear to fasciculate with one another. The similarities suggest that Rohon-Beard and trigeminal ganglion neurons, despite their different positions, share a common program of early development. Immunolabeling is also specifically present on a region of the brain surface where the newly arriving trigeminal sensory axons will enter the brain. Further, the trigeminal expression of the antigen persists in growth cones during the time that they contact an individually identified central target neuron, the Mauthner cell, which also expresses the epitope. These findings provide descriptive evidence for possible roles of L2/HNK-1 immunoreactive molecules in axonal growth and synaptogenesis.
Previous studies determined that iv nicotine stimulates ACTH secretion by acting on sites accessible from the fourth ventricle (IV), rather than directly on CRF-containing neurons in the hypothalamus. Brainstem catecholaminergic cell groups, which are accessible from the IV, project to the hypothalamus and stimulate the secretion of CRF and ACTH. Therefore, these studies investigated the role of catecholamines in nicotine-stimulated ACTH secretion. Experiments with the catecholaminergic neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine, demonstrate that the ACTH response to nicotine delivered iv (0.03 or 0.05 mg/kg body wt) or instilled into the IV (1 or 2.5 micrograms) was significantly reduced in lesioned animals (P less than 0.01). Selective inhibitors of epinephrine synthesis, SKF 64139 and 2,3-dichloro-alpha-methylbenzylamine (DCMB), significantly reduced (P less than 0.01) the ACTH response to 0.05 mg/kg body wt nicotine iv, without affecting median eminence CRF content. Because controversy exists about the effect of DCMB as an alpha 2 adrenoreceptor antagonist in vivo, this was examined by administering norepinephrine into the third ventricle after DCMB ip; DCMB significantly reduced the ACTH response to norepinephrine 0.2 micrograms (P less than 0.05) but not to 0.5 micrograms. To determine whether alpha 2 receptors are indeed involved in the ACTH response to nicotine, yohimbine, an alpha 2 antagonist, was injected into the third ventricle before nicotine injection into the IV. Yohimbine significantly reduced the ACTH response. Thus, the secretion of both hypothalamic epinephrine and, to some extent, norepinephrine is involved in the ACTH response to the activation of catecholaminergic neurons in the IV. Further investigation of the adrenergic receptor(s) involved compared the ACTH response to nicotine (1 microgram) instilled into the IV after prazocin (alpha 1 antagonist), or propranolol (beta antagonist) was injected into the third ventricle. Prazocin significantly reduced (P less than 0.05) the ACTH response, whereas propranolol was ineffective. Thus, both alpha 1 and alpha 2 receptors are involved in mediating the ACTH response to nicotine.
The goal of our research is to understand reciprocal relationships between cell function and tissue organization. We studied the regulation of fibroblast activity in an in vitro culture model that recapitulates in continuous fashion the cycle of events occurring during connective tissue repair. We present evidence that concomitant with spatial reorganization of the extracellular matrix, there was a dramatic decline in extracellular matrix synthesis and cell proliferation. Therefore, spatial reorganization was a crucial turning point for fibroblast activity. Factors that regulated the timing of spatial reorganization included serum, transforming growth factor beta, and fibronectin. By accelerating spatial reorganization of the cultures, transforming growth factor beta led to a relative decrease in cell proliferation and extracellular matrix synthesis. By retarding spatial reorganization of the cultures, fibronectin led to a relative increase in cell proliferation and extracellular matrix synthesis. The results indicate that spatial information in the three-dimensional cell-matrix interaction permits higher order, tissue-level regulation of fibroblast function.
Two lectins, wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) and peanut agglutinin (PNA), were used to compare domains within the interphotoreceptor matrices (IPM) of the cat and monkey, two species where the morphological relationship between the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and photoreceptors is distinctly different. In the monkey, PNA labeling was heaviest over the cone outer segments and a discrete region of the interphotoreceptor matrix bordering the cone inner and outer segments--a region which has been termed the cone matrix sheath. Near the apical border of the RPE, the outer margin of the PNA-labeled matrix is surrounded by a circular array of apical microvilli. In the cat retina, PNA labeling was highest over a region of the IPM lying between the outer margin of the cone sheath processes and surrounding rod matrix. In contrast, intracellular labeling of cone inner and outer segments was sparse. The RPE apical processes forming the cone sheath were not labeled. In the monkey retina, WGA preferentially labeled rod outer segments and the region of the IPM around rod inner and outer segments. The cone matrix sheath was not preferentially labeled using this lectin. Rod inner segments and cone inner and outer segments were labeled moderately. In the cat retina, WGA labeling was dense over both rod outer segments and cone outer segments as well as the cone sheath. Rod and cone inner segments, as well as the IPM around both rods and cones, were moderately labeled. These observations suggest that the specialized processes arising from the apical surface of retinal pigment epithelial cells, together with photoreceptor-specific extracellular matrix domains, contribute to the formation of specific microenvironments around rod and cone photoreceptor cells.
Intracerebral adrenal medulla grafts have been used in human patients as an experimental treatment for Parkinson's disease, based on studies in animal models of this disorder. However, alterations in chromaffin cell properties after transplantation and the factors controlling graft survival are poorly understood. Since cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) are involved in regeneration and development of neural tissue in vivo and in vitro, the present study was undertaken to determine the expression of CAMs in adrenal medulla isografts. Fragments of rat adrenal medulla were implanted into the right lateral ventricle. The majority of grafts survived quite well, for up to 2 months (the longest studied period). The implanted chromaffin cells did not develop extensive processes. The cells retained tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) immunoreactivity, while phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) expression was decreased. Surviving transplanted chromaffin cells showed enhancement and spreading of surface L1/Ng-CAM expression as compared to normal chromaffin cells in adrenal medulla. The implanted chromaffin cells demonstrated only partial conversion to neuronal phenotypes. These chromaffin cells did not develop extensive processes, but showed an enhancement of L1/Ng-CAM expression. Surviving chromaffin cells were accompanied by reorganization of their closely associated extracellular matrix (ECM). As compared to normal in situ adrenal medulla, graft ECM demonstrated a substantial increase of L1/Ng-CAM and laminin immunoreactivities and a distinct decrease in J1/tenascin expression. Some adrenal medulla grafts degenerated, particularly when misplaced within the host brain parenchyma. In these cases the grafts showed fragmentation of ECM and gradual disappearance of CAMs. These results suggest that surviving adrenal medulla grafts exhibit increased synthesis of certain CAMs by chromaffin cells, which may be involved in interactions between chromaffin cells and the surrounding ECM. It is speculated that both surviving and degenerating adrenal medulla grafts could provide CAMs and ECM components including laminin to host brain and this way contribute to functional effects of grafts.
We have studied the expression of the cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) L1/Ng-CAM, N-CAM, J1/tenascin, and myelin-associated glycoprotein and their common carbohydrate L2/HNK-1 epitope in normal rat adrenal gland sections as well as in adrenal medulla cell culture with and without NGF stimulation. In situ L1/Ng-CAM was observed on the surface of some but not all chromaffin cell clusters, including their closely associated extracellular matrix (ECM). N-CAM immunoreactivity was present on all chromaffin cells and ECM. The ECM of whole medullas also expressed J1/tenascin molecules. In long-term cultures, nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulation enhanced L1/Ng-CAM, N-CAM, and Thy 1.1 immunolabeling on chromaffin cells and their processes. Process outgrowth was greater from chromaffin cell clusters containing S-100 positive Schwann cells as compared to dispersed single chromaffin cells. When long bundles of chromaffin cell fibers were present, S-100, L1/Ng-CAM, and N-CAM positive Schwann cells were always found and were grouped in distinct clusters in the intervals between the chromaffin cells. In some areas, however, after NGF stimulation some chromaffin cell process development occurred despite an apparent lack of close contact with Schwann cells. NGF-activated chromaffin cells also demonstrated neurofilament- and vimentin-like-immunoreactive filaments within cell bodies and their processes. Chromaffin cells were usually found on a layer of N-CAM and fibronectin positive fibroblasts, and often were associated with laminin-immunoreactive material. These data suggest a possible role of N-CAM and L1/Ng-CAM as well as ECM laminin in process outgrowth from chromaffin cells.
Damage to the entorhinal afferents (i.e., perforant path) to the hippocampal dentate gyrus leads to sprouting of the remaining intact septal cholinergic afferents within the denervated outer molecular layer. To investigate the cellular and molecular events which may contribute to this sprouting response, we describe the temporal sequence of cellular changes in the denervated zone prior to the observed neural reorganization. Rats were given perforant path (PP) transections and sacrificed at various time points following the lesion, on Days (D) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 30. Coronal sections at the level of the dorsal hippocampus were immunostained to localize microglia (OX-42), interleukin-1 (IL-1), and astroctytes (GFAP). We observed a rapid increase in the number of immunoreactive microglia in the denervated molecular layer within the first day following PP transection. Parallel sections show a concomitant increase in the number of IL-1-positive cells. Maximal reactive changes (i.e., hypertrophy and increase in number) in GFAP-positive astrocytes are not observed until D5. This time course of events suggests a role of microglia in astrocyte activation in vivo via production of IL-1 and offers support for a proposed hypothesis postulating a cascade of glial events which may lead to cholinergic sprouting following PP transection.

Dopamine (DA) auto receptor down regulation has been suggested to mediate the therapeutic effect of antidepressant treatments including electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). Suggestion has also been made that a single ECT may have antidepressant potential via such a mechanism. The present study was therefore conducted to assess the effects ill a single electroconvulsive shock (ECS) on dopamine auto receptors in the rat brain. Using the low dose, Apomorphine-induccd by pomotilily behavioural paradigm, DA auto receptor function was studied one and eight days alter a single true ECS, and 8 days alter a single sham ECS. No significant difference was observed between the groups. The results suggest that single ECS exerts neither acute nor time-dependant DA auto receptor effects; however, the issue in certain aspects remains open for further study.
Little work is available on the acute and time-dependant dopaminergic effects of single electroconvulsive shock (ECS) and multiple ECS despite the posited clinical utility of such schedules of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) administration and the posited role of dopaminergic mechanisms in iieuropsychiatric disorders. In this study, using the apomorphine-induced motility-alteration behavioural paradigm, single session multiple ECS was found to produce no significant effect while single ECS behaviourally downregulated dopamine postsynaptic receptor functioning one week after the ECS, which effect was also seen (albeit to a lesser extent) a further week later. These findings indicate a possible application of restricted schedules of ECT to dopamine postsynaptic receptor supersensitivity syndromes. Lines for future research are suggested.
To examine rates of falls and injuries by clinical department, a retrospective analysis was performed of 874 inpatient falls during a one-year period in a 1,000-bed acute-care hospital. Incident reports were reviewed, and for those patients injured, medical records were abstracted. Fall rates were calculated by age, sex and service using total patient days as the denominator. During 1983, 874 falls occurred during 282,713 adult patient days (31/10(4) days). Fall rates were significantly higher (odds ratio = 2.12; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.84, 2.45) in the neuroscience and psychiatry departments (53/10(4) days) compared with other adult services combined (25/10(4) days); this difference persisted after direct adjustment for age. Differences by clinical department persisted throughout four additional years of surveillance, although fall rates for the oncology service increased. Injuries following falls occurred among 200 (22.8%) patients. These data indicate that falls are not random events, and that falls and injury prevention programs can be more appropriately focused by consideration of clinical department.
Ninety-four urban and 54 rural respondents who had undergone hospitalisation in the previous three years were interviewed using a semistructured interview schedule to ascertain their experiences and opinion regarding ethical issues. The interview focussed particularly on patients' satisfaction and expectations about information provided by medical professionals on various aspects of their illness. Results revealed that both the groups were satisfied with the amount of information they had received during their hospitalisation. Rural respondents were comparatively less satisfied with the information they received regarding complications of illness, possible side effects/complications of treatment, and nature of investigations. A higher proportion of urban respondents required information about other available treatment options and possible outcome of illness if left untreated. A higher number of urban respondents felt that provision of information about illness may have harmful consequences to the patient, and more frequently reported that receiving information was the patient's right. These results suggest that although both urban and rural respondents were sensitive to ethical issues, the response of urban respondents from developing countries is more akin to that of their counterparts in the developed countries.
Recent progress in the biochemical characterization of Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology has led to the proposal of three hypotheses for the molecular etiology of AD. One focuses on calcium-activated neutral proteases or calpains (Nixon, 1989). Another focuses on protein phosphorylation (Saitoh &amp; Iimoto, 1989). A third is centered on altered phospholipid metabolism (Pettegrew, 1989). Interestingly, all three hypotheses are mutually compatible, involving closely interlocking biochemical systems. Disturbances in any one of these systems might result in the same type of neuropathology, consistent with suggestions that AD could have multiple etiologies. Future investigations of the function and interrelation of these systems in the central nervous system in general and at the synaptic junction in particular are likely to have significant bearing on our understanding of AD.
Plato conceptualized primordial humans as androgynes, the children of the moon. The primordial hermaphroditism of the mammalian embryo became known 2 1/2 millennia later in the mid-19th century. By 1864 Ulrichs had transposed the new knowledge from embryology to sexology to explain those to whom he gave the name Urnings (after Uranus who gave womanless birth to Venus from sea spume) as having &quot;a woman's mind trapped in a man's body&quot; (anima muliebris corpore virili inclusa). Urning became displaced by sexual inversion, and eventually by homosexual, a term coined together with heterosexual by Kertbeny as recently as 1869. The embryological principle of primordial hermaphroditism became linked to evolutionary Darwinism by way of Haeckel's principle of recapitulation, epitomized as &quot;ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny.&quot; The recapitulation principle became linked, in turn, to the principle of intrapsychic primordial bisexuality, which became a cornerstone of Freud's psychoanalytic theory. Genetics influences the outcome of bipotentiality not directly but by way of hormonal programming of the brain, prenatally or neonatally, rather than pubertally and in maturity. Bipotentiality within the brain has been investigated chiefly in the hypothalamus where male/female dimorphism has been recognized, but its determinants and stages of differentiation, both prenatal and postnatal, remain to be fully ascertained. Neuroanatomical research on the outcome of male/female bipotentiality as gay, straight, or in between is politically and morally opposed by those who postulate a bipotential preference or voluntary choice. In stimulus-response associationism, to which behavior-modification theory belongs, bisexuality is equipotential, and either alternative may be evoked, ostensibly, dependent on the stimulus situation. In ethological theory, the effectiveness of stimulus-response bonding is confined chronologically to a critical period of development and is restricted phylogenetically by an innate recognition mechanism and an innate releasing mechanism. These limits are compatible, however, with some degree of both individual and ethnic variation.
Fertilization in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii is initiated when gametes of opposite mating types adhere to each other via adhesion molecules (agglutinins) on their flagella. Adhesion leads to loss of active agglutinins from the flagella and recruitment of new agglutinins from a pool associated with the cell body. We have been interested in determining the precise cellular location of the pool and learning more about the relationship between agglutinins in the two domains. In the studies reported here we describe methods for purification of mt+ cell body agglutinins by use of ammonium sulfate precipitation, chromatography (molecular sieve, ion exchange, and hydrophobic interaction), and sucrose gradient centrifugation. About 90% of the total agglutinins were associated with the cell body and the remainder were on the flagella. Cell body agglutinins were indistinguishable from mt+ flagellar agglutinins by SDS-PAGE, elution properties on a hydrophobic interaction column, and in sedimentation properties on sucrose gradients. The nonadhesiveness of cell bodies suggested that the cell body agglutinins would be intracellular, but our results are not consistent with this interpretation. We have demonstrated that brief trypsin treatment of deflagellated gametes destroyed all of the cell body agglutinins and, in addition, we showed that the cell body agglutinins were accessible to surface iodination. These results indicated that C. reinhardtii agglutinins have a novel cellular disposition: active agglutinins, representing approximately 10% of the total cellular agglutinins, are found only on the flagella, whereas the remaining 90% of these molecules are on the external surface of the cell body plasma membrane in a nonfunctional form. This segregation of cell adhesion molecules into distinct membrane domains before gametic interactions has been demonstrated in sperm of multicellular organisms and may be a common mechanism for sequestering these critical molecules until gametes are activated for fusion. In experiments in which surface-iodinated cell bodies were permitted to regenerate new flagella, we found that the agglutinins (as well as the 350,000 Mr, major flagellar membrane protein) on the newly regenerated flagella were iodinated. These results indicate that proteins destined for the flagella can reside on the external surface of the cell body plasma membrane and are recruited onto newly forming flagella as well as onto preexisting flagella during fertilization.
Vinculin is a major cytoskeletal component in striated muscle, where it has been reported to form a rib-like structure between the cell membrane and the Z-disk termed a costamere. This arrangement of vinculin has been purported to be involved in the alignment of the myofibrils. However, the three-dimensional arrangement of vinculin in relation to the Z-disk of the myofibril was not known. In the present study, we examined the distribution of vinculin in striated muscle with monospecific antibodies using immunofluorescence and laser scanning confocal microscopy. Isolated cardiac and skeletal muscle cells from a variety of species, tissue sections, and neonatal myocytes with developing myofibrils were examined. Optical sectioning in the X-Y and X-Z planes demonstrated that vinculin immunoreactivity was heaviest at the periphery of the cell; however, the immunoreactivity was also distributed within the Z-disk although at a relatively reduced level. This distribution is potentially significant in understanding the physiological significance of vinculin in striated muscle function and in myofibrillogenesis.
The adequacy of the International 10-20 System is reviewed in light of demands imposed on the accuracy of lead placement by improvements in spatiotemporal brain electrical activity mapping technology. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies reveal that the most frequent sources of inaccuracy of electrode locations are difficulties in defining the inion, variance in the anatomy of the occipital bone, inconspicuous sagittal deformities, variance of sulcal pattern, and brain width asymmetries. Owing to these factors, electrodes placed bilaterally and equidistant from the nasion-inion line may not be homotopically located. Therefore, the authors suggest that practitioners who employ the 10-20 System in order to gain precise and more individualized laterality information do so with extreme caution until the range of placement and interpretative errors is more precisely determined using CT/MRI-assisted EEG.
The clinical efficacy of lithium augmentation in refractory depression is hypothesized to depend on the ability of lithium to enhance presynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) function. Since fenfluramine promotes release and inhibits reuptake of presynaptic 5-HT, we assessed its efficacy in augmenting ongoing tricyclic antidepressant treatment of refractory depression. Fifteen patients with DSM-III major depression failed to respond to treatment with desipramine 2.5 mg/kg/day or more (plasma levels of at least 125 ng/ml) given for at least 4 weeks. Fenfluramine 40-120 mg/day was then added to the ongoing desipramine in a placebo substitution design. There was no statistically significant evidence of either transient or sustained clinical improvement during the 2 weeks of fenfluramine augmentation. One patient appeared to respond to the treatment, but one appeared to worsen. Fenfluramine more than doubled steady-state plasma levels of desipramine. These findings suggest that lithium's efficacy as an augmenting agent depends on properties that are not shared by fenfluramine. Fenfluramine cannot be recommended in the routine management of refractory depression.

The development of the mammalian visual system begins prenatally at distributed sites, where cells generated at different embryonic ages are destined to interconnect and form the visual pathways, and ends postnatally with the functional tuning of neuronal receptive-field properties. It is reasonable to assume that the earliest stages in this developmental sequence are completed prior to the onset of neural activity, and also that activity may play only a minor role or even none at all in primary axon outgrowth and pathway finding (Harris, 1981; Harris and Holt, 1990). However, recent evidence indicates that subsequent events in development, such as the sorting of axons at their targets, the cellular differentiation of target cells and the formation of synaptic contacts by developing axons, are all influenced by action potentials. Action potentials in the developing retino-geniculo-cortical pathway can be eliminated by blocking the voltage-gated sodium channel with tetrodotoxin. Prenatal blockade prevents the laminar segregation of retinogeniculate axons. Postnatal blockade interrupts the formation of retinogeniculate synaptogenesis, slows the cytoarchitectonic differentiation of the lateral geniculate nucleus and produces abnormalities in the responses of lateral geniculate neurons. In the visual cortex, the development of cells and synapses is retarded and the eye-specific separation of geniculocortical axons is halted, thereby blocking the formation of ocular dominance columns. While the cellular mechanisms underlying these effects are not understood, a partial restoration of normal development can be produced by stimulating blocked axonal pathways electrically.
The restoration of connections in the injured central nervous system (CNS) of adult mammals is hindered by the failure of axons to grow back to their natural fields of innervation. Following transection of the optic nerve of adult rodents, the guided regeneration of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons along a transplanted segment of peripheral nerve (PN) has shown that these neurones retain their capacities to form well-differentiated synapses in both normal and abnormal targets. The main aim of this review is to describe the anatomical and functional characteristics of some of these connections and to suggest that their terminal distribution and morphology may be the result of a persistence in these targets of molecular determinants that influence normal connectivity in the intact animal.

A recent report found that the discrepancy between scaled scores on the Vocabulary and Picture Arrangement subtests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R) was much larger for patients with Parkinson's disease than for healthy controls or patients with Alzheimer's disease. On this basis, it was argued that Parkinson's disease causes a specific deficit in cognitive sequencing that occurs even when the memory and speed requirements of the task are minimal. However, other work indicated that Parkinson's disease patients are almost as severely impaired on other Performance subtests from the WAIS-R that do not require sequencing. In the present study, an extremely simple, untimed test of picture sequencing and a version of the Luria three-step test of motor sequencing were employed. Parkinson's disease patients were impaired on both tasks. The extent of their impairments on picture and motor sequencing were positively correlated, and the severity of deficits on both sequencing tests was related to global mental status and to performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, but not to neurologic measures of disease severity. However, the patients' performance on the picture sequencing test but not on the motor sequencing test was related to performance on Benton's Facial Recognition Test. These results demonstrate the existence of a generalized sequencing deficit in Parkinson's disease that appears dissociable from impairment in performing simple motor acts.
Many gastropods, including the sea hare Aplysia californica, undergo metamorphosis in passing from the larval to the juvenile phases of their life cycle. During metamorphosis, the gastropod nervous system is affected by both progressive and regressive neuronal events. In addition to this metamorphic reorganization, the nervous system appears to be centrally involved in initiating metamorphosis. We propose that gastropods not only possess temporally distinct neuronal adaptations for the specific needs of the larval and juvenile phases, but also another transient neuronal adaptation specialized to subserve the metamorphic episode.
Many species of fish exhibit metamorphosis in which dramatic external transformations occur as a consequence of coordinated changes in gene expression within an organism. Because postembryonic development and change appears to be the rule rather than the exception in teleost fish species, we view metamorphosis as one of many developmental strategies in fish which have continued plasticity as a common theme. Metamorphic changes are manifested in the visual system by modification of photoreceptor peak sensitivity, rod photoreceptor cell addition, and retinal reorganization. These changes correspond to significant changes in the natural habitat of the animal and in its visual capabilities as demonstrated behaviorally. Thyroxine is the main metamorphic hormone as has also been found in amphibia. The sequence of metamorphic events occur in all teleosts, but they are compressed in time in direct developing animals suggesting that such animals might prove useful for understanding the evolution of metamorphosis in fish. It seems likely that rod photoreceptors may have evolved in conjunction with the change from larval to juvenile stage through metamorphosis in indirect developing fishes. During evolution, the contraction and/or loss of the larval stage has resulted in earlier appearance of rod photoreceptors during development although they always arise later than cone photoreceptors. This ontogenetic developmental sequence supports Walls's (1942) proposal that cones are phylogenetically older than rods and suggests that rods may have evolved several times.
A survey is provided of the external transformations that coincide with metamorphosis or a water-to-land transition, and of transformations during water-to-land transition in the retinal projection, the brain stem, the lateral-line system, and the inner ear of amphibians. Among the three orders of amphibians, the frogs are characterized by more pronounced transformations during the water-to-land transition than are the other two orders. Some of the progressive and regressive changes in the sensory and nervous system are presented and a scenario is suggested for the evolution of these transformations among amphibians. Suggestions that metamorphosis in frogs can recapitulate the water-to-land transition of ancestral amniotic vertebrates are refuted.
The technical details given in this paper meet the demand in neuroanatomy and neuropathology for methods which combine broad light microscopical surveys with detailed ultrastructural studies of logically selected areas in well perfused brain material, and emerge directly from experiences in Palay's laboratory at the National Institutes of Health in 1956. Using the procedures recommended will give good sections of exceptionally large areas (up to, and above 1 cm x 1 cm) of fully hardened blocks available at all points for electron microscopy. On such large blocks fully correlative, combined light and electron microscopy may be carried out easily. The process is termed 'hot knife microtomy'. In three different laboratories, primary aldehyde fixation by perfusion and hot knife microtomy have given uniformly excellent data from normal, diseased, and virus-infected brain tissues. These techniques permit full neuroanatomical control and orientation, make comprehensive correlative mapping throughout the CNS feasible, and allow study of the time course of infective processes.
Abstract Physiological stimuli such as dehydration and lactation/suckling of the young have been found to induce reversible changes in the relationships of neural and glial elements with the basal lamina of the neurohypophysis. Such stimulation is associated with a decline in the extent of basal lamina occupied by glial processes and an increase in nerve terminals abutting the lamina. One possible mechanism playing a role in these changes is the activation of beta-adrenergic receptors on the neurohypophysial glia (the pituicytes), since such cells in primary culture from adult rats undergo dramatic morphological transformation when stimulated with beta-adrenergic agonists. We sought to determine if changes similar to those seen in vivo and predicted from the responses of cultured cells would occur with beta-adrenergic stimulation of the isolated neurointermediate lobe in vitro. Neurointermediate lobes from adult male rats were incubated in artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing ascorbic acid alone (control) or in the same medium with either 10(-8), 10(-7) or 10(-5) M isoproterenol for 15 min after a 30-min period of preincubation in control medium. Quantitative ultrastructural analysis revealed significant decreases in pituicyte and, corresponding increases in neural, membrane abutting the basal lamina at the lower two drug concentrations. These results support the findings of other studies suggesting a beta-adrenergic mediation of pituicyte morphology and a role for beta-receptors in control of posterior pituitary function.
1. The goal of this study was to determine the contribution of muscular free nerve endings to the clasp-knife reflex by comparing their response properties and reflex actions to the clasp-knife reflex. 2. The responses of single muscle afferents were examined in anesthetized cats using stretch and isometric contraction of ankle extensor muscles identical to those that evoked clasp-knife inhibition in decerebrated and dorsal spinal-hemisectioned cats. 3. Fifty-three stretch-sensitive mechanoreceptor afferents were identified as free nerve ending afferents based on their conduction velocities, location within the muscle, uniformity of response, and dissimilarity to other muscle proprioceptors. The afferent conduction velocities were in both the group III (56%) and group II (44%) range, including five fast-conducting group II afferents (greater than 55 m/s). 4. The stretch response of stretch-sensitive, free nerve endings (SSFNEs) showed several characteristic features: 1) afferents were excited only by large stretches that produced significant passive force; 2) afferent activity began after a brief delay and exhibited segmentation of discharge during ramp stretch, a maximum at the end of ramp stretch, and rapid and complete decay during static stretch, and 3) afferent response adapted to repeated stretches. These properties match those of clasp-knife inhibition described in the companion paper, except that the SSFNE segmentation and maximum were more pronounced and their decay during maintained stretch was more rapid. 5. Isometric contraction produced by electrical stimulation of the muscle nerve, which induced force-evoked inhibition in decerebrated and dorsal hemisectioned cats, also consistently excited SSFNEs. Stretch evoked greater excitation than contraction, indicating that both length and force contribute to SSFNE activity. 6. Stimulation of free nerve endings by squeezing the achilles tendon in cats exhibiting the clasp-knife reflex evoked powerful, homonymous inhibition and a flexion-withdrawal pattern of reflex action--that is, inhibition of extensor and excitation of flexor muscles throughout the hindlimb, which parallels the spatial divergence of the clasp-knife reflex. 7. Intrathecal application of capsaicin, which preferentially blocks the reflex actions of small afferent fibers, blocked clasp-knife inhibition in decerebrated, dorsal hemisectioned cats. 8. The similarities between the reflex actions and response properties of SSFNEs and the properties of the clasp-knife reflex suggest that SSFNEs mediate clasp-knife inhibition.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The goal of this study was to characterize the clasp-knife reflex by the use of stretch and isometric contraction of ankle extensor and flexor muscles in decerebrated cats with bilateral dorsal hemisections of their spinal cords at segment T12. 2. Stretch of an extensor muscle evoked inhibition in both homonymous and synergistic extensor muscles. The similarities between homonymous and synergistic inhibition suggest that similar neural mechanisms were responsible. 3. Homonymous and synergistic clasp-knife inhibition showed several characteristic features: 1) inhibition was evoked only by large stretches that produced significant muscle force. Short stretches that did not produce large forces evoked only excitation; 2) the magnitude of clasp-knife inhibition increased with increasing initial motor output, as reflected in the level of rectified EMG; 3) the time course of reflex inhibition evoked by ramp-and-hold stretch was characterized by segmentation of EMG during ramp stretch, dynamic overshoot of inhibition at the end-of-ramp stretch, and slow but usually complete decay of inhibition during maintained stretch; 4) inhibition persisted beyond the termination of stretch, and 5) inhibition showed adaptation to repeated stretch. 4. Isometric contraction of the soleus or medial gastrocnemius, produced by electrical stimulation of the muscle nerve, also evoked powerful synergistic-reflex inhibition via similar mechanisms as stretch-evoked, clasp-knife inhibition. Stretch evoked a greater degree of inhibition than did contraction, indicating that receptors responsive to both stretch and contraction contribute to clasp-knife inhibition. 5. The reflex effects produced by stretching the soleus or medial gastrocnemius were not confined to the homonymous and close synergistic muscles. Extensor muscles were inhibited and flexor muscles were excited throughout the hindlimb, which paralleled the pattern of a flexion-withdrawal reflex evoked by cutaneous stimulation. 6. Stretch of a flexor muscle, the tibialis anterior, evoked the same spatial pattern and time course of reflex action as stretch of an extensor muscle--inhibition of extensor muscles and excitation of flexor muscles throughout the hindlimb, including homonymous excitation of the tibialis anterior. 7. We conclude that neither Golgi tendon organs nor secondary spindle afferents are likely to contribute significantly to clasp-knife inhibition because their responses to stretch and isometric contraction differ from the reflex actions evoked by stretch and contraction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. This study evaluates the associative interactions between inputs that lead to long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) in the dentate gyrus (DG). Previous studies have revealed that when two inputs are coconditioned, the extent of LTP is greater than when each input is conditioned alone. Moreover, for a weak input that does not show LTP when conditioned alone, LTP can be induced in that weak input if it is coconditioned with a strong input. LTD results when one input is silent when another is conditioned. In the present study, we evaluate whether these associative interactions depend on the extent of overlap of the terminal fields of the different inputs. 2. The experiment took advantage of the topographical organization of the temporodentate pathway from the entorhinal cortex (EC) to the DG. Four stimulating electrodes were placed so as to activate ipsilateral and crossed components of the projections from medial and lateral portions of the EC. Recording electrodes were positioned unilaterally in the DG so as to record field potentials. The localization of the synaptic field that was activated by each electrode was determined by current source density (CSD) analysis. The extent of overlap between the terminal fields of ipsi- and contralateral pathways was assessed, and the pathways were divided into groups where the overlap between current sinks was 0-50 or 51-100%. 3. Conditioning stimulation (400-Hz trains of 8 pulses delivered 8 times) was delivered to pathways alone or in combination with other pathways. The extent of LTP was evaluated after coactivation of pathways that overlapped substantially (51-100%) or minimally (0-50%). The extent of LTD was evaluated in pathways that were silent during conditioning of other overlapping or nonoverlapping pathways. 4. The extent of associative LTP or LTD depended on the extent of overlap between the terminal fields of pathways. Coactivation of two pathways that overlapped by 51-100% led to LTP; coactivation of pathways that overlapped by 0-50% did not. Moreover, LTD was induced in a crossed pathway when an ipsilateral pathway that overlapped by 51-100% was activated, but not when a nonoverlapping (0-50% overlap) ipsilateral pathway was activated. The degree of associative LTP or LTD that was induced in crossed pathways was correlated with the percent overlap with the terminal field of the active ipsilateral pathway. 5. Evaluation of whether LTD was induced when one division (medial or lateral) of the ipsilateral pathway was silent when the other division was conditioned revealed similar relationships.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Eighteen bereaved children and adolescents were assessed using the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) and the Diagnostic Interview for Children and Adolescents 4 weeks following parental death. Thirty-nine percent had a positive (nonsuppressed) DST. DST-positive subjects reported more DSM-III-R depressive symptoms (6.3 +/- 2.9 vs. 3.9 +/- 2.7, means +/- SD) than DST-negative subjects. Most frequently reported symptoms included dysphoria, loss of interest, sleep disturbance, appetite disturbance, psychomotor disturbance, and morbid and suicidal ideation. Post-dexamethasone cortisol levels were significantly correlated with the total number of depressive symptoms and suicidal ideation.
We examined patterns of cerebral glucose metabolism in 33 patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type by applying principal component analysis to identify subgroups. Four subgroups were identified: one with predominant parietotemporal hypometabolism (15 patients); one with paralimbic metabolic deficits (8 patients); one with left hemisphere neocortical abnormality (5 patients); and one with frontal and parietotemporal deficit (5 patients). Differences among the subgroups were found in neuropsychological impairments and prevalence of psychiatric symptoms. These metabolic subgroups could not be explained on the basis of dementia severity, illness duration, or age, but were most likely related to an underlying pathology with a variable regional distribution.
Protein kinase C (PKC) activity is increased following hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP; Akers et al., 1986). A similar increase in PKC activity is measured following the induction of a long-lasting potentiation with abbreviated high-frequency stimulation (HFS) in combination with PKC-activating phorbol esters (Colley et al., 1989). Because phorbol esters have no effect on the initial potentiation produced with HFS, and because PKC activity appears to be related to the persistence of LTP and not to the initial change, we concluded that PKC regulates a post-initiation component of LTP. To define the time domain in which PKC activation is necessary for LTP, we studied the effect of the PKC inhibitors polymyxin B (PMXB) and 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine (H-7) micropressure ejected at different time points before and after the induction of LTP. LTP was produced in intact rats with HFS of the perforant path, and inhibitor ejections were made in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. PMXB, which at lower doses is a selective inhibitor of PKC, had no effect on initial potentiation, yet caused decay of the potentiated response to baseline within 2 hr. Decay occurred when PMXB was ejected 15 min before and 15 and 30 min after HFS. PMXB, at either low or high doses, was ineffective in blocking LTP persistence at time points greater than 30 min after HFS. Low doses of H-7 produced similar effects to those of PMXB. However, in contrast to a high dose of PMXB, a high dose of H-7 inhibited the persistence of LTP when delivered 240 min after HFS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Alz-50 is a monoclonal antibody that detects antigens enriched in the brain tissue of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Although Alz-50 recognizes tau, an identified integral constituent of the AD paired helical filament (PHF), the exact nature of the antigenic site is unknown. An immunoblot analysis demonstrated that the antigenic sites to Alz-50 are diminished by acid phosphatase treatment. Consistent with this finding, Alz-50 antigens were more concentrated in brain homogenates prepared with phosphatase inhibitors. The epitope in tau with which Alz-50 reacts is located in the carboxy terminus within a 14-amino acid region from just beyond the microtubule-binding repeats to the carboxy terminus. An isolated carboxy-terminal chymotryptic peptide from bovine brain tau reactive with Alz-50 was analyzed by fast-atom-bombardment mass spectroscopy (FAB-MS) and was found to be present as both a monophosphopeptide and a nonphosphorylated peptide. The immunohistological analysis has demonstrated that Alz-50 staining of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) is sensitive to acid phosphatase but not to alkaline phosphatase. Furthermore, Alz-50 staining of NFTs was effectively adsorbed by a high concentration of phosphoserine but not by serine or phosphothreonine. These results strongly suggest that Alz-50 recognizes a phosphorylated epitope in the carboxy terminus of tau which has not been previously detected by using alkaline phosphatase. The strong Alz-50 staining in AD samples may represent another association between a phosphorylation state and neurofibrillary lesions. As a marker of the inchoate tangle-bearing neuron, the characterization of the Alz-50 epitope in tau offers a partial molecular basis for the modifications that contribute to the assembly of PHFs.
The whole cell patch clamp technique allows recording of membrane currents in an entire cell under voltage clamp conditions. However, technical difficulties arise in large cells bearing extensive processes, such as human fetal dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in culture. In order to improve space clamp conditions, human fetal DRG neurons cultured for 1-2 weeks were enzymatically detached and replaced in new dishes, yielding round or oval cells with absent or short processes at 24 h in culture. Current clamp recordings demonstrated no difference in action potential parameters of the replated cells compared to control non-replated cells. Analysis of passive properties showed a reduction of 40% in mean specific membrane capacitance and a 57% increase in mean specific membrane resistance in the replated cells, consistent with the decrease of cell membrane surface area. Whole cell voltage clamp studies demonstrated great improvement of the space clamp, indicating that more efficient voltage clamp conditions can be achieved in neurons in culture by eliminating neurites through replating.
The potential benefit of cerebral angioplasty for patients with delayed cerebral ischemia secondary to vasospasm is promising. Cerebral angioplasty has the potential for positively affecting patient outcome and quality of life. Further, cerebral angioplasty may lead to a reduction in long-term care needs for patients who experience severe cerebral vasospasm from an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. The challenge to the neuroscience nurse begins with the early detection of neurological changes signaling the onset of progressive delayed cerebral ischemia despite conventional therapies for vasospasm. The nurse's sagacious management of neurologic, hemodynamic and pulmonary status and the ongoing support of the patient and family throughout the angioplasty procedure is crucial to a positive outcome.
Neurological assessment is one way of decreasing patient hospital costs. By conducting thorough, systematic neurologic assessments both on admission and continuing throughout the hospital stay, the neuroscience nurse may be able to discover complications early so that treatment is not delayed. Thus, long-term problems could be avoided which might lead to further costs to the patient.
Chronic pain caused by a sympathetic nervous system aberration must be considered separately from chronic pain resulting from carcinoma, arthritis, neuropathies and other delineated pathology. Because the pathophysiology of these conditions and their associated pain can be explained, treatment modalities can be planned specific to the affected individual and targeted toward the altered physiology. If the pathophysiology is not clearly defined or understood, as is the case in reflex sympathetic dystrophy and other idiopathic pain conditions, then prescription and remediation become a challenge for the healthcare professional and client. New thoughts on the clinical findings, pathogenesis, diagnosis and prognosis are evolving, with inherent implications for neuroscience nursing.
Neuroscience patients, even with vigorous preventive efforts, are often at risk for developing pressure ulcers. Recognition of risk factors and institution of preventive techniques are essential aspects of initial management. Neuroscience nurses familiar with current treatment principles and products will be better prepared to offer their patients comprehensive skin care.
Neuman's Systems Model provides a framework for holistic neuroscience nursing practice. Utilizing Neuman's assessment format, results are presented for a patient who sustained a cervical spinal cord injury. Nursing diagnoses are identified and a sample plan of care is included.

