
Receptive field sizes of neurons in early primate visual areas increase with eccentricity, as does temporal processing speed. The fovea is evidently specialized for slow, fine movements while the periphery is suited for fast, coarse movements. In either the fovea or periphery discrete flashes can produce motion percepts. Grossberg and Rudd (1989) used traveling Gaussian activity profiles to model long-range apparent motion percepts. We propose a neural model constrained by physiological data to explain how signals from retinal ganglion cells to V1 affect the perception of motion as a function of eccentricity. Our model incorporates cortical magnification, receptive field overlap and scatter, and spatial and temporal response characteristics of retinal ganglion cells for cortical processing of motion. Consistent with the finding of Baker and Braddick (1985), in our model the maximum flash distance that is perceived as an apparent motion (Dmax) increases linearly as a function of eccentricity. Baker and Braddick (1985) made qualitative predictions about the functional significance of both stimulus and visual system parameters that constrain motion perception, such as an increase in the range of detectable motions as a function of eccentricity and the likely role of higher visual processes in determining Dmax. We generate corresponding quantitative predictions for those functional dependencies for individual aspects of motion processing. Simulation results indicate that the early visual pathway can explain the qualitative linear increase of Dmax data without reliance on extrastriate areas, but that those higher visual areas may serve as a modulatory influence on the exact Dmax increase.
Glutamate plays a central role in brain physiology and pathology. The involvement of excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) in neurodegenerative disorders including acute stroke has been widely studied, but little is known about the role of glial glutamate transporters in white matter injury after chronic cerebral hypoperfusion. The present study evaluated the expression of glial (EAAT1 and EAAT2) and neuronal (EAAT3) glutamate transporters in subcortical white matter and cortex, before and 3-28 days after the ligation of bilateral common carotid arteries (LBCCA) in rat brain. K-B staining showed a gradual increase of demyelination in white matter after ischemia, while there was no cortical involvement. Between 3 and 7 days after LBCCA, a significant increase in EAAT2 protein levels was observed in the ischemic brain and the number of EAAT2-positive cells also significantly increased both in the cortical and white matter lesions. EAAT2 was detected in glial-fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes in both the cortex and white matter, but not in neuronal and oligodendroglial cells. EAAT1 was slightly elevated after ischemia only in the white matter, but EAAT3 was at almost similar levels both in the cortex and white matter after ischemia. A significant increase in EAAT2 expression level was also noted in the deep white matter of chronic human ischemic brain tissue compared to the control group. Our findings suggest important roles for up-regulated EAAT2 in chronic brain ischemia especially in the regulation of high-affinity of extracellular glutamate and minimization of white matter damage.
The present study evaluated, using immunohistochemical methods, the presence and characteristics of proliferating and newly generated neurons in the brain of eight wild-caught adult Megachiropteran species. For the neurogenic patterns observed, direct homologies are evident in other mammalian species; however, there were several distinctions in the presence or absence of proliferating and immature neurons, and migratory streams that provide important clues regarding the use of the brain in the analysis of Chiropteran phylogenetic affinities. In all eight species studied, numerous Ki-67- and doublecortin (DCX)-immunopositive cells were identified in the subventricular zone (SVZ). These cells migrated to the olfactory bulb through a Primate-like rostral migratory stream (RMS) that is composed of dorsal and ventral substreams which merge before entering the olfactory bulb. Some cells were observed emerging from the RMS coursing caudally and dorsally to the rostral neocortex. In the dentate gyrus of all species, Ki-67- and DCX-expressing cells were observed in the granular cell layer and hilus. Similar to Primates, proliferating cells and immature neurons were identified in the SVZ of the temporal horn of Megachiropterans. These cells migrated to the rostral and caudal piriform cortex through a Primate-like temporal migratory stream. Sparsely distributed Ki-67-immunopositive, but DCX-immunonegative, cells were identified in the tectum, brainstem and cerebellum. The observations from this study add to a number of neural characteristics that phylogenetically align Megachiropterans to Primates.
Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN DBS) provides a unique window into human brain function since it can reversibly alter the functioning of specific brain circuits. Basal ganglia-cortical circuits are thought to be excessively noisy in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), based in part on the lack of specificity of proprioceptive signals in basal ganglia-thalamic-cortical circuits in monkey models of the disease. PD patients are known to have deficits in proprioception, but the effects are often subtle, with paradigms typically restricted to one or two joint movements in a plane. Moreover, the effects of STN DBS on proprioception are virtually unexplored. We tested the following hypotheses: first, that PD patients will show substantial deficits in unconstrained, multi-joint proprioception, and, second, that STN DBS will improve multi-joint proprioception. Twelve PD patients with bilaterally implanted electrodes in the subthalamic nucleus and 12 age-matched healthy subjects were asked to position the left hand at a location that was proprioceptively defined in 3D space with the right hand. In a second condition, subjects were provided visual feedback during the task so that they were not forced to rely on proprioception. Overall, with STN DBS switched off, PD patients showed significantly larger proprioceptive localization errors, and greater variability in endpoint localizations than the control subjects. Visual feedback partially normalized PD performance, and demonstrated that the errors in proprioceptive localization were not simply due to a difficulty in executing the movements or in remembering target locations. Switching STN DBS on significantly reduced localization errors from those of control subjects when patients moved without visual feedback relative to when they moved with visual feedback (when proprioception was not required). However, this reduction in localization errors without vision came at the cost of increased localization variability.
Vestibulospinal reflexes elicited by head displacement in space depend on the direction of body displacement, because the neuronal responses to labyrinthine stimulation are tuned by neck displacement: a directional tuning takes place in the medial cerebellum and in spinal motoneurons, while a gain and a basal activity tuning can be observed in the reticular formation, a target structure of the medial cerebellum. In the present study, we investigated whether also the response of vestibular nuclear neurons (another target of the medial cerebellum) to labyrinthine stimulation is tuned by neck displacement and which parameters of the response are modulated by it. In urethane-anaesthetized Wistar rats, single-unit activity was recorded from the vestibular nuclei at rest and during wobble of the whole animal at 0.156 Hz. This stimulus tilted the animal's head by a constant amplitude (5), in a direction rotating at a constant velocity over the horizontal plane, either in clockwise or counter clockwise direction. The gain and the direction of neuronal responses to wobble were evaluated through Fourier analysis, in the control position (with coincident head and body axes) and following a body-to-head rotation of 5-30 over the horizontal plane, in both directions. Most of the vestibular neurons modified their response gain and/or their basal activity following body-to-head rotation, as it occurs in the reticular formation. Only few neurons modified their response direction, as occurs in the cerebellum and in spinal motoneurons. The different behaviour of cerebellar neurons and of their vestibular and reticular target cells, suggests that the role played by the cerebellum in the neck tuning of vestibulospinal reflexes has to be reconsidered.
Progenitor cell proliferation is ubiquitous in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and subgranular zone (SGZ) of adult mammalian brains, however, the abundance and distribution of proliferation are surprisingly heterogeneous between species. In rodents, proliferation is high in both the SVZ and SGZ, while in humans proliferation is prominent in the SVZ but limited in the SGZ. To accurately study proliferation and how it changes in human disease, we should focus on animals in which the patterns of proliferation are consistent with the human brain. In this study, we characterized the neurogenic niches of the adult sheep, an animal model with a longer lifespan than rodents and a highly gyrencephalic brain, using 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) as a mitotic marker and neuronal nuclear antigen to identify neuronal lineage cells. Our study demonstrates that the sheep SVZ is organized into the same distinct layers that are comparable to what has been described in humans. The rate of maturation of new neurons was slower in sheep than in previous reports in rodents, with only 20% of BrdU-positive cells showing neuronal phenotype after 4 months survival following BrdU administration. Most importantly, as in the human, there was much greater proliferation in the sheep SVZ than in the SGZ. These results suggest that the sheep is a better basis for comparisons with human SVZ and SGZ neurogenesis than rodents.
Although much has been learned regarding the molecular and cellular mechanisms of memory reconsolidation, its actual biological function remains unclear. In this work we investigate the possibility that three different mnemonic processes - updating, precision-keeping and trace strengthening - are mediated by reconsolidation in contextual fear conditioning. Reconsolidation involves the activation of calcium channels for the destabilization during the reactivation. Our results show that when memory is reactivated in a situation that does not match the original information, content is modified, i.e., &quot;updated&quot;. However, when the contextual condition matches the original one, memory reactivation contributes either to its strengthening or to the maintenance of its precision content over time. Since the L-type voltage-gated calcium channel antagonist nimodipine blocked these effects, we suggest that reconsolidation is the mechanism supporting these processes.
Besides its prominent role in angiogenesis, the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) also exerts important protective effects on neurons. In particular, mice expressing reduced levels of VEGF suffer from late-onset motor neuron degeneration, whereas VEGF delivery significantly delays motor neuron death in ALS mouse models, at least partly through neuroprotective effects. Additionally, VEGF protects dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons against paclitaxel-induced neurotoxicity. Here, we demonstrate that VEGF also protects DRG neurons against hyperglycemia-induced neuronal stress as a model of diabetes-induced peripheral neuropathy. Specifically, VEGF decreased expression of the stress-related gene activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) in DRG neurons isolated from streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice (ex vivo) and in isolated DRG neurons exposed to high glucose concentrations (in vitro). In vivo, local VEGF application also protected against paclitaxel- and diabetes-induced neuropathies without causing side effects. A small synthetic VEGF mimicking pentadecapeptide (QK) exerted similar effects on DRG cultures: the peptide reduced ATF3 expression in vitro and ex vivo in paclitaxel- and hyperglycemia-induced models of neuropathy to a similar extent as the full-length recombinant VEGF protein. By using transgenic mice selectively overexpressing the VEGF receptor 2 in postnatal neurons, these neuroprotective effects were shown to be mediated through VEGF receptor 2. Overall, these results underscore the potential of VEGF and VEGF-derived peptides for the treatment of peripheral neuropathies.
TatCN21 is a membrane permeable calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) inhibitor derived from the inhibitor protein CaMKIIN. TatCN21 has been used to demonstrate the involvement of CaMKII in a variety of physiological and pathological phenomena, and it also limits excitotoxic damage in neurons. Here we use preembedding immunogold electron microscopy to examine the effect of tatCN21 on the redistribution of CaMKII in cultured hippocampal neurons. Incubation of cultures with tatCN21 (20 M for 20 min) prior to exposure to N-methyl-d-asparic acid (NMDA) (50 M for 2 min) inhibited both the accumulation of CaMKII at postsynaptic densities (PSDs) and CaMKII clustering in the dendrites. Under these conditions, CaMKII also formed morphologically distinct aggregates with polyribosomes near the PSD and in dendrites. Formation of these CaMKII-polyribosome aggregates requires the presence of both tatCN21 and calcium, and was augmented upon exposure to high K(+) or NMDA. CaMKII-polyribosome aggregates formed consistently with 20 M tatCN21, but minimally or not at all with 5 M. However, these aggregates are not induced by another CaMKII inhibitor, KN93. Formation of CaMKII-polyribosome aggregates was completely reversible within 1h after washout of tatCN21. Effects of tatCN21 were largely restricted to dendrites, with minimal effect in the soma. The effects of tatCN21 on CaMKII distribution can be used to dissect the mechanism of CaMKII involvement in cellular events.
Gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) may play an important role in the hearing process. Cisplatin is an anticancer drug that causes hearing loss and Gingko biloba extracts (EGb 761) have been used as an antioxidant and enhancer for GJIC. The purpose of this study was to examine the efficiency of EGb 761 in protecting against cisplatin-induced apoptosis and disturbance of GJIC. House Ear Institute-Organ of Corti 1 auditory cells were cultured and treated with cisplatin (50 M) and EGb (300 g/ml) for 24h, and then analyzed by immunocytochemistry (Annexin V/propidium iodide) and Western blots. GJIC was evaluated by scrape-loading dye transfer (SLDT). Basal turn organ of Corti (oC) explants from neonatal (p3) rats were exposed to cisplatin (1-10 M) and EGb (50-400 g/ml). The number of intact hair cells was counted by co-labeling with phalloidin and MyoVIIa. EGb prevented cisplatin-induced apoptosis in immunostaining and decreased caspase 3 and poly-ADP-ribose polymerase bands, which were increased in cisplatin-treated cells in Western blots. EGb prevented abnormal intracellular locations of connexin (Cx) 26, 30, 31, and 43 in cells treated with cisplatin and increased quantities of Cx bands. EGb also prevented cisplatin-induced disturbance of GJIC in SLDT. In oC explants, EGb significantly prevented hair cell damage induced by cisplatin. In animal studies, EGb significantly prevented cisplatin-induced hearing loss across 16 and 32 kHz. These results show that cisplatin induces ototoxicity including hearing loss as well as down-regulation of GJIC and inhibition of Cxs in auditory cells. EGb prevents hearing loss in cisplatin-treated rats by inhibiting down-regulation of Cx expression and GJIC. The disturbance of GJIC or Cx expression may be one of the important mechanisms of cisplatin-induced ototoxicity.
The neural underpinnings of working and recognition memory have traditionally been studied in the visual domain and these studies pinpoint the lateral prefrontal cortex (lPFC) as a primary region for visual memory processing (Miller et al., 1996; Ranganath et al., 2004; Kennerley and Wallis, 2009). Herein, we utilize single-unit recordings for the same region in monkeys (Macaca mulatta) but investigate a second modality examining auditory working and recognition memory during delayed matching-to-sample (DMS) performance. A large portion of neurons in the dorsal and ventral banks of the principal sulcus (area 46, 46/9) show DMS event-related activity to one or more of the following task events: auditory cues, memory delay, decision wait time, response, and/or reward portions. Approximately 50% of the neurons show evidence of auditory-evoked activity during the task and population activity demonstrated encoding of recognition memory in the form of match enhancement. However, neither robust nor sustained delay activity was observed. The neuronal responses during the auditory DMS task are similar in many respects to those found within the visual working memory domain, which supports the hypothesis that the lPFC, particularly area 46, functionally represents key pieces of information for recognition memory inclusive of decision-making, but regardless of modality.
Chronic alcohol intake is known to induce the selective neuronal damage associated with increase oxidative-nitrosative stress and activation of inflammatory cascade finally resulting in cognitive deficits. In the present study, we investigated the protective effect of curcumin, a potent natural anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory molecule against chronic alcohol-induced cognitive dysfunction and nuclear factor kappa beta (NF-) mediated inflammatory signaling in the brain of rats chronically administered ethanol. Male Wistar rats were given ethanol (10 g/kg; oral gavage) for 10 weeks, and treated with curcumin (15, 30 and 60 mg/kg) for the same duration. Ethanol-exposed rats showed impaired spatial navigation in the Morris water maze test and poor retention in the elevated plus maze task which was coupled with enhanced acetylcholinesterase activity, increased oxidative-nitrosative stress, cytokines (tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) and interleukin-1 beta (IL-1)), NF-k and caspase-3 levels in different brain regions (cerebral cortex and hippocampus) of ethanol-treated rats. Co-administration with curcumin significantly and dose-dependently prevented all the behavioral, biochemical and molecular alterations in rats chronically administered ethanol. Thus, findings from the current study demonstrates the possible involvement of oxidative-nitrosative stress mediated cytokine release and inflammatory signaling in chronic alcohol-induced cognitive dysfunction and also suggests the effectiveness of curcumin in preventing cognitive deficits associated with chronic alcohol consumption.
Deceit is a core feature of antisocial personality disorder (ASPD), and the study of deception in ASPD has important implications for identifying the underlying mechanism of ASPD. A great deal of functional neuroimaging literature has described the neural correlates of deception in healthy volunteers, but there have been few imaging studies examining people with ASPD. The neural correlates of lie-telling in ASPD, and which specific brain activities are related to the capacity to lie, are unclear. In this study, 32 offenders who satisfied the Personality Diagnostic Questionaire-4 and PDI-IV (Personality Disorder Interview) criteria for ASPD were divided into three groups based on their capacity for deception, which was evaluated based on the deceitfulness criterion of the PDI-IV ASPD. All offenders underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while responding to questions in a truthful, inverse, or deceitful manner. We primarily created contrasts in the brain activities between truth-telling and lie-telling, and then computed the Pearson's correlation coefficients between activities contrasts of individual, i.e. BOLD (blood-oxygen-level-dependent) strength during deception minus that during truth-telling, and the capacity for deception. Our results indicated that the bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex extending to the middle frontal gyrus, the left inferior parietal lobule, and the bilateral anterior cingulate gyrus/medial superior frontal gyrus were associated with deception among people with ASPD. As the capacity for deception increased, the contrasted brain activities of the above regions decreased. This study found that truthful and untruthful communications of ASPD subjects can be differentiated in terms of brain BOLD activities, and more importantly, this study is the first to use fMRI to discover that BOLD activities during deception are correlated with the capacity to lie. The latter finding might challenge the diagnostic accuracy of lie detection and may also caution that greater attention should be given to detecting untruths in individuals who are skilled at lying.
Perinatal undernutrition affects the hippocampus, a brain region crucial for learning and memory. However, far less is known about the changes of dendritic spine density and morphology related to hippocampal synaptic plasticity. As dendritic spines are dynamic structures essential for synaptic plasticity and serve as the primary post-synaptic location of the excitatory neurotransmission that underlies learning and memory, the aim of the present study was to investigate whether the perinatal undernutrition affected hippocampal synaptic plasticity accompanied by the change of dendritic spines in anesthetized rats. An input-output curve was first determined using the measurements of field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) slope in response to a series of stimulation intensities. Long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by high-frequency stimulation was recorded in the Schaffer collateral-CA1 pathway. Post-tetanic potentiation derived from the fEPSP slope was also measured immediately after LTP induction. Quantitative data of dendritic spines from hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells were obtained using Golgi staining. The results showed that 50% perinatal food restriction (FR50) impaired the magnitude of LTP of the fEPSP slope in the Schaffer collateral-CA1 pathway. Additionally, FR50 reduced overall spine densities in both basal dendrites and apical dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells. Moreover, FR50 reduced type densities of thin and mushroom spines in apical dendrites, whereas a reduction in the type of mushroom spines was only observed in the basal dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells. These findings suggested that perinatal undernutrition decreased excitatory synaptic input and further affected the processing of information in a given network by selectively reducing the number of special dendritic spines. Thus, these changes in the density and the types of dendritic spines in CA1 pyramidal neurons may partly explain the impaired hippocampal synaptic plasticity as well as learning and memory disturbances commonly observed during undernourished rats.
Excessive alcohol consumption is prevalent among adolescents and may result in lasting neurobehavioral consequences. The use of animal models to study adolescent alcohol exposure has the advantage of allowing for the control necessary in order to evaluate the effects of ethanol on the brain and separate such effects from genetic background and other environmental insults. In the present study the effects of moderate ethanol vapor exposure, during adolescence, on measures of neurogenesis and behavioral measures were evaluated at two different times following ethanol withdrawal, in adulthood. The two groups of Wistar rats were both exposed to intermittent ethanol vapor (14 h on/10h off/day) for 35-36 days from PD 23 to PD 58 (average blood ethanol concentration: 163 mg%). In the first group, after rats were withdrawn from vapor they were subsequently assessed for locomotor activity, conflict behavior in the open field, and behaviors in the forced swim test (FST) and then sacrificed at 72 days of age. The second group of rats were withdrawn from vapor and injected for 5 days with Bromo-deoxy-Uridine (BrdU). Over the next 8 weeks they were also assessed for locomotor activity, conflict behavior in the open field, and behaviors in the FST and then sacrificed at 113/114 days of age. All rats were perfused for histochemical analyses. Ethanol vapor-exposed rats displayed hypoactivity in tests of locomotion and less anxiety-like and/or more &quot;disinhibitory&quot; behavior in the open field conflict. Quantitative analyses of immunoreactivity revealed a significant reduction in measures of neurogenesis, progenitor proliferation, as indexed by doublecortin (DCX), Ki67, and increased markers of cell death as indexed by cleaved caspase-3, and Fluoro-Jade at 72 days, and decreases in DCX, and increases in cleaved caspase-3 at 114 days in the ethanol vapor-exposed rats. Progenitor survival, as assessed by BrdU+, was reduced in the vapor-exposed animals that were sacrificed at 114 days. The reduction seen in DCX labeled in cell counts was significantly correlated with hypoactivity at 24h after withdrawal as well as less anxiety-like and/or more &quot;disinhibitory&quot; behavior in the open field conflict test at 2 and 8 weeks following termination of vapor exposure. These studies demonstrate that behavioral measures of disinhibitory behavior correlated with decreases in neurogenesis are all significantly and persistently impacted by periadolescent ethanol exposure and withdrawal in Wistar rats.
Autophagy may contribute to ischemia-induced cell death in the brain, but the regulation of autophagic cell death is largely unknown. Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B) is a regulator of apoptosis in cerebral ischemia. We examined the hypothesis that autophagy-like cell death could contribute to ischemia-induced brain damage and the process was regulated by NF-B. In adult wild-type (WT) and NF-B p50 knockout (p50(-/-)) mice, focal ischemia in the barrel cortex was induced by ligation of distal branches of the middle cerebral artery. Twelve to 24h later, autophagic activity increased as indicated by enhanced expression of Beclin-1 and LC3 in the ischemic core and/or penumbra regions. This increased autophagy contributed to cell injury, evidenced by terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL) co-staining and a protective effect achieved by the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine. The number of Beclin-1/TUNEL-positive cells was significantly more in p50(-/-) mice than in WT mice. Neuronal and vascular cell death, as determined by TUNEL-positive cells co-staining with NeuN or Collagen IV, was more abundant in p50(-/-) mice. Immunostaining of the endothelial cell tight junction marker occludin revealed more damage to the blood-brain barrier in p50(-/-) mice. Western blotting of the peri-infarct tissue showed a reduction of Akt-the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling in p50(-/-) mice after ischemia. These findings provide the first evidence that cerebral ischemia induced autophagy-like injury is regulated by the NF-B pathway, which may suggest potential treatments for ischemic stroke.
The opiate system has long been implicated in the rewarding properties of social interactions. In particular, the -opioid receptor (MOR) mediates multiple forms of social attachment, including the attachment of offspring to the mother and social bonding between mates. We have previously shown that MOR in the caudate-putamen is involved in partner preference formation in monogamous prairie voles. Here, using in situ hybridization and receptor autoradiography, we mapped in detail the distribution of MOR mRNA and ligand binding in monogamous prairie vole brains and compared MOR binding density with that of promiscuous meadow vole brains. Comparison of MOR binding in these closely related species with distinctly different social behavior revealed that while the distribution of MOR is similar, prairie voles have significantly higher densities of MOR than meadow voles in a majority of regions in the forebrain, including the caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens shell, lateral septum and several thalamic nuclei, including the anteroventral and anteromedial thalamic nuclei. These differences in MOR expression between prairie and meadow voles could potentially contribute to species differences in behavior, including social attachment.
The activity of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) is intricately regulated by a range of intracellular proteins, including G protein-coupled kinases (GRKs) and arrestins. Understanding the effects of ligands on these signaling pathways could provide insights into disease pathophysiologies and treatment. The dopamine D2 receptor is a GPCR strongly implicated in the pathophysiology of a range of neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders, particularly schizophrenia. Previous studies from our lab have shown the preclinical efficacy of a novel allosteric drug, 3(R)-[(2(S)-pyrrolidinylcarbonyl)amino]-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidineacetamide (PAOPA), in attenuating schizophrenia-like behavioural abnormalities in rodent models of the disease. As an allosteric modulator, PAOPA binds to a site on the D2 receptor, which is distinct from the endogenous ligand-binding site, in order to modulate the binding of the D2 receptor ligand, dopamine. The exact signaling pathways affected by this allosteric modulator are currently unknown. The objectives of this study were to decipher the in vivo effects, in rats, of chronic PAOPA administration on D2 receptor regulatory and downstream molecules, including GRK2, arrestin-3 and extracellular receptor kinase (ERK) 1/2. Additionally, an in vitro cellular model was also used to study PAOPA's effects on D2 receptor internalization. Results from western immunoblots showed that chronic PAOPA treatment increased the striatal expression of GRK2 by 41%, arrestin-3 by 34%, phospho-ERK1 by 51% and phospho-ERK2 by 36%. Results also showed that the addition of PAOPA to agonist treatment in cells increased D2 receptor internalization by 33%. This study provides the foundational evidence of putative signaling pathways, and changes in receptor localization, affected by treatment with PAOPA. It improves our understanding on the diverse mechanisms of action of allosteric modulators, while advancing PAOPA's development into a novel drug for the improved treatment of schizophrenia.
A major output nucleus of the basal ganglia is the substantia nigra pars reticulata, which sends GABAergic projections to brainstem and thalamic nuclei. The GABAergic (GABA) neurons are reciprocally connected with nearby dopaminergic neurons, which project mainly to the basal ganglia, a set of subcortical nuclei critical for goal-directed behaviors. Here we examined the impact of motivational states on the activity of GABA neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the neighboring dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the pars compacta. Both types of neurons show short-latency bursts to a cue predicting a food reward. As mice became sated by repeated consumption of food pellets, one class of neurons reduced cue-elicited firing, whereas another class of neurons progressively increased firing. Extinction or pre-feeding just before the test session dramatically reduced the phasic responses and their motivational modulation. These results suggest that signals related to the current motivational state bidirectionally modulate behavior and the magnitude of phasic response of both DA and GABA neurons in the substantia nigra.
In neurons, specific RNAs are assembled into granules, which are translated in dendrites, however the functional consequences of granule assembly are not known. Tumor overexpressed gene (TOG) is a granule-associated protein containing multiple binding sites for heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A2, another granule component that recognizes cis-acting sequences called hnRNP A2 response elements (A2REs) present in several granule RNAs. Translation in granules is sporadic, which is believed to reflect monosomal translation, with occasional bursts, which are believed to reflect polysomal translation. In this study, TOG expression was conditionally knocked out (TOG cKO) in mouse hippocampal neurons using cre/lox technology. In TOG cKO cultured neurons granule assembly and bursty translation of activity-regulated cytoskeletal associated (ARC) mRNA, an A2RE RNA, are disrupted. In TOG cKO brain slices synaptic sensitivity and long term potentiation (LTP) are reduced. TOG cKO mice exhibit hyperactivity, perseveration and impaired short term habituation. These results suggest that in hippocampal neurons TOG is required for granule assembly, granule translation and synaptic plasticity, and affects behavior.
The transcription factor SRY (sex-determining region)-box 2 (SOX2) is an important functional marker of neural precursor cells (NPCs) and plays a critical role in self-renewal and neuronal differentiation; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying its functions are poorly understood. Using human embryonic stem cell-derived NPCs to model neurogenesis, we found that SOX2 is required to maintain optimal levels of LIN28, a well-characterized suppressor of let-7 microRNA biogenesis. Exogenous LIN28 expression rescued the NPC proliferation deficit, as well as the early but not the late stages of the neurogenic deficit associated with the loss of SOX2. We found that SOX2 binds to a proximal site in the LIN28 promoter region and regulates LIN28 promoter acetylation, likely through interactions with the histone acetyltransferase complex. Misexpression of let-7 microRNAs in NPCs reduced proliferation and inhibited neuronal differentiation, phenocopying the loss of SOX2. In particular, we identified let-7i as a novel and potent inhibitor of neuronal differentiation that targets MASH1 and NGN1, two well-characterized proneural genes. In conclusion, we discovered the SOX2-LIN28/let-7 pathway as a unique molecular mechanism governing NPC proliferation and neurogenic potential.
Local recycling of synaptic vesicles (SVs) allows neurons to sustain transmitter release. Extreme activity (e.g., during seizure) may exhaust synaptic transmission and, in vitro, induces bulk endocytosis to recover SV membrane and proteins; how this occurs in animals is unknown. Following optogenetic hyperstimulation of Caenorhabditis elegans motoneurons, we analyzed synaptic recovery by time-resolved behavioral, electrophysiological, and ultrastructural assays. Recovery of docked SVs and of evoked-release amplitudes (indicating readily-releasable pool refilling) occurred within 8-20 s ( = 9.2 s and  = 11.9 s), whereas locomotion recovered only after 60 s ( = 20 s). During 11-s stimulation, 50- to 200-nm noncoated vesicles (&quot;100nm vesicles&quot;) formed, which disappeared 8 s poststimulation, likely representing endocytic intermediates from which SVs may regenerate. In endophilin, synaptojanin, and dynamin mutants, affecting endocytosis and vesicle scission, resolving 100nm vesicles was delayed (&gt;20 s). In dynamin mutants, 100nm vesicles were abundant and persistent, sometimes continuous with the plasma membrane; incomplete budding of smaller vesicles from 100nm vesicles further implicates dynamin in regenerating SVs from bulk-endocytosed vesicles. Synaptic recovery after exhaustive activity is slow, and different time scales of recovery at ultrastructural, physiological, and behavioral levels indicate multiple contributing processes. Similar processes may jointly account for slow recovery from acute seizures also in higher animals.
Nociceptive information is modulated by a large number of endogenous signaling agents that change over the course of recovery from injury. This plasticity makes understanding regulatory mechanisms involved in descending inhibition of pain scientifically and clinically important. Neurons that synthesize the neuropeptide TIP39 project to many areas that modulate nociceptive information. These areas are enriched in its receptor, the parathyroid hormone 2 receptor (PTH2R). We previously found that TIP39 affects several acute nociceptive responses, leading us to now investigate its potential role in chronic pain. Following nerve injury, both PTH2R and TIP39 knockout mice developed less tactile and thermal hypersensitivity than controls and returned to baseline sensory thresholds faster. Effects of hindpaw inflammatory injury were similarly decreased in knockout mice. Blockade of -2 adrenergic receptors increased the tactile and thermal sensitivity of apparently recovered knockout mice, returning it to levels of neuropathic controls. Mice with locus coeruleus (LC) area injection of lentivirus encoding a secreted PTH2R antagonist had a rapid, -2 reversible, apparent recovery from neuropathic injury similar to the knockout mice. Ablation of LC area glutamatergic neurons led to local PTH2R-ir loss, and barley lectin was transferred from local glutamatergic neurons to GABA interneurons that surround the LC. These results suggest that TIP39 signaling modulates sensory thresholds via effects on glutamatergic transmission to brainstem GABAergic interneurons that innervate noradrenergic neurons. TIP39's normal role may be to inhibit release of hypoalgesic amounts of norepinephrine during chronic pain. The neuropeptide may help maintain central sensitization, which could serve to enhance guarding behavior.
Population codes assume that neural systems represent sensory inputs through the firing rates of populations of differently tuned neurons. However, trial-by-trial variability and noise correlations are known to affect the information capacity of neural codes. Although recent studies have shown that stimulus presentation reduces both variability and rate correlations with respect to their spontaneous level, possibly improving the encoding accuracy, whether these second order statistics are tuned is unknown. If so, second-order statistics could themselves carry information, rather than being invariably detrimental. Here we show that rate variability and noise correlation vary systematically with stimulus direction in directionally selective middle temporal (MT) neurons, leading to characteristic tuning curves. We show that such tuning emerges in a stochastic recurrent network, for a set of connectivity parameters that overlaps with a single-state scenario and multistability. Information theoretic analysis shows that second-order statistics carry information that can improve the accuracy of the population code.
Visual systems adapt rapidly to objects moving repeatedly within the visual field, because such objects are likely irrelevant. In the crab, the neural switch for such adaptation has been found to take place at a surprisingly early stage of the visual processing pathway.
Everyday problem solving requires the ability to go beyond experience by efficiently encoding and manipulating new information, i.e., fluid intelligence (Gf) [1]. Performance in tasks involving Gf, such as logical and abstract reasoning, has been shown to rely on distributed neural networks, with a crucial role played by prefrontal regions [2]. Synchronization of neuronal activity in the gamma band is a ubiquitous phenomenon within the brain; however, no evidence of its causal involvement in cognition exists to date [3]. Here, we show an enhancement of Gf ability in a cognitive task induced by exogenous rhythmic stimulation within the gamma band. Imperceptible alternating current [4] delivered through the scalp over the left middle frontal gyrus resulted in a frequency-specific shortening of the time required to find the correct solution in a visuospatial abstract reasoning task classically employed to measure Gf abilities (i.e., Raven's matrices) [5]. Crucially, gamma-band stimulation (-tACS) selectively enhanced performance only on more complex trials involving conditional/logical reasoning. The present finding supports a direct involvement of gamma oscillatory activity in the mechanisms underlying higher-order human cognition.
Intestinal microbiota and gut immune systems interact each other, maintaining a condition of homeostasis in the context of the intestinal habitat. However, both systems undergo modifications in elderly, thus accounting for a low grade inflammatory status which, in turn, may evolve toward more severe pathological conditions such as inflammatory bowel disease and colon rectal cancer. In addition, in western societies dietary habits may negatively influence the microbiota composition, also altering gut immune response which is per se impaired in elderly. In order to prevent the outcome of aged-related disease, supplementation of nutraceuticals able to correct abnormalities of both immune system and microbiota has become more frequent than in the past. In this respect, a better identification of components of the aged microbiota as well as a deeper analysis of gut mucosal immunity function should be pursued.
Somatic transposon mutagenesis in mice is an efficient strategy to investigate the genetic mechanisms of tumorigenesis. The identification of tumor driving transposon insertions traditionally requires the generation of large tumor cohorts to obtain information about common insertion sites. Tumor driving insertions are also characterized by their clonal expansion in tumor tissue, a phenomenon that is facilitated by the slow and evolving transformation process of transposon mutagenesis. We describe here an improved approach for the detection of tumor driving insertions that assesses the clonal expansion of insertions by quantifying the relative proportion of sequence reads obtained in individual tumors. To this end, we have developed a protocol for insertion site sequencing that utilizes acoustic shearing of tumor DNA and Illumina sequencing. We analyzed various solid tumors generated by PiggyBac mutagenesis and for each tumor &gt;10 reads corresponding to &gt;10 insertion sites were obtained. In each tumor, 9 to 25 insertions stood out by their enriched sequence read frequencies when compared to frequencies obtained from tail DNA controls. These enriched insertions are potential clonally expanded tumor driving insertions, and thus identify candidate cancer genes. The candidate cancer genes of our study comprised many established cancer genes, but also novel candidate genes such as Mastermind-like1 (Mamld1) and Diacylglycerolkinase delta (Dgkd). We show that clonal expansion analysis by high-throughput sequencing is a robust approach for the identification of candidate cancer genes in insertional mutagenesis screens on the level of individual tumors.
Multivariate analysis is a very general and powerful technique for analysing Magnetoencephalography (MEG) data. An outstanding problem however is how to make inferences that are consistent over a group of subjects as to whether there are condition-specific differences in data features, and what are those features that maximise these differences. Here we propose a solution based on Canonical Variates Analysis (CVA) model scoring at the subject level and random effects Bayesian model selection at the group level. We apply this approach to beamformer reconstructed MEG data in source space. CVA estimates those multivariate patterns of activation that correlate most highly with the experimental design; the order of a CVA model is then determined by the number of significant canonical vectors. Random effects Bayesian model comparison then provides machinery for inferring the optimal order over the group of subjects. Absence of a multivariate dependence is indicated by the null model being the most likely. This approach can also be applied to CVA models with a fixed number of canonical vectors but supplied with different feature sets. We illustrate the method by identifying feature sets based on variable-dimension MEG power spectra in the primary visual cortex and fusiform gyrus that are maximally discriminative of data epochs before versus after visual stimulation.

In cognitive theory it is hypothesized that panic attacks are provoked by catastrophic misinterpretations of bodily sensations. The aim of the present study was to investigate the ability of associated word pairs referring to catastrophic thinking (e.g. palpitations-heart attack) in producing panic attacks. Patients with PD (n=20), patients with mixed anxiety disorders (n=20), and a healthy control group (n=30) participated in the present study. To enhance ecological validity we first conducted a stimulus validation experiment. Subsequently, nine suitable panic and neutral word pairs were presented in block to the participants. Anxiety levels were assessed before and after the presentation. PD patients were more anxious when reading these word pairs, compared to neutral word pairs. However, none of the participants experienced a panic attack upon reading the word pairs. From the present results it seems that catastrophic thinking is rather related to the anticipatory anxiety for panic attacks, but not necessarily with the occurrence of the panic attacks themselves.
The zebrafish guanylate cyclase type 3 (zGC3) is specifically expressed in cone cells. A specifc antibody directed against zGC3 revealed expression at the protein level at 3.5 dpf in outer and inner retinal layers, which increased in intensity between 3.5 and 7 dpf. This expression pattern differed from sections of the adult retina showing strong immunostaining in outer segments of double cones and short single cones, less intense immunoreactivity in long single cones, but no staining in the inner retina. Although transcription and protein expression levels of zGC3 are similar to that of the cyclase regulator guanylate cyclase-activating protein 3 (zGCAP3), we surprisingly found that zGCAP3 is present in a 28-fold molar excess over zGC3 in zebrafish retinae. Further, zGCAP3 was an efficient regulator of guanylate cyclases activity in native zebrafish retinal membrane preparations. Therefore, we investigated the physiological function of zGCAP3 by two different behavioral assays. Using the morpholino antisense technique, we knocked down expression of zGCAP3 and recorded the optokinetic and optomotor responses of morphants, control morphants, and wild type fish at 5-6 dpf. No significant differences in behavioral responses among wild type, morphants and control morphants were found, indicating that a loss of zGCAP3 has no consequences in primary visual processing in the larval retina despite its prominent expression pattern. Its physiological function is therefore compensated by other zGCAP isoforms.




Myocardin-related transcription factors (MRTFs) are robust coactivators of serum response factor (SRF). MRTFs contain three copies of the RPEL motif at their N-terminus, and they bind to monomeric globular actin (G-actin). Previous studies illustrate that G-actin binding inhibits MRTF activity by preventing the MRTFs nuclear accumulation. In the living cells, the majority of G-actin is sequestered by G-actin binding proteins that prevent spontaneous actin polymerization. Here, we demonstrate that the most abundant G-actin sequestering protein thymosin-4 (T4) was involved in the regulation of subcellular localization and activity of MRTF-A. T4 competed with MRTF-A for G-actin binding; thus, interfering with G-actin-MRTF-A complex formation. T4 overexpression induced the MRTF-A nuclear accumulation and activation of MRTF-SRF signaling. The activation rate of MRTF-A by the T4 mutant L17A, whose affinity for G-actin is very low, was lower than that by wild-type T4. In contrast, the -actin mutant 3DA, which has a lower affinity for T4, more effectively suppressed MRTF-A activity than wild-type -actin. Furthermore, ectopic T4 increased the endogenous expression of SRF-dependent actin cytoskeletal genes. Thus, T4 is an important MRTF regulator that controls the G-actin-MRTFs interaction.
Recently mutations in ubiquilin-2 were identified in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and ALS/dementia providing direct evidence for the importance of this protein in neurodegenerative diseases. Histological studies have suggested that ubiquilin-1/-2 are associated with various pathological inclusions including Lewy bodies in Parkinson's disease, neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease, polyQ inclusions in expansion repeat diseases and various proteinopathies associated with ALS and frontotemporal dementia. Using specific ubiquilin-2 antibodies and a series of transgenic mouse models of proteinopathies associated with neurodegenerative disease, we show that ubiquilin-2 preferentially associates with huntingtin polyQ expansion aggregates compared to -synuclein, tau and several other types of protein inclusions. These results were confirmed by similar findings for ubiquilin-1 and -2 in human brain tissue sections, where accumulation was observed in huntingtin inclusions, but only infrequently in other types of protein inclusions. In cultured cells, ubiquilin-2 associates with huntingtin/polyQ aggregates, but this is not compromised by disease-causing mutations. Although ubiquilin proteins can function as chaperones to shuttle proteins for degradation, there is persistent co-localization between ubiquilin-2 and polyQ aggregated proteins during disease progression in the N586-82Q-C63 Huntington's disease mouse model. Thus, the co-localization of ubiquilin-2 with the huntingtin aggregates does not appear to facilitate aggregate removal.

Voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) are essential to the normal function of the vertebrate nervous system. Aberrant function of VGSCs underlies a variety of disorders, including epilepsy, arrhythmia, and pain. A large number of animal toxins target these ion channels and may have significant therapeutic potential. Most of these toxins, however, have not been characterized in detail. Here, by combining patch clamp electrophysiology and radioligand binding studies with peptide mutagenesis, NMR structure determination, and molecular modeling, we have revealed key molecular determinants of the interaction between the tarantula toxin huwentoxin-IV and two VGSC isoforms, Nav1.7 and Nav1.2. Nine huwentoxin-IV residues (F6A, P11A, D14A, L22A, S25A, W30A, K32A, Y33A, and I35A) were important for block of Nav1.7 and Nav1.2. Importantly, molecular dynamics simulations and NMR studies indicated that folding was normal for several key mutants, suggesting that these amino acids probably make specific interactions with sodium channel residues. Additionally, we identified several amino acids (F6A, K18A, R26A, and K27A) that are involved in isoform-specific VGSC interactions. Our structural and functional data were used to model the docking of huwentoxin-IV into the domain II voltage sensor of Nav1.7. The model predicts that a hydrophobic patch composed of Trp-30 and Phe-6, along with the basic Lys-32 residue, docks into a groove formed by the Nav1.7 S1-S2 and S3-S4 loops. These results provide new insight into the structural and molecular basis of sodium channel block by huwentoxin-IV and may provide a basis for the rational design of toxin-based peptides with improved VGSC potency and/or selectivity.

The loss or reduction of supraspinal inputs after spinal cord injury provides a unique opportunity to examine the plasticity of neural pathways within the spinal cord. In a series of nine experiments on a patient, quadriplegic due to spinal cord injury, we investigated interlimb reflexes and self-sustained activity in completely paralyzed and paretic muscles due to a disinhibited propriospinal pathway. Electrical stimuli were delivered over the left common peroneal nerve at the fibular head as single stimuli or in trains at 2-100 Hz lasting 1 s. Single stimuli produced a robust interlimb reflex twitch in the contralateral thumb at a mean latency 69 ms, but no activity in other muscles. With stimulus trains the thumb twitch occurred at variable subharmonics of the stimulus rate, and strong self-sustained activity developed in the contralateral wrist extensors, outlasting both the stimuli and the thumb reflex by up to 20 s. Similar behavior was recorded in the ipsilateral wrist extensors and quadriceps femoris of both legs, but not in the contralateral thenar or peroneal muscles. The patient could not terminate the self-sustained activity voluntarily, but it was abolished on the left by attempted contractions of the paralyzed thumb muscles of the right hand. These responses depend on the functional integrity of an ascending propriospinal pathway, and highlight the plasticity of spinal circuitry following spinal cord injury. They emphasize the potential for pathways below the level of injury to generate movement, and the role of self-sustained reflex activity in the sequelae of spinal cord injury.
Recent studies report that STAT3 signaling is a master regulator of mesenchymal transformation of gliomas and that STAT3 modulated genes are highly expressed in the mesenchymal transcriptome of gliomas. A currently studied experimental treatment for gliomas consists of intratumoral injection of oncolytic viruses (OV), such as oncolytic herpes simplex virus type 1 (oHSV). We have described one particular oHSV (rQNestin34.5) that exhibits potent anti-glioma activity in animal models. Here, we hypothesized that alterations in STAT3 signaling in glioma cells may affect the replicative ability of rQNestin34.5. In fact, human U251 glioma cells engineered to either over-express STAT3 or with genetic down-regulation of STAT3 supported oHSV replication to a significantly higher or lesser degree, respectively, when compared to controls. Administration of pharmacologic agents that increase STAT3 phosphorylation/activation (Valproic Acid) or increase STAT3 levels (Interleukin 6) also significantly enhanced oHSV replication. Instead, administration of inhibitors of STAT3 phosphorylation/activation (LLL12) significantly reduced oHSV replication. STAT3 led to a reduction in interferon signaling in oHSV infected cells and inhibition of interferon signaling abolished the effect of STAT3 on oHSV replication. These data thus indicate that STAT3 signaling in malignant gliomas enhances oHSV replication, likely by inhibiting the interferon response in infected glioma cells, thus suggesting avenues for possible potentiation of oncolytic virotherapy.
Adult CNS neurons exhibit a reduced capacity for growth compared to developing neurons, due in part to downregulation of growth-associated genes as development is completed. We tested the hypothesis that SnoN, an embryonically regulated transcription factor that specifies growth of the axonal compartment, can enhance growth in injured adult neurons. In vitro, SnoN overexpression in dissociated adult DRG neuronal cultures significantly enhanced neurite outgrowth. Moreover, TGF-1, a negative regulator of SnoN, inhibited neurite outgrowth, and SnoN over-expression overcame this inhibition. We then examined whether SnoN influenced axonal regeneration in vivo: indeed, expression of a mutant form of SnoN resistant to degradation significantly enhanced axonal regeneration following cervical spinal cord injury, despite peri-lesional upregulation of TGF-1. Thus, a developmental mechanism that specifies extension of the axonal compartment also promotes axonal regeneration after adult CNS injury.
Over successive stages, the ventral visual system of the primate brain develops neurons that respond selectively to particular objects or faces with translation, size and view invariance. The powerful neural representations found in Inferotemporal cortex form a remarkably rapid and robust basis for object recognition which belies the difficulties faced by the system when learning in natural visual environments. A central issue in understanding the process of biological object recognition is how these neurons learn to form separate representations of objects from complex visual scenes composed of multiple objects. We show how a one-layer competitive network comprised of 'spiking' neurons is able to learn separate transformation-invariant representations (exemplified by one-dimensional translations) of visual objects that are always seen together moving in lock-step, but separated in space. This is achieved by combining 'Mexican hat' functional lateral connectivity with cell firing-rate adaptation to temporally segment input representations of competing stimuli through anti-phase oscillations (perceptual cycles). These spiking dynamics are quickly and reliably generated, enabling selective modification of the feed-forward connections to neurons in the next layer through Spike-Time-Dependent Plasticity (STDP), resulting in separate translation-invariant representations of each stimulus. Variations in key properties of the model are investigated with respect to the network's ability to develop appropriate input representations and subsequently output representations through STDP. Contrary to earlier rate-coded models of this learning process, this work shows how spiking neural networks may learn about more than one stimulus together without suffering from the 'superposition catastrophe'. We take these results to suggest that spiking dynamics are key to understanding biological visual object recognition.




The hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is activated in most, but not all multiple sclerosis (MS) patients and is implicated in disease progression and comorbid mood disorders. In this post-mortem study, we investigated how HPA axis activity in MS is related to disease severity, neurodegeneration, depression, lesion pathology and gene expression in normal-appearing white matter (NAWM). In 42 MS patients, HPA axis activity was determined by measuring cortisol in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and counting hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)-expressing neurons. Degree of neurodegeneration was based on levels of glutamate, tau and neurofilament in CSF. Duration of MS and time to EDSS 6 served as indicators of disease severity. Glutamate levels correlated with numbers of CRH-expressing neurons, most prominently in primary progressive MS patients, suggesting that neurodegeneration is a strong determinant of HPA axis activity. High cortisol levels were associated with slower disease progression, especially in females with secondary progressive MS. Patients with low cortisol levels had greater numbers of active lesions and tended towards having less remyelinated plaques than patients with high cortisol levels. Interestingly, NAWM of patients with high cortisol levels displayed elevated expression of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, such as CD163, and decreased expression of pro-inflammatory genes, such as tumor necrosis factor-. Thus, HPA axis hyperactivity in MS coincides with low inflammation and/or high neurodegeneration, and may impact on lesion pathology and molecular mechanisms in NAWM and thereby be of great importance for suppression of disease activity.



In the present study, we tested whether elderly with a high dietary intake of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) would have higher cognitive test scores and greater brain volume than those with low dietary intake of these fatty acids. Data were obtained from the Prospective Investigation of the Vasculature in Uppsala Seniors (PIVUS) cohort. The dietary intake of EPA and DHA was determined by a 7-day food protocol in 252 cognitively healthy elderly (122 females) at the age of 70 years. At age 75, participants' global cognitive function was examined, and their brain volumes were measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Three different multivariate linear regression models were applied to test our hypothesis: model A (adjusted for gender and age), model B (additionally controlled for lifestyle factors, e.g., education), and model C (further controlled for cardiometabolic factors, e.g., systolic blood pressure). We found that the self-reported 7-day dietary intake of EPA and DHA at the age of 70 years was positively associated with global gray matter volume (P&lt;0.05, except for model C) and increased global cognitive performance score (P&lt;0.05). However, no significant associations were observed between the dietary intake of EPA and DHA and global white matter, total brain volume, and regional gray matter, respectively. Further, no effects were observed when examining cognitively impaired (n=27) elderly as separate analyses. These cross-sectional findings suggest that dietary intake of EPA and DHA may be linked to improved cognitive health in late life but must be confirmed in patient studies.
Cutaneous sensation deteriorates with age. It is not known if this change is consistent over the entire hand or if sensation is affected by changes in skin mechanics. Cutaneous perceptual thresholds were tested at eight sites in the glabrous skin and two in the hairy skin of both hands in 70 subjects (20-88 years), five male and five female per decade, using calibrated von Frey filaments, two-point discrimination, and texture discrimination. Venous occlusion at the wrist (4010 mmHg) and moisturizer were used to alter skin mechanics. Cutaneous thresholds increased significantly with age (p&lt;0.001); von Frey thresholds were 0.04 g [0.02-0.07] (median and interquartile range) in the 20s and 0.16 g [0.04-0.4] in the 80s, with differences between hands for older females (p=0.044) but not males. The pattern of changes in cutaneous sensation varied according to the site tested with smaller changes on the fingers compared to the palm. Two-point discrimination deteriorated with age (p=0.046), but with no interaction between sex, handedness, or changes in skin mechanics. There were no significant differences for texture discrimination. Changes in skin mechanics improved cutaneous thresholds in the oldest males after moisturizing (p=0.001) but not otherwise. These results emphasize the complex pattern of age-related deterioration in cutaneous sensation with differences between sexes, the hands, sites on the hand, and the mode of testing. As the index fingertip is not a sensitive indicator of sensory decline, the minimum assessment of age-related changes in cutaneous sensation should include both hands, and sites on the palm.
Data are equivocal on whether voluntary activation is preserved or decreased in old compared to young adults. Further, data are scant on the effect of age on the rate of muscle relaxation when the muscle is contracting voluntarily. Assessment of both measures with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) yields information which cannot be obtained with traditional peripheral nerve stimulation. Hence, voluntary activation and peak relaxation rate of the elbow flexors were assessed with TMS during repeated maximal efforts in 30 men and 28 women between the ages of 22-84 years. Voluntary activation was similar for the two sexes (P=0.154) and was not affected by age in men (96.22.7 %; P=0.887) or women (95.13.0 %; P=0.546). Men had a significantly faster peak rate of relaxation than women in absolute units (-880.0223.2 vs. -360.278.5 Nm/s, respectively; P&lt;0.001) and when normalized to subject strength (-12.52.1 vs. -8.71.0 s(-1), respectively; P&lt;0.001). Absolute and normalized relaxation rates slowed with age in men (P=0.002 and P=0.006, respectively), but not women (P=0.142 and P=0.950, respectively). Across the age range studied, all subjects, regardless of age or sex, were able to achieve high voluntary activation scores for the elbow flexors (~95 %). In contrast, peak relaxation rate was markedly faster in men than women and slowed with age in men but not women. Normalization of relaxation rates to strength did not affect the influence of age or sex.
We assessed lifelong environmental enrichment effects on possible age-related modifications in emotional behaviors, spatial memory acquisition, retrieval of recent and remote spatial memory, and cholinergic forebrain systems. At the age of 1 month, Long-Evans female rats were placed in standard or enriched rearing conditions and tested after 3 (young), 12 (middle-aged), or 24 (aged)months. Environmental enrichment decreased the reactivity to stressful situations regardless of age. In the water maze test, it delayed the onset of learning deficits and prevented age-dependent spatial learning and recent memory retrieval alterations. Remote memory retrieval, which was altered independently of age under standard rearing conditions, was rescued by enrichment in young and middle-aged, but unfortunately not aged rats. A protected basal forebrain cholinergic system, which could well be one out of several neuronal manifestations of lifelong environmental enrichment, might have contributed to the behavioral benefits of this enrichment.


This study used the Popular Opinion Leader (POL) model to reduce stigma among service providers. The authors focused on the dissemination of intervention messages from trained POL providers to their peer providers and the change of intervention outcome over time. The sample included 880 service providers from 20 intervention hospitals. The levels of message diffusion, prejudicial attitude toward people living with HIV (PLH), and avoidance intent to serve PLH were self-reported at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months. At 6 months, POL providers showed a significantly higher level of message diffusion and lower levels of prejudicial attitude and avoidance intent than non-POL providers. However, such discrepancies diminished at 12 months. The results support the utility of the POL model in stigma reduction interventions. The observed changes were documented not only in POLs but also in non-POLs after a certain period of time. This finding informed the design and implementation of future stigma reduction efforts and POL intervention programs.





In 1985 the physician after whom Becker Muscular Dystrophy is named, German neurologist Dr. Peter Emil Becker (1908-2000), published an autobiographical article in the American Journal of Medical Genetics in which he disavowed any association with the Nazi Party. A closer look at the evidence, however, suggests otherwise. Review of war records and related sources raise concern for Dr. Becker's affiliation with the Nazi Party and his contributions to its ideology.
Providencia, unlike other enterobacteriaceae, is a lesser known causative agent of hospital-acquired and community-acquired neuroinfection. Two cases of meningitis and one patient with subdural empyema, where Providencia rettgeri was the causative agent, are reported. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of hospital-acquired and community-acquired meningitis or empyema caused by P rettgeri.

Ovarian hormones are thought to modulate sleep and fluctuations in the hormonal milieu are coincident with sleep complaints in women. In female rats, estradiol increases waking and suppresses sleep. In this study, we asked whether this effect is mediated via circadian or homeostatic regulatory mechanisms. Ovariectomized female rats received daily injections of estradiol benzoate (EB) or sesame oil that mimicked the rapid increase and subsequent decline of circulating estradiol at proestrus. In one experiment, animals were sleep deprived for 6 h starting at lights-on, so that recovery began in the mid-light phase; in the second experiment, animals were sleep deprived starting in the mid-light phase, so that recovery began at lights-off. EB suppressed baseline rapid eye movement (REM) and non-REM (NREM) sleep and increased waking in the dark phase. In both experiments, EB enhanced REM recovery in the light phase while suppressing it in the dark compared with oil; this effect was most pronounced in the first 6 h of recovery. By contrast, NREM recovery was largely unaffected by EB. In summary, EB enhanced waking and suppressed sleep, particularly REM sleep, in the dark under baseline and recovery conditions. These strong temporally dependent effects suggest that EB consolidates circadian sleep-wake rhythms in female rats.
OBJECTIVE The authors investigated the effects of recently identified genome-wide significant schizophrenia genetic risk variants on cognition and brain structure. METHOD A panel of six single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) was selected to represent genome-wide significant loci from three recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for schizophrenia and was tested for association with cognitive measures in 346 patients with schizophrenia and 2,342 healthy comparison subjects. Nominally significant results were evaluated for replication in an independent case-control sample. For SNPs showing evidence of association with cognition, associations with brain structural volumes were investigated in a large independent healthy comparison sample. RESULTS Five of the six SNPs showed no significant association with any cognitive measure. One marker in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region, rs6904071, showed independent, replicated evidence of association with delayed episodic memory and was significant when both samples were combined. In the combined sample of up to 3,100 individuals, this SNP was associated with widespread effects across cognitive domains, although these additional associations were no longer significant after adjusting for delayed episodic memory. In the large independent structural imaging sample, the same SNP was also associated with decreased hippocampal volume. CONCLUSIONS The authors identified a SNP in the MHC region that was associated with cognitive performance in patients with schizophrenia and healthy comparison subjects. This SNP, rs6904071, showed a replicated association with episodic memory and hippocampal volume. These findings implicate the MHC region in hippocampal structure and functioning, consistent with the role of MHC proteins in synaptic development and function. Follow-up of these results has the potential to provide insights into the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and cognition.
OBJECTIVE Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) is an enzyme implicated in neurodevelopmental processes with a broad range of substrates mediating several canonical signaling pathways in the brain. The authors investigated the association of variation in the GSK-3 gene with a series of progressively more complex phenotypes of relevance to schizophrenia, a neurodevelopmental disorder with strong genetic risk. METHOD Based on computer predictions, the authors investigated in humans the association of GSK-3 functional variation with 1) GSK-3 mRNA expression from postmortem prefrontal cortex, 2) GSK-3 and -catenin protein expression from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), 3) prefrontal imaging phenotypes, and 4) diagnosis of schizophrenia. RESULTS Consistent with predictions, the TT genotype of a single-nucleotide polymorphism in GSK-3 (rs12630592) was associated with reduced GSK-3 mRNA from postmortem prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, this genotype was associated with GSK-3 protein expression and kinase activity, as well as with downstream effects on -catenin expression in PBMCs. Finally, the TT genotype was associated with attenuated functional MRI prefrontal activity, reduced prefrontal cortical thickness, and diagnosis of schizophrenia. CONCLUSIONS These results suggest that GSK-3 variation is implicated in multiple phenotypes relevant to schizophrenia.

Tracheal brush cells (BCs) are specialized epithelial chemosensors that use the canonical taste transduction cascade to detect irritants. To test whether BCs are replaced at the same rate as other cells in the surrounding epithelium of adult mice, we used 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) to label dividing cells. Although scattered BrdU-labeled epithelial cells are present 5-20 days after BrdU, no BCs are labeled. These data indicate that BCs comprise a relatively static population. To determine how BCs are generated during development, we injected 5-day-old mice with BrdU and found labeled BCs and non-BC epithelial cells 5 days after BrdU. During the next 60 days, the percentage of labeled BCs increased, whereas the percentage of other labeled cell types decreased. These data suggest that BCs are generated from non-BC progenitor cells during postnatal tracheal growth. To test whether the adult epithelium retains the capacity to generate BCs, tracheal epithelial cells were recovered from adult mice and grown in an air-liquid interface (ALI) culture. After transition to differentiation conditions, BCs are detected, and comprise 1% of the total cell population by Day 14. BrdU added to cultures before the differentiation of BCs was chased into BCs, indicating that the increase in BC density is attributable to the proliferation of a non-BC progenitor. We conclude that: (1) BCs are normally a static population in adult mice; (2) BC progenitors proliferate and differentiate during neonatal development; and (3) BCs can be regenerated from a proliferative population resident in adult epithelium.
Bioassay and immunohistochemical studies have detected the presence of prosaposin in the central nervous system (CNS) of mammals. Here, first time, we have determined the partial cDNA sequence of pigeon prosaposin and mapped the distribution of its mRNA in the pigeon CNS. The predicted amino acid sequence of pigeon prosaposin showed 93 and 60% identity to chicken and human prosaposin, respectively. In situ hybridization, autoradiograms showed that the prosaposin mRNA expression was found in the olfactory bulb, prepiriform cortex, Wulst, mesopallium, nidopallium, hippocampal formation, thalamus, tuberis nucleus, pre-tectal nucleus, nucleus mesencephalicus lateralis, pars dorsalis, nucleus isthmi, pars parvocellularis and magnocellularis, Edinger-Westphal nucleus, optic tectum, cerebellar cortex and nuclei, vestibular nuclei and gray matter of the spinal cord. These results suggest that the cDNA sequence of pigeon prosaposin is comparable to other vertebrates, and the general distribution pattern of prosaposin mRNA resembles those are found in mammals.

Conventional scaling analyses of human movement variability such as detrended fluctuation analyses assume that the movement variable can be decomposed into scale-dependent variation. However, these conventional scaling analyses are insensitive to multiplicative interactions within the movement variable. Multiplicative interactions refer to couplings between the scale-dependent variations across multiple scales that generate intermittent changes in the human movement variable. The mathematical concept for intermittent variability generated by multiplicative interactions is called multifractal variability. Multifractal variability is numerically defined by a spectrum of scaling exponents (i.e., a multifractal spectrum) that can be an important feature of coordinated movements and, consequently, relevant when aiming to identify movement disorders. In the current study, a new method is introduced based on detrended fluctuation analysis that can identify the multifractal spectrum from the temporal variation of local scaling exponents. The influence of multiplicative interactions on the local scaling exponents is tested by a Monte Carlo surrogate test. The methods are validated on multiplicative cascading processes with known multiplicative interactions. The application of the new methods is subsequently illustrated on an example of centre of pressure variations during quiet and relaxed standing. The results show that multiplicative interactions are present during periods with large movements of the center of gravity, where the movements of the centre of gravity and centre of pressure couple into coordinative structures. Further application and interpretation of the developed method for the study of human movement variability are discussed.

Jon Driver's scientific work was characterized by an innovative combination of new methods for studying mental processes in the human brain in an integrative manner. In our collaborative work, he applied this approach to the study of attention and awareness, and their relationship to neural activity in the human brain. Here I review Jon's scientific work that relates to the neural basis of human consciousness, relating our collaborative work to a broader scientific context. I seek to show how his insights led to a deeper understanding of the causal connections between distant brain structures that are now believed to characterize the neural underpinnings of human consciousness.
Professor Jon Driver made significant contributions to cognitive neuroscience. This paper pays tribute to that work and to the personal qualities of Jon that so many of his colleagues were fortunate enough to experience.
Spatial neglect is generally defined by various deficits in processing information from one (e.g., left) side of space contralateral to focal (e.g., right) hemisphere damage. Although classically associated with parietal lobe functions, there is now compelling evidence that neglect can follow lesions in many different cortical and subcortical sites, suggesting a dysfunction in distributed brain networks. In addition, neglect is likely to result from a combination of distinct deficits that co-occur due to concomitant damage affecting juxtaposed brain areas and their connections, but the exact nature of core deficits and their neural substrates still remains unclear. The present review describes recent progress in identifying functional components of the neglect syndrome and relating them to distinct subregions of parietal cortex. A comprehensive understanding of spatial neglect will require a more precise definition of cognitive processes implicated in different behavioral manifestations, as well as meticulous mapping of these processes onto specific brain circuits, while taking into account functional changes in activity that may arise in structurally intact areas subsequent to damage in distant portions of the relevant networks.
Modern neurostimulation approaches in humans provide controlled inputs into the operations of cortical regions, with highly specific behavioral consequences. This enables causal structure-function inferences, and in combination with neuroimaging, has provided novel insights into the basic mechanisms of action of neurostimulation on distributed networks. For example, more recent work has established the capacity of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to probe causal interregional influences, and their interaction with cognitive state changes. Combinations of neurostimulation and neuroimaging now face the challenge of integrating the known physiological effects of neurostimulation with theoretical and biological models of cognition, for example, when theoretical stalemates between opposing cognitive theories need to be resolved. This will be driven by novel developments, including biologically informed computational network analyses for predicting the impact of neurostimulation on brain networks, as well as novel neuroimaging and neurostimulation techniques. Such future developments may offer an expanded set of tools with which to investigate structure-function relationships, and to formulate and reconceptualize testable hypotheses about complex neural network interactions and their causal roles in cognition.

Emotional eaters are often presumed to eat in response to negative emotions, while positive emotions have been largely neglected. The current study induced a positive, negative, or neutral mood in a student sample and subsequently measured food intake. In addition, the relation between caloric intake and mood improvement was assessed. It was expected that emotional eaters would consume more food than non-emotional eaters in the emotional conditions, and also more than in the neutral condition. Moderated regression analyses indeed showed a significant increase in food intake for emotional eaters in the positive compared to the neutral condition, and a trend towards higher food consumption than non-emotional eaters. No effects were found in the negative condition. With regard to mood changes during food intake, Pearson correlations demonstrated an association between amount of calories consumed and mood improvement after 5min of food consumption. However, there was no evidence for differences between emotional and non-emotional eaters. The current findings underline the importance of positive emotions in emotional eating, and provide new insights on the relationship between eating and mood melioration.
The reward system is largely involved in the control of food intake. Whether components of this system (i.e., wanting and liking) change during development remains understudied, as well as how proximate factors (sensory cues, motivational state) modulate reward reactivity across development. We examined the developmental pattern of wanting and liking for sensorily-cued food stimuli in 6-11year old children as a function of the child's motivational state (hunger/satiety), gender, and the nature of foods. School children were exposed before or after their lunch on alternative days to visual and odor stimuli representing different categories of familiar foods. Their task was to rate wanting and liking of pictures and odorants of pizza, meat, vegetables, fruits, and chocolate. The following results were found: (1) While liking appeared to be stable from age 6 to 11, more particularly for visually-cued foods, wanting decreased, as well as did subjective hunger perception; (2) there were smaller or absent state-effects in 7-to-9-year-olds; (3) reward ratings were higher in boys than in girls; (4) reward ratings of vegetables were the lowest at all ages. These results suggest that wanting, but not liking, is developmentally variable over childhood, and that this variation depends on age, gender, motivational state (hunger/satiety), the nature of the food and the modality of the sensory cue representing it. Such developmental changes are discussed in relation to biological (adiposity rebound) and cognitive (dietary restraint) factors influencing the motivation to eat during middle (6-7years) and late (9-11years) childhood.

The menopausal transition is frequently accompanied by adverse physical and emotional changes that can significantly impact a woman's quality of life. Hormone replacement therapy has been the most commonly used menopause-related treatment to date, particularly for the alleviation of vasomotor symptoms; recent studies, however, have questioned its long-term safety for some women. We aimed to develop a cognitive-behavioral group treatment (CBGT) program as an alternative or complementary treatment option for reducing the frequency and intensity of debilitating menopausal symptoms in midlife women. Eight subjects participated in two, 10-week pilot groups (n = 4 participants per group) with participants being drawn from referrals through the Women's Health Concerns Clinic and community advertising efforts. This pilot study confirmed a reduction in the frequency and interference associated with vasomotor symptoms, less depression and general anxiety, and an overall improvement in quality of life. Participants also reported high levels of satisfaction with this type of treatment for menopausal symptoms. Furthermore, there was a trend towards a reduction in sleep difficulties and sexual concerns over the course of treatment. This pilot CBGT program appears to be a promising alternative or complementary treatment for both the physical and emotional symptoms experienced during menopause. Further studies are needed on its efficacy through larger, controlled trials.
Knowledge about SC (social cognition) during remission would inform us whether such deficits are trait- or state-markers of the disorder, as well as highlight its relevance for rehabilitation. We aimed to compare SC deficits and their relative independence from NC (neuro-cognition) deficits in remitted schizophrenia patients and matched health controls using comprehensive, culturally sensitive standardized tools. 60 schizophrenia patients meeting modified standardized criteria for remission and 60 age, gender and education matched healthy controls were compared on culturally validated tests of SC-Social Cognition Rating Tool in Indian Setting (SOCRATIS) &amp; Tool for Recognition of Emotions in Neuropsychiatric Disorders (TRENDS) to assess theory of mind, attributional bias, social perception and emotion recognition and NC-(attention/vigilance, speed of processing, visual and verbal learning, working memory and executive functions). Patients had deficits in both SC and NC compared to healthy controls. Deficits in SC were largely independent of NC performance, and SC deficits persisted after adjusting for deficits in NC function. The effect sizes (Cohen's d) for SC deficits ranged from 0.37 to 2.23. All patients scored below a defined cut-off in at least one SC domain. SC deficits are likely to be state-independent in schizophrenia, as they are present in remission phase of the illness. This supports their status as a possible composite-endophenotype in schizophrenia.
Measurement invariance of the Beck Depression Inventory-Second Edition (BDI-II) across gender, race, and ethnic groups was evaluated in a large sample of college students, using pooled data from 11 universities from diverse geographical regions in the United States (N = 7,369). Confirmatory factor analysis was used to test the fit of several possible factor structures, and the results from these analyses indicated that the BDI-II was most adequately represented by a hierarchical four-factor structure, composed of three first-order factors and one second-order factor. Results based on analyses of covariance structures indicated there was factorial invariance for this hierarchical four-factor structure across groups, suggesting that the BDI-II provides an assessment of severity of depressive symptoms that is equivalent across gender, race, and ethnicity in college students.
Action video game playing has been experimentally linked to a number of perceptual and cognitive improvements. These benefits are captured through a wide range of psychometric tasks and have led to the proposition that action video game experience may promote the ability to extract statistical evidence from sensory stimuli. Such an advantage could arise from a number of possible mechanisms: improvements in visual sensitivity, enhancements in the capacity or duration for which information is retained in visual memory, or higher-level strategic use of information for decision making. The present study measured the capacity and time course of visual sensory memory using a partial report performance task as a means to distinguish between these three possible mechanisms. Sensitivity measures and parameter estimates that describe sensory memory capacity and the rate of memory decay were compared between individuals who reported high evels and low levels of action video game experience. Our results revealed a uniform increase in partial report accuracy at all stimulus-to-cue delays for action video game players but no difference in the rate or time course of the memory decay. The present findings suggest that action video game playing may be related to enhancements in the initial sensitivity to visual stimuli, but not to a greater retention of information in iconic memory buffers.
Perceptual priming can stabilize the phenomenal appearance of multistable visual displays (Leopold, Wilke, Maier, &amp; Logothetis, Nature Neuroscience, 5, 605-609, 2002). Prior exposure to such displays induces a sensory memory of their appearance, which persists over long intervals and intervening stimulation, and which facilitates renewed perception of the same appearance. Here, we investigated perceptual priming for the apparent rotation in depth of ambiguous structure-from-motion (SFM) displays. Specifically, we generated SFM objects with different three-dimensional shapes and presented them in random order and with intervening blank periods. To assess perceptual priming, we established the probability that a perceived direction of rotation would persist between successive objects. In general, persistence was greatest between identical objects, intermediate between similar objects, and negligible between dissimilar objects. These results demonstrate unequivocally that sensory memory for apparent rotation is specific to three-dimensional shape, contrary to previous reports (e.g., Maier, Wilke, Logothetis, &amp; Leopold, Current Biology, 13, 1076-1085, 2003). Because persistence did not depend on presentation order for any pair of objects, it provides a commutative measure for the similarity of object shapes. However, it is not clear exactly which features or aspects of object shape determine similarity. At least, we did not find simple, low-level features (such as volume overlap, heterogeneity, or rotational symmetry) that could have accounted for all observations. Accordingly, it seems that sensory memory of SFM (which underlies priming of ambiguous rotation) engages higher-level representations of object surface and shape.
Optic neuritis (ON) is a primary inflammation of the optic nerve. ON is mostly idiopathic, and infrequently occurs on the background of systemic autoimmune disease, recent infectious disease or inoculation with mostly adjuvanted vaccines. Published case histories, retrospective reviews and analyses of epidemiological data report on the onset of immune-mediated ON (and other autoimmune disorders) within a defined period (days to weeks) after immunization of patients with probable genetic predisposition. After vaccination, there exists no long-term increased risk to develop ON. The risk for these vaccine-induced adverse events may be enhanced by adjuvants. Patient age distribution reflected immunization schedules and advisories, or patient age groups studied. Vaccination is one of the most important prevention tools in modern medicine, and a discussion on risk-benefit or cost-benefit analysis, and advisory on individual vaccines or vaccination programs falls outside the scope of this review. Despite a great deal of scientific uncertainty, the existence of a possible causal link between vaccines and acute ON should not be totally disregarded.
Lysosomes contain various hydrolases that can degrade proteins, lipids, nucleic acids and carbohydrates. We recently discovered &quot;RNautophagy,&quot; an autophagic pathway in which RNA is directly taken up by lysosomes and degraded. A lysosomal membrane protein, LAMP2C, a splice variant of LAMP2, binds to RNA and acts as a receptor for this pathway. In the present study, we show that DNA is also directly taken up by lysosomes and degraded. Like RNautophagy, this autophagic pathway, which we term &quot;DNautophagy,&quot; is dependent on ATP. The cytosolic sequence of LAMP2C also directly interacts with DNA, and LAMP2C functions as a receptor for DNautophagy, in addition to RNautophagy. Similarly to RNA, DNA binds to the cytosolic sequences of fly and nematode LAMP orthologs. Together with the findings of our previous study, our present findings suggest that RNautophagy and DNautophagy are evolutionarily conserved systems in Metazoa.
The effects of ABL1/ABL inhibition on clearance of SNCA/-synuclein were evaluated in animal models of -synucleinopathies. Parkinson disease (PD) is a movement disorder characterized by death of dopaminergic substantia nigra (SN) neurons and brain accumulation of SNCA. The tyrosine kinase ABL1 is activated in several neurodegenerative diseases. An increase in ABL1 activity is detected in human postmortem PD brains. Lentiviral expression of SNCA in the mouse SN activates ABL1 via phosphorylation, while lentiviral Abl expression increases SNCA levels. Administration of the brain-penetrant tyrosine kinase inhibitor Nilotinib decreases Abl activity and facilitates autophagic clearance of SNCA in transgenic and lentiviral gene transfer models. Subcellular fractionation demonstrates accumulation of SNCA and hyperphosphorylated MAPT/Tau (p-MAPT) in autophagic vacuoles in SNCA-expressing brains, while Nilotinib treatment leads to protein deposition into the lysosomes, suggesting enhanced autophagic clearance. These data suggest that Nilotinib may be a therapeutic strategy to degrade SNCA in PD and other -synucleinopathies.
Parkinson disease (PD) is characterized by the progressive loss of nigral dopamine neurons and the presence of accumulations containing the disease-causing protein SNCA/-synuclein. Here we review our recent findings describing how SNCA impairs the function of the master regulator of the autophagy-lysosomal pathway (ALP), the transcription factor EB (TFEB), and that genetic or pharmacological stimulation of its activity promotes protection of dopamine neurons. These findings suggest that strategies aimed at enhancing autophagy-mediated degradation of SNCA may hold great promise for disease intervention in PD.

Phosphodiesterase type 2 (PDE2), type 10 (PDE10), and type 5 (PDE5) have been considered as relevant targets for cognition enhancement. Although it is well established that PDE inhibitors (PDE-Is) improve memory functions in animals, the effects on auditory information processing are less clear. The aim of this study was to test the effects of PDE2 (BAY 60-7550), PDE5 (vardenafil) and PDE10 (PQ-10) inhibition on sensory gating in rats. Vehicle or 1mg/kg of a specific PDE-I was given orally 30min before testing. EEG was recorded from the hippocampus, striatum and vertex. Sensory gating was found for the N1 in the vertex and hippocampus, as revealed by diminished amplitudes to S2 compared to S1. Administration of PDE-Is did not affect sensory gating. However, PDE2 inhibition increased the P1 peak after presentation of S1 at the vertex and PQ-10 increased the N1 peak in general compared to vehicle treatment at the hippocampus. PDE2 and PDE10 inhibition affect auditory information processing in general, whereas PDE5 inhibition has no effect. These findings suggest that the positive effects of PDE5 inhibition on cognition previously found in animals are possibly the results of an effect on higher cognitive functioning specifically, whereas the cognition enhancing effects of PDE2 and PDE10 inhibition might also be influenced by effects on earlier stages of information processing.
The aim of present research is to study the temporal structure of the behavior in two strains of rats with different basal level of emotionality. To this purpose, the temporal profile of the behavior in Wistar rat and in the spontaneously more anxious DA/Han strain was analyzed in the Elevated Plus Maze. Both quantitative and multivariate t-pattern analyses were carried out. In comparison with Wistar, DA/Han subjects showed a significant reduction of the permanence in open arm and a significant increase of the time spent in the central platform of the maze. Mean frequencies of each behavioral element showed significant modifications both in open and in closed arm. Multivariate t-pattern analyses demonstrated a very different temporal profile of behavior in the two strains: Wistar rats presented 197 t-patterns of different composition, whereas DA/Han rats only 26; as to the mean number of t-patterns, Wistar presented a value of 698.90, whereas DA/Han only 92.80. Similar clear-cut differences were detected for the mean number of t-patterns in the two arms and for the time course of such t-patterns. Present study has evidenced that the temporal organization of the bahavior in Elevated Plus Maze is differently structured in two strains of rats with different basal level of emotionality.
Dual-task situations play a pivotal role in daily life and are subject to a research in cognitive psychology and neuroscience. From a neuroscience perspective, the response selection bottleneck may be partly constituted by the dopaminergic system. The dopaminergic system plays a pivotal role in reward and punishment effects. In the current study we therefore investigated the effects of rewards and punishments as a potential modulator of dual-tasking processes. We examined dual-task performance in the psychological refractory period (PRP) paradigm, where the task order was either predictable, or unpredictable. Three groups were tested; a punishment group (N=14), a reward group (N=18) and a control group (N=16). The results show that in the punishment condition, dual-task performance is increased relative to controls (i.e., faster RTs). In the reward condition performance decreased relative to controls. The effects observed were of moderate to high effect sizes. However, the effects were only evident when task performance was unpredictable. These divergent effects of rewards and punishments on dual-tasking may be explained by the differential involvement of different dopamine receptors in rewards and punishments, and their effects on the amount and flexibility of task goals in working memory.
Nicotine withdrawal is associated with numerous symptoms including impaired hippocampus-dependent learning. Theories of nicotine withdrawal suggest that nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are hypersensitive during withdrawal, which suggests enhanced sensitivity to nicotine challenge. Research indicates that prior exposure to nicotine enhances sensitivity to nicotine challenge, but it is unclear if this is due to prior nicotine exposure or specific to nicotine withdrawal. Therefore, the present experiments examined if prior nicotine exposure or nicotine withdrawal altered the effects of nicotine challenge on hippocampus-dependent learning. C57BL/6J mice were trained and tested in contextual conditioning following saline or nicotine challenge either during (24h after cessation) or after (14 days after cessation) a period of nicotine withdrawal symptoms. Nicotine challenge produced a greater enhancement of contextual conditioning relative to control withdrawal state in mice withdrawn from chronic nicotine for 24h compared to 14 days and corresponding saline controls. These experiments support the suggestion that during periods of abstinence, smokers may perceive tobacco providing a large boost in cognition.
Adolescents display high levels of interactions with peers relative to other age groups, with these interactions further enhanced by ethanol under some circumstances. Understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying these high levels of social interactions is important given that alcohol use is initiated during adolescence and adolescents tend to report drinking for social reasons. Given that ethanol's effects are associated in part with functional antagonism of the NMDA receptor system, the current experiment explored the role of NMDA antagonists for facilitating adolescent social behavior. Adolescent male Sprague-Dawley rats were challenged acutely with either the non-competitive NMDA antagonist, MK-801 (0.01, 0.03mg/kg), the NR2A antagonist, PEAQX (1.25, 3.75mg/kg) or the NR2B antagonist, ifenprodil (0.75, 2.25mg/kg) 30min prior to a 10-min social interaction test. All compounds generally increased overall social activity (i.e., sum of social investigation, contact behavior, and play), with ifenprodil also significantly enhancing play and social contact behaviors. Although the frequencies of peer-directed social behaviors were typically greater following administration with these NMDA antagonists, social preference, indexed via the number of crossovers to the side with the partner relative to crossovers away, was significantly reduced in MK-801 and PEAQX-treated rats. None of these changes were associated with concomitant alterations in overall locomotor activity under these test circumstances. These data support the suggestion that the increases in social interactions observed in adolescents following acute ethanol may be driven in part by NMDA receptor antagonism - particularly of the NR2B subunit - given that ifenprodil stimulated social behavior in a manner similar to that produced by low doses of ethanol.
Expectation contributes to placebo and nocebo responses in Parkinson's disease (PD). Subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) improves proximal more than distal movements whereas it impairs executive cognitive function such as verbal fluency (VF). We investigated how expectation modulates the pattern of motor improvement in STN-DBS and its interaction with VF. In a within-subject-design, expectation of 24 hypokinetic-rigid PD patients regarding the impact of STN-DBS on motor symptoms was manipulated by verbal suggestions (positive [placebo], negative [nocebo], neutral [control]). Patients participated with (MedON) and without (MedOFF) antiparkinsonian medication. Motor function was assessed by Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale and quantitative kinematic analysis of proximal alternating hand and distal finger tapping. VF was quantified by lexical and semantic tests. In MedOFF, expectation significantly affected proximal but not distal movements resulting in better performance in the placebo than in the nocebo condition. Placebo responders with improvement of 25% were characterized by a trend for impaired lexical VF. These results indicate that positive motor expectations exert both motor placebo and cognitive nocebo responses by further enhancing the STN-DBS-effect on proximal movements and by impairing VF. The placebo response on motor performance resembles the clinically known STN-DBS-effect with stronger improvement in proximal than distal movements. The nocebo response on VF is likely due to implicit learning mechanisms associated with an expectation-induced placebo response on motor performance.
Stress has been shown to impair decision making. However the temporal development of this phenomenon remains poorly understood. We speculated that the rapid stress induced increase in norepinephrine and the delayed increase in cortisol might exert opposing effects on decision making under risk. Therefore, three different experimental groups underwent the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) and performed the Game of Dice Task (GDT) at different time points in relation to the stressor, which lasted approximately 18min. The first group performed the GDT 5min after stress onset, the second and third group performed the GDT either 18 or 28min after TSST onset. Decision-making performance of the control group was measured after a respective resting time. Results confirmed a rapid activation of the sympathetic nervous system and a somewhat slower response of the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis. In the GDT an improvement of decision-making performance in the 5 and 18min stress groups compared to controls and the 28min stress group occurred. Descriptively, decision making of the 28min after stress group was more risky than decision making of the control group. Our findings are in line with the idea that a moderate increase in catecholamines enhances decision-making performance, while elevated cortisol concentrations may negatively affect decision making presumably via rapid nongenomic mechanisms.
In this response we address additions to as well as criticisms and possible misinterpretations of our proposal for a second-person neuroscience. We map out the most crucial aspects of our approach by (1) acknowledging that second-person engaged interaction is not the only way to understand others, although we claim that it is ontogenetically prior; (2) claiming that spectatorial paradigms need to be complemented in order to enable a full understanding of social interactions; and (3) restating that our theoretical proposal not only questions the mechanism by which a cognitive process comes into being, but asks whether it is at all meaningful to speak of a mechanism and a cognitive process when it is confined to intra-agent space. We address theoretical criticisms of our approach by pointing out that while a second-person social understanding may not be the only mechanism, alternative approaches cannot hold their ground without resorting to second-person concepts, if not in the expression, certainly in the development of social understanding. In this context, we also address issues of agency and intentionality, theoretical alternatives, and clinical implications of our approach.
We argue that Schilbach et al. have neglected an important part of the social neuroscience literature involving participants in social interactions. We also clarify some part of the models the authors discussed superficially. We finally propose that social neuroscience should take into consideration the effect of being observed and the complexity of the task as potentially influencing factors.
Language is a social act. We have previously argued that language remains embedded in sociality because the motivation to communicate exists only within a social context. Schilbach et al. underscore the importance of studying linguistic behavior from within the motivated, socially interactive frame in which it is learnt and used, as well as provide testable hypotheses for a participatory, second-person neuroscience approach to language learning.
In accord with social neuroscience's progression to include interactive experimental paradigms, parents' brains have been activated by emotionally charged infant stimuli-especially of their own infant-including baby cry and picture. More recent research includes the use of brief video clips and opportunities for maternal response. Among brain systems important to parenting are those involved in empathy. This research may inform recent studies of decreased societal empathy, offer mechanisms and solutions.
Based on mirror neurons' properties, viewers are emotionally engaged when observing others-even when not actively interacting; therefore, characterizing non-participatory action-viewing as isolated may be misleading. Instead, we propose a continuum of socio-emotional engagement. We also highlight recent developmental work that uses a second-person perspective, investigating behavioral, physiological, and neural activity during caregiver-infant interactions.
Schilbach et al. contribute to neuroscience methodology through drawing on insights from the second-person approach. We suggest that they could further contribute to social neuroscience by more fully spelling out the ways in which a second-person approach to the nature and origin of thinking could transform neuroscience.
Although a second-person neuroscience has high ecological validity, the extent to which a second- versus third-person neuroscience approach fundamentally alters neural patterns of activation requires more careful investigation. Nonetheless, we are hopeful that this new avenue will prove fruitful in significantly advancing our understanding of typical and atypical social cognition.
There are several facets of second-person neuroscience which can benefit from comparisons with animal behavioral neuroscience studies. This commentary addresses the challenges involved in obtaining quantitative data from second-person techniques, the role of stress in inducing robust responses, the use of interactive functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), and the value of applying interactive methods to studies of aggression and depression.
Although we fundamentally agree with Schilbach et al., we argue here that there is still some residual utility for non-interactive scenarios in social neuroscience. They may be useful to quantify individual differences in prosocial inclination that are not influenced by concerns about reputation or social pressure.
Interactive approaches to development and social psychology may particularly benefit from the non-dualist features of a second-person neuroscience. In that context, I discuss the compatibility of a second-person neuroscience with a Wittgensteinian analysis of psychological concepts and its connections to a Vygotskyan approach to psychological development.
Schilbach et al. contrast second-person and third-person approaches to social neuroscience. We discuss relations between second-person and first-person approaches, arguing that they cannot be studied in isolation. Contingency is central for converging first- and second-person approaches. Studies of embodiment show how contingencies scaffold first-person perspective and how the transition from a third- to a second-person perspective fundamentally involves first-person contributions.
Schilbach et al.'s model assumes that the ability to &quot;experience&quot; minds is already present in human infants and therefore falls foul of the very intellectualist problems it attempts to avoid. We propose an alternative relational, action-based account, which attempts to grasp how the individual's construction of knowledge develops within interactions.
Second-person neuroscience offers a framework for the study of social emotions, such as embarrassment and pride. However, we propose that an enduring mental representation of oneself in relation to others without a continuous direct social interaction is possible. We call this state &quot;social immersion&quot; and will explain its impact on the neuroscience of social emotions.
A second-person neuroscience, as an emerging area of neuroscience and the behavioral sciences, cannot afford to avoid a bottom-up, subcortical, and conative-affective perspective. An example with canid social play and a modern motivational behavioral neursocience will illustrate our point.
Advancing second-person neuroscience will need strong theories, as well as the new methods detailed by Schilbach et al. I assess computational theories, enactive theories, and cognitive/information processing theories, and argue that information processing approaches have an important role to play in second-person neuroscience. They provide the closest link to brain imaging and can give important insights into social behaviour.
In the target article, Schilbach et al. defend a &quot;second-person neuroscience&quot; perspective that focuses on the neural basis of social cognition during live, ongoing interactions between individuals. We argue that a second-person neuroscience would benefit from formal approaches borrowed from economics and behavioral ecology and that it should be extended to social interactions in nonhuman animals.
A second-person perspective in neuroscience is particularly appropriate for the study of communication. We describe how the investigation of joint language tasks can contribute to our understanding of the mechanisms underlying interaction.
Synthetic approaches to social interaction support the development of a second-person neuroscience. Agent-based models and psychological experiments can be related in a mutually informing manner. Models have the advantage of making the nonlinear brain-body-environment-body-brain system as a whole accessible to analysis by dynamical systems theory. We highlight some general principles of how social interaction can partially constitute an individual's behavior.
As there is &quot;dark matter&quot; in the neuroscience of individuals engaged in dynamic interactions, similar dark matter is present in the domain of interaction between humans and cognitive robots. Progress in second-person neuroscience will contribute to the development of robotic cognitive systems, and such developed robotic systems will be used to test the validity of the underlying theories.
We question the idea that the mirror neuron system is the substrate of social affordances perception, and we suggest that most of the activity seen in the parietal and premotor cortex of the human brain is independent of mirroring activity as characterized in macaques, but rather reflects a process of one's own action specification in response to social signals.
This commentary situates the second person account within a broader framework of ecological validity for experimental paradigms in social cognitive neuroscience. It then considers how individual differences at psychological and genetic levels can be integrated within the proposed framework.
In spite of the remarkable progress made in the burgeoning field of social neuroscience, the neural mechanisms that underlie social encounters are only beginning to be studied and could-paradoxically-be seen as representing the &quot;dark matter&quot; of social neuroscience. Recent conceptual and empirical developments consistently indicate the need for investigations that allow the study of real-time social encounters in a truly interactive manner. This suggestion is based on the premise that social cognition is fundamentally different when we are in interaction with others rather than merely observing them. In this article, we outline the theoretical conception of a second-person approach to other minds and review evidence from neuroimaging, psychophysiological studies, and related fields to argue for the development of a second-person neuroscience, which will help neuroscience to really &quot;go social&quot;; this may also be relevant for our understanding of psychiatric disorders construed as disorders of social cognition.
Pickering &amp; Garrod's (P&amp;G's) framework assumes an efference copy based on the interlocutor's intentions. Yet, elaborate attribution of intentions may not always be necessary for online prediction. Instead, contextual cues such as speaker gaze can provide similar information with a lower demand on processing resources.
Environmental enrichment (EE) has been shown to induce beneficial effects in mouse models of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), as well as animal models of a variety of other neurological and psychiatric disorders. Investigation of the mechanisms responsible for these changes in animal models will facilitate translation of EE and associated therapies to patient cohorts. In the accompanying article, Woo and Leon demonstrate clinical benefits of sensorimotor enrichment in patients with ASD. We discuss the implications of these findings for future development of therapeutic approaches for ASD and other brain disorders.
The prefrontal cortex plays an important role in reward processing in humans and nonhuman primates. In the current study we examined reward modulation in the single cell activity of the avian analog of the prefrontal cortex, the nidopallium caudolaterale (NCL). Pigeons had to peck at stimuli that represented either no reward, a small reward, or a large reward in a no-choice condition (only one stimulus presented) or a choice condition (two stimuli presented simultaneously). Of the 92 recorded cells, 34 cells showed some form of reward modulation, either during the stimulus presentation or the delay activity preceding the delivery of reward in the no-choice or choice condition. Latencies to peck at the stimulus revealed that the differences in reward amount were behaviorally significant to the pigeons. Moreover, a majority of cells (approximately 70%) showed activity during the actual reward phase. Our results show that cells in the NCL modulate their response as a function of the amount of reward.
Emotional hyperreactivity can inhibit maternal responsiveness in female rats and other animals. Maternal behavior in postpartum rats is disrupted by increasing norepinephrine release in the ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTv) with the 2-autoreceptor antagonist, yohimbine, or the more selective 2-autoreceptor antagonist, idazoxan (Smith et al., 2012). Because high noradrenergic activity in the BSTv can also increase anxiety-related behaviors, increased anxiety may underlie the disrupted mothering of dams given yohimbine or idazoxan. To assess this possibility, anxiety-related behaviors in an elevated plus maze were assessed in postpartum rats after administration of yohimbine or idazoxan. It was further assessed if the 2-autoreceptor agonist clonidine (which decreases norepinephrine release) would, conversely, reduce dams' anxiety. Groups of diestrous virgins were also examined. It was found that peripheral or intra-BSTv yohimbine did increase anxiety-related behavior in postpartum females. However, BSTv infusion of idazoxan did not reproduce yohimbine's anxiogenic effects and anxiety was not reduced by peripheral or intra-BSTv clonidine. Because yohimbine is a weak 5HT1A receptor agonist, other groups of females received BSTv infusion of the 5HT1A receptor agonist 8OH-DPAT, but it did not alter their anxiety-related behavior. Lastly, levels of norepinephrine and serotonin in tissue punches from the BSTv did not differ between postpartum and diestrous rats, but serotonin turnover was lower in mothers. These results suggest that the impaired maternal behavior after BSTv infusion of yohimbine or idazoxan cannot both be readily explained by an increase in dams' anxiety, and that BSTv 2-autoreceptor modulation alone has little influence on anxiety-related behaviors in postpartum or diestrous rats.
In this study, we evaluated the role of orexin receptors in the dorsal hippocampus (dHPC) in the development of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) and modification of hippocampal c-Fos and cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB) levels. Orexin-A (0.5, 5, and 50 pmol) and the orexin-1 receptor antagonist, SB334867 (10, 20, and 40 nmol), were bilaterally infused into the dHPC immediately before conditioning with morphine (0.5 or 7.5 mg/kg) using the CPP task. Western blotting was then used to measure the protein levels of c-Fos, total CREB, and phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) in the hippocampus. Orexin did not enhance the rewarding efficacy of morphine (0.5 mg/kg), but caused a reduction in hippocampal c-Fos. Successful conditioning with morphine (7.5 mg/kg) was associated with increased levels of hippocampal c-Fos and CREB, but with decreased CREB phosphorylation. Intrahippocampal administration of SB334867 before conditioning sessions disrupted the rewarding effect of morphine (7.5 mg/kg) and blocked morphine-induced increases in hippocampal CREB protein levels. The results suggest that orexin signaling within the dHPC is necessary for the development of morphine CPP. Morphine reward is related to altered levels of hippocampal c-Fos and CREB. Inhibition of morphine-induced increases in CREB levels might be the underlying mechanism for the disruption of morphine CPP.
There is a disagreement about the impact of personality disorder (PD) on treatment outcome for patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). 100 out-patients with MDD were randomized to 16 sessions of behavioural activation (BA) (n=50) or antidepressant medication (ADM) (n=50) in Iran. Main outcome was depression severity, measured with the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II) and the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD), and assessed at 0, 4, 13 and 49 weeks. Participants with comorbid PDs had higher scores on BDI and HRSD at baseline and throughout the study than participants without comorbid PD. Patients with and without comorbid personality pathology responded equally to treatment on the short-and the long-term. Overall, BA was better in reducing symptoms in patients but this effect was not influenced by comorbid PD. Similar effects were found for a dimensional PD-measure. Only cluster-C PD-traits turned out to be associated with overall depression severity. Cluster-A PD-traits predicted poorer long-term treatment response to ADM and BA, but only on the BDI, not on the HRSD. No effects of cluster-B PD-traits were found. However, PD was associated with higher dropout. The general conclusion is that comorbid PD pathology, especially from cluster-C, is associated with higher depression severity, but not with less response to treatment. Comorbid PD did predict increased chance of dropout.

Type I transmembrane peptides acquire N-linked glycans during and after protein synthesis to facilitate anterograde trafficking through the secretory pathway. Mutations in N-glycosylation consensus sites (NXT and NXS, where XP) that alter the kinetics of the initial N-glycan attachment have been associated with cardiac arrhythmias; however, the molecular determinants that define co- and post-translational consensus sites in proteins are not known. In the present study, we identified co- and post-translational consensus sites in the KCNE family of K+ channel regulatory subunits to uncover three determinants that favour co-translational N-glycosylation kinetics of typeI transmembrane peptides which lack a cleavable signal sequence: threonine-containing consensus sites (NXT), multiple N-terminal consensus sites and long C-termini. The identification of these three molecular determinants now makes it possible to predict co- and post-translational consensus sites in typeI transmembrane peptides.
Body development requires the ability to control cell proliferation and metabolism, together with selective 'invasive' cell migration for organogenesis. These requirements are shared with cancer. Human height-associated loci have been recently identified by genome-wide SNP-association studies. Strikingly, most of the more than 100 genes found associated to height appear linked to neoplastic growth, and impose a higher risk for cancer. Height-associated genes drive the HH/PTCH and BMP/TGF pathways, with p53, c-Myc, ER, HNF4A and SMADs as central network nodes. Genetic analysis of body-size-affecting diseases and evidence from genetically-modified animals support this model. The finding that cancer is deeply linked to normal, body-plan master genes may profoundly affect current paradigms on tumor development.


Human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are a promising candidate cell type for regenerative medicine and tissue engineering applications. Exposure of MSCs to physical stimuli favors early and rapid activation of the tissue repair process. In this study we investigated the in vitro effects of pulsed electromagnetic field (PEMF) treatment on the proliferation and osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow MSCs (BM-MSCs) and adipose-tissue MSCs (ASCs), to assess if both types of MSCs could be indifferently used in combination with PEMF exposure for bone tissue healing. We compared the cell viability, cell matrix distribution, and calcified matrix production in unstimulated and PEMF-stimulated (magnetic field: 2 mT, amplitude: 5mV) mesenchymal cell lineages. After PEMF exposure, in comparison with ASCs, BM-MSCs showed an increase in cell proliferation (p&lt;0.05) and an enhanced deposition of extracellular matrix components such as decorin, fibronectin, osteocalcin, osteonectin, osteopontin, and type-I and -III collagens (p&lt;0.05). Calcium deposition was 1.5-fold greater in BM-MSC-derived osteoblasts (p&lt;0.05). The immunofluorescence related to the deposition of bone matrix proteins and calcium showed their colocalization to the cell-rich areas for both types of MSC-derived osteoblast. Alkaline phosphatase activity increased nearly 2-fold (p&lt;0.001) and its protein content was 1.2-fold higher in osteoblasts derived from BM-MSCs. The quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis revealed up-regulated transcription specific for bone sialoprotein, osteopontin, osteonectin, and Runx2, but at a higher level for cells differentiated from BM-MSCs. All together these results suggest that PEMF promotion of bone extracellular matrix deposition is more efficient in osteoblasts differentiated from BM-MSCs.
Culture of pluripotent stem cells at 35C strikingly reduces unwanted spontaneous differentiation during hESC and iPSC maintenance compared with 37C. Growth at 35C did not affect expression of pluripotency mRNAs nor induce expression of cold-inducible genes. Colony size was somewhat reduced at 35C. Thus, growth at 35C is a convenient, simple method to reduce the labor of removing spontaneously differentiated colonies when maintaining pluripotent cells.




Spinal ganglioneuromas may grow in a dumbbell fashion. We report the first case of an intradural, extramedullary ganglioneuroma in the lumbar spine and review the pertinent literature. Although rare, we propose that ganglioneuroma be considered a differential diagnosis in patients presenting with a large mass occupying both intraspinal and extraspinal compartments.


Whether motor and linguistic representations of actions share common neural structures has recently been the focus of an animated debate in cognitive neuroscience. Group studies with brain-damaged patients reported association patterns of praxic and linguistic deficits whereas single case studies documented double dissociations between the correct execution of gestures and their comprehension in verbal contexts. When the relationship between language and imitation was investigated, each ability was analysed as a unique process without distinguishing between possible subprocesses. However, recent cognitive models can be successfully used to account for these inconsistencies in the extant literature. In the present study, in 57 patients with left brain damage, we tested whether a deficit at imitating either meaningful or meaningless gestures differentially impinges on three distinct linguistic abilities (comprehension, naming and repetition). Based on the dual-pathway models, we predicted that praxic and linguistic performance would be associated when meaningful gestures are processed, and would dissociate for meaningless gestures. We used partial correlations to assess the association between patients' scores while accounting for potential confounding effects of aspecific factors such age, education and lesion size. We found that imitation of meaningful gestures significantly correlated with patients' performance on naming and repetition (but not on comprehension). This was not the case for the imitation of meaningless gestures. Moreover, voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping analysis revealed that damage to the angular gyrus specifically affected imitation of meaningless gestures, independent of patients' performance on linguistic tests. Instead, damage to the supramarginal gyrus affected not only imitation of meaningful gestures, but also patients' performance on naming and repetition. Our findings clarify the apparent conflict between associations and dissociations patterns previously observed in neuropsychological studies, and suggest that motor experience and language can interact when the two domains conceptually overlap.
Psychopathy is a personality disorder associated with a profound lack of empathy. Neuroscientists have associated empathy and its interindividual variation with how strongly participants activate brain regions involved in their own actions, emotions and sensations while viewing those of others. Here we compared brain activity of 18 psychopathic offenders with 26 control subjects while viewing video clips of emotional hand interactions and while experiencing similar interactions. Brain regions involved in experiencing these interactions were not spontaneously activated as strongly in the patient group while viewing the video clips. However, this group difference was markedly reduced when we specifically instructed participants to feel with the actors in the videos. Our results suggest that psychopathy is not a simple incapacity for vicarious activations but rather reduced spontaneous vicarious activations co-existing with relatively normal deliberate counterparts.
The pace of nigrostriatal degeneration, both with regards to striatal denervation and loss of melanin and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons, is poorly understood especially early in the Parkinson's disease process. This study investigated the extent of nigrostriatal degeneration in patients with Parkinson's disease at different disease durations from time of diagnosis. Brains of patients with Parkinson's disease (n=28) with post-diagnostic intervals of 1-27 years and normal elderly control subjects (n=9) were examined. Sections of the post-commissural putamen and substantia nigra pars compacta were processed for tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine transporter immunohistochemistry. The post-commissural putamen was selected due to tissue availability and the fact that dopamine loss in this region is associated with motor disability in Parkinson's disease. Quantitative assessments of putaminal dopaminergic fibre density and stereological estimates of the number of melanin-containing and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (both in total and in subregions) were performed by blinded investigators in cases where suitable material was available (n=17). Dopaminergic markers in the dorsal putamen showed a modest loss at 1 year after diagnosis in the single case available for study. There was variable (moderate to marked) loss, at 3 years. At 4 years post-diagnosis and thereafter, there was virtually complete loss of staining in the dorsal putamen with only an occasional abnormal dopaminergic fibre detected. In the substantia nigra pars compacta, there was a 50-90% loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons from the earliest time points studied with only marginal additional loss thereafter. There was only a 10% loss of melanized neurons in the one case evaluated 1 year post-diagnosis, and variable (30 to 60%) loss during the first several years post-diagnosis with more gradual and subtle loss in the second decade. At all time points, there were more melanin-containing than tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells. Loss of dopaminergic markers in the dorsal putamen occurs rapidly and is virtually complete by 4 years post-diagnosis. Loss of melanized nigral neurons lags behind the loss of dopamine markers. These findings have important implications for understanding the nature of Parkinson's disease neurodegeneration and for studies of putative neuroprotective/restorative therapies.
Pathological gambling is an addictive disorder characterized by a persistent and compulsive desire to engage in gambling activities. This maladaptive behaviour has been suggested to result from a decreased sensitivity to experienced rewards, regardless of reward type. Alternatively, pathological gambling might reflect an imbalance in the sensitivity to monetary versus non-monetary incentives. To directly test these two hypotheses, we examined how the brain reward circuit of pathological gamblers responds to different types of rewards. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we compared the brain responses of 18 pathological gamblers and 20 healthy control subjects while they engaged in a simple incentive task manipulating both monetary and visual erotic rewards. During reward anticipation, the ventral striatum of pathological gamblers showed a differential response to monetary versus erotic cues, essentially driven by a blunted reactivity to cues predicting erotic stimuli. This differential response correlated with the severity of gambling symptoms and was paralleled by a reduced behavioural motivation for erotic rewards. During reward outcome, a posterior orbitofrontal cortex region, responding to erotic rewards in both groups, was further recruited by monetary gains in pathological gamblers but not in control subjects. Moreover, while ventral striatal activity correlated with subjective ratings assigned to monetary and erotic rewards in control subjects, it only correlated with erotic ratings in gamblers. Our results point to a differential sensitivity to monetary versus non-monetary rewards in pathological gambling, both at the motivational and hedonic levels. Such an imbalance might create a bias towards monetary rewards, potentially promoting addictive gambling behaviour.

Acute and chronic stressors sensitize or prime the neuroinflammatory response to a subsequent peripheral or central immunologic challenge. However, the neuroimmune process(es) by which stressors prime or sensitize subsequent neuroinflammatory responses remains unclear. Prior evidence suggested that toll-like receptors (TLRs) might be involved in the mediation of primed neuroinflammatory responses, but the role of TLRs during a stressor has never been directly tested. Here, a novel TLR2 and TLR4 antagonist, OxPAPC, was used to probe the contribution of TLRs in the stress sensitization phenomenon. OxPAPC has not previously been administered to the brain, and so its action in blocking TLR2 and TLR4 action in brain was first verified. Administration of OxPAPC into the CNS prior to stress prevented the stress-induced potentiation of hippocampal pro-inflammatory response to a subsequent peripheral LPS challenge occurring 24 h later. In addition, in vivo administration of OxPAPC prior to stress prevented the sensitized pro-inflammatory response from isolated microglia following administration of LPS ex vivo, further implicating microglia as a key neuroimmune substrate that mediates stress-induced sensitized neuroinflammation.
Neuropsychiatric (NP) manifestations and brain atrophy are common, etiologically unexplained complications of the systemic autoimmune disease lupus erythematosus (SLE). Similar to patients with NP SLE, behavioral deficits and neurodegeneration occur in aged, lupus-prone MRL/lpr mice. In order to gain a better understanding of the time course and nature of CNS involvement, we compare the neuro-immuno-endocrine profiles of two lupus-prone MRL/lpr stocks, which differ in disease onset and severity. Mice from stock 485 (characterized by early lupus-like manifestations) display blunted responsiveness to palatable solutions and impaired nocturnal activity as early as 7 weeks of age. They also have increased IgG in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) before high serum autoantibody levels and splenomegaly are detected. Moreover, when compared to age-matched 6825 controls, 485 mice exhibit elevated serum corticosterone, enlarged left adrenal gland, and enhanced haematoxylin/eosin staining in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. Swimming speed and novel object exploration become impaired only when more severe peripheral manifestations are documented in 17 week-old 485 mice. The obtained results suggest that performance deficits during the prodromal phase of NP SLE-like disease are associated with autoantibodies in CSF and asymmetric activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis. Subsequent deterioration in behavioral performance evolves alongside systemic autoimmunity and inflammation. Although a leaky blood-CSF barrier is a possible explanation, one may hypothesize that, similar to neonatal lupus, maternal antibodies to brain antigens cross blood-placental barrier during embryogenesis and induce early endocrine and behavioral deficits in offspring.
Many studies have suggested that structural and functional cerebral neuroplastic processes result from long-term musical training, which in turn may produce cognitive differences between musicians and non-musicians. We aimed to investigate whether intensive, long-term musical practice is associated with improvements in three different forms of visual attention ability: selective, divided and sustained attention. Musicians from symphony orchestras (n=38) and non-musicians (n=38), who were comparable in age, gender and education, were submitted to three neuropsychological tests, measuring reaction time and accuracy. Musicians showed better performance relative to non-musicians on four variables of the three visual attention tests, and such an advantage could not solely be explained by better sensorimotor integration. Moreover, in the group of musicians, significant correlations were observed between the age at the commencement of musical studies and reaction time in all visual attention tests. The results suggest that musicians present augmented ability in different forms of visual attention, thus illustrating the possible cognitive benefits of long-term musical training.
In Japan, verbal fluency tasks are commonly utilized as a standard paradigm for neuropsychological testing of cognitive and linguistic abilities. The Japanese &quot;letter fluency task&quot; is a mora/letter fluency task based on the phonological and orthographical characteristics of the Japanese language. Whether there are similar activation patterns across languages or a Japanese-specific mora/letter fluency pattern is not certain. We investigated the neural correlates of overt mora/letter and category fluency tasks in healthy Japanese. The category fluency task activated the bilateral fronto-temporal language-related regions with left-superior lateralization, while the mora/letter fluency task led to wider activation including the inferior parietal regions (left and right supramarginal gyrus). Specific bilateral supramarginal activation during the mora/letter fluency task in Japanese was distinct from that of similar letter fluency tasks in syllable-alphabet-based languages: this might be due to the requirement of additional phonological processing and working memory, or due to increased cognitive load in general.
We examined word-level reading circuits in skilled deaf readers whose primary language is American Sign Language, and hearing readers matched for reading ability (college level). During fMRI scanning, participants performed a semantic decision (concrete concept?), a phonological decision (two syllables?), and a false-font control task (string underlined?). The groups performed equally well on the semantic task, but hearing readers performed better on the phonological task. Semantic processing engaged similar left frontotemporal language circuits in deaf and hearing readers. However, phonological processing elicited increased neural activity in deaf, relative to hearing readers, in the left precentral gyrus, suggesting greater reliance on articulatory phonological codes, and in bilateral parietal cortex, suggesting increased phonological processing effort. Deaf readers also showed stronger anterior-posterior functional segregation between semantic and phonological processes in left inferior prefrontal cortex. Finally, weaker phonological decoding ability did not alter activation in the visual word form area for deaf readers.
Learning to predict others' minds is critical for social cognition, but the underlying computation and neural mechanisms remains largely unknown. According to theories in social cognition, a simple conception is that humans simulate others' mental processes by directly recruiting one's own process to model others' minds. In this review, we first describe our recent finding and discuss its possible implications. Using human fMRI with model-based analysis on frameworks of reinforcement learning and value-based decision making, we found that simulation involves two hierarchical learning signals: a reward prediction error, generated by simulation of direct recruitment to model others' valuation, and an action prediction error, based on simulation and observation of the other's choices to track others' variability. These findings show that humans can learn to predict others' minds from simulation, using a scaffold of mentalizing signals. Then, we discuss prospects that theoretical neuroscience and computational approaches will play significant roles in understanding human behavior and neural mechanisms, leading to the so-called computational psychiatry as well as synthesis over different disciplines to study human.
Risk taking can lead to ruin, but sometimes, it can also provide great success. How does our brain make a decision on whether to take a risk or to play it safe? Recent studies have revealed the neural basis of risky decision making. In this review, we focus on the role of the anterior insular cortex (AIC) in risky decision making. Although human imaging studies have shown activations of the AIC in various gambling tasks, the causal involvement of the AIC in risky decision making was still unclear. Recently, we demonstrated a causality of the AIC in risky decision making by using a pharmacological approach in behaving rats-temporary inactivation of the AIC decreased the risk preference in gambling tasks, whereas temporary inactivation of the adjacent orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) increased the risk preference. The latter finding is consistent with a previous finding that patients with damage to the OFC take abnormally risky decisions in the Iowa gambling task. On the basis of these observations, we hypothesize that the intact AIC promotes risk-seeking behavior, and that the AIC and OFC are crucial for balancing the opposing motives of whether to take a risk or avoid it. However, the functional relationship between the AIC and OFC remains unclear. Future combinations of inactivation and electrophysiological studies may promote further understanding of risky decision making.
In 1953, 27-year-old H.M. underwent bilateral medial temporal lobes resection to control his seizures; however, he suffered from severe amnesia as a result. For the next five decades until his death in December 2008 at the age 82, he was the subject of numerous studies performed by over 100 investigators. The reason why research on H.M. continued for so long is mostly attributed to the efficient organization of excellent researchers. The principal findings of H.M. study encouraged the concept of medial temporal lobe memory system and multiple memory systems, and suggested the slow acquisition of semantic knowledge without medial temporal lobe memory system through repeated experience. By the grace of H.M.'s lifelong contribution, the neuroscience of memory is in full flourish.
High-fat (HF) diet and obesity are risk factors for a number of mental health problems including depression, cognitive dysfunction, dementia, and neurodegenerative diseases. Histamine H1 receptors (H1Rs) are involved in many of these conditions. This study examined H1R receptor binding density in the brain of male rats fed a high-saturated fat (HF) diet, as well as the effect of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), galacto-oligosaccharide (GOS) and resistant starch (RS) supplementation of HF diet. Alterations of H1R expression in the post-mortem rat brain were detected by [(3)H]-pyrilamine binding autoradiography. We found that HF diet significantly decreased H1R binding densities in the substantia nigra (SN), caudate putamen (CPu), hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (Arc), ventral tegmental area (VTA), piriform cortex (Pir) and primary motor cortex (M1), compared with low-fat fed rats, and the suppression of receptor binding density ranged from 31% to 48%. Interestingly, supplementing the HF diet with 0.5% n-3 polyunsaturated docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) prevented reduction of H1R binding densities in the SN and CPu. Addition of galacto-oligosaccharide (GOS) and resistant starch (RS) to the diet blunted HF induced reduction of H1R ligand binding in the SN and Pir, respectively. In conclusion this study showed that HF diet can alter H1R binding densities in various brain regions, and many of these changes can be prevented by adding DHA, GOS or RS to the diet.
Synaptic plasticity induced by cocaine and other drugs underlies addiction. Here we elucidate molecular events at synapses that cause this plasticity and the resulting behavioral response to cocaine in mice. In response to D1-dopamine-receptor signaling that is induced by drug administration, the glutamate-receptor protein metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) is phosphorylated by microtubule-associated protein kinase (MAPK), which we show potentiates Pin1-mediated prolyl-isomerization of mGluR5 in instances where the product of an activity-dependent gene, Homer1a, is present to enable Pin1-mGluR5 interaction. These biochemical events potentiate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-mediated currents that underlie synaptic plasticity and cocaine-evoked motor sensitization as tested in mice with relevant mutations. The findings elucidate how a coincidence of signals from the nucleus and the synapse can render mGluR5 accessible to activation with consequences for drug-induced dopamine responses and point to depotentiation at corticostriatal synapses as a possible therapeutic target for treating addiction.
The first cell growth factor, nerve growth factor (NGF), was discovered by Rita Levi-Montalcini (RLM) in the early 1950s. Originally identified as neurite outgrowth-stimulating factor, later studies revealed that non-neuronal cells, including immune cells, endothelial cells, cardiomyocytes, pancreatic beta cells, prostate epithelial and adipose tissue cells, were also targets for and/or sources of NGF. Nerve growth factor is well recognised as mediating multiple biological phenomena, ranging from the neurotrophic through immunotrophic and epitheliotrophic to metabotrophic effects. Consequently, NGF and other members of the neurotrophin family are implicated in the pathogenesis of a large spectrum of neuronal and non-neuronal diseases, ranging from Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases to atherosclerosis and cardiometabolic disorders. Recent studies have demonstrated the therapeutic potentials of NGF in these conditions, including ocular and cutaneous diseases. NGF TrkA receptor antagonists emerged as novel drugs for pain, prostate and breast cancer, melanoma and urinary bladder syndromes. Here, we briefly describe the 'unpredictable' ideogenesis of the discovery of NGF, a eureka in the neuroscience.
Calcium imaging has become a routine technique in neuroscience for subcellular to network level investigations. The fast progresses in the development of new indicators and imaging techniques call for dedicated reliable analysis methods. In particular, efficient and quantitative background fluorescence subtraction routines would be beneficial to most of the calcium imaging research field. A background-subtracted fluorescence transients estimation method that does not require any independent background measurement is therefore developed. This method is based on a fluorescence model fitted to single-trial data using a classical nonlinear regression approach. The model includes an appropriate probabilistic description of the acquisition system's noise leading to accurate confidence intervals on all quantities of interest (background fluorescence, normalized background-subtracted fluorescence time course) when background fluorescence is homogeneous. An automatic procedure detecting background inhomogeneities inside the region of interest is also developed and is shown to be efficient on simulated data. The implementation and performances of the proposed method on experimental recordings from the mouse hypothalamus are presented in details. This method, which applies to both single-cell and bulk-stained tissues recordings, should help improving the statistical comparison of fluorescence calcium signals between experiments and studies.
Purinergic receptors have been shown to be involved in neuronal development, but the functions of specific subtypes of P2 receptors during neuronal development remain elusive. In this study we investigate the distribution of P2X7 receptors (P2X7Rs) in the embryonic rat brain using in situ hybridization. At E15.5, P2X7R mRNA was observed in the ventricular zone and subventricular zone, and colocalized with nestin, indicating that P2X7R might be expressed in neural progenitor cells (NPCs). P2X7R mRNA was also detected in the subgranular zone and dentate gyrus of the E18.5 and P4 brain. To investigate the roles of P2X7R and elucidate its mechanism, we established NPC cultures from the E15.5 rat brain. Stimulation of P2X7Rs induced Ca(2+) influx, inhibited proliferation, altered cell cycle progression and enhanced the expression of neuronal markers, such as TUJ1 and MAP2. Similarly, knockdown of P2X7R by shRNA nearly abolished the agonist-stimulated increases in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration and the expression of TUJ1 and NeuN. Furthermore, stimulation of P2X7R induced activation of ERK1/2, which was inhibited by the removal of extracellular Ca(2+) and treatment with blockers for P2X7R and PKC activity. Stimulation of P2X7R also induced translocation of PKC and PKC, but not of PKC, whereas knockdown of either PKC or PKC inhibited ERK1/2 activation. Inhibition of PKC or p-ERK1/2 also caused a decrease in the number of TUJ1-positive cells and a concomitant increase in the number of GFAP-positive cells. Taken together, the activation of P2X7R in NPCs induced neuronal differentiation through a PKC-ERK1/2 signaling pathway.
-amyloid (A) can promote neurogenesis, both in vitro and in vivo, by inducing neural progenitor cells to differentiate into neurons. The choroid plexus in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is burdened with amyloid deposits and hosts neuronal progenitor cells. However, neurogenesis in this brain tissue is not firmly established. To investigate this issue further, we examined the effect of A on the neuronal differentiation of choroid plexus epithelial cells in several experimental models of AD. Here we show that A regulates neurogenesis in vitro in cultured choroid plexus epithelial cells as well as in vivo in the choroid plexus of APP/Ps1 mice. Treatment with oligomeric A increased proliferation and differentiation of neuronal progenitor cells in cultured choroid plexus epithelial cells, but decreased survival of newly born neurons. These A-induced neurogenic effects were also observed in choroid plexus of APP/PS1 mice, and detected also in autopsy tissue from AD patients. Analysis of signaling pathways revealed that pre-treating the choroid plexus epithelial cells with specific inhibitors of TyrK or MAPK diminished A-induced neuronal proliferation. Taken together, our results support a role of A in proliferation and differentiation in the choroid plexus epithelial cells in Alzheimer's disease.
Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of blindness in developed countries and is mainly attributable to the apoptosis of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Although several diagnostic tools have been developed to detect and monitor this disease, none has the requisite sensitivity to identify it at a preclinical stage or to perceive small changes in retinal health over short periods. Specifically, irreversible visual changes occur before neuronal damage is discovered. The most widely accepted in vitro assay for apoptotic cells involves the use of fluorescent annexin A5. The radiolabelling of this marker makes it possible to assess, in vivo and non-invasively, various diseases in which the apoptotic process is pivotal, such as myocardial infarction or tumour response to chemotherapy. Recently, a new technique has been developed to visualise directly individual RGCs undergoing apoptosis in the living eye. This DARC (detection of apoptosing retinal cells) technology uses fluorescently labelled annexin A5 to bind apoptosing retinal neurons and confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy to detect the marked dying cells. Based on experimental models, DARC has been suggested to offer a direct and quantitative assessment of the retinal condition of patients. A Phase I clinical trial in glaucoma patients is scheduled to start shortly. This technology has the potential to pre-empt the diagnosis of glaucoma prior to visual deterioration, to provide an accurate numeric evaluation highlighting even small retinal changes and to allow the rapid judgement of the efficacy of both current and new therapeutic strategies.
Neurons in macaque cortical area MSTd are driven by visual motion and eye movement related signals. This multimodal characteristic makes MSTd an ideal system for studying the dependence of neuronal activity on different variables. Here, we analyzed the temporal structure of spiking patterns during visual motion stimulation using 2 distinct behavioral paradigms: fixation (FIX) and optokinetic response. For the FIX condition, inter- and intra-trial variability of spiking activity decreased with increasing stimulus strength, complying with a recent neurophysiological study reporting stimulus-related decline of neuronal variability. In contrast, for the optokinetic condition variability increased together with increasing eye velocity while retinal image velocity remained low. Analysis of stimulus signal variability revealed a correlation between the normalized variance of image velocity and neuronal variability, but no correlation with normalized eye velocity variance. We further show that the observed difference in neuronal variability allows classifying spike trains according to the paradigm used, even when mean firing rates (FRs) were similar. The stimulus-dependence of neuronal variability may result from the local network structure and/or the variability characteristics of the input signals, but may also reflect additional timing-based mechanisms independent of the neuron's mean FR and related to the modality driving the neuron.
Functional organization of the brain can be fundamentally altered by auditory deprivation. Previous studies found that the superior temporal cortex in deaf people is reorganized to process non-auditory stimuli, as revealed by the extrinsic task-induced brain activities. However, it is unknown how the intrinsic activities of this region are impacted by deafness. This study explored this issue using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging. We examined 60 congenitally deaf (CD) individuals, 39 acquired deaf (AD) individuals, and 38 hearing controls (HC), and focused on the effect of deafness on the intra- and inter-regional synchronization of different parts of superior temporal sulcus (STS). We found that intra-regional synchronization or regional homogeneity (ReHo) of the middle STS (mSTS) was decreased in AD compared with HC or CD, while the CD had preserved ReHo in mSTS. Greater connectivity was observed between mSTS and posterior STS in CD and HC than in AD, while both CD and AD had weaker connectivity of mSTS with the anterior STS (aSTS) compared with HC. Moreover, the connectivity of mSTS-aSTS in CD and AD was associated with their language skills. These findings confirmed our hypothesis that the intrinsic function of different parts of STS is distinctly impacted by deafness.
Eph receptors, the largest family of surface-bound receptor tyrosine kinases and their ligands, the ephrins, mediate a wide variety of cellular interactions in most organ systems throughout both development and maturity. In the forming cerebral cortex, Eph family members are broadly and dynamically expressed in particular sets of cortical cells at discrete times. Here, we review the known functions of Eph-mediated intercellular signaling in the generation of progenitors, the migration of maturing cells, the differentiation of neurons, the formation of functional connections, and the choice between life and death during corticogenesis. In synthesizing these results, we posit a signaling paradigm in which cortical cells maintain a life history of Eph-mediated intercellular interactions that guides subsequent cellular decision-making.
Visual experience can cause functional modification in the adult visual cortex; however, how cortical receptive fields (RFs) are dynamically modified by natural scene stimulation remains unclear. Here, using in vivo patch-clamp recordings from neurons in the rat primary visual cortex (V1), we showed that minutes of conditioning with natural movies could increase the similarity between cortical RF structure and the subset of movie images that depolarized the cell. This effect lasted for a few minutes in the absence of further movie stimulation. Manipulating the statistics of the movies by temporal shuffling or spatial whitening showed that the spatiotemporal correlation of the movie was important in inducing the RF modification. Furthermore, the movie-induced RF modification required the activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors. Such rapid RF modification may play an important role in the dynamic coding of natural scenes.
Language is experienced primarily through one of two mediums--spoken words and written text. Although substantially different in form, these two linguistic vehicles possess similar powers of expression. Consequently, one goal for the cognitive neuroscience of language is to determine where, if anywhere, along the neural path from sensory stimulation to ultimate comprehension these two processing streams converge. In the present study, we investigate the relationship between basic combinatorial operations in both reading and listening. Using magnetoencephalography, we measured neural activity elicited by the comprehension of simple adjective-noun phrases (red boat) using the same linguistic materials and tasks in both modalities. The present paradigm deviates from previous cross-modality studies by investigating only basic combinatorial mechanisms--specifically, those evoked by the construction of simple adjective-noun phrases. Our results indicate that both modalities rely upon shared neural mechanisms localized to the left anterior temporal lobe (lATL) and left angular gyrus (lAG) during such processing. Furthermore, we found that combinatorial mechanisms subserved by these regions are deployed in the same temporal order within each modality, with lATL activity preceding lAG activity. Modality-specific combinatorial effects were identified during initial perceptual processing, suggesting top-down modulation of low-level mechanisms even during basic composition.
Recently, it has been discovered that the working memory deficits induced by exposure to chronic stress can be prevented by treating stressed animals with minocycline, a putative inhibitor of microglial activity. One of the pressing issues that now requires clarification is exactly how exposure to chronic stress modifies microglial morphology, this being a significant issue as microglial morphology is tightly coupled with their function. To examine how chronic stress alters microglial morphology, we digitally reconstructed microglia within the rat medial prefrontal cortex. Our analysis revealed that stress increased the internal complexity of microglia, enhancing ramification (i.e. branching) without altering the overall area occupied by the cell and that this effect was more pronounced in larger cells. We subsequently determined that minocycline treatment largely abolished the pro-ramifying effects of stress. With respect to mechanisms, we could not find any evidence of increased inflammation or neurodegeneration (interleukin-1, MHC-II, CD68, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling, and activated caspase-3). We did, however, find that chronic stress markedly increased the expression of 1-integrin (CD29), a protein previously implicated in microglial ramification. Together, these findings highlight that increased ramification of microglia may represent an important neurobiological mechanism through which microglia mediate the behavioral effects of chronic psychological stress.
Ataxia with oculomotor apraxia type 2 (AOA2) is one of the most frequent autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxias. Oculomotor apraxia refers to horizontal gaze failure due to deficits in voluntary/reactive eye movements. These deficits can manifest as increased latency and/or hypometria of saccades with a staircase pattern and are frequently associated with compensatory head thrust movements. Oculomotor disturbances associated with AOA2 have been poorly studied mainly because the diagnosis of oculomotor apraxia was based on the presence of compensatory head thrusts. The aim of this study was to characterise the nature of horizontal gaze failure in patients with AOA2 and to demonstrate oculomotor apraxia even in the absence of head thrusts. Five patients with AOA2, without head thrusts, were tested in saccadic tasks with the head restrained or free to move and their performance was compared to a group of six healthy participants. The most salient deficit of the patients was saccadic hypometria with a typical staircase pattern. Saccade latency in the patients was longer than controls only for memory-guided saccades. In the head-free condition, head movements were delayed relative to the eye and their amplitude and velocity were strongly reduced compared to controls. Our study emphasises that in AOA2, hypometric saccades with a staircase pattern are a more reliable sign of oculomotor apraxia than head thrust movements. In addition, the variety of eye and head movements' deficits suggests that, although the main neural degeneration in AOA2 affects the cerebellum, this disease affects other structures.
Machado-Joseph disease (MJD), also known as spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3), is a fatal, dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by the polyglutamine-expanded protein ataxin-3. Clinical manifestations include cerebellar ataxia and pyramidal signs culminating in severe neuronal degeneration. Currently, there is no therapy able to modify disease progression. In the present study, we aimed at investigating one of the most severely affected brain regions in the disorder--the cerebellum--and the behavioral defects associated with the neuropathology in this region. For this purpose, we injected lentiviral vectors encoding full-length human mutant ataxin-3 in the mouse cerebellum of 3-week-old C57/BL6 mice. We show that circumscribed expression of human mutant ataxin-3 in the cerebellum mediates within a short time frame--6 weeks, the development of a behavioral phenotype including reduced motor coordination, wide-based ataxic gait, and hyperactivity. Furthermore, the expression of mutant ataxin-3 resulted in the accumulation of intranuclear inclusions, neuropathological abnormalities, and neuronal death. These data show that lentiviral-based expression of mutant ataxin-3 in the mouse cerebellum induces localized neuropathology, which is sufficient to generate a behavioral ataxic phenotype. Moreover, this approach provides a physiologically relevant, cost-effective and time-effective animal model to gain further insights into the pathogenesis of MJD and for the evaluation of experimental therapeutics of MJD.










There is an enormous demand for new therapeutic interventions for a range of major disorders. The majority of clinical trials in recent years have been unsuccessful despite highly promising preclinical data. Therefore, an urgent issue confronting both the academic and commercial medical research sectors is how to optimize translation of preclinical studies. The vast majority of preclinical studies are currently performed using laboratory mice and rats. We will discuss the various opportunities for optimization of animal models of CNS disorders. One limitation of current approaches is that most studies are conducted on sedentary, unstimulated animals with unlimited access to food in the home cage, thus leading to metabolic and physiological compromise. Environmental enrichment, which enhances sensory stimulation, cognitive activity and physical exercise, has been demonstrated to induce dramatic effects on brain and behavior in both wild-type and genetically modified rodent models, relative to standard-housed littermate controls. Environmental enrichment also exerts beneficial effects outside the CNS, such as a reduction in excess body fat. We propose that therapeutic interventions which are found to show promise in standard-housed preclinical models should be subsequently tested under conditions of greater environmental enrichment to identify therapeutics which continue to show efficacy in housing contexts of superior 'environmental construct validity'. Other possible approaches to optimize the quality, validity and reporting of preclinical studies in animal models are also discussed.
In this article, we examined evidence for the acute treatment of depression in bipolar I disorder, focusing on double-blind, placebo-controlled studies with a definite primary outcome measure and published in peer review journals. Quetiapine and olanzapine/fluoxetine are currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of bipolar depression, and a number of additional agents (including other atypical antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, antidepressants, and novel compounds) have been studied with varying degrees of efficacy. The medication with the most evidence for efficacy in bipolar depression is quetiapine, with five studies showing positive efficacy compared to placebo. In contrast, five studies of lamotrigine were negative, although meta-analyses of the pooled have found some treatment effects. Two studies of olanzapine and olanzapine/fluoxetine and three small studies of divalproex showed significant efficacy in treating bipolar depression. Two studies of aripiprazole found no differences compared to placebo. Early research on lithium in bipolar depression had significant methodological flaws, and only one study of lithium met our primary search criteria. To better understand the role of antidepressants, we also examined studies of antidepressants as adjunctive treatment of bipolar depression in participants taking mood stabilizers or atypical antipsychotics. These studies reported mixed results for a variety of antidepressants, but the majority found no differences compared to placebo. Other studies of adjunctive treatment were also discussed. There has been one positive adjunctive study each of lamotrigine, omega-3 fatty acids, modafinil, and armodafinil, while there was one negative trial each of omega-3 fatty acids, ziprasidone, and levetiracetam.
To the best knowledge of the authors there is no study on nonlinear brain dynamics of down syndrome (DS) patients, whereas brain is a highly complex and nonlinear system. In this study, fractal dimension of EEG, as a key characteristic of brain dynamics, showing irregularity and complexity of brain dynamics, was used for evaluation of the dynamical changes in the DS brain. The results showed higher fractality of the DS brain in almost all regions compared to the normal brain, which indicates less centrality and higher irregular or random functioning of the DS brain regions. Also, laterality analysis of the frontal lobe showed that the normal brain had a right frontal laterality of complexity whereas the DS brain had an inverse pattern (left frontal laterality). Furthermore, the high accuracy of 95.8% obtained by enhanced probabilistic neural network classifier showed the potential of nonlinear dynamic analysis of the brain for diagnosis of DS patients. Moreover, the results showed that the higher EEG fractality in DS is associated with the higher fractality in the low frequencies (delta and theta), in broad regions of the brain, and the high frequencies (beta and gamma), majorly in the frontal regions.
Multisensory integration involves combining information from different senses to create a perception. The diverse characteristics of different sensory systems make it interesting to determine how cooperation and competition contribute to emotional experiences. Therefore, the aim of this study were to estimate the bias from the match attributes of the auditory and visual modalities and to depict specific brain activity frequency (theta, alpha, beta, and gamma) patterns related to a peaceful mood by using magnetoencephalography. The present study provides evidence of auditory domination in perceptual bias during multimodality processing of peaceful consciousness. Coherence analysis suggested that the theta oscillations are a transmitter of emotion signals, with the left and right brains being active in peaceful and fearful moods, respectively. Notably, hemispheric lateralization was also apparent in the alpha and beta oscillations, which might govern simple or pure information (e.g. from single modality) in the right brain but complex or mixed information (e.g. from multiple modalities) in the left brain.
The present study analyzes course and predictors of physically aggressive behaviour over a 1-year follow up in a sample of patients discharged from a psychiatric inpatient unit. One hundred and eighty-six patients discharged from a locked short-term Psychiatric Inpatient Unit at the Bologna University Hospital. After discharge, two data collection contacts at 1month and at 1year were scheduled. In particular, psychiatrists, nurses, and other professionals were interviewed by the research staff using the Overt Aggression Scale. About 20% of discharged patients showed physical aggressiveness in subsequent follow-up contacts. Risk factors for physical violence in the short-time period were social problems and a longer time from the first psychiatric contact. Living in residential facilities and physical aggressiveness during hospitalization were correlated to violence in the long-time period. Risk factors for physically violent behaviour differed in the short-term and long-term follow-ups; different causes of violent behaviour could be hypothesized.
Mindfulness meditation, with the resulting alpha brain state, is gaining a strong following as an adjunct to health, so too is applying self-affirmation to stimulate behavior change through subconscious re-programming. Until recently the EEG technology needed to demonstrate this has been cumbersome and required specialist training. This paper reports a pilot study using a remote EEG headband, which through a sophisticated algorithm, provides a real-time EEG readout unencumbered by conventional artifacts. In a convenience sample of 13, the difference in brain waves was examined while the subjects were occupied in an 'attention' and an 'alpha mind state' exercise. There was a significant difference in the mean scores for theta, delta, beta and gamma brain waves. Alpha brain waves remained static suggesting an ability of the headset to discriminate a mindful state and to provide real-time, easy to interpret feedback for the facilitator and subject. The findings provide encouragement for research applications in health care activities providing neurobiofeedback to subjects involved in mindfulness behavior change activities.

Insufficient tissue oxygenation occurs in a wide range of physiological and pathological conditions. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are physiological products of aerobic life and their accumulation affects aging. Chronic intermittent hypoxia can lead to oxidative stress that could predispose the organism to cumulative acceleration of the aging process.


Angiotensin II (Ang II) has actions on the sympathetic nervous system both as a circulating hormone acting on the circumventricular organs and also as a neurotransmitter/ neuromodulator acting within the brain. Administration of Ang II into the cerebral ventricles has diverse effects on sympathetic nerve activity (SNA), causing an increase in cardiac and splanchnic and a decrease in renal SNA. Similar contrasting effects on cardiac and renal SNA are seen with administration of hypertonic saline, which is thought to act centrally through angiotensinergic pathways. In heart failure there is compelling evidence that central angiotensinergic mechanisms contribute to the increases in cardiac and renal SNA, which have numerous detrimental effects. Although there is evidence that Ang II regulates sympathetic activity, and contributes to excess SNA in disease, the exact sites in the brain at which Ang II acts to selectively control SNA to individual organs are not well defined.
Modern pupillometry has expanded the study and utility of pupil responses in many new domains, including psychiatry, particularly for understanding aspects of cognitive and emotional information processing. Here, we review the applications of pupillometry in psychiatry for understanding patients' information processing styles, predicting treatment, and augmenting function. In the past year pupillometry has been shown to be useful in specifying cognitive/affective occurrences during experimental tasks and informing clinical diagnoses. Such studies demonstrate the potential of pupillary motility to be used in clinical psychiatry much as it has been in neurology for the past century.
Neurotransmitter assay of epinephrine (EP) was sought using a modified carbon nanotube paste electrode (PE). Using optimum conditions, cyclic voltammetry (CV) and the square wave (SW) stripping voltammetric working ranges were attained to 10-100 mgL(-1) (CV) and 20-140 ngL(-1) (SW). The relative standard deviation of 0.0549 (n=15) was obtained at 20.0 mgL(-1) EP constant. Here, the analytical detection limit (S/N) was reached with 4.60 ngL(-1) (2.510(-11) molL(-1)) EP. The hand-made electrode was implanted into the in-vivo brain core of the animals and was used in chronoamperometric neurodetection. The results obtained are applicable in neurosensing, physiological control, and other neuroscience fields.
The functions of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep have remained elusive since more than 50 years. Previous reports have identified several independent processes affected by the loss and subsequent recovery of REM sleep (hippocampal neurogenesis, brain stem neuronal cell death, and neurotransmitter content in several brain regions); however, a common underlying mechanism has not been found. We propose that altered brain homeostasis secondary to blood-brain barrier breakdown may explain all those changes induced by REM sleep loss. Therefore, the present report aimed to study the consequences of REM sleep restriction upon blood-brain barrier permeability to Evans blue. REM sleep restriction was induced by the multiple platform technique; male rats were REM sleep restricted 20h daily (with 4h sleep opportunity) during 10 days; control groups included large platform and intact rats. To study blood-brain barrier permeability Evans blue was intracardially administered; stained brains were sliced and photographed for optical density quantification. An independent experiment was carried out to elucidate the mechanism of blood-brain breakdown by transmission electron microscopy. REM sleep restriction increased blood-brain barrier permeability to Evans blue in the whole brain as compared to both control groups. Brief periods of sleep recovery rapidly and effectively restored the severe alteration of blood-brain barrier function by reducing blood-to-brain transfer of Evans blue. The mechanism of blood-brain barrier breakdown involved increased caveolae formation at brain endothelial cells. In conclusion, our data suggest that REM sleep regulates the physical barrier properties of the blood-brain barrier.
Oxidative stress is known to contribute to the progression of cerebrovascular disease. Additionally, oxidative stress may be increased by, but also augment inflammation, a key contributor to cerebral aneurysm development and rupture. Oxidative stress can induce important processes leading to cerebral aneurysm formation including direct endothelial injury as well as smooth muscle cell phenotypic switching to an inflammatory phenotype and ultimately apoptosis. Oxidative stress leads to recruitment and invasion of inflammatory cells through upregulation of chemotactic cytokines and adhesion molecules. Matrix metalloproteinases can be activated by free radicals leading to vessel wall remodeling and breakdown. Free radicals mediate lipid peroxidation leading to atherosclerosis and contribute to hemodynamic stress and hypertensive pathology, all integral elements of cerebral aneurysm development. Preliminary studies suggest that therapies targeted at oxidative stress may provide a future beneficial treatment for cerebral aneurysms, but further studies are indicated to define the role of free radicals in cerebral aneurysm formation and rupture. The goal of this review is to assess the role of oxidative stress in cerebral aneurysm pathogenesis.
We are currently witnessing a stream of major discoveries describing the elementary constituents of complex mitochondrial machineries that define the shape, dynamics and intracellular distribution of the organelle. On the basis of these findings the next wave of research holds the promise of unveiling the so far hidden relationships between the fascinating ultrastructural mitochondrial anatomy and its key roles in many areas of cell biology.


Numerous roles have been identified for extracellular signals such as Fibroblast Growth Factors (FGFs), Transforming Growth Factor-s (TGFs), Wingless-Int proteins (WNTs), and Sonic Hedgehog (SHH) in assigning fates to cells during development of the cerebrum. However, several fundamental questions remain largely unexplored. First, how does the same extracellular signal instruct precursor cells in different locations or at different stages to adopt distinct fates? And second, how does a precursor cell integrate multiple signals to adopt a specific fate? Answers to these questions require knowing the mechanisms that underlie each cell type's competence to respond to certain extracellular signals. This brief review provides illustrative examples of potential mechanisms that begin to bridge the gap between cell surface and cell fate during cerebrum development.
The efficacy of medications for alcohol dependence remains modest, and there are no strong clinical predictors of treatment response. Approved medications include acamprosate (an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDA) modulator), disulfiram (an acetaldehyde dehydrogenase inhibitor) and naltrexone (an opioid antagonist) while nalmefene (an opioid antagonist) is currently under review for approval in Europe. Clinical trials suggest that baclofen (a GABA-B agonist) and topiramate (an anticonvulsant) may be promising candidates, while several other drug candidates are currently evaluated at early clinical stages.
Drug craving has re-emerged as a relevant and important construct in the pathophysiology of addiction with its inclusion in DSM-V as a key clinical symptom of addictive disorders. This renewed focus has been due in part to the recent neurobiological evidence on craving-related neural activation and clinical evidence supporting its association with drug use, relapse, and recovery processes. This review covers the neurobiology of drug craving and relapse risk with a primary focus on cocaine addiction and a secondary emphasis on alcohol addiction. A conceptualization of drug craving on the continuum of healthy desire and compulsive seeking, and the associated neurobiological adaptations associated with the development of an increased craving/wanting state is presented. Altered dopamine neurochemistry as well as disrupted prefrontal control and hyperactive striatal-limbic responses in experiencing drug cues, stress, drug intake and in basal relaxed states are identified as neurobiological signatures that predict drug craving and drug use. Thus, the clinical and neurobiological features of the craving/wanting state are presented with specific attention to alterations in these cortico-limbic-striatal and prefrontal self-control circuits that predict drug craving and relapse risk. The methodological challenges that need to be addressed to further develop the evolving conceptual approach to the neuroscience of drug craving is presented, with a focus on identification and validation of biomarkers associated with the craving state and treatment approaches that may be of benefit in reversing the neurobiological adaptations associated with drug craving to improve treatment outcomes in addiction.
Drug addiction and obesity share the core feature that those afflicted by the disorders express a desire to limit drug or food consumption yet persist despite negative consequences. Emerging evidence suggests that the compulsivity that defines these disorders may arise, to some degree at least, from common underlying neurobiological mechanisms. In particular, both disorders are associated with diminished striatal dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) availability, likely reflecting their decreased maturation and surface expression. In striatum, D2Rs are expressed by approximately half of the principal medium spiny projection neurons (MSNs), the striatopallidal neurons of the so-called 'indirect' pathway. D2Rs are also expressed presynaptically on dopamine terminals and on cholinergic interneurons. This heterogeneity of D2R expression has hindered attempts, largely using traditional pharmacological approaches, to understand their contribution to compulsive drug or food intake. The emergence of genetic technologies to target discrete populations of neurons, coupled to optogenetic and chemicogenetic tools to manipulate their activity, have provided a means to dissect striatopallidal and cholinergic contributions to compulsivity. Here, we review recent evidence supporting an important role for striatal D2R signaling in compulsive drug use and food intake. We pay particular attention to striatopallidal projection neurons and their role in compulsive responding for food and drugs. Finally, we identify opportunities for future obesity research using known mechanisms of addiction as a heuristic, and leveraging new tools to manipulate activity of specific populations of striatal neurons to understand their contributions to addiction and obesity.
Addiction is a chronically relapsing brain disorder that insidiously affects the motivational and cognitive control systems of susceptible individuals. Clinical research over the last two decades has profited from the technique of positron emission tomography (PET), a non-invasive imaging technique that allows the longitudinal assessment of addiction-relevant biomarkers in current and former drug users. The vast majority of this research has unsurprisingly focused on the brain dopamine (DA) systems given their pivotal role in primary drug reinforcement and the rich abundance of dopaminergic PET tracers. However, the provocative failure of dopaminergic medications in addiction has fuelled the search for alternative treatments. This article considers current controversies in this field as well as prospects for elucidating neurotransmitter mechanisms in addiction beyond DA.
Addictive drugs such as cocaine induce synaptic plasticity in the ventral tegmental area and its projection areas, which may represent the cellular correlate of an addiction trace. Cocaine induces changes in excitatory transmission primarily in the VTA, which persists for days after a single exposure. These initial alterations in synaptic transmission represent a metaplasticity that is permissive for late stages of remodeling throughout the mesocorticolimbic circuitry, specifically in the NAc. Specific synaptic and cellular changes in the NAc persist following prolonged exposure to cocaine, and this remodeling may contribute to altered behavior. By manipulating synaptic activity in the NAc, it may be possible to reverse pathological synaptic transmission and its associated abnormal behavior following exposure to addictive drugs.
This review article provides an overview of recent studies of nicotine dependence and withdrawal that used genetically engineered mice. Major progress has been made in recent years with mutant mice that have knockout and gain-of-function of specific neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunit genes. Nicotine exerts its actions by binding to neuronal nAChRs that consist of five subunits. The different nAChR subunits that combine to compose a receptor determine the distinct pharmacological and kinetic properties of the specific nAChR. Recent findings in genetically engineered mice have indicated that while 4-containing and 2-containing nAChRs are involved in the acquisition of nicotine self-administration and initial stages of nicotine dependence, 7 homomeric nAChRs appear to be involved in the later stages of nicotine dependence. In the medial habenula, 5-containing, 3-containing, and 4-containing nAChRs were shown to be crucially important in the regulation of the aversive aspects of nicotine. Studies of the involvement of 6 nAChR subunits in nicotine dependence have only recently emerged. The use of genetically engineered mice continues to vastly improve our understanding of the neurobiology of nicotine dependence and withdrawal.
For many, gambling is a recreational activity that is performed periodically without ill effects, but for some, gambling may interfere with life functioning. A diagnostic entity, pathological gambling (PG), is currently used to define a condition marked by excessive and problematic gambling. In this review, the current status of understanding of the neurobiologies of gambling and PG is described. Multiple neurotransmitter systems (norepinephrine, serotonin, dopamine, opioid and glutamate) and brain regions (ventral striatum, ventromedial prefrontal cortex, insula, among others) have been implicated in gambling and PG. Considerations for future directions in gambling research, with a view towards translating neurobiological advances into more effective prevention and treatment strategies, are discussed.
Most adults in Western society consume alcohol on a regular basis with few or no negative consequences. However, for certain individuals, alcohol use escalates, leading to uncontrolled drinking bouts, craving, and repeated episodes of relapse. The transition from regulated to uncontrolled and compulsive drinking is a defining feature (i.e. an endophenotype) of alcohol addiction. This behavioral progression can be modeled in rodent paradigms that parallel the diagnostic criteria for addiction in humans. Using these criteria as a framework, this review outlines the neurobiological factors associated with increased vulnerability to excessive, compulsive, and dysregulated alcohol intake in rodents. We conclude by noting gaps in the literature and outline important directions for future research.
Orexin (hypocretin) containing neurons reside in discrete regions of the lateral hypothalamus from where they innervate the entire neuroaxis. Via actions upon orexin receptors (OX1 and OX2), the orexin peptides (orexin A and orexin B) are thought to play a role in ethanol consumption and seeking. While a role for OX1 receptors in these behaviours is established, the case for OX2 receptors is less clear at present, although recent data certainly support an involvement of OX2 receptors in ethanol consumption. In terms of circuitry, orexin receptors the ventral tegmental area appear to contribute to ethanol consumption. Other loci remain to be characterised, and we suggest prefrontal cortical orexin receptors deserve attention in this respect.
Surgical treatment for psychiatric disorders has been revitalized for the past ten years after deep brain stimulation (DBS) had shown its efficacy for the treatment of neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease. In the field of psychiatric disorders, DBS has been first used for obsessive compulsive disorder and treatment-resistant depression. Only recently it has been proposed for the treatment of addiction. Whatever the disease, the selected target is a constant question. In this review, we present theoretical, empirical and technical arguments in favor of targeting the subthalamic nucleus as the best candidate over other areas for DBS in the treatment of drug addiction.
Since the first study in stimulant-dependent individuals using structural MRI was published fifteen years ago, much evidence has accumulated on brain abnormalities associated with stimulant drug dependence. Here we conducted a voxel-based morphometry meta-analysis of published MRI data in stimulant-dependent individuals to clarify the most robust abnormalities underlying the disorder. We found that neuroimaging studies in stimulant-dependent individuals consistently report a gray matter decline in the prefrontal cortex regions associated with self-regulation and self-awareness. One of the next key questions that neuroimaging research today needs to address is the question of causality, namely to what extent these brain abnormalities are caused by the toxic effects of drug exposure, or the possibility that these may have predated drug-taking and even predisposed individuals for the development of drug dependence. Although the question of causality has not yet been answered completely, there has been significant progress made to date.
This review focuses on the neurobiological processes involved in achieving successful abstinence from drugs of abuse. While there is clinical and public health value in knowing if the deficits associated with drug use correct with abstinence, studying the neurobiology that underlies successful abstinence can also illuminate the processes that enable drug-dependent individuals to successfully quit. Here, we review studies on human addicts that assess the neurobiological changes that arise with abstinence and the neurobiological predictors of successfully avoiding relapse. The literature, while modest in size, suggests that abstinence is associated with improvement in prefrontal structure and function, which may underscore the importance of prefrontally mediated cognitive control processes in avoiding relapse. Given the implication that the prefrontal cortex may be an important target for therapeutic interventions, we also review evidence indicating the efficacy of cognitive control training for abstinence.
Drug dependence in humans is often accompanied by behavioral disturbances such as maladaptive levels of impulsivity. In turn, there is accumulating evidence from preclinical laboratory animal and clinical studies indicating that impulsive behavior might be causally linked to several distinct processes in drug addiction, including the onset, maintenance and relapsing nature of drug use. This leads to the question as to whether pharmacological or behavioral approaches aimed at ameliorating impulsivity might prove effective therapeutic interventions in human drug dependence. This paper reviews evidence for an important role of impulsivity as a determinant of drug dependence with a particular focus on relapse vulnerability and addresses the implications of these findings for the clinical management of relapse prevention.
Research on the neurobiology of addiction often involves nonhuman animals that are given ready access to drugs for self-administration but without other choices. Here we argue using cocaine as an example that this standard setting may no longer be sufficient and can even lead to the formulation of unrealistic views about the neurobiology of addiction. Addiction as a psychiatric disorder is defined as resulting from brain dysfunctions that affect normal choice-making, not as an expectable response to lack of alternative choices. We encourage neurobiologists involved in addiction research to increase animals' choice during drug access, preferably by supplying alternative rewarding pursuits. Only animals that continue to take and prefer drugs despite and at the expense of other available choices may be considered as having developed an addiction-like behavior in comparison to those that remain able to stop drug use for other pursuits, even after extended drug use. The systematic comparison of these two individual behaviors should reveal new insights about the neurobiology of drug choice and addiction. More generally, this research should also shed a unique light on how the brain 'chooses' among qualitatively different kinds of pursuits.
Cocaine exposure causes enduring neuroadaptations in ventral striatum, or nucleus accumbens (NAc), an area critically involved in reward learning and relapse of drug seeking. Medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in striatum are dichotomous in their expression of either D1 or D2 dopamine receptors, along with other receptors and neuropeptides. In dorsal striatum, these two subpopulations show non-overlapping innervation of distinct terminal fields via the direct or indirect pathways. However, NAc D1-MSNs and D2-MSNs are not fully segregated in this manner, with both cell types innervating ventral pallidum. Recent studies show that D1-MSNs and D2-MSNs play opposing roles in cocaine-associated behaviors. Further, cocaine induces differential adaptations in these two subpopulations in NAc, including changes to synaptic plasticity, glutamatergic signaling, and spine morphology.
Recent concepts of addiction to drugs (e.g. cocaine) and non-drugs (e.g. gambling) have proposed that these behaviors are the product of an imbalance between three separate, but interacting, neural systems: an impulsive, largely amygdala-striatum dependent, neural system that promotes automatic, habitual and salient behaviors; a reflective, mainly prefrontal cortex dependent, neural system for decision-making, forecasting the future consequences of a behavior, and inhibitory control; and the insula that integrates interoception states into conscious feelings and into decision-making processes that are involved in uncertain risk and reward. These systems account for poor decision-making (i.e. prioritizing short-term consequences of a decisional option) leading to more elevated addiction risk and relapse. This article provides neural evidence for this three-systems neural model of addiction.
Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) are important modulators of excitatory synaptic transmission and therefore potential targets for drug development. In several brain regions (ventral tegmental area (VTA), cerebellum, and amygdala), stimulation of mGluR1 selectively inhibits synaptic transmission mediated by calcium-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs) and thus produces synaptic depression. The same relationship has now been demonstrated in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a region that is critical for cocaine craving. CP-AMPAR levels in NAc synapses are normally low, but they increase after prolonged withdrawal from extended-access cocaine self-administration (SA). These CP-AMPARs mediate the intensified ('incubated') cue-induced cocaine craving observed under these conditions. Therefore, activation of mGluR1 with positive allosteric modulators (PAM) may reduce cue-induced relapse in abstinent cocaine addicts.
Epigenetic regulation can mediate long-lasting changes in gene expression, which makes it an attractive mechanism for the stable behavioral abnormalities that characterize drug addiction. Recent research has unveiled numerous types of epigenetic modifications within the brain's reward circuitry in animal models of drug addiction. In this review, we summarize the latest advances in the field, focusing on histone modifications, DNA methylation, and noncoding RNAs. We also highlight several areas for future research. Unraveling the highly complex epigenetic mechanisms of addiction is adding to our understanding of this syndrome and has the potential to trigger novel approaches for better diagnosis and therapy.
Addiction is a complex disorder, and one characterised by the acquisition of maladaptive instrumental (drug-seeking and drug-taking) and pavlovian (cue-drug associations) memories. These memories markedly contribute to the long-term risk of relapse, so reduction of the impact of these memories on behaviour could potentially be an important addition to current therapies for addiction. Memory reconsolidation may provide such a target for disrupting well-consolidated pavlovian cue-drug memories following an extensive drug history. Reconsolidation can be disrupted either by administering amnestic drugs in conjunction with a memory reactivation session, or by updating the memory adaptively through the induction of 'superextinction'. More work is needed before these therapies are ready for translation to the clinic, but if found clinically effective memory manipulation promises a radical new way of treating addiction.














Pannexons are membrane channels formed by pannexins and are permeable to ATP. They have been implicated in various physiological and pathophysiological processes. Innexins, the invertebrate homologues of the pannexins, form innexons. Nerve injury induces calcium waves in glial cells, releasing ATP through glial pannexon/innexon channels. The ATP then activates microglia. More slowly, injury releases arachidonic acid (ArA). The present experiments show that ArA itself reduced the macroscopic membrane currents of innexin- and of pannexin-injected oocytes; ArA also blocked K(+) -induced release of ATP. In leeches, whose large glial cells have been favorable for studying control of microglia migration, ArA blocked glial dye-release and, evidently, ATP-release. A physiological consequence in the leech was block of microglial migration to nerve injuries. Exogenous ATP (100 M) reversed the effect, for ATP causes activation and movement of microglia after nerve injury, but nitric oxide directs microglia to the lesion. It was not excluded that metabolites of ArA may also inhibit the channels. But for all these effects, ArA and its non-metabolizable analog eicosatetraynoic acid (ETYA) were indistinguishable. Therefore, ArA itself is an endogenous regulator of pannexons and innexons. ArA thus blocks release of ATP from glia after nerve injury and thereby, at least in leeches, stops microglia at lesions.
We have previously demonstrated that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) interacts with testosterone to regulate dendritic morphology of motoneurons in the highly androgen-sensitive spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB). Additionally, in adult male rats testosterone regulates BDNF in SNB motoneurons and its target muscle, the bulbocavernosus (BC). Because BDNF is retrogradely transported from skeletal muscles to spinal motoneurons, we hypothesized that testosterone could regulate BDNF in SNB motoneurons by acting locally at the BC muscle. To test this hypothesis, we restricted androgen manipulation to the SNB target musculature. After castration, BDNF immunolabeling in SNB motoneurons was maintained at levels similar to those of gonadally intact males by delivering testosterone treatment directly to the BC muscle. When the same implant was placed interscapularly in castrated males it was ineffective in supporting BDNF immunolabeling in SNB motoneurons. Furthermore, BDNF immunolabeling in gonadally intact adult males given the androgen receptor blocker hydroxyflutamide delivered directly to the BC muscle was decreased compared with that of gonadally intact animals that had the same hydroxyflutamide implant placed interscapularly, or when compared with castrated animals that had testosterone implants at the muscle. These results demonstrate that the BC musculature is a critical site of action for the androgenic regulation of BDNF in SNB motoneurons and that it is both necessary and sufficient for this action. Furthermore, the local action of androgens at the BC muscle in regulating BDNF provides a possible mechanism underlying the interactive effects of testosterone and BDNF on motoneuron morphology.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol 73: 587-598, 2013.

Human birth defects are highly variable and this phenotypic variability can be influenced by both the environment and genetics. However, the synergistic interactions between these two variables are not well understood. Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) is the umbrella term used to describe the wide range of deleterious outcomes following prenatal alcohol exposure. Although FASD are caused by prenatal ethanol exposure, FASD are thought to be genetically modulated, although the genes regulating sensitivity to ethanol teratogenesis are largely unknown. To identify potential ethanol-sensitive genes, we tested five known craniofacial mutants for ethanol sensitivity: cyp26b1, gata3, pdgfra, smad5 and smoothened. We found that only platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (pdgfra) interacted with ethanol during zebrafish craniofacial development. Analysis of the PDGF family in a human FASD genome-wide dataset links PDGFRA to craniofacial phenotypes in FASD, prompting a mechanistic understanding of this interaction. In zebrafish, untreated pdgfra mutants have cleft palate due to defective neural crest cell migration, whereas pdgfra heterozygotes develop normally. Ethanol-exposed pdgfra mutants have profound craniofacial defects that include the loss of the palatal skeleton and hypoplasia of the pharyngeal skeleton. Furthermore, ethanol treatment revealed latent haploinsufficiency, causing palatal defects in 62% of pdgfra heterozygotes. Neural crest apoptosis partially underlies these ethanol-induced defects in pdgfra mutants, demonstrating a protective role for Pdgfra. This protective role is mediated by the PI3K/mTOR pathway. Collectively, our results suggest a model where combined genetic and environmental inhibition of PI3K/mTOR signaling leads to variability within FASD.
The development of the nervous system has so far, to a large extent, been considered in the context of biochemistry, molecular biology and genetics. However, there is growing evidence that many biological systems also integrate mechanical information when making decisions during differentiation, growth, proliferation, migration and general function. Based on recent findings, I hypothesize that several steps during nervous system development, including neural progenitor cell differentiation, neuronal migration, axon extension and the folding of the brain, rely on or are even driven by mechanical cues and forces.

Hypothalamic &quot;metabolic-sensing&quot; neurons sense glucose and fatty acids (FAs) and play an integral role in the regulation of glucose, energy homeostasis, and the development of obesity and diabetes. Using pharmacologic agents, we previously found that ~50% of these neurons responded to oleic acid (OA) by using the FA translocator/receptor FAT/CD36 (CD36). For further elucidation of the role of CD36 in neuronal FA sensing, ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) CD36 was depleted using adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector expressing CD36 short hairpin RNA (shRNA) in rats. Whereas their neuronal glucosensing was unaffected by CD36 depletion, the percent of neurons that responded to OA was decreased specifically in glucosensing neurons. A similar effect was seen in total-body CD36-knockout mice. Next, weanling rats were injected in the VMH with CD36 AAV shRNA. Despite significant VMH CD36 depletion, there was no effect on food intake, body weight gain, or total carcass adiposity on chow or 45% fat diets. However, VMH CD36-depleted rats did have increased plasma leptin and subcutaneous fat deposition and markedly abnormal glucose tolerance. These results demonstrate that CD36 is a critical factor in both VMH neuronal FA sensing and the regulation of energy and glucose homeostasis.

More recently, growing interests have brought cell therapy to the forefront of promising new approaches towards efficacious treatment for stroke. Of all cell-types, adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells (AD-MSC) are considered good candidates for stroke treatment because of their abundance and easy harvesting without invasive surgery from healthy donors. A wide number of experimental studies have demonstrated the potential of AD-MSC administration for improving functional deficits and have led to the first clinical trials in stroke patients. Trophic factor release and paracrine interactions, transdifferentiation potential, and immunomodulatory effects have all been cited as the main functional mechanisms involved in AD-MSC therapy. These properties make AD-MSC therapy of special interest in fomenting the enhancement of natural brain repair mechanisms such as neurogenesis, gliagenesis, oligodendrogenesis, axonal sprouting, nerve repair, and angiogenesis. This review will focus on studies showing promising results of AD-MSC in stroke treatment.
A hallmark of neurodegenerative diseases is impairment of certain aspects of &quot;brain functionality&quot;. Brain functionality is defined as the total input and output of the brain's neural circuits and networks. A given brain degenerative disorder does not deregulate total brain functionality but rather the activity of specific circuits in a given network, affecting their organization and topology, their cell numbers, their cellular functionality, and the interactions between neural circuits. Similarly, our concept of neurodegenerative diseases, which for many years revolved around neural survival or death, has now been extended to emphasize the role of glia. In particular, the role of glial cells in neuro-vascular communication is now known to be central to the effect of insults to the nervous system. In addition, a malfunctioning vascular system likely plays a role in the etiology of certain neurodegenerative diseases. Thus, the symptoms of neurodegenerative or more correctly brain degenerative disease are, to a very large extent, a result of impairment in glial cells that lead to pathological neuro-vascular interactions that, in turn, generate a rather &quot;hostile&quot; environment in which the neurons fail to function. These events lead to systematic neural cell death on a scale that appears to be proportional to the severity of the neurological deficit.






For many years, questionnaires have been considered the standard when examining emotional eating behavior. However, recently, some controversy has arisen about these questionnaires, and their usefulness in identifying emotional eaters has been questioned. The current study aimed to investigate the Single Target Implicit Association Test (ST-IAT) as a measure of emotional eating. Two ST-IATs (assessing food-positive and food-negative associations respectively) and the Dutch Eating Behaviour Questionnaire (DEBQ) were compared in undergraduate students. A positive, negative or neutral mood was induced by means of a film clip, and milkshake consumption was measured during and after the mood induction. It was hypothesized that participants with strong emotion-food associations on the ST-IATs (i.e., IAT-emotional eaters) would consume more food in the emotion induction condition corresponding to that emotion, as compared to those with weak emotion-food associations as well as to those in the neutral condition. Participants who scored high on both the positive and negative ST-IATs ate more during a positive mood induction than during a negative mood induction. This effect did not extend to milkshake consumption after the mood induction procedure. In addition, IAT-positive emotional eaters consumed more food than IAT-non-emotional eaters. No effects of the DEBQ on milkshake consumption were found. It is concluded that the ST-IAT has potential as a measure of emotional eating.
8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) is one of the major forms of oxidative DNA damage, and is commonly analyzed as an excellent marker of DNA lesions. The purpose of this study was to develop a sensitive method to accurately and rapidly quantify the 8-OHdG by using CE-LIF detection. The method involved the use of specific antibody to detect the DNA lesion (8-OHdG) and consecutive fluorescence labeling. Next, urinary 8-OHdG fluorescently labeled along with other constituents were resolved by capillary electrophoretic system and the lesion of interest was detected using a fluorescence detector. The limit of detection was 0.18 fmol, which proved sufficient sensitivity for detection and quantification of 8-OHdG in untreated urine samples. The relative standard deviation was found to be 11.32% for migration time and 5.52% for peak area. To demonstrate the utility of this method, the urinary concentration of 8-OHdG in an Alzheimer's transgenic mouse model was determined. Collectively, our results indicate that this methodology offers great advantages, such as high separation efficiency, good selectivity, low limit of detection, simplicity and low cost of analysis.
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are effective therapies for leukaemia. Alzheimer is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by accumulation of -amyloid (plaques) and hyper-phosphorylated Tau (tangles). Here we show that AD animals have high levels of insoluble parkin and decreased parkin-Beclin-1 interaction, while peripheral administration of TKIs, including Nilotinib and Bosutinib, increases soluble parkin leading to amyloid clearance and cognitive improvement. Blocking Beclin-1 expression with shRNA or parkin deletion prevents tyrosine kinase (TK) inhibition-induced amyloid clearance, suggesting that functional parkin-Beclin-1 interaction mediates amyloid degradation. Isolation of autophagic vacuoles (AVs) in AD mouse brain shows accumulation of parkin and amyloid, consistent with previous results in AD brains, while Bosutinib and Nilotinib increase parkin-Beclin-1 interaction and result in protein deposition in the lysosome. These data suggest that decreased parkin solubility impedes parkin-Beclin-1 interaction and amyloid clearance. We identified two FDA-approved anti-cancer drugs as potential treatment for AD.
People vary greatly in their dispositions to anxiously expect, readily perceive, and strongly react to social rejection (rejection sensitivity [RS]) with implications for social functioning and health. Here, we examined how RS influences learning about social threat. Using a classical fear conditioning task, we established that high compared to low individuals displayed a resistance to extinction of the conditioned response to angry faces, but not to neutral faces or nonsocial stimuli. Our findings suggest that RS biases the flexible updating of acquired expectations for threat, which helps to explain how RS operates as a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Defining the structural organization of emotions is a central unresolved question in affective science. In particular, the extent to which autonomic nervous system activity signifies distinct affective states remains controversial. Most prior research on this topic has used univariate statistical approaches in attempts to classify emotions from psychophysiological data. In the present study, electrodermal, cardiac, respiratory, and gastric activity, as well as self-report measures were taken from healthy subjects during the experience of fear, anger, sadness, surprise, contentment, and amusement in response to film and music clips. Information pertaining to affective states present in these response patterns was analyzed using multivariate pattern classification techniques. Overall accuracy for classifying distinct affective states was 58.0% for autonomic measures and 88.2% for self-report measures, both of which were significantly above chance. Further, examining the error distribution of classifiers revealed that the dimensions of valence and arousal selectively contributed to decoding emotional states from self-report, whereas a categorical configuration of affective space was evident in both self-report and autonomic measures. Taken together, these findings extend recent multivariate approaches to study emotion and indicate that pattern classification tools may improve upon univariate approaches to reveal the underlying structure of emotional experience and physiological expression.

Recent evidence has linked mitochondrial dysfunction and DNA damage, increased oxidative stress in skeletal muscle, and insulin resistance (IR). The purpose of this study was to determine the role of the DNA repair enzyme, human 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase/apurinic/apyrimidinic lyase (hOGG1), on palmitate-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and IR in primary cultures of skeletal muscle derived from hind limb of ogg1(-/-) knockout mice and transgenic mice, which overexpress human (hOGG1) in mitochondria (transgenic [Tg]/MTS-hOGG1). Following exposure to palmitate, we evaluated mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) damage, mitochondrial function, production of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS), mitochondrial mass, JNK activation, insulin signaling pathways, and glucose uptake. Palmitate-induced mtDNA damage, mtROS, mitochondrial dysfunction, and activation of JNK were all diminished, whereas ATP levels, mitochondrial mass, insulin-stimulated phosphorylation of Akt (Ser 473), and insulin sensitivity were increased in primary myotubes isolated from Tg/MTS-hOGG1 mice compared to myotubes isolated from either knockout or wild-type mice. In addition, both basal and maximal respiratory rates during mitochondrial oxidation on pyruvate showed a variable response, with some animals displaying an increased respiration in muscle fibers isolated from the transgenic mice. Our results support the model that DNA repair enzyme OGG1 plays a pivotal role in repairing mtDNA damage, and consequently, in mtROS production and regulating downstream events leading to IR in skeletal muscle.
In rodents, kisspeptin-expressing neurons are localized in 2 hypothalamic brain nuclei (anteroventral periventricular nucleus/periventricular nucleus continuum [AVPv/PeN] and arcuate nucleus [ARC]) and modulated by sex steroids. By using wild-type (WT) and aromatase knockout (ArKO) mice (which cannot convert testosterone into estradiol) and immunohistochemistry, we observed that WT females showed a continuous increase in kisspeptin peptide expression in the ARC across postnatal ages (postnatal day 5 [P5] to P25), whereas WT males did not show any expression before P25. Kisspeptin peptide expression was also present in ArKO females but did not increase over this early postnatal period, suggesting that kisspeptin peptide expression in the ARC is organized by estradiol-dependent and -independent mechanisms. We also compared kisspeptin peptide expression between groups of adult male and female mice that were left gonadally intact or gonadectomized and treated or not with estradiol (E(2)) or DHT. In the ARC, kisspeptin peptide expression decreased after gonadectomy but was completely rescued by either E(2) or DHT treatment in each sex/genotype. However, kisspeptin peptide expression was lower in ArKO compared with WT subjects. In the AVPv/PeN, ArKO females showed a male-typical kisspeptin peptide expression, and adult E(2) treatment partially restored kisspeptin peptide expression. Finally, we showed that, after E2 treatment of WT and ArKO mice between either P5 and P15 or P15 and P25, AVPv/PeN kisspeptin peptide expression could be still masculinized at P5, but was feminized from P15 onward. In conclusion, the 2 kisspeptin neuronal populations (AVPv/PeN vs ARC) seem to be differentially organized and activated by E(2).
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) is a hypothalamic neuropeptide implicated in both metabolic and reproductive regulation, raising the possibility that CART plays a role in reproductive inhibition during negative metabolic conditions. The current study characterized CART's regulatory influence on GnRH and kisspeptin (Kiss1) cells and determined the sensitivity of different CART populations to negative energy balance. CART fibers made close appositions to 60% of GnRH cells, with the majority of the fibers (&gt;80%) originating from the arcuate nucleus (ARH) CART/pro-opiomelanocortin population. Electrophysiological recordings in GnRH-green fluorescent protein rats demonstrated that CART postsynaptically depolarizes GnRH cells. CART fibers from the ARH were also observed in close contact with Kiss1 cells in the ARH and anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV). Recordings in Kiss1-GFP mice demonstrated CART also postsynaptically depolarizes ARH Kiss1 cells, suggesting CART may act directly and indirectly, via Kiss1 populations, to stimulate GnRH neurons. CART protein and mRNA levels were analyzed in 2 models of negative energy balance: caloric restriction (CR) and lactation. Both CART mRNA levels and the number of CART-immunoreactive cells were suppressed in the ARH during CR but not during lactation. AVPV CART mRNA was suppressed during CR, but not during lactation when there was a dramatic increase in CART-immunoreactive cells. These data suggest differing regulatory signals of CART between the models. In conclusion, both morphological and electrophysiological methods identify CART as a novel and potent stimulator of Kiss1 and GnRH neurons and suppression of CART expression during negative metabolic conditions could contribute to inhibition of the reproductive axis.
Vagal afferent nerve fibers transmit gastrointestinal satiation signals to the brain via synapses in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). Despite their pivotal role in energy homeostasis, little is known about the cellular mechanisms enabling fleeting synaptic events at vagal sensory endings to sustain behavioral changes lasting minutes to hours. Previous reports suggest that the reduction of food intake by the satiation peptide, cholecystokinin (CCK), requires activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptors (NMDAR) in the NTS, with subsequent phosphorylation of ERK1/2 (pERK1/2) in NTS vagal afferent terminals. The synaptic vesicle protein synapsin I is phosphorylated by pERK1/2 at serines 62 and 67. This pERK1/2-catalyzed phosphorylation increases synaptic strength by increasing the readily releasable pool of the neurotransmitter. Conversely, dephosphorylation of serines 62 and 67 by calcineurin reduces the size of the readily releasable transmitter pool. Hence, the balance of synapsin I phosphorylation and dephosphorylation can modulate synaptic strength. We postulated that CCK-evoked activation of vagal afferent NMDARs results in pERK1/2-catalyzed phosphorylation of synapsin I in vagal afferent terminals, leading to the suppression of food intake. We found that CCK injection increased the phosphorylation of synapsin I in the NTS and that this increase is abolished after surgical or chemical ablation of vagal afferent fibers. Furthermore, fourth ventricle injection of an NMDAR antagonist or the mitogen-activated ERK kinase inhibitor blocked CCK-induced synapsin I phosphorylation, indicating that synapsin phosphorylation in vagal afferent terminals depends on NMDAR activation and ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Finally, hindbrain inhibition of calcineurin enhanced and prolonged synapsin I phosphorylation and potentiated reduction of food intake by CCK. Our findings are consistent with a mechanism in which NMDAR-dependent phosphorylation of ERK1/2 modulates satiation signals via synapsin I phosphorylation in vagal afferent endings.
The search for new treatments for seizures, epilepsies, and their comorbidities faces considerable challenges. This is due in part to gaps in our understanding of the etiology and pathophysiology of most forms of epilepsy. An additional challenge is the difficulty in predicting the efficacy, tolerability, and impact of potential new treatments on epilepsies and comorbidities in humans, using the available resources. Herein we provide a summary of the discussions and proposals of the Working Group 2 as presented in the Joint American Epilepsy Society and International League Against Epilepsy Translational Workshop in London (September 2012). We propose methodologic and reporting practices that will enhance the uniformity, reliability, and reporting of early stage preclinical studies with animal seizure and epilepsy models that aim to develop and evaluate new therapies for seizures or epilepsies, using multidisciplinary approaches. The topics considered include the following: (1) implementation of better study design and reporting practices; (2) incorporation in the study design and analysis of covariants that may influence outcomes (including species, age, sex); (3) utilization of approaches to document target relevance, exposure, and engagement by the tested treatment; (4) utilization of clinically relevant treatment protocols; (5) optimization of the use of video-electroencephalography (EEG) recordings to best meet the study goals; and (6) inclusion of outcome measures that address the tolerability of the treatment or study end points apart from seizures. We further discuss the different expectations for studies aiming to meet regulatory requirements to obtain approval for clinical testing in humans. Implementation of the rigorous practices discussed in this report will require considerable investment in time, funds, and other research resources, which may create challenges for academic researchers seeking to contribute to epilepsy therapy discovery and development. We propose several infrastructure initiatives to overcome these barriers.
Benzodiazepine (BDZ), a widely recognized first-line status epilepticus (SE) treatment, may lead to respiratory depression. This cohort study investigates the effect of BDZ doses in SE patients in terms of morbidity and mortality. It considers incident SE episodes from a prospective registry (2009-2012), comparing patients receiving standard BDZ dose to those receiving exceeding doses (&gt;30% above recommended dose), in terms of likelihood to receive intubation, morbidity, and mortality. Duration of hospitalization was assessed for subjects needing intubation for airways protection (not for refractory SE treatment) versus matched subjects not admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). We identified 29 subjects receiving &quot;excessive&quot; and 173 &quot;standard&quot; BDZ dose; 45% of the overtreated patients were intubated for airways protection, but only 8% in the standard-dose group (p &lt; 0.001). However, both groups presented similar clinical outcomes: 50% returned to baseline, 40% acquired a new handicap, and 10% died. Orotracheal intubation due to airways protection was associated with significantly longer hospitalization (mean 2 weeks vs. 1 week, p = 0.008). In conclusion, although administration of excessive BDZ doses in SE treatment does not seem to influence outcome, it is related to higher respiratory depression risk and longer hospitalization, potentially exposing patients to additional complications and costs.
Most patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) do not recover with initial pharmacotherapy, and many pursue combination treatments. Combining a medication with neuromodulation offers an alternative to purely pharmacologic strategies. In prior open and double-blind controlled trials for drug-resistant epilepsy, adjunctive external trigeminal nerve stimulation (eTNS) was found to be safe and well tolerated, to significantly reduce seizures, and to be associated with an improvement in depressive symptoms. Here, we present a comprehensive description of the first open pilot investigation in MDD. In this 8-week trial, eleven adults with unipolar MDD received nightly stimulation (V(1) branch). All entered with moderate to severe symptom levels despite at least two antidepressant medication trials in this episode. All the eleven adults completed the acute trial, without serious adverse events. Symptoms of depression improved significantly, whether assessed with clinician- or self-rated scales (all p &lt; 0.01; effect sizes d 1.0-1.8), as did quality of life (p &lt; 0.02). Four of the 11 achieved remission. These improvements from nightly adjunctive eTNS in treatment-resistant depression merit replication under double-blind conditions.
A novel form of neuronal plasticity, occurring at the axon initial segment (AIS), has recently been described. Lengthening of the AIS and movement away from the soma are consequences of changes in neuronal input and result in alterations in neuronal excitability. We hypothesised that AIS plasticity may play a role in epilepsy, due to chronic changes in neuronal activity. Immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy were used to analyse AIS length and position in pyramidal neurons in deep layer 5 of the somatosensory cortex from 5 mice with genetic epilepsy and 4 controls, and from 3 rats subjected to amygdala kindling and 3 controls. The effect of a subtle alteration of AIS position was modelled computationally. We identified a difference in the position of the AIS in animals with seizures: in mice the AIS was positioned 0.2 m further away from the soma, and in rats the AIS was positioned 0.6 m closer to the soma compared with controls. Computational modelling indicated that a subtle alteration in AIS position could result in a change in action potential firing threshold. The identification of AIS plasticity in animal models of epilepsy is significant in furthering our understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in this disorder.
We investigated the neurophysiological correlate of altered regional cerebral glucose metabolism observed in children with epileptic encephalopathy with continuous spike-waves during sleep (CSWS) by using a multimodal approach combining time-sensitive magnetic source imaging (MSI) and positron emission tomography with [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET). Six patients (4 boys and 2 girls, age range: 4-8 years, 3 patients with Landau-Kleffner syndrome (LKS), 3 patients with atypical rolandic epilepsy (ARE)) were investigated by FDG-PET and MSI at the acute phase of CSWS. In all patients, the onset(s) of spike-waves discharges were associated with significant focal hypermetabolism. The propagation of epileptic discharges to other brain areas was associated with focal hypermetabolism (five patients), hypometabolism (one patient) or the absence of any significant metabolic change (one patient). Interestingly, most of the hypometabolic areas were not involved in the epileptic network per se. This study shows that focal hypermetabolism observed at the acute phase of CSWS are related to the onset or propagation sites of spike-wave discharges. Spike-wave discharges propagation can be associated to other types of metabolic changes, suggesting the occurrence of various neurophysiological mechanisms at the cellular level. Most of the hypometabolic areas are not involved in the epileptic network as such and are probably related to a mechanism of remote inhibition. These findings highlight the critical value of combining FDG-PET with time-sensitive functional neuroimaging approaches such as MSI to assess CSWS epileptic network when surgery is considered as a therapeutic approach.
Severe psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia are related to cognitive and negative symptoms, which often are resistant to current treatment approaches. The glutamatergic system has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and affective disorders. A key component is the dysfunction of the glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. Substances regulating activation/inhibition of the NMDA receptor have been investigated in schizophrenia and major depression and are promising in therapeutic approaches of negative symptoms, cognition, and mood. In schizophrenia, add-on treatments with glycine, D-serine, D-alanine, D-cycloserine, D-amino acid oxidase inhibitors, glycine transporter-1 (GlyT-1) inhibitors (e.g., sarcosine, bitopertin) and agonists (e.g., LY2140023) or positive allosteric modulator (e.g., ADX71149) of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been studied. In major depression, the NMDA receptor antagonists (e.g., ketamine, AZD6765), GluN2B subtype antagonists (e.g., traxoprodil, MK-0657), and partial agonists (e.g., D-cycloserine, GLYX-13) at the glycine site of the NMDA receptor have been proven to be effective in animal studies and first clinical trials. In addition, clinical studies of mGluR2/3 antagonist BCI-838 (a prodrug of BCI-632 (MGS0039)), mGluR2/3-negative allosteric modulators (NMAs) (e.g., RO499819, RO4432717), and mGluR5 NAMs (e.g., AZD2066, RO4917523) are in progress. Future investigations should include effects on brain structure and activation to elucidate neural mechanisms underlying efficacy of these drugs.

We disclose the discovery of a novel series of tetrahydropyrido-pyrazoles that are potent inhibitors of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-), nitric oxide and cannabinoid receptor subtype 1 (CB). We report herein the synthesis and neuropharmacological screening results of the titled compounds in two acute pain and two neuropathic pain models in rodents. Particularly the analogue N-(4-bromophenyl)-3-tert-butyl-5-ethyl-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridine-1-carboxamide (8a) exhibited pronounced acute antinociceptive efficacy, also being effective in chronic constriction injury (ED = 23.8 mg/kg) and partial sciatic nerve injury (ED = 29.0 mg/kg) models with CB receptor activity (IC = 49.6 nM) and inhibitory effect on TNF- (86.4% inhibition at 100 mg/kg). These results suggest the importance of the development of this lead as multi-targeted treatment strategy for neuropathic pain.
A series of new histone deacetylase inhibitors were designed and synthesized based on hybridization between SAHA or oxamflatin and 5-phenyl-1,4-benzodiazepines. The compounds were tested for their enzyme inhibitory activity on HeLa nuclear extracts, and on human recombinant HDAC1 and HDAC6. Antiproliferative activity was tested on different cancer cells types, while proapoptotic activity was primarily tested on NB4 cells. The compounds showed IC50 values similar to those of SAHA. Compound (S)-8 displayed interesting activity against hematological and solid malignancies.
With advances in laboratory technology, an increasing number of potentially pathogenic CNVs is recognised. The phenotypic effects of some CNVs are well characterised, however, it remains unclear how much information reaches the parents of affected children and by what route. The 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (del22q11.2) is caused by the deletion of approximately 40 genes from the long arm of chromosome 22 and was first described in 1955 [1]. Our study reports the extent to which parents of an affected child are aware of the various manifestation of the condition and describes how they first learned about these potential problems.


Action potential timing is thought to play a critical role in neural representation. For example, theta phase precession is a robust phenomenon exhibited by spatial cells of the rat entorhinal-hippocampal circuit. In phase precession, the time a neuron fires relative to the phase of theta rhythm (6-10 Hz) oscillations in the local field potential reduces uncertainty about the position of the animal. This relationship between neural firing and behavior has made precession an important constraint for hypothetical mechanisms of temporal coding. However, challenges exist in identifying what regulates the spike timing of these cells. We have developed novel analytical techniques for mapping between behavior and neural firing that provide sufficient sensitivity to examine features of grid cell phase coding in open environments. Here, we show robust, omnidirectional phase precession by entorhinal grid cells in openfield enclosures. We present evidence that full phase precession persists regardless of how close the animal comes to the center of a firing field. Many conjunctive grid cells, previously thought to be phase locked, also exhibited phase coding. However, we were unable to detect directional- or field-specific phase coding predicted by some variants of models. Finally, we present data that suggest bursting of layer II grid cells contributes to the bimodality of phase precession. We discuss implications of these observations for models of temporal coding and propose the utility of these techniques in other domains where behavior is aligned to neural spiking.
This study examined changes in dendritic morphology and spine density in multiple brain regions [Zilles' areas: (i) the Cg3 region of the anterior cingulate cortex or the medial prefrontal cortex, layer III (Cg3); (ii) the dorsal agranular insular cortex, layer III (AID); (iii) the PAR I region of the parietal cortex, layer III (Par1) and (iv) the nucleus accumbens (NAc)]of Long-Evans rats following exposure to nicotine prenatally, in late adolescence, or both prenatally and in adolescence. Prenatal nicotine exposure induced enduring changes in neuroanatomical organisation that varied between male and female offspring, with males exhibiting increased dendritic complexity of neurons in AID and NAc whereas females experienced increased dendritic complexity in Par1 but decreased dendritic complexity of neurons in NAc. Similarly, nicotine given in late adolescence dramatically reorganised neural circuitry of both male and female offspring, with males exhibiting decreased dendritic complexity of neurons in Par1 and Cg3 but increased dendritic complexity in AID, and females exhibiting decreased dendritic complexity in Cg3 and NAc but increased complexity in AID. Exposure to nicotine both prenatally and in adolescence produced few neuroanatomical parameters that demonstrated a prenatal experience  adolescent drug administration interaction. Females showed additive effects in Par1, Cg3 and NAc whereas males demonstrated additive effects only in AID. Thus, the timing of nicotine exposure produced differential effects on cerebral organisation in a regionally specific manner.
The K(+) -Cl(-) cotransporter type 2 is the major Cl(-) extrusion mechanism in most adult neurons. This process in turn leads to Cl(-) influx upon activation of -aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA ) receptors and the canonical hyperpolarising inhibitory postsynaptic potential. Several neurological disorders are treated with drugs that target and enhance GABAA receptor signaling, including the commonly used benzodiazepine diazepam and the anesthetic propofol. Some of these disorders are also associated with deficits in GABAA signaling and become less sensitive to therapeutic drugs that target GABAA receptors. To date, it is unknown if alterations in the neuronal Cl(-) gradient affect the efficacies of diazepam and propofol. We therefore used the in vitro model of glutamate-induced hyperexcitability to test if alterations in the Cl(-) gradient affect the efficacy of GABAA modulators. We exclusively utilised the gramicidin perforated-patch-clamp configuration to preserve the endogenous Cl(-) gradient in rat neurons. Brief exposure to glutamate reduced the inhibitory efficacy of diazepam within 5 min, which was caused by the collapse of the Cl(-) gradient, and not due to reductions in GABAA receptor number. Unlike diazepam, propofol retained its efficacy by shunting the membrane conductance despite the glutamate-induced appearance of depolarising GABAA -mediated currents. Similarly, pharmacological inhibition of K(+) -Cl(-) cotransporter type 2 by furosemide disrupted Cl(-) homeostasis and reduced the efficacy of diazepam but not propofol. Collectively our results suggest that pathological hyperexcitable conditions could cause the rapid accumulation of intracellular Cl(-) and the appearance of depolarising GABAA -mediated currents that would decrease the efficacy of diazepam.
Anti-cannabinoid type 1 receptor (CB1 ) polyclonal antibodies are widely used to detect the presence of CB1 in a variety of brain cells and their organelles, including neuronal mitochondria. Surprisingly, we found that anti-CB1 sera, in parallel with CB1 , also recognize the mitochondrial protein stomatin-like protein 2. In addition, we show that the previously reported effect of synthetic cannabinoid WIN 55,212-2 on mitochondrial complex III respiration is not detectable in purified mitochondrial preparations. Thus, our study indicates that a direct relationship between endocannabinoid signaling and mitochondrial functions in the cerebral cortex seems unlikely, and that caution should be taken interpreting findings obtained using anti-CB1 antibodies.
Converging lines of evidence point to the occipitotemporal cortex (OTC) as a critical structure in visual perception. For instance, human functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has revealed a modular organisation of object-selective, face-selective, body-selective and scene-selective visual areas in the OTC, and disruptions to the processing within these regions, either in neuropsychological patients or through transcranial magnetic stimulation, can produce category-specific deficits in visual recognition. Here we show, using fMRI and pattern classification methods, that the activity in the OTC also represents how stimuli will be interacted with by the body--a level of processing more traditionally associated with the preparatory activity in sensorimotor circuits of the brain. Combining functional mapping of different OTC areas with a real object-directed delayed movement task, we found that the pre-movement spatial activity patterns across the OTC could be used to predict both the action of an upcoming hand movement (grasping vs. reaching) and the effector (left hand vs. right hand) to be used. Interestingly, we were able to extract this wide range of predictive movement information even though nearly all OTC areas showed either baseline-level or below baseline-level activity prior to action onset. Our characterisation of different OTC areas according to the features of upcoming movements that they could predict also revealed a general gradient of effector-to-action-dependent movement representations along the posterior-anterior OTC axis. These findings suggest that the ventral visual pathway, which is well known to be involved in object recognition and perceptual processing, plays a larger than previously expected role in preparing object-directed hand actions.



The attentional blink phenomenon (AB) describes a transient deficit in temporally selective visual attention regarding the processing of the second of two target stimuli in a rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) task. The AB is a very prominent paradigm in the Cognitive Neurosciences that has been extensively studied by diverse psychophysiological techniques such as EEG or fMRI. Association studies from molecular genetics are scarce although the high heritability of higher cognitive functioning is proven. Only one seminal study reported an association between AB magnitude and the dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) C957T polymorphism (Colzato et al., 2011). This functional polymorphism influences striatal D2 receptor binding affinity and thereby the efficacy of dopaminergic neurotransmission which is important for working memory and attentional processes. Colzato et al. (2011) reported that DRD2 C957T T/T-carriers exhibit a significant smaller AB than C-allele carriers. In the present study this influence of the DRD2 SNP on the AB could not be replicated in N=211 healthy participants. However, a significantly larger lag 1 sparing was observed for homozygous T/T-carriers. Moreover, carriers of at least one T-allele showed a significantly poorer performance in the identification of T1. In general, these results support the notion of a role of the dopaminergic system on the AB. However, as our results do not parallel previous findings the exact nature of this influence and its dependence on task parameters will have to be examined in further genetic association studies.
As perturbations in auditory filtering appear to be a candidate trait marker of schizophrenia, there has been considerable interest in the development of translational rat models to elucidate the underlying neural and neurochemical mechanisms involved in sensory gating. This is the first study to investigate the effects of the non-selective muscarinic antagonist scopolamine, the muscarinic M1 antagonist biperiden and the cholinesterase inhibitor donepezil (also in combination with scopolamine and biperiden) on auditory evoked potentials (AEPs) and sensory gating. In the saline condition, only the N50 peak displayed sensory gating. Scopolamine and biperiden both disrupted sensory gating by increasing N50 amplitude for the S2 click. Donepezil was able to fully reverse the effects of biperiden on N50 sensory gating, but had residual effects when combined with scopolamine; i.e., it enhanced sensory gating by increasing N50 amplitude of the S1 stimulus. Donepezil by itself improved sensory gating by enhancing N50 amplitude of S1, and reducing N50 amplitude of the S2 click. In conclusion, due to its relatively more selective effects biperiden is to be preferred over scopolamine as a means for pharmacologically inducing cholinergic impairments in auditory processing in healthy rats. Changes in auditory processing and sensory gating induced by cholinergic drugs may serve as a translational model for aging instead of schizophrenia.
Tremulous jaw movements are rapid vertical deflections of the lower jaw that resemble chewing but are not directed at any particular stimulus. In rats, tremulous jaw movements can be induced by a number of conditions that parallel those seen in human parkinsonism, including dopamine depletion, dopamine antagonism, and cholinomimetic drugs. Moreover, tremulous jaw movements in rats can be attenuated using antiparkinsonian agents such as L-DOPA, dopamine agonists, muscarinic antagonists, and adenosine A(2A) antagonists. In the present studies, a mouse model of tremulous jaw movements was established to investigate the effects of adenosine A(2A) antagonism, and a conditional neuronal knockout of adenosine A(2A) receptors, on cholinomimetic-induced tremulous jaw movements. The muscarinic agonist pilocarpine significantly induced tremulous jaw movements in a dose-dependent manner (0.25-1.0mg/kg IP). These movements occurred largely in the 3-7.5 Hz local frequency range. Administration of the adenosine A(2A) antagonist MSX-3 (2.5-10.0 mg/kg IP) significantly attenuated pilocarpine-induced tremulous jaw movements. Furthermore, adenosine A(2A) receptor knockout mice showed a significant reduction in pilocarpine-induced tremulous jaw movements compared to littermate controls. These results demonstrate the feasibility of using the tremulous jaw movement model in mice, and indicate that adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonism and deletion are capable of reducing cholinomimetic-induced tremulous jaw movements in mice. Future studies should investigate the effects of additional genetic manipulations using the mouse tremulous jaw movement model.





Recent evidence indicates that we experience manipulable objects as graspable, provided that they fall within our reaching space. Nevertheless, such evidence comes from studies using virtual objects that have poor ecological validity. Here, we used a spatial alignment effect paradigm and systematically examined this effect when a real handled object was presented at four different distances, namely near-reaching space, actual-reaching space, perceived-reaching space, and non-reaching space. Participants responded with either the right or the left hand as soon as the real object, a mug with the handle oriented toward the left or right, was presented. We found spatial compatibility effect only when the object was presented in the near-reaching and actual-reaching spaces. Results suggest that the activation of the potential actions to perform with objects is modulated by object accessibility. They also suggest that accessibility is exclusively linked to the actual rather than the estimated reaching ability of the perceiver. Results are discussed within the theoretical framework of embodied cognition.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of vision loss and blindness among the elderly population in the industrialized world. One of the typical features of this pathology is the gradual death of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells, which are essential for maintaining photoreceptor functions and survival. The etiology is multifactorial, and oxidative stress is clearly one of the key factors involved in disease pathogenesis (Plafker, Adv. Exp. Med. Biol. 664 (2010) 447-56; Qin, Drug Dev. Res. 68 (2007) 213-225). Recent work has revealed the presence of phosphorylated signaling proteins in the vitreous humour of patients affected by AMD or other retinal diseases. While the location of these signaling proteins is typically the cell membrane or intracellular compartments, vitreous samples were proven to be cell-free (Davuluri et al., Arch. Ophthalmol. 127 (2009) 613-21). To gain a better understanding of how these proteins can be shed into the vitreous, we used reverse phase protein arrays (RPMA) to analyze the protein and phosphoprotein content of exosomes shed by cultured ARPE-19 cells under oxidative stress conditions. Seventy two proteins were shown to be released by ARPE-19 cells and compartmentalized within exosomes. Forty one of them were selectively detected in their post-translationally modified form (i.e., phosphorylated or cleaved) for the first time in exosomes. Sets of these proteins were linked together reflecting activation of pathway units within exosomes. A subset of (phospho)proteins were altered in exosomes secreted by ARPE-19 cells subjected to oxidative stress, compared to that secreted by control/non stressed cells. Stress-altered exosome proteins were found to be involved in pathways regulating apoptosis/survival (i.e, Bak, Smac/Diablo, PDK1 (S241), Akt (T308), Src (Y416), Elk1 (S383), ERK 1/2 (T202/Y204)) and cell metabolism (i.e., AMPK1 (S485), acetyl-CoA carboxylase (S79), LDHA). Exosomes may thus represent the conduit through which membrane and intracellular signaling proteins are released into the vitreous. Changes in their (phospho)protein content upon stress conditions suggest their possible role in mediating cell-cell signaling during physio-pathological events; furthermore, exosomes may represent a potential source of biomarkers.
The purpose of this study was to investigate if topically applied caffeine protects against in vivo ultraviolet radiation cataract and if so, to estimate the protection factor. Three experiments were carried out. First, two groups of Sprague-Dawley rats were pre-treated with a single application of either placebo or caffeine eye drops in both eyes. All animals were then unilaterally exposed in vivo to 8 kJ/m(2) UV-B radiation for 15 min. One week later, the lens GSH levels were measured and the degree of cataract was quantified by measurement of in vitro lens light scattering. In the second experiment, placebo and caffeine pre-treated rats were divided in five UV-B radiation dose groups, receiving 0.0, 2.6, 3.7, 4.5 or 5.2 kJ/m(2) UV-B radiation in one eye. Lens light scattering was determined after one week. In the third experiment, placebo and caffeine pre-treated rats were UV-B-exposed and the presence of activated caspase-3 was visualized by immunohistochemistry. There was significantly less UV-B radiation cataract in the caffeine group than in the placebo group (95% confidence interval for mean difference in lens light scattering between the groups = 0.10  0.05 tEDC), and the protection factor for caffeine was 1.23. There was no difference in GSH levels between the placebo- and the caffeine group. There was more caspase-3 staining in UV-B-exposed lenses from the placebo group than in UV-B-exposed lenses from the caffeine group. Topically applied caffeine protects against ultraviolet radiation cataract, reducing lens sensitivity 1.23 times.
In humans, aging is accompanied by the deterioration of the hearing function--presbycusis. The major etiology for presbycusis is the loss of hair cells in the inner ear; less well known are changes in the central auditory system. Therefore, we used 1H magnetic resonance spectroscopy at 3T tomograph to examine metabolite levels in the auditory cortex of three groups of subjects: young healthy subjects less than 30 years old and subjects older than 65 years either with mild presbycusis corresponding to their age or with expressed presbycusis. Hearing function in all subjects was examined by pure tone audiometry (125-16,000 Hz). Significant differences were found in the concentrations of glutamate and N-acetylaspartate, with lower levels in aged subjects. Lactate was particularly increased in subjects with expressed presbycusis. Significant differences were not found in other metabolites, including GABA, between young and elderly subjects. The results demonstrate that the age-related changes of the inner ear are accompanied by a decrease in the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate as well as a lactate increase in the auditory cortex that is more expressed in elderly subjects with large hearing threshold shifts.
Cutaneous sensation and motor performance of the hand decline with age. It is not known if motor performance declines are influenced by reductions in cutaneous sensation, or if motor performance deteriorates at a consistent rate across motor tasks. Handgrip strength, finger-tapping frequency and grooved-pegboard performance were assessed for both hands of 70 subjects (20-88 years), 10 per decade. Motor declines were compared to reductions in perceptual cutaneous sensation tested at 10 hand sites using calibrated von Frey filaments. Motor performance decreased with age for all motor tasks (p&lt;0.001). Handgrip strength (meanSEM) decreased from 42.69.5 kg (in the 30s), to 23.77.6 kg (80s) or 44%; finger-tapping frequency from 6.40.8 Hz to 4.20.9 Hz, 34%; and grooved-pegboard (median [IQR]) increased from 59 s [57-66 s] to 111.5 s [101-125 s], 47%. The onset of the deterioration in motor performance varied with sex and task. Cutaneous sensation also decreased with age, measured as increased von Frey thresholds of 0.04 g [0.02-0.07] to 0.16 g [0.04-0.4] (p&lt;0.001) between the 20s and the 80s, or 73%. Cutaneous sensation varied with sex, side-tested and site. Reductions in grip-based tasks were associated with sensory declines in the palm, but elsewhere there was little correlation among motor tasks and cutaneous sensation in the hand. Grooved-pegboard performance was the best predictor of age-related declines in motor performance regardless of sex or side-tested. Our results suggest age-related declines in motor function cannot be inferred from, or provide information about, changes in cutaneous sensation.
Personality changes, psychiatric disturbances and cognitive abnormalities frequently characterise the prodromal phase in Huntington's disease (HD), a devastating monogenic neurodegenerative disorder manifesting with abnormal motor movements and early death. Selective loss of medium-sized spiny striatal neurons has been related to the onset of motor symptoms but it does not completely explain the psychiatric and cognitive changes that often precede motor abnormalities. Here we review the evidence of synaptic and axonal dysfunction and neurite dystrophy preceding neuronal loss in HD patients and models. We discuss possible mechanisms leading to dysfunction of the axonal and synaptic compartments and identify potential novel targets for effective therapeutic intervention.
CNS white matter, the collection of axons and supporting glia of the mammalian CNS, makes up close to 50% of the human brain by volume. Interruption of vital interconnects within this tissue, even over a short segment, often leads to serious morbidity in a broad range of neurological disorders. Axons, glia and myelin express a complex array of conventional voltage gated ion channels, intracellular Ca(2+) release channels, neurotransmitter uptake and release mechanisms, together with matching transmitter receptors. Dysregulation of ion homeostasis induced by injury or energy failure leads to depolarization and intracellular Na(+) accumulation, which in turn triggers inappropriate ion translocation (i.e. Ca(2+) influx) and transmitter release; together these events further promote more Ca(2+) influx, while at the same time triggering even more toxic Ca(2+) release from intracellular Ca(2+) stores. Uncontrolled intracellular Ca(2+) increases overactivate a variety of Ca(2+)-sensitive enzyme systems culminating in permanent injury to axon, myelin and glia.
Vaccines are being developed against substance abuse and most progress has been made with anti-cocaine, nicotine and opiate vaccines, but new ones are being developed for methamphetamine and may be in humans within 18 - 24 months. These haptenated vaccines share a common problem in that only about one-third of those vaccinated get a sufficiently robust antibody titer to enable them to effectively block drug use. This problem is being addressed with better carrier proteins and new adjuvants beyond alum. This review provides details about these developing vaccines that act through pharmacokinetic rather than pharmacodynamics blockade. Due to this pharmacokinetic mechanism of keeping abused drugs in the bloodstream and not allowing them entry into the brain or other organs, these vaccines have very few side effects compared to other blockers used in addictions treatment.
Acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC) is a molecule derived from acetylation of carnitine in the mitochondria. Carnitine acetylation enables the function of CoA and facilitates elimination of oxidative products. Beyond this metabolic activity, ALC provides acetyl groups for acetylcholine synthesis, exerts a cholinergic effect and optimizes the balance of energy processes. Acetylcarnitine supplementation induces neuroprotective, neurotrophic and analgesic effects in the peripheral nervous system. In the recent studies, ALC, by acting as a donor of acetyl groups to NF-kb p65/RelA, enhanced the transcription of the GRM2 gene encoding the mGLU2 receptors, inducing long-term upregulation of the mGluR2, evidencing therefore that its long-term analgesic effects are dependent on epigenetic modifications. Several studies, including double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group studies and few open studies showed the effect of ALC in diseases characterized by neuropathies and neuropathic pain: the studies included diabetic neuropathy, HIV and antiretroviral therapy-induced neuropathies, neuropathies due to compression and chemotherapeutic agents. Double-blinded studies involved 1773 patients. Statistical evaluations evidenced reduction of pain, improvements of nerve function and trophism. In conclusion, ALC represents a consistent therapeutic option for peripheral neuropathies, and its complex effects, neurotrophic and analgesic, based on epigenetic mechanism, open new pathways in the study of peripheral nerve disease management.
Bothrops snakes are the major cause of ophidian envenomings in Latin America. Their venom contains myotoxins that cause prominent muscle damage, which may lead to permanent disability. These toxins include myotoxins Mt-I and Mt-II, which share the phospholipase A (PLA) fold, but Mt-II lacks enzymatic activity because the essential active site Asp49 is replaced by Lys. Both myotoxins cause sarcolemma alterations, with Ca entry and loss of ATP and K from muscle cells, but the molecular lesions at the basis of their cellular action are not known, particularly the role of phospholipid hydrolysis. Here we tested their PLA activity in vivo, and evaluated the hypothesis that Ca-activated endogenous PLAs may be involved in the action of Mt-II. The time course of phospholipid hydrolysis by Mt-I and Mt-II in myotubes in culture and in tibialis anterior mouse muscles was determined. Mt-I rapidly hydrolyzed phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine but not phosphatidylserine, but no phospho-lipids were hydrolyzed in the presence of Mt-II. Whole Bothrops asper venom induced a higher extent of phospholipid hydrolysis than Mt-I alone. These results demonstrate in vivo PLA activity of Mt-I for the first time, and indicate that it acts only on the external monolayer of the sarcolemma. They also exclude activation of endogenous PLAs in the action of Mt-II, implying that plasma membrane disruption by this toxin does not depend on phospholipid hydrolysis. Therefore, both Bothrops myotoxins induce Ca entry and release of ATP and cause myonecrosis, but through different biochemical mechanisms.



Largely based on pre-theory that ties high testosterone (T) to masculinity, and low T to femininity, high T is mainly studied in relation to aggression, mating, sexuality, and challenge, and low T with parenting. Evidence, however, fails to support this, and the social variability in T is better accounted for by a competition-nurturance trade-off as per the Steroid/Peptide Theory of Social Bonds (van Anders et al., 2011). Four key domains are discussed: adult-infant interactions, sexual desire, sexual behavior, and partnering. Empirical engagements with gender/sex are shown to lead to important insights over assumptions about masculinity-femininity. Humans are discussed within a comparative framework that attends to cross-species principles informed by human insights alongside human-specific particularities like social constructions, which are critical to evolutionary understandings of the social role of T. This paper thus integrates seemingly orthogonal perspectives to allow for transformative approaches to an empirically-supported social phenomenology of T.
The emerging area of neuroepigenetics has been linked to numerous mental health illnesses. Importantly, a large portion of what we know about early geneenvironment interactions comes from examining epigenetic modifications of neuroendocrine systems. This review will highlight how neuroepigenetic mechanisms during brain development program lasting differences in neuroendocrine systems and how other neuroepigenetic processes remain plastic, even within the adult brain. As epigenetic mechanisms can either be stable or plastic, elucidating the mechanisms involved in reversing these processes could aid in understanding how to reverse pathological epigenetic programming.
Many animals engage in spectacular courtship displays, likely recruiting specialized neural, hormonal and muscular systems to facilitate these performances. Male golden-collared manakins (Manacus vitellinus) of Panamanian rainforests perform physically elaborate courtship displays that include novel forms of visual and acoustic signaling. We study the behavioral neuroendocrinology of this male's courtship, combining field behavioral observations with anatomical, biochemical and molecular laboratory-based studies. Seasonally, male courtship is activated by testosterone with little correspondence between testosterone levels and display intensity. Females prefer males whose displays are exceptionally frequent, fast and accurate. The activation of androgen receptors (AR) is crucial for optimal display performance, with AR expressed at elevated levels in several neuromuscular tissues. Apparently, courtship enlists an elaborate androgen-dependent network that includes spinal motoneurons, skeletal muscles and somatosensory systems. This work highlights the value of studying non-traditional species to illuminate physiological adaptations and, hopefully, stimulates future research on other species with complex behaviors.
Atorvastatin has shown to possess neuroprotective, antiexcitotoxic, and antiepileptic effects besides its cholesterol-lowering properties. Nitric oxide (NO) may be responsible for a group of these effects. In the present study, a model of clonic seizure induced by pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) in male NMRI mice was used to investigate the anticonvulsive effects of atorvastatin through NO-dependent pathways. Atorvastatin (5mg/kg) significantly increased the seizure threshold (P&lt;0.001). Moreover, L-arginine (a precursor of NO) significantly (P&lt;0.01) potentiated the anticonvulsive effects of subeffective doses of atorvastatin (1mg/kg). Finally, L-NAME [L-arginine methyl ester dihydrochloride], a nonspecific NO synthase inhibitor, completely abolished the anticonvulsive properties of atorvastatin. Our findings demonstrated the role of atorvastatin as an anticonvulsive agent and showed the effects to be mediated through NO-related pathways.
Vesicular stomatitis virus G glycoprotein (VSV-G) is the most widely used envelope protein for retroviral and lentiviral vector pseudotyping; however, serum inactivation of VSV-G pseudotyped vectors is a significant challenge for in vivo gene delivery. To address this problem, we conducted directed evolution of VSV-G to increase its resistance to human serum neutralization. After six selection cycles, numerous common mutations were present. On the basis of their location within VSV-G, we analyzed whether substitutions in several surface exposed residues could endow viral vectors with higher resistance to serum. S162T, T230N and T368A mutations enhanced serum resistance, and additionally K66T, T368A and E380K substitutions increased the thermostability of VSV-G pseudotyped retroviral vectors, an advantageous byproduct of the selection strategy. Analysis of a number of combined mutants revealed that VSV-G harboring T230N+T368A or K66T+S162T+T230N+T368A mutations exhibited both higher in vitro resistance to human serum and higher thermostability, as well as enhanced resistance to rabbit and mouse serum. Finally, lentiviral vectors pseudotyped with these variants were more resistant to human serum in a murine model. These serum-resistant and thermostable VSV-G variants may aid the application of retroviral and lentiviral vectors to gene therapy.
Several neurodevelopmental disorders with astrong geneticbasis, including attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, autism spectrum disorders and developmental coordination disorder, involve deficits in fine motor skills. This phenotype may depend on heritable variation in components of the dopamine (DA) system, which is known to play a critical role in motor skill learning. In this study, we took advantage of two inbred strains of mice (BALB/c and C57BL/6) that differ markedly in the number of midbrain DA neurons in order to investigate the influence of such naturally occurring genetic variation on the acquisition and performance of fine motor skills. Gene expression analysis of midbrain, frontal cortex and striatum showed significant differences in the expression of presynaptic and postsynaptic dopaminergic (DAergic) markers (e.g. tyrosine hydroxylase, DA transporter, DA D4 receptor, DA D5 receptor and DARPP-32) between these two strains. BALB/c mice had lower learning rate and performance scores in a complex skilled reaching task when compared with C57BL/6 mice. A negative correlation was found between the motor learning rate and level of DARPP-32 mRNA expression in the frontal cortex contralateral to the trained forelimb. The rate of motor learning was also negatively correlated with the levels of DARPP-32 and DA D1 receptor mRNAs in the striatum. Our results suggest that genetically driven variation in frontostriatal DAergic neurotransmission is a major contributor to individual differences in motor skill learning. Moreover, these findings implicate the D1R/cAMP/DARPP-32 signaling pathway in those neurodevelopmental disorders that are associated with fine motor skill deficits.
Motivated behaviors, including sexual experience, activate the mesolimbic dopamine system and produce long-lasting molecular and structural changes in the nucleus accumbens. The transcription factor FosB is hypothesized to partly mediate this experience-dependent plasticity. Previous research in our laboratory has demonstrated that overexpressing FosB in the nucleus accumbens of female Syrian hamsters augments the ability of sexual experience to cause the formation of a conditioned place preference. It is unknown, however, whether FosB-mediated transcription in the nucleus accumbens is required for the behavioral consequences of sexual reward. We therefore used an adeno-associated virus to overexpress JunD, a dominant negative binding partner of FosB that decreases FosB-mediated transcription by competitively heterodimerizing with FosB before binding at promotor regions on target genes, in the nucleus accumbens. We found that overexpression of JunD prevented the formation of a conditioned place preference following repeated sexual experiences. These data, when coupled with our previous findings, suggest that FosB is both necessary and sufficient for behavioral plasticity following sexual experience. Furthermore, these results contribute to an important and growing body of literature demonstrating the necessity of endogenous FosB expression in the nucleus accumbens for adaptive responding to naturally rewarding stimuli.
Interspecies genetic analysis of neurobehavioral traits is critical for identifying neurobiological mechanisms underlying psychiatric disorders, and for developing models for translational research. Recently, after screening a chromosome substitution strain panel in an automated home cage environment, chromosomes 15 and 19 were identified in female mice for carrying genetic loci that contribute to increased avoidance behavior (sheltering preference). Furthermore, we showed that the quantitative trait locus (QTL) for baseline avoidance behavior on chromosome 15 is homologous with a human linkage region for bipolar disorder (8q24). Similarly, we now performed comparative analysis on the QTL for avoidance behavior found on chromosome 19 and correspondingly revealed an overlap of the mouse interval and human homologous region 10q23-24, which has been previously linked to bipolar disorders. By means of a comparative genetic strategy within the human homologous region, we describe an association for TLL2 with bipolar disorder using the genome-wide association study (GWAS) data set generated by the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium (WTCCC). On the basis of genetic homology and mood stabilizer sensitivity, our data indicate the intriguing possibility that mouse home cage avoidance behavior may translate to a common biochemical mechanisms underlying bipolar disorder susceptibility. These findings pave new roads for the identification of the molecular mechanisms and novel treatment possibilities for this psychiatric disorder, as well as for the validity of translational research of associated psychiatric endophenotypes.
The transcription factor Pax6 balances cell proliferation and neuronal differentiation in the mammalian developing neocortex by regulating the expression of target genes. Using microarray analysis, we observed the down-regulation of Dmrta1 (doublesex and mab-3-related transcription factor-like family A1) in the telencephalon of Pax6 homozygous mutant rats (rSey(2) /rSey(2) ). Dmrta1 expression was restricted to the neural stem/progenitor cells of the dorsal telencephalon. Overexpression of Dmrta1 induced the expression of the proneural gene Neurogenin2 (Neurog2) and conversely repressed Ascl1 (Mash1), a proneural gene expressed in the ventral telencephalon. We found that another Dmrt family molecule, Dmrt3, induced Neurog2 expression in the dorsal telencephalon. Our novel findings suggest that dual regulation of proneural genes mediated by Pax6 and Dmrt family members is crucial for cortical neurogenesis.
Type 2 CXC chemokine receptor CXCR2 plays roles in development, tumorigenesis, and inflammation. CXCR2 also promotes demyelination and decreases remyelination by actions toward hematopoietic cells and nonhematopoietic cells. Germline CXCR2 deficient (Cxcr2(-/-) ) mice reported in 1994 revealed the complexity of CXCR2 function and its differential expression in varied cell-types. Here, we describe Cxcr2(fl/fl) mice for which the targeting construct was generated by recombineering based on homologous recombination in E. coli. Without recombination Cxcr2(fl/fl) mice have CXCR2 expression on neutrophils in peripheral blood, bone marrow and spleen. Cxcr2(fl/fl) mice were crossed to Mx-Cre mice in which Cre recombinase is induced by Type I interferons, elicited by injection with polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (poly(I:C)). CXCR2-deficient neutrophils were observed in poly(I:C) treated Cxcr2(fl/fl) ::Mx-Cre(+) (Cxcr2-CKO) mice, but not in poly(I:C) treated Cxcr2(f//+) ::Mx-Cre(+) mice. CXCR2 deletion was mainly observed peripherally but not in the CNS. Cxcr2-CKO mice showed impaired neutrophil migration in sterile peritonitis. Cxcr2-CKO mice reported here will provide a genetic reagent to dissect roles of CXCR2 in the neutrophil granulocyte lineage. Furthermore Cxcr2(fl/fl) mice will provide useful genetic models to evaluate CXCR2 function in varied cell populations.
Atypical antipsychotic (AAP) drugs are the preferred choice of treatment for schizophrenia patients. Patients who do not show favorable response to AAP monotherapy are subjected to random prolonged therapeutic treatment with AAP multitherapy, typical antipsychotics or a combination of both. Therefore, prior identification of patients' response to drugs can be an important step in providing efficacious and safe therapeutic treatment. We thus attempted to elucidate a genetic signature which could predict patients' response to AAP monotherapy. Our logistic regression analyses indicated the probability that 76% patients carrying combination of four SNPs will not show favorable response to AAP therapy. The robustness of this prediction model was assessed using repeated 10-fold cross validation method, and the results across n-fold cross-validations (mean accuracy=71.91%; 95%CI=71.47-72.35) suggest high accuracy and reliability of the prediction model. Further validations of these results in large sample sets are likely to establish their clinical applicability.

Since the last update on nerve conduits and allograft in 2000, investigations have established the efficacy of these alternatives to autograft in the repair of small sensory neural gaps. However, limited insights into the biology of the regenerating nerve continue to preclude intelligent conduit design. Ongoing discoveries in neuroscience and biomaterial engineering hold promise for the eventual development of allograft and conduits with potential of surpassing nerve autografts in clinical efficacy. In this review, we summarize the history, recent advances, and emerging developments in nerve conduits and allograft.


Individuals with sensorineural hearing loss have difficulty understanding speech, especially in background noise. This deficit remains even when audibility is restored through amplification, suggesting that mechanisms beyond a reduction in peripheral sensitivity contribute to the perceptual difficulties associated with hearing loss. Given that normal-hearing musicians have enhanced auditory perceptual skills, including speech-in-noise perception, coupled with heightened subcortical responses to speech, we aimed to determine whether similar advantages could be observed in middle-aged adults with hearing loss. Results indicate that musicians with hearing loss, despite self-perceptions of average performance for understanding speech in noise, have a greater ability to hear in noise relative to nonmusicians. This is accompanied by more robust subcortical encoding of sound (e.g., stimulus-to-response correlations and response consistency) as well as more resilient neural responses to speech in the presence of background noise (e.g., neural timing). Musicians with hearing loss also demonstrate unique neural signatures of spectral encoding relative to nonmusicians: enhanced neural encoding of the speech-sound's fundamental frequency but not of its upper harmonics. This stands in contrast to previous outcomes in normal-hearing musicians, who have enhanced encoding of the harmonics but not the fundamental frequency. Taken together, our data suggest that although hearing loss modifies a musician's spectral encoding of speech, the musician advantage for perceiving speech in noise persists in a hearing-impaired population by adaptively strengthening underlying neural mechanisms for speech-in-noise perception.
The family of toll-like receptors (TLR) plays a major role in innate immunity due to their pathogen-recognition abilities. TLR3 is a sensor for double-stranded RNA, and regulates host-defense responses to several viruses, via the production of type I interferons. Interferon- (IFN) is a primary product of TLR3 activation, and its transcription is elevated in the CNS response to the synthetic TLR3 ligand, polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (poly(I:C)). Peripheral infections, along with TLR-induced inflammatory mediators, are known to have detrimental effects on brain function, exerting a negative impact on cognition and enhancing seizure susceptibility. In this study, we assessed hippocampal function in vitro, in response to systemic delivery of a TLR3 agonist. Unlike agonists of other TLRs, intraperitoneal injection of poly(I:C) did not adversely affect evoked short- and long-term synaptic plasticity in mouse hippocampal slices. However, sustained and interictal-like spontaneous activity was observed in CA1 pyramidal cells in response to poly(I:C) and this was associated with alterations in the expression of phosphorylated NR2B subunit-containing NMDA receptors and an astrocyte-specific glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST) which impact on extracellular glutamate concentration and contribute to the genesis of epileptiform activity. We provide evidence for the production of IFN from microglia and astrocytes, and using mice deficient in the type I IFN receptor  1 (IFNAR1), demonstrate that its subsequent activation is likely to underlie the TLR3-mediated modulation of hippocampal excitability.
Rhythmic oscillations within the 3-12 Hz theta frequency band manifest in the rodent hippocampus during a variety of behaviors and are particularly well characterized during spatial navigation. In contrast, previous studies of rhythmic hippocampal activity in primates under comparable behavioral conditions suggest it may be less apparent and possibly less prevalent, or even absent, compared with the rodent. We compared the relative presence of low-frequency oscillations in rats and humans during spatial navigation by using an oscillation detection algorithm (&quot;P-episode&quot; or &quot;BOSC&quot;) to better characterize their presence in microelectrode local field potential (LFP) recordings. This method quantifies the proportion of time the LFP exceeds both a power and cycle duration threshold at each frequency, characterizing the presence of (1) oscillatory activity compared with background noise, (2) the peak frequency of oscillatory activity, and (3) the duration of oscillatory activity. Results demonstrate that both humans and rodents have hippocampal rhythmic fluctuations lasting, on average, 2.75 and 4.3 cycles, respectively. Analyses further suggest that human hippocampal rhythmicity is centered around 3 Hz while that of rats is centered around 8 Hz. These results establish that low-frequency rhythms relevant to spatial navigation are present in both the rodent and human hippocampus, albeit with different properties under the behavioral conditions tested.

Sibling competition mediated by begging behavior is extremely common in avian species and recent studies have highlighted the role of endogenous testosterone in regulating such phenomenon. However, current literature depicts an inconsistent pattern in altricial vs. semi-precocial species, with stimulating versus inhibitory effects of the hormone respectively. This is possibly due to a difference in the methodology of hormone treatment (short-term moderate dose versus a long-term stronger elevation, respectively) between the studies performed so far. In this study, we induced short-term moderate peaks in plasma testosterone levels, as applied in altricial bird species, and assessed the effects of our manipulation on begging, competitive and aggressive behavior in black-headed gull (Larus ridibundus) chicks, a semi-precocial species. Our results suggest that, unlike in altricial songbirds, temporary increase of plasma testosterone concentration suppresses begging and enhances aggressiveness towards intruders. However, it also increases aggression and the chances of getting priority while scrambling with nest mates to gain access to food. Thus, the inconsistencies in the hormonal control of begging behavior observed between altricial vs. semi-precocial birds seem real and perhaps related to species differences in complexity of the display and the nature of competition. These may be elucidated by future comparative studies.
Steroid hormones released immediately before and after birth provoke sexual differentiation of neural circuits. Further, steroid hormones secreted during adolescence also exert long lasting effects on the nervous system. Hormones secreted during development may act through two distinct pathways: (1) hormones can directly affect neuron and synapse elimination and (2) endocrine changes in the nervous system may occur secondary to changes in social behaviors. Therefore, a critical period for organization of the nervous system by steroid hormones during adolescence may also be a sensitive period for the effects of social experience. The overall goal of this experiment was to determine whether the opportunity to mate with a sexually receptive female during this adolescent critical period would have enduring effects on behavior and neuronal morphology into adulthood. A second question was to determine the extent to which testosterone mediated the effects of these social interactions on adult outcomes. Compared to sexually inexperienced hamsters and those that experienced sex for the first time in adulthood, hamsters that experienced adolescent sexual experience displayed increased anxiety- and depressive-like behavioral responses. Adolescent sexual experiences decreased the complexity and length of dendrites on prefrontal cortical neurons and increased the expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin 1 (IL-1) in the PFC. In a second experiment, administration of testosterone during the adolescent period largely recapitulated the effects of adolescent sexual experience. These data support the overall hypothesis that a sensitive period extends into adolescence and that salient social stimuli during this time can significantly and persistently alter adult phenotype.
Prolonged exposure to stress during development can have long-term detrimental effects on health and wellbeing. However, the environmental matching hypothesis proposes that developmental stress programs physiology and behaviour in an adaptive way that can enhance fitness if early environments match those experienced later in life. Most research has focused on the harmful effects that stress during a single period in early life may exert in adulthood. In this study, we tested the potential additive and beneficial effects that stress experienced during both pre- and post-hatching development may have on adult physiology and behaviour. Japanese quail experienced different stress-related treatments across two developmental life stages: pre-hatching corticosterone (CORT) injection, post-hatching unpredictable food availability, both pre- and post-hatching treatments, or control. In adulthood, we determined quails' acute stress response, neophobia and novel environment exploration. The pre-hatching CORT treatment resulted in attenuated physiological responses to an acute stressor, increased activity levels and exploration in a novel environment. Post-hatching unpredictable food availability decreased adults' latency to feed. Furthermore, there were cumulative effects of these treatments across the two developmental stages: quail subjected to both pre- and post-hatching treatments were the most explorative and risk-taking of all treatment groups. Such responses to novel environments could enhance survival in unpredictable environments in later life. Our data also suggest that these behavioural responses may have been mediated by long-term physiological programming of the adrenocortical stress response, creating phenotypes that could exhibit fitness-enhancing behaviours in a changing environment.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) plays an essential role in coordinating the autonomic, endocrine and behavioral responses to stressors. In this study, we investigated the role of CRF within the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in modulating unconditioned defensive behaviors, by examining the effects of microinfusing cortagine a selective type-1 CRF receptor (CRF1) agonist, or acidic-astressin a preferential CRF1 antagonist, into the mPFC in male CD-1 mice exposed to a live predator (rat exposure test--RET). Cortagine microinfusions significantly reduced several indices of defense, including avoidance and freezing, suggesting a specific role for CRF1 within the infralimbic and prelimbic regions of the mPFC in modulating unconditioned behavioral responsivity to a predator. In contrast, microinfusions of acidic-astressin failed to alter defensive behaviors during predator exposure in the RET. Cortagine microinfusions also reduced Fos protein production in the medial, central and basomedial, but not basolateral subnuclei of the amygdala in mice exposed to the rat predatory threat stimulus. These results suggest that CRF1 activation within the mPFC attenuates predator-induced unconditioned anxiety-like defensive behaviors, likely via inhibition of specific amygdalar nuclei. Furthermore, the present findings suggest that the mPFC represents a unique neural region whereby activation of CRF1 produces behavioral effects that contrast with those elicited following systemic administration of CRF1 agonists.
Progesterone (P) and its metabolites, rapidly facilitate lordosis of rats partly through actions in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). The study of membrane progestin receptors (mPRs), of the Progestin and AdipoQ Receptor (PAQR) superfamily, has been limited to expression and regulation, instead of function. We hypothesized that if mPRs are required for progestin-facilitated lordosis in the VTA, then mPRs will be expressed in this region and knockdown will attenuate lordosis. First, expression of mPR was examined by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in brain and peripheral tissues of proestrous Long-Evans rats. Expression of mPR (paqr7) was observed in peripheral tissues and brain areas, including hypothalamus and midbrain. Expression of mPR (paqr8) was observed in brain tissues and was abundant in the midbrain and hypothalamus. Second, ovariectomized rats were estrogen (E; 0.09 mg/kg, SC), and P (4 mg/kg, SC) or vehicle-primed, and infused with antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (AS-ODNs) targeted against mPR and/or mPR intracerebroventricularly or to the VTA. Rats were assessed for motor (open field), anxiety (elevated plus maze), social (social interaction), and sexual (lordosis) behavior. P-facilitated lordosis was significantly reduced with administration of AS-ODNs for mPR, mPR, or co-administration of mPR and mPR to the lateral ventricle, compared to vehicle. P-facilitated lordosis was reduced, compared to vehicle, by administration of mPR AS-ODNs, or co-administration of mPR and mPR AS-ODNs, but not mPR AS-ODNs alone, to the VTA. No differences were observed for motor, anxiety, or social behaviors. Thus, mPRs in the VTA are targets of progestin-facilitated lordosis of rats.
We examined linear and curvilinear correlations of gray matter volume and density in cortical and subcortical gray matter with age using magnetic resonance images (MRI) in a large number of healthy children. We applied voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and region-of-interest (ROI) analyses with the Akaike information criterion (AIC), which was used to determine the best-fit model by selecting which predictor terms should be included. We collected data on brain structural MRI in 291 healthy children aged 5-18 years. Structural MRI data were segmented and normalized using a custom template by applying the diffeomorphic anatomical registration using exponentiated lie algebra (DARTEL) procedure. Next, we analyzed the correlations of gray matter volume and density with age in VBM with AIC by estimating linear, quadratic, and cubic polynomial functions. Several regions such as the prefrontal cortex, the precentral gyrus, and cerebellum showed significant linear or curvilinear correlations between gray matter volume and age on an increasing trajectory, and between gray matter density and age on a decreasing trajectory in VBM and ROI analyses with AIC. Because the trajectory of gray matter volume and density with age suggests the progress of brain maturation, our results may contribute to clarifying brain maturation in healthy children from the viewpoint of brain structure.
Although children with heavy prenatal alcohol exposure may exhibit the distinctive facial dysmorphology seen in full or partial fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS/PFAS), many lack that dysmorphology. This study examined the functional organization of working memory in the brain in three groups of children-those meeting diagnostic criteria for FAS or PFAS, heavily exposed (HE) nonsyndromal children, and healthy controls. A verbal n-back task (1-back and 0-back) was administered to 47 children (17 with FAS/PFAS, 13 HE, and 17 controls) during fMRI. Intra-group one-sample t-tests were used to identify activity regions of interest central to verbal working memory including the dorsal prefrontal cortex (dPFC), inferior frontal gyrus, caudate/putamen, parietal cortex, and cerebellar Crus I/lobule VI and lobule VIIB-IX. Whereas groups did not differ in task sensitivity, fMRI analyses suggested different patterns of sub-network recruitment across groups. Controls primarily recruited left inferior frontal gyrus (Broca's area). By contrast, HE primarily recruited an extensive set of fronto-striatal regions, including left dPFC and left caudate, and the FAS/PFAS group relied primarily on two cerebellar subregions and parietal cortex. This study is, to our knowledge, the first to demonstrate differential recruitment of critical brain regions that subserve basic function in children with different fetal alcohol spectrum disorders compared to controls. The distinct activation patterns seen in the two exposed groups may be related to substantial differences in alcohol dose/occasion to which these groups were exposed in utero.
Sensorimotor regions of the brain have been implicated in simulation processes such as action understanding and empathy, but their functional role in these processes remains unspecified. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to demonstrate that postcentral sensorimotor cortex integrates action and object information to derive the sensory outcomes of observed hand-object interactions. When subjects viewed others' hands grasping or withdrawing from objects that were either painful or nonpainful, distinct sensorimotor subregions emerged as showing preferential responses to different aspects of the stimuli: object information (noxious vs. innocuous), action information (grasps vs. withdrawals), and painful action outcomes (painful grasps vs. all other conditions). Activation in the latter region correlated with subjects' ratings of how painful each object would be to touch and their previous experience with the object. Viewing others' painful grasps also biased behavioral responses to actual tactile stimulation, a novel effect not seen for auditory control stimuli. Somatosensory cortices, including primary somatosensory areas 1/3b and 2 and parietal area PF, may therefore subserve somatomotor simulation processes by integrating action and object information to anticipate the sensory consequences of observed hand-object interactions.
In this study, we examined linear and curvilinear correlations of fractional anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD), and white matter volume with age by using brain structural and diffusion-tensor magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in a large number of healthy children and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and region-of-interest (ROI) analyses. We collected data by brain structural MRI in 246 healthy children, aged 5-18 years. FA and MD images were normalized using the normalization parameter of the corresponding structural MRI. Next, we analyzed the correlations between FA and age and between MD and age by estimating linear and logarithmic functions. We also analyzed the correlation between white matter volume and age by linear, quadratic, and cubic functions. Correlations between FA and age and between MD and age showed exponential trajectories in most ROIs in boys and girls, except for several fibers, such as the corpus callosum connecting the bilateral rectal gyri in boys. The correlation between white matter volume and age showed significant positive linear trajectories in most ROIs in boys and girls, except for a few fibers, such as the bilateral uncinate fasciculus. Additionally, maturational rates differed among major fibers, and in girls, the left superior longitudinal fasciculus, which connects the frontal and temporal lobes, showed a slower rate of maturation than other fibers. Our results may help to clarify the mechanisms of normal brain maturation from the viewpoint of brain white matter.
This study aimed to quantify dynamic structural changes in the brain after subcortical stroke and identify brain areas that contribute to motor recovery of affected limbs. High-resolution structural MRI and neurological examinations were conducted at five consecutive time points during the year following stroke in 10 patients with left hemisphere subcortical infarctions involving motor pathways. Gray matter volume (GMV) was calculated using an optimized voxel-based morphometry technique, and dynamic changes in GMV were evaluated using a mixed-effects model. After stroke, GMV was decreased bilaterally in brain areas that directly or indirectly connected with lesions, which suggests the presence of regional damage in these &quot;healthy&quot; brain tissues in stroke patients. Moreover, the GMVs of these brain areas were not correlated with the Motricity Index (MI) scores when controlling for time intervals after stroke, which indicates that these structural changes may reflect an independent process (such as axonal degeneration) but cannot affect the improvement of motor function. In contrast, the GMV was increased in several brain areas associated with motor and cognitive functions after stroke. When controlling for time intervals after stroke, only the GMVs in the cognitive-related brain areas (hippocampus and precuneus) were positively correlated with MI scores, which suggests that the structural reorganization in cognitive-related brain areas may facilitate the recovery of motor function. However, considering the small sample size of this study, further studies are needed to clarify the exact relationships between structural changes and recovery of motor function in stroke patients.
Observing another person being touched activates our own somatosensory system. Whether the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) is also activated during the observation of passive touch, and which subregions of S1 are responsible for self- and other-related observed touch is currently unclear. In our study, we first aimed to clarify whether observing passive touch without any action component can robustly increase activity in S1. Secondly, we investigated whether S1 activity only increases when touch of others is observed, or also when touch of one's own body is observed. We were particularly interested in which subregions of S1 are responsible for either process. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging at 7 Tesla to measure S1 activity changes when participants observed videos of their own or another's hand in either egocentric or allocentric perspective being touched by different pieces of sandpaper. Participants were required to judge the roughness of the different sandpaper surfaces. Our results clearly show that S1 activity does increase in response to observing passive touch, and that activity changes are localized in posterior but not in anterior parts of S1. Importantly, activity increases in S1 were particularly related to observing another person being touched. Self-related observed touch, in contrast, caused no significant activity changes within S1. We therefore assume that posterior but not anterior S1 is part of a system for sharing tactile experiences with others.
TAR DNA-binding protein-43 (TDP-43) is the principal component of ubiquitinated inclusions in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and the most common pathological subtype of frontotemporal dementia-frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43-positive inclusions (FTLD-TDP). To date, the C-terminus of TDP-43, which is aggregation-prone and contains almost all ALS-associated mutations, has garnered much attention while the functions of the N-terminus of TDP-43 remain largely unknown. To bridge this gap in our knowledge, we utilized novel cell culture and computer-assisted models to evaluate which region(s) of TDP-43 regulate its folding, self-interaction, biological activity and aggregation. We determined that the extreme N-terminus of TDP-43, specifically the first 10 residues, regulates folding of TDP-43 monomers necessary for proper homodimerization and TDP-43-regulated splicing. Despite such beneficial functions, we discovered an interesting dichotomy: full-length TDP-43 aggregation, which is believed to be a pathogenic process, also requires the extreme N-terminus of TDP-43. As such, we provide new insight into the structural basis for TDP-43 function and aggregation, and we suggest that stabilization of TDP-43 homodimers, the physiologically active form of TDP-43, may be a promising therapeutic strategy for ALS and FTLD-TDP.
With the mounting realization that variability is an inevitable part of human behavior comes the need to integrate this phenomenon in concomitant models and theories of motor control. Among other things, this has resulted in a debate throughout the last decades about the origin of variability in behavior, the outcome of which has important implications for motor control theories. To date, a monofractal formalism of variability has been used as the basis for arguing for component- versus interaction-oriented theories of motor control. However, monofractal formalism alone cannot decide between the opposing sides of the debate. The present theoretical overview introduces multifractal formalisms as a necessary extension of the conventional monofractal formalism. In multifractal formalisms, the scale invariance of behavior is numerically defined as a spectrum of scaling exponents, rather than a single average exponent as in the monofractal formalism. Several methods to estimate the multifractal spectrum of scaling exponents - all within two multifractal formalisms called large deviation and Legendre formalism - are introduced and briefly discussed. Furthermore, the multifractal analyses within these two formalisms are applied to several performance tasks to illustrate how explanations of motor control vary with the methods used. The main section of the theoretical overview discusses the implications of multifractal extensions of the component- and interaction-oriented models for existing theories of motor control.
Increased glutamatergic input in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) plays an important role in the development of hypertension. Group II metabotropic glutamate receptors are expressed in the PVN, but their involvement in regulating synaptic transmission and sympathetic outflow in hypertension is unclear. Here, we show that the group II metabotropic glutamate receptors agonist (2S,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine (DCG-IV) produced a significantly greater reduction in the frequency of spontaneous and miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents and in the amplitude of electrically evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents in retrogradely labeled spinally projecting PVN neurons in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) than in normotensive control rats. DCG-IV similarly decreased the frequency of GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents of labeled PVN neurons in the 2 groups of rats. Strikingly, DCG-IV suppressed the firing of labeled PVN neurons only in SHRs. DCG-IV failed to inhibit the firing of PVN neurons of SHRs in the presence of ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists. Lowering blood pressure with celiac ganglionectomy in SHRs normalized the DCG-IV effect on excitatory postsynaptic currents to the same level seen in control rats. Furthermore, microinjection of DCG-IV into the PVN significantly reduced blood pressure and sympathetic nerve activity in SHRs. Our findings provide new information that presynaptic group II metabotropic glutamate receptor activity at the glutamatergic terminals increases in the PVN in SHRs. Activation of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors in the PVN inhibits sympathetic vasomotor tone through attenuation of increased glutamatergic input and neuronal hyperactivity in SHRs.
Polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (Poly I:C; 5 mg/kg body weight, ip) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 0.3 mg/kg body weight, ip) induced microglial and astrocytic activation in Sprague Dawley rats. Higher microglial and astrocytic activities were noticed in Poly I:C infused rats throughout the hippocampus till postnatal day 21 with a comparatively weaker response in LPS group. However, LPS induced inflammation persisted even after postnatal day 21, indicating thereby, that the Poly I:C (viral mimic) produces an acute inflammation, while LPS (bacterial endotoxin) produces chronic inflammation when exposed during early neonatal life.
The nuclear factor kappa-B family of transcription factors have been extensively studied in the immune system where they function to orchestrate the molecular response to immune challenge. However in recent years, members of this family have also been shown to play physiological roles in the development and function of the nervous system. The two best studied members of the nuclear factor kappa-B family are the p65 and the p50 proteins. In this review, we outline recent developments regarding the functions of these proteins in regulating hippocampal neurogenesis, neuronal growth and learning and memory and discuss the implications of their dysregulation during the development of the nervous system.
Advances in cell reprogramming technologies to generate patient-specific cells of a desired type will revolutionize the field of regenerative medicine. While several cell reprogramming methods have been developed over the last decades, the majority of these technologies require the exposure of cell nuclei to reprogramming large molecules via transfection, transduction, cell fusion or nuclear transfer. This raises several technical, safety and ethical issues. Chemical genetics is an alternative approach for cell reprogramming that uses small, cell membrane penetrable substances to regulate multiple cellular processes including cell plasticity. Recently, using the combination of small molecules that are involved in the regulation chromatin structure and function and agents that favor neural differentiation we have been able to generate neural-like cells from human mesenchymal stem cells. In this study, to improve the efficiency of neuronal differentiation and maturation, two specific inhibitors of SMAD signaling (SMAD1/3 and SMAD3/5/8) that play an important role in neuronal differentiation of embryonic stem cells, were added to our previous neural induction recipe. Results demonstrated that human mesenchymal stem cells grown in this culture conditions exhibited higher expression of several mature neuronal genes, formed synapse-like structures and exerted electrophysiological properties of differentiating neural stem cells. Thus, an efficient method for production of mature neuronal-like cells from human adult bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells has been developed. We concluded that specific combinations of small molecules that target specific cell signaling pathways and chromatin modifying enzymes could be a promising approach for manipulation of adult stem cell plasticity.

Background: Incomplete hospitalization is the cause of disease relapse, readmission, and increase in medical costs. Discharge Against Medical Advice (DAMA) in emergency department (ED) is critical for hospitals. This paper aims to explore the underlying reasons behind DAMA in ED of four teaching hospitals in Kerman, Iran. Methods: This was a cross-sectional study in which the samples were drawn from the patients who chose to leave against medical advice from the ED of teaching hospitals in Kerman from February to March 2011. The sampling was based on census. Data were gathered by a self-constructed questionnaire. The reasons for DAMA were divided into three parts: reasons related to patient, medical staff, and hospital environment. The questionnaire was filled out by a face-to-face interview with patient or a reliable companion. Results: There were 121 cases (5.6%) of DAMA out of the total admissions. The main reason of AMA discharges was related to patient factors in 43.9% of cases, while two other factors (i.e., hospital environment and medical staff) constituded 41.2% and 35.2% of cases, respectively. The majority of patients 65.9% (80 cases) were either uninformed or less informed of the entailing side effects and outcomes of their decision to DAMA. Conclusion: In comparison to studies conducted in other countries, the rate of DAMA is markedly higher in Iran. The results revealed that patients awareness of the consequences of their decisions is evidently inadequate. The study suggests a number of recommendations. These include, increasing patient awareness of the potential side effects of DAMA and creating the necessary culture for this, improving hospital facilities, and a more careful supervision of medical staff performance.
Background: Evaluation of treatment programs in addiction field is a prerequisite to improve the quality of care. This study aimed to investigate the effectiveness of Therapeutic Community (TC) program in Iran. Methods: Individuals who had voluntarily enrolled in the TC center within a period of seven years, from early 2005 to late 2011, entered the study. Those who successfully completed the 14-week residential course were considered as 'completers'. They were subsequently called in for urine test and interviews using Maudsley Addiction Profile. Urine test was conducted to determine if they were positive for heroin, opium, methadone, methamphetamine, bupronorphine, hashish, and tramadol. Results: A number of 378 individuals with mean (SD) age of 32.5  7.8 enrolled in the TC program during the study period, 240 individuals of whom completed the 14 weeks course (69.0%). At the end of the sixth year, 22% of the participants were in abstinence. Physical and mental health in abstainers proved to be of better conditions than those of non-abstainers (P&lt;0.05). Conclusion: Considering the TC outcome in other countries, it seems that TC maintains an acceptable effectiveness in Iran. Prospective controlled studies are warranted to investigate the outcomes in more details.
In the past few years, several high profiled pharmaceutical companies have decided to shut down major research activities within the central nervous system (CNS) area. For example, in December 2011 Novartis announced that the company is closing its neuroscience facility in Basel, Switzerland, where Novartis is headquartered (Abbott, 2011). It follows similar moves by GlaxoSmithKline and AstraZeneca, both based in the UK, which in 2010 announced the closure of major parts of their neuroscience research divisions globally (Jack, Financial Times, 4 February 2010). Also companies primarily based in the USA, Pfizer and Merck, as well as the French company Sanofi, have pulled back on research into brain disorders. This development is still proceeding, as e.g. AstraZeneca closed their CNS/pain centres (Fiercebiotech, press release, 2 February 2012). Several of the companies have launched smaller new initiatives based on studies of genetics and biomarkers, but as mental disorders such as unipolar depression impose the largest disease burden worldwide, e.g. 6.2% disability-adjusted life year of total (WHO, 2008), and current treatments do not work particularly well for many patients, this has obviously raised a number of concerns related to how the future developments should be carried out, and whether the genetic approach may be sufficient. In June 2012, the International College of Neuropsychopharmacology (http://www.cinp.org) hosted an international workshop in order to discuss and consider the consequences and implications of the withdrawal of these research activities. This paper presents the problem background together with a summary of the viewpoints of the invited speakers and recommendations for future intervention.
The C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) exerts its action via stimulation of the cyclic GMP (cGMP) signalling pathway, which includes the activation of cGMP-dependent protein kinases. The pathway can also be activated by inhibitors of phosphodiesterases (PDE) that hydrolyse cGMP. The present report shows that activation of the cGMP pathway by CNP, by bromo-cGMP, a cell-permeant cGMP analogue, or by the PDE inhibitor zaprinast dose dependently reduces intravenous cocaine self-administration by rats. The effect was found when the compounds were injected in situ into the prefrontal cortex, but not when they were injected into the nucleus accumbens. A decrease in the number of cocaine infusions performed by rats was obtained under the fixed ratio-1 schedule of reinforcement as well as under a progressive ratio schedule, which evaluates the motivation of the animals for the drug. Decrease in cocaine self-administration was accompanied with reduced expression of the epigenetic markers methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) and histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) in dopaminergic projection areas. An increase in the acetylation level of histone H3, but not of histone H4, was also noticed. Since MeCP2 and HDAC2 are known to modulate dynamic functions in the adult brain, such as synaptic plasticity, our results showing that activation of the cGMP signal transduction pathway decreased both cocaine intake and expression of the epigenetic markers strongly suggest that the MeCP2/HDAC2 complex is involved in the analysis of the reinforcing properties of cocaine in the prefrontal cortex.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are widely prescribed for treatment of psychiatric disorders. The exact mechanism underlying the clinical effects of SSRIs remains unclear, although increased synaptic serotonin concentrations have been hypothesized to be an initial step. [C]AZ10419369 is a novel 5-HT(1B) receptor selective radioligand, which is sensitive to changes in endogenous serotonin concentrations. To assess whether a single dose of the SSRI escitalopram affects endogenous serotonin concentrations in serotonergic projection areas and in the raphe nuclei (RN), three cynomolgus monkeys and nine human subjects underwent PET examinations with [C]AZ10419369 at baseline conditions and after escitalopram administration. In monkeys, the binding potential (BP(ND)) was significantly lower post dose compared to baseline in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, occipital cortex, thalamus, midbrain and RN (p &lt; 0.05). In humans, the BP(ND) tended to decrease in RN post dose (p = 0.08). In all serotonergic projection areas, the BP(ND) was conversely higher post dose compared to baseline. The increase was significant in a combined region of all projection areas (p = 0.01) and in occipital and temporal cortex (p &lt; 0.05). SSRIs are generally assumed to elevate endogenous serotonin concentrations in projection areas, evoking the antidepressant effect. In the present study, a single, clinically relevant, dose of escitalopram was found to decrease serotonin concentrations in serotonergic projection areas in humans. Hypothetically, desensitization of inhibitory serotonergic autoreceptors will cause the serotonin concentration in projection areas to increase over time with chronic administration. Thus, the findings in the present study might aid in understanding the mechanism of SSRIs' delayed onset of clinical effect.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of pretreatment with risperidone on heroin self-administration and heroin-seeking behaviour induced by cues and heroin priming. Rats were trained to self-administer heroin under a fixed ratio 1 schedule for 2 wk and nose-poke responding was extinguished for 10 d, after which reinstatement of drug seeking was induced by conditioned cues or heroin priming. Acute risperidone administration at doses 10-100g/kg potently and dose-dependently inhibited reinstatement of conditioned cue-induced heroin seeking; the minimum dose of inhibition was 30g/kg. In contrast, risperidone at the same doses did not attenuate reinstatement induced by two priming doses of heroin (100 or 250g/kg s.c.). Risperidone at these doses failed to alter heroin self-administration and locomotion activity. These data demonstrate that acute treatment with low-dose risperidone inhibits conditioned cue-induced heroin seeking and risperidone may be an adjunctive therapy for the treatment of heroin addiction.
The Editors and Publisher would like to inform the readers the following article has been retracted from publication in the International Journal of Neuroscience: Mohamad Goldust, Mahnaz Talebi, Jafar Majidi, Mohammad Amin Rezazadeh Saatlou, Elham Rezaee. Evaluation of antiphospholipid antibodies in youths suffering from cerebral ischemia. Int J Neurosci. 2013 Mar;123(3):1247-57. Dr. Mahnaz Talebi contacted the Editors of the International Journal of Neuroscience to inform them that this article was a graduation thesis for his student Dr. Mohamadali Arami at Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran, and previously published in print and in Persian by the Iranian Journal of Neurology: Mahnaz Talebi, Jafar Majidi, Mohamadali Arami, Seyed Ali Saderddini. Evaluation of antiphospholipid antibodies in youths suffering from cerebral ischemia. Iran J Neuro. 2005 Spring;15(3):26-34. Moreover, Dr. Talebi said he was listed as an author of the article published in the International Journal of Neuroscience without his knowledge or consent. When queried, Dr. Mohamad Goldust, the corresponding author of the article published in the International Journal of Neuroscience, admitted that he listed Dr. Talebi as a coauthor improperly and asked for the manuscript to be retracted; he did not respond to our questions regarding whether this manuscript was previously published in the Iranian Journal of Neurology or whether this manuscript was the original work of the authors listed in the published the International Journal of Neuroscience article. The coauthors listed on the article published in the International Journal of Neuroscience were contacted several times but did not respond to our queries. Since the article in the Iranian Journal of Neurology was published in Persian, we contacted Dr. Shahriar Nafissi, Editor in Chief of the Iranian Journal of Neurology, who confirmed that the two articles in question were the same. Our policy in this respect is clear: the International Journal of Neuroscience considers all manuscripts on the strict condition that they have been submitted only to the International Journal of Neuroscience, that they have not been published already, nor are they under consideration for publication or in press elsewhere. International Journal of Neuroscience published this article in good faith, and on the basis of signed statements made by the corresponding author regarding the originality of their work. The article is withdrawn from all print and electronic editions.
The editors and publisher would like to inform the readers that the following article has been retracted from publication in The International Journal of Neuroscience: Kishali NF, Imamoglu O, Kaldirimci M, Akyol P, Yildirim K. Comparison of lipid and lipoprotein values in men and women differing in training status. Int J Neurosci 2005 Sep;115(9):1247-57. The corresponding author, Dr. Kishali, notified the editors and the publisher that this article was previously published by The Biology of Sport: Imamoglu, O, Atan, T, Kishali, NF, Burmaoglu, G, Akyol, P, Yildirim, K. Comparison of lipid and lipoprotein values in men and women differing in training status. Biol Sport 2005 Sep;22(3):261-70. Dr. Kishali requested the retraction and we agreed. Our policy in this respect is clear: The International Journal of Neuroscience considers all manuscripts on the strict condition that they have been submitted only to The International Journal of Neuroscience, that they have not been published already, nor are they under consideration for publication or in press elsewhere. The International Journal of Neuroscience published this article in good faith, and on the basis of signed statements made by the corresponding author regarding the originality of their work. The article is withdrawn from all print and electronic editions.
One of the main challenges facing people living with HIV (PLH) in Thailand is HIV disclosure. The goal of this study was to examine HIV disclosure barriers and motivators in Northeastern Thailand. Focus groups were conducted with 40 PLH to explore the barriers and motivators. To confirm the themes identified in the focus groups, face-face interviews were conducted with 50 PLH. Focus group findings revealed barriers to HIV disclosure in three domains: perceived stigma, shame and fear of rejection. Motivators to HIV disclosure consisted of the following: coping with illness, seeking help and common experiences. Findings from the face-to-face interviews included the following barriers: fear of privacy breach, fear of rejection and communication difficulties. The motivators to HIV disclosure included seeking supportive relationship, duty to inform and catharsis. Based on these findings, we are currently developing family-focused HIV disclosure intervention in Northeastern Thailand.


Cognitive impairments are often associated with abnormal sleep activity in developmental disorders and pathologies of childhood. Besides, accumulated evidence indicates that post-training sleep benefits to the consolidation of recently learned information in healthy adults and children. Although sleep-dependent consolidation effects in children are clearly established for declarative memories, they remain more debated in the procedural memory domain. Nowadays, recent experimental data suggest close interactions between the development of sleep-dependent plasticity markers, cortical maturation and cognition in children. In the present review, we propose that studying sleep and memory consolidation processes in developmental disorders and acquired childhood pathologies can provide novel, enlightening clues to understand the pathophysiological mechanisms subtending the disruption of long-term cerebral plasticity processes eventually leading to cognitive and learning deficits in children.
The objectives of the study were to examine EEG activities using power spectral analysis (PSA) of good sleepers (GS), psychophysiological (PsyI) and paradoxical (ParI) insomnia sufferers on two consecutive nights. Participants completed three nights of PSG recordings in a sleep laboratory following a clinical evaluation. Participants were 26 PsyI, 20 ParI and 21 GS (mean age=40 years, SD=9.4). All sleep cycles of Nights 2 and 3 were retained for PSA. The absolute and relative activity in frequency bands (0.00 to 125.00 Hz) were computed at multiple frontal, central and parietal sites in REM and NREM sleep. Mixed model ANOVAs were performed with absolute and relative PSA data to assess differences between groups and nights. Over the course of the two nights, more absolute delta activity at F3, C3, and P3 was observed in ParI compared with PsyI suggesting deactivation of the left hemisphere in ParI and/or hyperactivation in PsyI. Further analysis on absolute PSA data revealed that differences between groups relate mostly to NREM. In REM, lower relative activity in slower frequency bands was found in ParI in comparison with GS and less relative theta activity was found in PsyI compared with GS implying higher activation in insomnia. In addition, between nights variability has been found in absolute powers of faster frequency bands (beta to omega). Signs of decreased cortical activity in absolute PSA in NREM combined with increased relative cortical activation in REM were found in ParI which might contribute to the misperception of sleep in ParI.
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) has been associated with a broad range of neurocognitive difficulties. The current view is that the neurocognitive impairment in OSA is due to the adverse effects of sleep fragmentation and/or intermittent hypoxia. The overall picture of cognitive deficits in OSA is complex. On balance, there appears to be negative effects of OSA on cognition, most likely in the domains of attention/vigilance, verbal and visual delayed long-term memory, visuospatial/constructional abilities, and executive dysfunction. Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the most effective and widely used treatment of OSA. In the majority of studies of OSA patients treated with CPAP, attention/vigilance improved, but changes in global functioning, executive functioning, and memory improved in about half of the studies. This may be due, in part, to variability in study design and sampling methodology across studies. Structural volume changes have been demonstrated in brain regions of OSA patients including areas that regulate memory and executive function (e.g., frontal cortex, anterior cingulate, and hippocampus). Growing evidence suggests that the OSA-related changes in brain morphology may improve with CPAP treatment. Neuroimaging studies performed during cognitive testing have provided insight into CPAP's effect on function of neuroanatomical circuits in the brain. Although neuroimaging can provide important insights into the structural and functional differences associated with OSA, one of the challenges is to interpret the findings in light of comorbid conditions that also cause neural injury. The purpose of this article is to provide a narrative review of the publications on cognition and neuroimaging in OSA before and after CPAP treatment.
Deep sleep is characterized by slow waves of electrical activity in the cerebral cortex. They represent alternating down states and up states of, respectively, hyperpolarization with accompanying neuronal silence and depolarization during which neuronal firing resumes. The up states give rise to faster oscillations, notably spindles and gamma activity which appear to be of major importance to the role of sleep in brain function and cognition. Unfortunately, while spindles are easily detectable, gamma oscillations are of very small amplitude. No previous sleep study has succeeded in demonstrating modulations of gamma power along the time course of slow waves in human scalp EEG. As a consequence, progress in our understanding of the functional role of gamma modulation during sleep has been limited to animal studies and exceptional human studies, notably those of intracranial recordings in epileptic patients. Because high synaptic density, which peaks some time before puberty depending on the brain region (Huttenlocher and Dabholkar, 1997), generates oscillations of larger amplitude, we considered that the best chance to demonstrate a modulation of gamma power by slow wave phase in regular scalp sleep EEG would be in school-aged children. Sleep EEG was recorded in 30 healthy children (aged 10.7  0.8 years; mean  s.d.). Time-frequency analysis was applied to evaluate the time course of spectral power along the development of a slow wave. Moreover, we attempted to modify sleep architecture and sleep characteristics through automated acoustic stimulation coupled to the occurrence of slow waves in one subset of the children. Gamma power increased on the rising slope and positive peak of the slow wave. Gamma and spindle activity is strongly suppressed during the negative peak. There were no differences between the groups who received and did not receive acoustic stimulation in the sleep parameters and slow wave-locked time-frequency analysis. Our findings show, for the first time in scalp EEG in humans, that gamma activity is associated with the up-going slope and peak of the slow wave. We propose that studies in children provide a uniquely feasible opportunity to conduct investigations into the role of gamma during sleep.
Even under thermoneutral conditions, skin temperature fluctuates spontaneously, most prominently at distal parts of the body. These fluctuations were shown to be associated with fluctuations in vigilance: mild manipulation of skin temperature during nocturnal sleep affects sleep depth and the power spectral density of the electroencephalogram (EEG), and fluctuations in skin temperature during daytime wakefulness are related to sleep propensity and task performance. The association of daytime skin temperature fluctuations with EEG markers of vigilance has not previously been investigated. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate the association between daytime fluctuations in skin temperature with those in two quantitative EEG measures: the power spectral density of background EEG, and the event related potential (ERP) elicited by visual stimuli. High-density EEG and skin temperature were obtained in eight healthy adults five times a day while they performed a visual sustained-attention task. Assessments were made after a night of normal sleep and after the challenge of a night of total sleep deprivation. Fluctuations in the distal-to-proximal skin temperature gradient measured from the earlobe and mastoid were associated with fluctuations in parieto-occipital high beta band (20-40 Hz) power of the pre-stimulus background EEG, but only after sleep deprivation. The temperature fluctuations were moreover associated with fluctuations in the latency of the P300 elicited by the stimulus. The findings demonstrate close association between fluctuations in an autonomic correlate of the vigilance state (i.e. the distal-to-proximal skin temperature gradient), and fluctuations in central nervous system correlates of the vigilance state (i.e. background EEG and ERP). The findings are of theoretical and practical relevance for the assessment and manipulation of vigilance.

Recruitment in psychiatry has been an ongoing challenge worldwide; Turkey is no exception. In this article we have reviewed the issue from multiple aspects. Negative opinions on psychiatry among medical students have been associated with various matters, such as problems with scientific soundness, stigma, prestige and financial incentives. It has been reported that these negative opinions could be reversed by clinical exposure, improved knowledge base and increased affiliation with the field. Unfortunately, reversed attitudes do not have permanency. Considering that there has not been any study focusing on recruitment problems in Turkey, we attempted to provide a perspective by reporting the results of our study conducted with Turkish medical students. Attractive qualities of psychiatry were of particular interest. We found that brain research, neuroscience, philosophy, psychotherapy and academics are main areas of interest in psychiatry. We attempt to discuss our findings in view of current literature while noting current setbacks of psychiatry residency training in Turkey. We conclude that there exists a great need for working strategies in order to improve recruitment in psychiatry, addressing the stigma and correcting false beliefs such as treatment inefficacy or compromised scientific solidity.
Overt behavior is generated in response to a palette of external and internal stimuli and internal drives. Rarely are these variables introduced in isolation. This creates challenges for the organism to sort inputs that frequently favor conflicting behaviors. Under these conditions, the nervous system relies on established and flexible hierarchies to produce appropriate behavioral changes. The pteropod mollusc Clione limacina is used as an example to illustrate a variety of behavioral interactions that alter a baseline behavioral activity: slow swimming. The alterations include acceleration within the slow swimming mode, acceleration from the slow to fast swimming modes, whole body withdrawal (and inhibition of swimming), food acquisition behavior (with a feeding motivational state), and a startle locomotory response. These examples highlight different types of interaction between the baseline behavior and the new behaviors that involve external stimuli and two types of internal drives: a modular arousal system and a motivational state. The investigation of hierarchical interactions between behavioral modules is a central theme of integrative neuroethology that focuses on an organismal level of understanding of the neural control of behavior.

Neurons communicate through neurotransmission at the synapse. Precise regulation of the synaptic structure and signaling during the formation and remodeling of synapses is vital for information processing between neurons. Scaffold proteins play key roles in synapses by tethering the signaling cascades spatially and temporally to ensure proper brain functioning. This review summarizes the recent evidence indicating that Axin, a scaffold protein, plays a central role in orchestrating presynaptic and postsynaptic signaling complexes to regulate synapse development and plasticity in the central nervous system.
Several researchers have suggested that the nature of the covariation between internalizing and externalizing disorders may be understood better by examining the associations between temperament or personality and these disorders. The present study examined neuroticism as a potential common feature underlying both internalizing and externalizing disorders and novelty seeking as a potential broad-band specific feature influencing externalizing disorders alone. Participants were 12- to 18-year-old twin pairs (635 monozygotic twin pairs and 691 dizygotic twin pairs; 48% male and 52% female) recruited from the Colorado Center for Antisocial Drug Dependence. Genetic and nonshared environmental influences shared in common with neuroticism influenced the covariation among distinct internalizing disorders, the covariation among distinct externalizing disorders, and the covariation between internalizing and externalizing disorders. Genetic influences shared in common with novelty seeking influenced the covariation among externalizing disorders and the covariation between major depressive disorder and externalizing disorders, but not the covariation among internalizing disorders or between anxiety disorders and externalizing disorders. Also, after accounting for genetic and environmental influences shared in common with neuroticism and novelty seeking, there were no significant common genetic or environmental influences among the disorders examined, suggesting that the covariance among the disorders is sufficiently explained by neuroticism and novelty seeking. We conclude that neuroticism is a heritable common feature of both internalizing disorders and externalizing disorders, and that novelty seeking is a heritable broad-band specific factor that distinguishes anxiety disorders from externalizing disorders.
Parents seeking help for children with mental health problems are often assigned to a waiting list. We used a discrete choice conjoint experiment to model preferences for interim services that might be used while waiting for the formal assessment and treatment process to begin. A sample of 1,059 parents (92% mothers) seeking mental health services for 4 to 16year olds chose between hypothetical interim services composed by experimentally varying combinations of the levels of 13 interim service attributes. Latent Class analysis yielded a four-segment solution. All segments preferred interim options helping them understand how agencies work, enhancing their parenting knowledge and skill, and providing an opportunity to understand or begin dealing with their own difficulties. The Group Contact segment (35.1%) preferred interim services in meetings with other parents, supported by phone contacts, frequent checkup calls, and wait-time updates. Virtual Contact parents (29.2%) preferred to meet other parents in small internet chat groups supported by e-mail contact. Membership in this segment was linked to higher education and computer skills. Frequent Contact parents (24.4%) preferred face-to-face interim services supported by weekly progress checks and wait time updates. Limited Contact parents (11.3%) were less intent on using interim services. They preferred to pursue interim services alone, with contacts by phone, supported by fewer check-up calls and less frequent wait time updates. All segments were more likely to enroll in interim services involving their child.
A crucial challenge in efforts to link psychological disorders to neural systems, with the aim of developing biologically informed conceptions of such disorders, is the problem of method variance (Campbell &amp; Fiske, 1959). Since even measures of the same construct in differing domains correlate only moderately, it is unsurprising that large sample studies of diagnostic biomarkers yield only modest associations. To address this challenge, a construct-network approach is proposed in which psychometric operationalizations of key neurobehavioral constructs serve as anchors for identifying neural indicators of psychopathology-relevant dispositions, and as vehicles for bridging between domains of clinical problems and neurophysiology. An empirical illustration is provided for the construct of inhibition-disinhibition, which is of central relevance to problems entailing deficient impulse control. Findings demonstrate that: (1) a well-designed psychometric index of trait disinhibition effectively predicts externalizing problems of multiple types, (2) this psychometric measure of disinhibition shows reliable brain response correlates, and (3) psychometric and brain-response indicators can be combined to form a joint psychoneurometric factor that predicts effectively across clinical and physiological domains. As a methodology for bridging between clinical problems and neural systems, the construct-network approach provides a concrete means by which existing conceptions of psychological disorders can accommodate and be reshaped by neurobiological insights.
Systematic efforts are underway to address major flaws in the current diagnostic taxonomy of mental disorders, fostering hope that a new nosology might be based on brain biology. The National Institute of Mental Health Research Domains Criteria (RDoC) initiative aims to redefine mental illness leveraging information that spans molecular to behavioral levels of analysis. Major effort is still needed to forge multilevel conceptual and measurement models capable of representing knowledge within and across these levels. The development of such models may help refine and share complex hypotheses, and reduce the risk of replacing the current taxonomy with dimensions and/or categories that manifest little incremental biological validity. To create useful models we need to define concepts, relations among concepts, and links to supporting evidence. Some methods already enable representation of concepts and measures at the levels of behavioral and basic biological processes, but a major gap at the level of neural circuitry must be bridged to link basic biological and behavioral levels. We provide a schematic framework, using as an example the representation of selected &quot;working memory&quot; concepts and evidence across multiple levels of analysis as these have been described in the RDoC Workshops. This example illustrates multiple challenges and some possible solutions that may help clarify the aims of individual research projects and enable integration of diverse efforts on RDoC and related initiatives.
Poor spectral resolution can be a limiting factor for hearing impaired listeners, particularly for complex listening tasks such as speech understanding in noise. Spectral ripple tests are commonly used to measure spectral resolution, but these tests contain a number of potential confounds that can make interpretation of the results difficult. To measure spectral resolution while avoiding those confounds, a modified spectral ripple test with dynamically changing ripples was created, referred to as the spectral-temporally modulated ripple test (SMRT). This paper describes the SMRT and provides evidence that it is sensitive to changes in spectral resolution.



In recent decades the psychoanalytic perspective has been increasingly marginalized in medical school education. This has been driven by political tides, competition with neuroscience education, shifting practice models, and the dominance of an evidence-based perspective. The costs both to medical trainees and to the field of psychoanalysis are considerable. Reasons are presented for why academic psychiatry departments might be motivated to integrate more psychodynamic training into basic medical education and for why organized psychoanalysis might have an interest in developing a greater presence in medical schools. Various formats are discussed in which psychoanalytic theory and technique might effectively be introduced. Finally, broader strategies are proposed for addressing students and their developmental needs such that resistances to learning psychodynamics are reduced.
Recent evidence supports a negative association between anxiety and cognitive control. Given age-related reductions in some cognitive abilities and the relation of late life anxiety to cognitive impairment, this negative association may be particularly relevant to older adults. This critical review conceptualizes anxiety and cognitive control from cognitive neuroscience and cognitive aging theoretical perspectives and evaluates the methodological approaches and measures used to assess cognitive control. Consistent with behavioral investigations of young adults, the studies reviewed implicate specific and potentially negative effects of anxiety on cognitive control processes in older adults. Hypotheses regarding the role of both aging and anxiety on cognitive control, the bi-directionality between anxiety and cognitive control, and the potential for specific symptoms of anxiety (particularly worry) to mediate this association, are specified and discussed.
We recorded responses of the gerbil basilar membrane (BM) to wideband tone complexes. The intensity of one component was varied and the effects on the amplitude and phase of the others were assessed. This suppression paradigm enabled us to vary probe frequency and suppressor frequency independently, allowing the use of simple scaling arguments to analyze the spatial buildup of the nonlinear interaction between traveling waves. Most suppressors had the same effects on probe amplitude and phase as did wideband intensity increments. The main exception were suppressors above the characteristic frequency (CF) of the recording location, for which the frequency range of most affected probes was not constant, but shifted upward with suppressor frequency. BM displacement reliably predicted the effectiveness of low-side suppressors, but not high-side suppressors. We found &quot;anti-suppression&quot; of probes well below CF, i.e., suppressor-induced enhancement of probe response amplitude. Large (&gt;1 cycle) phase effects occurred for above-CF probes. Phase shifts varied nonmonotonically, but systematically, with suppressor level, probe frequency, and suppressor frequency, reconciling apparent discrepancies in the literature. The analysis of spatial buildup revealed an accumulation of local effects on the propagation of the traveling wave, with larger BM displacement reducing the local forward gain. The propagation speed of the wave was also affected. With larger BM displacement, the basal portion of the wave slowed down, while the apical part sped up. This framework of spatial buildup of local effects unifies the widely different effects of overall intensity, low-side suppressors, and high-side suppressors on BM responses.
Neisseria species express an O-linked glycosylation system in which functionally distinct proteins are elaborated with variable glycans. A major source of glycan diversity in N. meningitidis results from two distinct pglB alleles responsible for the synthesis of either N,N'-diacetylbacillosamine or glyceramido-acetamido trideoxyhexose that occupy the reducing end of the oligosaccharides. Alternative modifications at C-4 of the precursor UDP-4-amino are attributable to distinct C-terminal domains that dictate either acetyltransferase or glyceramidotransferase activity, encoded by pglB and pglB2, respectively. Naturally occurring alleles of pglB2 have homopolymeric tracts of either 7 or 8 adenosines (As) bridging the C-terminal open reading frame (ORF) and the ORF encompassing the conserved N-terminal domain associated with phosphoglycosyltransferase activity. In the work presented here, we explored the consequences of such pglB2 allele variation and found that, although both alleles are functional vis--vis glycosylation, the 7A form results in the expression of a single, multidomain protein, while the 8A variant elicits two single-domain proteins. We also found that the glyceramidotransferase activity-encoding domain is essential to protein glycosylation, showing the critical role of the C-4 modification of the precursor UDP-4-amino in the pathway. These findings were further extended and confirmed by examining the phenotypic consequences of extended poly(A) tract length variation. Although ORFs related to those of pglB2 are broadly distributed in eubacteria, they are primarily found as two distinct, juxtaposed ORFs. Thus, the neisserial pglB2 system provides novel insights into the potential influence of hypermutability on modular evolution of proteins by providing a unique snapshot of the progression of ongoing gene fusion.
The combination of isotretinoin (13-cis-retinoic acid) with antiestrogens seems to be a promising strategy for cancer chemotherapy. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of isotretinoin alone or in combination with 4-hydroxytamoxifen (OHTAM) and with its prodrug tamoxifen (TAM), on the functions of rat liver mitochondria, i.e., mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT), bioenergetic functions and adenine nucleotide translocase (ANT). Isotretinoin (5 nmol/mg protein) induced the Ca-dependent MPT pore opening in mitochondria energized with succinate, which was prevented by OHTAM, cyclosporine A, TAM and ANT ligands. When mitochondria were energized with glutamate/malate and in the absence of added Ca isotretinoin decreased the state 3 respiration, the ATP levels, the active ANT content and increased the lag phase of the phosphorylation cycle, demonstrating that isotretinoin decreased the mitochondrial phosphorylation efficiency. These changes of isotretinoin in bioenergetic parameters were not significant in the presence of succinate. The effects of isotretinoin at 5 nmol/mg protein on the Ca-dependent MPT and phosphorylative efficacy may be related with interactions with the ANT. Above 10 nmol/mg protein isotretinoin strongly diminished the active ANT content, decreased the , inhibited the complex I and induced proton leak through the Fo fraction of complex V. The combination of OHTAM with isotretinoin only induced significant changes in the energy production systems at concentrations 5 nmol isotretinoin/mg protein. Therefore, our results suggest that isotretinoin-associated liver toxicity is possibly related with mitochondrial dysfunctions and that the combination with OHTAM may contribute to decrease its toxicity.
A growing body of evidence suggests that mitochondrial proton-leak functions as a regulator of reactive oxygen species production and its modulation may limit oxidative injury to tissues. The main purpose of this work was to characterize the proton-leak of brain cortical mitochondria from long-term hyperglycemic and insulin-induced recurrent hypoglycemic rats through the modulation of the uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2) and adenine nucleotide translocator (ANT). Streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats were treated subcutaneously with twice-daily insulin injections during 2weeks to induce the hypoglycemic episodes. No differences in the basal proton-leak, UCP2 and ANT protein levels were observed between the experimental groups. Mitochondria from recurrent hypoglycemic rats presented a decrease in proton-leak in the presence of GDP, a specific UCP2 inhibitor, while an increase in proton-leak was observed in the presence of linoleic acid, a proton-leak activator, this effect being reverted by the simultaneous addition of GDP. Mitochondria from long-term hyperglycemic rats showed an enhanced susceptibility to ANT modulation as demonstrated by the complete inhibition of basal and linoleic acid-induced proton-leak caused by the ANT specific inhibitor carboxyatractyloside. Our results show that recurrent-hypoglycemia renders mitochondria more susceptible to UCPs modulation while the proton-leak of long-term hyperglycemic rats is mainly modulated by ANT, which suggest that brain cortical mitochondria have distinct adaptation mechanisms in face of different metabolic insults.
Steroid hormones including estrogens modulate the expression of daily activity and circadian rhythms, including free-running period, phase angle of activity onset, and response to light. The mechanisms underlying these effects, however, are not fully understood. We tested the hypothesis that estrogen signaling is required for photic responsiveness of the circadian timing system. We used estrogen receptor subtype 1 (ESR1) knock-out mice (ERKO) and nonclassic estrogen receptor knock-in mice (NERKI). ERKO animals are unable to respond to estrogen at ESR1, and NERKI animals lack the ability to respond to estrogens via estrogen response element-mediated transcription but still respond via nonclassical mechanisms. We analyzed behavioral shifts in activity onset in response to 1-h light pulses given across the subjective 24-h day in gonadally intact male and female NERKI, ERKO, and wild-type (WT) littermates. We also examined Fos protein expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the site of the master circadian pacemaker, at 2 times of day. We found a significant effect of genotype on phase shifts in response to light pulses given in the subjective night. Female WT mice had a significantly larger phase response than ERKO females during the early subjective night (phase shift of 98 min and 58 min, respectively; p &lt; 0.05). NERKI females were intermediate to WT and ERKO females, suggesting a contribution of nonclassical estrogen signaling on circadian timekeeping functions. This genotype effect is not observed in males; they did not have a difference in phase shifts following a light pulse at any time point. WT males, however, shifted an average of 47 min less than did females at zeitgeber time (ZT) 16 (ZT 0 lights-on and ZT 12 lights-off). These data indicate that estrogens modify the response of the circadian timekeeping system to light via classical and nonclassical signaling pathways.
In mammals, the pineal hormone melatonin is thought to be essential to process environmental photoperiodic information. In this study, we demonstrate in a circannual species, the European hamster Cricetus cricetus, the existence of a melatonin-independent second pathway. In 4 physiological parameters (reproduction, body weight, activity pattern, body temperature), a large majority of pinealectomized European hamsters were entrained to an accelerated photoperiodic regime. It compressed the natural variations in the photoperiod to a 6-month cycle, which allowed us to record up to 6 complete physiological cycles during the life span of the individuals. We show further that whether a pinealectomized animal is able to entrain to changes in the photoperiod is influenced by the season of pinealectomy. The results do not disprove that melatonin is capable of entraining a circannual rhythm, but they show clearly that melatonin is not necessary, demonstrating another melatonin-independent pathway for circannual entrainment by the photoperiod. In view of these new insights, a revision of the original literature revealed that probably the melatonin-independent pathway plays an important role in most circannual mammals but only a minor role in photoperiodic species. Thus, the present work provides also the first evidence for different synchronization mechanisms in photoperiodic and circannual species.
The immune system is regulated by circadian clocks within the brain and immune cells. Environmental circadian disruption (ECD), consisting of a 6-h phase advance of the light:dark cycle once a week for 4 weeks, elevates the inflammatory response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) both in vivo and in vitro. This indicates that circadian disruption adversely affects immune function; however, it remains unclear how the circadian system regulates this response under ECD conditions. Here, we develop an assay using ex vivo whole-blood LPS challenge to investigate the circadian regulation of immune responses in mice and to determine the effects of ECD on these rhythms. LPS-induced IL-6 release in whole blood was regulated in a circadian manner, peaking during subjective day under both entrained and free-running conditions. This LPS-induced IL-6 release rhythm was associated with daily variation in both white blood cell counts and immune cell responsiveness. ECD increased the overall level of LPS-induced IL-6 release by increasing immune cell responsiveness and not by affecting immune cell number or the circadian regulation of this rhythm. This indicates that ECD produces pathological immune responses by increasing the proinflammatory responses of immune cells. Also, this newly developed whole blood assay can provide a noninvasive longitudinal method to quantify potential health consequences of circadian disruption in humans.
With the exception of high latitudes, life has evolved under bright days and dark nights. Most organisms have developed endogenously driven circadian rhythms that are synchronized to this daily light/dark cycle. In recent years, humans have shifted away from the naturally occurring solar light cycle in favor of artificial and sometimes irregular light schedules produced by electric lighting. Exposure to unnatural light cycles is increasingly associated with obesity and metabolic syndrome; however, the means by which environmental lighting alters metabolism are poorly understood. Thus, we exposed mice to dim light at night and investigated changes in the circadian system and metabolism. Here we report that exposure to ecologically relevant levels of dim (5 lux) light at night altered core circadian clock rhythms in the hypothalamus at both the gene and protein level. Circadian rhythms in clock expression persisted during light at night; however, the amplitude of Per1 and Per2 rhythms was attenuated in the hypothalamus. Circadian oscillations were also altered in peripheral tissues critical for metabolic regulation. Exposure to dimly illuminated, as compared to dark, nights decreased the rhythmic expression in all but one of the core circadian clock genes assessed in the liver. Additionally, mice exposed to dim light at night attenuated Rev-Erb expression in the liver and adipose tissue. Changes in the circadian clock were associated with temporal alterations in feeding behavior and increased weight gain. These results are significant because they provide evidence that mild changes in environmental lighting can alter circadian and metabolic function. Detailed analysis of temporal changes induced by nighttime light exposure may provide insight into the onset and progression of obesity and metabolic syndrome, as well as other disorders involving sleep and circadian rhythm disruption.
A 62 year old man, suffering from arterial hypertension and no other significant comorbidities come to our attention for the presence of an asymptomatic 29 mm left common iliac artery (CIA) aneurysm and bladder cancer. Given the young age of the patient, we opted for endovascular treatment that would allow to maintain the patency of the hypogastric artery. In June 2011, the patient underwent an endovascular exclusion of the left iliac artery aneurysm corrected by multilayer stent placement (Cardiatis 16x120mm) and post-dilatation with 14x40 mm balloon (Medtronic Reliant). At the 3 months follow-up, a CT-angio was made, showing a Type I endoleak with complete perfusion of the aneurismal sac. We analysed the CT-Angio using OsiriX and at the 3D reconstruction a poor adhesion of the stent to the proximal neck was detected. We decided to intervene by implanting two balloon-expendable covered stents (Atrium Adventa; 16x40 mm) The aneurysm sac remained stable for 9 months but at 12 months follow-up the aneurysm presented a diameter of 39mm. Due to the increase of the aneurysm sac, we decided to implant a stent-graft 16-10x95+10-10x80 mm (Medtronic Endurant) with complete exclusion of the aneurysm and internal iliac artery occlusion. At one month follow-up the patient is completed asymptomatic with no endoleak at the Duplex scan and at the CT-Angio.
ATP-sensitive potassium [K(ATP)] channels sense intracellular ATP/ADP levels, being essential components of a glucose-sensing apparatus in various cells that couples glucose metabolism, intracellular ATP/ADP levels and membrane potential. These channels are present in human chondrocytes, but their subunit composition and functions are unknown. This study aimed at elucidating the subunit composition of K(ATP) channels expressed in human chondrocytes and determining whether they play a role in regulating the abundance of major glucose transporters, GLUT-1 and GLUT-3, and glucose transport capacity. The results obtained show that human chondrocytes express the pore forming subunits, Kir6.1 and Kir6.2, at the mRNA and protein levels and the regulatory sulfonylurea receptor (SUR) subunits, SUR2A and SUR2B, but not SUR1. The expression of these subunits was no affected by culture under hyperglycemia-like conditions. Functional impairment of the channel activity, using a SUR blocker (glibenclamide 10 or 20 nM), reduced the protein levels of GLUT-1 and GLUT-3 by approximately 30% in normal chondrocytes, while in cells from cartilage with increasing osteoarthritic (OA) grade no changes were observed. Glucose transport capacity, however, was not affected in normal or OA chondrocytes. These results show that K(ATP) channel activity regulates the abundance of GLUT-1 and GLUT-3, although other mechanisms are involved in regulating the overall glucose transport capacity of human chondrocytes. Therefore, K(ATP) channels are potential components of a broad glucose sensing apparatus that modulates glucose transporters and allows human chondrocytes to adjust to varying extracellular glucose concentrations. This function of K(ATP) channels seems to be impaired in OA chondrocytes.
Hypertension is an established target for long-term stroke prevention but procedures for management of hypertension in acute stroke are less certain. Here, we analyze basic science data to examine the impact of hypertension on candidate stroke therapies and of anti-hypertensive treatments on stroke outcome. Methods: Data were pooled from 3,288 acute ischemic stroke experiments (47,899 animals) testing the effect of therapies on infarct size (published 1978-2010). Data were combined using meta-analysis and meta-regression, partitioned on the basis of hypertension, stroke model, and therapy. Results: Hypertensive animals were used in 10% of experiments testing 502 therapies. Hypertension was associated with lower treatment efficacy, especially in larger infarcts. Overall, anti-hypertensives did not provide greater benefit than other drugs, although benefits were evident in hypertensive animals even when given after stroke onset. Fifty-eight therapies were tested in both normotensive and hypertensive animals: some demonstrated superior efficacy in hypertensive animals (hypothermia) while others worked better in normotensive animals (tissue plasminogen activator, anesthetic agents). Discussion: Hypertension has a significant effect on the efficacy of candidate stroke drugs: standard basic science testing may overestimate the efficacy which could be reasonably expected from certain therapies and for hypertensive patients with large or temporary occlusions.
Ketogenic diets are well established as a successful anticonvulsant therapy. Based on overlap between mechanisms postulated to underlie pain and inflammation, and mechanisms postulated to underlie therapeutic effects of ketogenic diets, recent studies have explored the ability for ketogenic diets to reduce pain. Here we review clinical and basic research thus far exploring the impact of a ketogenic diet on thermal pain, inflammation, and neuropathic pain.


Positional vertigo and nystagmus can be due to canalithiasis, cupulolithiasis and less commonly, an underlying peripheral or central vestibular disorder. We present a patient with vestibular schwannoma who initially sought treatment for positioning vertigo. Video-oculography on the roll-test revealed direction-changing horizontal apogeotropic nystagmus, consistent with horizontal cupulolithiasis. However, further audio-vestibular investigations and imaging confirmed a right vestibulopathy attributable to a schwannoma of the right vestibular nerve. This case report suggests that vestibular schwannoma should be considered as another potential mimicker of horizontal cupulolithiasis.


The healing process of the Best Self Visualization Method (BSM) is described within the framework of meditation, neuroscience, and psychodynamic theory. Cases are drawn from the treatment of high-risk youth, who have histories of poverty, survival of sexual and physical abuse, and/or current risk for perpetrating abuse. Clinical use of BSM is demonstrated in two case illustrations, one of group psychotherapy and another of individual therapy.

Although the neurophysiology underlying pharmacotherapy for bipolar disorder remains poorly understood, recent studies suggest that therapeutic mechanisms may be reflected in changes in concentrations of N-acetylaspartate (NAA), a putative measure of neuronal integrity and metabolism. In this study, we used magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) to examine prefrontal NAA in patients receiving quetiapine for bipolar mania. On the basis of previous findings, we hypothesized that remission would be associated with increased NAA concentrations in the prefrontal cortex. Thirty-one manic bipolar patients and 13 healthy subjects were recruited to participate in this prospective study. All subjects participated in MRS at baseline and after 8 weeks of treatment. Bipolar subjects received open-label quetiapine monotherapy (mean dose [SD], 584 [191] mg). Fourteen patients remitted (Young Mania Rating Scale  12) (&quot;remitters&quot;), 11 patients did not (&quot;nonremitters&quot;), and 6 patients were lost to follow-up. Bipolar and healthy subjects did not significantly differ in baseline NAA or degree of change during the 8 weeks. Remitters showed greater mean baseline NAA concentrations in the right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex compared with nonremitters (P &lt; 0.05). In the anterior cingulate, remitters showed near significantly decreased baseline NAA concentrations at baseline (P &lt; 0.06), and significant differences in NAA change during the 8 weeks of treatment (P &lt; 0.03). Manic patients who remitted with quetiapine treatment in the course of this study exhibited distinct patterns of baseline prefrontal NAA concentration, coupled with decreased NAA in the anterior cingulate with treatment; the latter possibly reflecting disparate effects of quetiapine on neuronal metabolism. These data support suggestions that therapeutic effects of quetiapine involve metabolic effects on specific prefrontal regions.
Pharmacological therapy for fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is actually unsatisfactory; analgetic and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are not very effective. On the other hand, it is opportune to underline that antidepressant drugs produce positive response on pain in patients with FMS. Furthermore, many studies showed that using variable doses of melatonin (3-6 mg/d) in subjects affected from FMS had significantly been effective on pain, sleep, daytime fatigue, and depression. This study was aimed to evaluate the efficacy of agomelatine on depression, anxiety, cognition, and pain in a sample of drug-free FMS patients. Agomelatine was administered at the single daily dose of 25 mg/d to 15 fibromyalgia &quot;drug-free&quot; female subjects during 12 weeks. Outcome measures included the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression, the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety, the Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale, the Zung Self-Rating Anxiety Scale, the Visual Analog Scale of Pain, the Quality of Life Index, the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, the Verbal Fluency Task-Controlled Oral Word Association Test, and the Stroop Color-Word Test. Treatment with agomelatine significantly improved depression, anxiety, and pain in patients with FMS. Regarding executive/cognitive symptoms, treatment with agomelatine did not have a significant impact on the explored neuropsychological domains, although there was a trend toward the improvement of performances. The findings showed that agomelatine was effective and well tolerated in patients with FMS. Further research is needed to fully evaluate the role of agomelatine as a potential pharmacological strategy for the treatment of FMS.
The clinical manifestations of varicella-zoster virus infections can be divided into primary infection with chickenpox and reactivated infection with dermatomal shingles, disseminated herpes zoster, zoster sine herpete and varicella-zoster virus encephalitis, meningitis and vasculopathy. We present a case of zoster sine herpete leading to meningitis with cranial and peripheral nerve palsies. A 17-year-old woman was admitted to hospital with intermittent fever, drowsiness, slowness and subsequent frontal headache and horizontal diplopia. Cerebrospinal fluid examination revealed lymphocytic pleocytosis and PCR amplified varicella-zoster virus DNA. Laboratory and clinical findings were suggestive of meningoencephaloradiculoneuropathy, stemming from varicella-zoster virus and affecting cranial and peripheral nerves. Only 5% of patients with zoster develop cranial and peripheral nerve palsies. Diagnosis is imperative in order to initiate prompt antiviral therapy so as to minimize morbidity and the risk of death.
Lesion studies in neglect patients have inspired two competing models of spatial attention control, namely, Heilman's &quot;hemispatial&quot; theory and Kinsbourne's &quot;opponent processor&quot; model. Both assume a functional asymmetry between the two hemispheres but propose very different mechanisms. Neuroimaging studies have identified a bilateral dorsal frontoparietal network underlying voluntary shifts of spatial attention. However, lateralization of attentional processes within this network has not been consistently reported. In the current study, we aimed to provide direct evidence concerning the functional asymmetry of the right and left FEF during voluntary shifts of spatial attention. To this end, we applied fMRI-guided neuronavigation to disrupt individual FEF activation foci with a longer-lasting inhibitory patterned TMS protocol followed by a spatial cueing task. Our results indicate that right FEF stimulation impaired the ability of shifting spatial attention toward both hemifields, whereas the effects of left FEF stimulation were limited to the contralateral hemifield. These results provide strong direct evidence for right-hemispheric dominance in spatial attention within frontal cortex supporting Heilman's &quot;hemispatial&quot; theory. This complements previous TMS studies that generally conform to Kinsbourne's &quot;opponent processor&quot; model after disruption of parietal cortex, and we therefore propose that both theories are not mutually exclusive.
Elevating levels of nerve growth factor (NGF) can have pronounced effects on the survival and maintenance of distinct populations of neurons. We have generated a line of transgenic mice in which NGF is expressed under the control of the smooth muscle -actin promoter. These transgenic mice have augmented levels of NGF protein in the descending colon and urinary bladder, so these tissues display increased densities of NGF-sensitive sympathetic efferents and sensory afferents. Here we provide a thorough examination of sympathetic and sensory axonal densities in the descending colon and urinary bladder of NGF transgenic mice with and without the expression of the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR). In response to elevated NGF levels, sympathetic axons (immunostained for tyrosine hydroxylase) undergo robust collateral sprouting in the descending colon and urinary bladder of adult transgenic mice (i.e., those tissues having smooth muscle cells); this sprouting is not augmented in the absence of p75NTR expression. As for sensory axons (immunostained for calcitonin gene-related peptide) in the urinary bladders of transgenic mice, fibers undergo sprouting that is further increased in the absence of p75NTR expression. Sympathetic axons are also seen invading the sensory ganglia of transgenic mice; these fibers form perineuronal plexi around a subpopulation of sensory somata. Our results reveal that elevated levels of NGF in target tissues stimulate sympathetic and sensory axonal sprouting and that an absence of p75NTR by sensory afferents (but not by sympathetic efferents) leads to a further increase of terminal arborization in certain NGF-rich peripheral tissues.
Throughout development both the body and the brain change at remarkable rates. Specifically, the number of cells in the brain undergoes dramatic nonlinear changes, first exponentially increasing in cell number and then decreasing in cell number. Different cell types, such as neurons and glia, undergo these changes at different stages of development. The current investigation used the isotropic fractionator method to examine the changes in cellular composition at multiple developmental milestones in the short-tailed opossum, Monodelphis domestica. Here we report several novel findings concerning marsupial brain development and organization. First, during the later stages of neurogenesis (P18), neurons make up most of the cells in the neocortex, although the total number of neurons remains the same throughout the life span. In contrast, in the subcortical regions, the number of neurons decreases dramatically after P18, and a converse relationship is observed for nonneuronal cells. In the cerebellum, the total number of cells gradually increases until P180 and then remains constant, and then the number of neurons is consistent across the developmental ages examined. For the three major structures examined, neuronal density and the percentage of neurons within a structure are highest during neurogenesis and then decrease after this point. Finally, the total number of neurons in the opossum brain is relatively low compared with other small-brained mammals such as mice. The relatively low number of neurons and correspondingly high number of nonneurons suggests that in the marsupial brain nonneurons may play a significant role in signal processing.
Somesthesis-guided exploration of the external world requires cortical processing of both cutaneous and proprioceptive information and their integration into motor commands to guide further haptic movement. In the past, attention has been given mostly to the cortical circuits processing cutaneous information for somatic motor integration. By comparison, little has been examined about how cortical circuits are organized for higher order proprioceptive processing. Using the rat cortex as a model, we characterized the intrinsic and corticocortical circuits arising in the major proprioceptive region of the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) that is conventionally referred to as the dysgranular zone (DSZ). We made small injections of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) as an anterograde tracer in various parts of the DSZ, revealing three distinct principles of its cortical circuit organization. First, its intrinsic circuits extend mainly along the major axis of DSZ to organize multiple patches of interconnections. Second, the central and peripheral regions of DSZ produce differential patterns of intra-areal and corticocortical circuits. Third, the projection fields of DSZ encompass only selective regions of the second somatic (SII), posterior parietal (PPC), and primary motor (MI) cortices. These projection fields are at least partially separated from those of SI cutaneous areas. We hypothesize, based on these observations, that the cortical circuits of DSZ facilitate a modular integration of proprioceptive information along its major axis and disseminate this information to only selective parts of higher order somatic and MI cortices in parallel with cutaneous information.
Naturally occurring cell death is essential to the development of the mammalian nervous system. Although the importance of developmental cell death has been appreciated for decades, there is no comprehensive account of cell death across brain areas in the mouse. Moreover, several regional sex differences in cell death have been described for the ventral forebrain and hypothalamus, but it is not known how widespread the phenomenon is. We used immunohistochemical detection of activated caspase-3 to identify dying cells in the brains of male and female mice from postnatal day (P) 1 to P11. Cell death density, total number of dying cells, and regional volume were determined in 16 regions of the hypothalamus and ventral forebrain (the anterior hypothalamus, arcuate nucleus, anteroventral periventricular nucleus, medial preoptic nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus, and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus; the basolateral, central, and medial amygdala; the lateral and principal nuclei of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis; the caudate-putamen; the globus pallidus; the lateral septum; and the islands of Calleja). All regions showed a significant effect of age on cell death. The timing of peak cell death varied between P1 to P7, and the average rate of cell death varied tenfold among regions. Several significant sex differences in cell death and/or regional volume were detected. These data address large gaps in the developmental literature and suggest interesting region-specific differences in the prevalence and timing of cell death in the hypothalamus and ventral forebrain.
The perirhinal cortex plays a critical role in recognition and associative memory. However, the network properties that support perirhinal contributions to memory are unclear. To shed light on this question, we compared the synaptic articulation of short- and long-range inputs from the perirhinal cortex or temporal neocortex with perirhinal neurons in rats. Iontophoretic injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHAL) were performed at different rostrocaudal levels of the ventral temporal neocortex or perirhinal cortex, and electron microscopic observations of anterogradely labeled (PHAL(+)) axon terminals found at perirhinal sites adjacent to or rostrocaudally distant from the injection sites were performed. After neocortical injections, the density of PHAL(+) axons in the perirhinal cortex decreased steeply with rostrocaudal distance from the injection sites, much more so than following perirhinal injections. Otherwise, similar results were obtained with neocortical and perirhinal injections. In both cases, most (76-86%) PHAL(+) axon terminals formed asymmetric synapses, typically with spines (type A, 83-89%) and less frequently with dendritic profiles (type B, 11-17%). The remaining terminals formed symmetric synapses with dendritic profiles (type C, 14-23%). Type B and C synapses were 2.4-2.6 times more frequent in short- than long-range connections. The postsynaptic elements in type A-C synapses were identified with immunocytochemistry for CAMKII, a marker of glutamatergic cortical neurons. Type A and C terminals contacted CAMKII-positive principal cells, whereas type B synapses contacted presumed inhibitory neurons. Overall, these results suggest that principal perirhinal neurons are subjected to significantly more inhibition from short- than from long-range cortical inputs, an organization that likely impacts perirhinal contributions to memory.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by Lewy bodies and neurites composed mainly of the presynaptic protein -synuclein. Frequently, Lewy bodies and neurites are identified in the gut of Parkinson's disease patients and may underlie associated gastrointestinal dysfunctions. We recently reported selective expression of -synuclein in the axons of cholinergic neurons in the guinea pig and human distal gut; however, it is not clear whether -synuclein expression varies along the gut, nor how closely expression is associated with other synaptic proteins. We used multiple-labeling immunohistochemistry to quantify which neurons in the guinea pig ileum expressed -synuclein, cysteine string protein- (CSP), synaptophysin, synaptotagmin-1, or synaptobrevin-2 in their axons. Among the 10 neurochemically defined axonal populations, a significantly greater proportion of vesicular acetylcholine transporter-immunoreactive (VAChT-IR) varicosities (80%  1.7%, n = 4, P &lt; 0.001) contained -synuclein immunoreactivity, and a significantly greater proportion of -synuclein-IR axons also contained VAChT immunoreactivity (78%  1.3%, n = 4) compared with any of the other nine populations (P &lt; 0.001). Among synaptophysin-, synaptotagmin-1-, synaptobrevin-2-, and CSP-IR varicosities, 98%  0.7%, 96%  0.7%, 88%  1.6%, and 85%  2.9% (n = 4) contained -synuclein immunoreactivity, respectively. Among -synuclein-IR varicosities, 96%  0.9%, 99%  0.6%, 83%  1.9%, and 87%  2.3% (n = 4) contained synaptophysin-, synaptotagmin-1-, synaptobrevin-2-, and CSP immunoreactivity, respectively. We report a close association between the expression of -synuclein and the expression of other synaptic proteins in cholinergic axons in the guinea pig ileum. Selective expression of -synuclein may relate to the neurotransmitter system utilized and predispose cholinergic enteric neurons to degeneration in Parkinson's disease.
Many mechanisms of neural processing rely critically upon the synaptic connectivity between neurons. As our ability to simultaneously record from large populations of neurons expands, the ability to infer network connectivity from this data has become a major goal of computational neuroscience. To address this issue, we employed several different methods to infer synaptic connections from simulated spike data from a realistic local cortical network model. This approach allowed us to directly compare the accuracy of different methods in predicting synaptic connectivity. We compared the performance of model-free (coherence measure and transfer entropy) and model-based (coupled escape rate model) methods of connectivity inference, applying those methods to the simulated spike data from the model networks with different network topologies. Our results indicate that the accuracy of the inferred connectivity was higher for highly clustered, near regular, or small-world networks, while accuracy was lower for random networks, irrespective of which analysis method was employed. Among the employed methods, the model-based method performed best. This model performed with higher accuracy, was less sensitive to threshold changes, and required less data to make an accurate assessment of connectivity. Given that cortical connectivity tends to be highly clustered, our results outline a powerful analytical tool for inferring local synaptic connectivity from observations of spontaneous activity.
Spike threshold filters incoming inputs and thus gates activity flow through neuronal networks. Threshold is variable, and in many types of neurons there is a relationship between the threshold voltage and the rate of rise of the membrane potential (dVm/dt) leading to the spike. In primary sensory cortex this relationship enhances the sensitivity of neurons to a particular stimulus feature. While Na channel inactivation may contribute to this relationship, recent evidence indicates that K currents located in the spike initiation zone are crucial. Here we used a simple Hodgkin-Huxley biophysical model to systematically investigate the role of K and Na current parameters (activation voltages and kinetics) in regulating spike threshold as a function of dVm/dt. Threshold was determined empirically and not estimated from the shape of the Vm prior to a spike. This allowed us to investigate intrinsic currents and values of gating variables at the precise voltage threshold. We found that Na nactivation is sufficient to produce the relationship provided it occurs at hyperpolarized voltages combined with slow kinetics. Alternatively, hyperpolarization of the K current activation voltage, even in the absence of Na inactivation, is also sufficient to produce the relationship. This hyperpolarized shift of K activation allows an outward current prior to spike initiation to antagonize the Na inward current such that it becomes self-sustaining at a more depolarized voltage. Our simulations demonstrate parameter constraints on Na inactivation and the biophysical mechanism by which an outward current regulates spike threshold as a function of dVm/dt.

The biologic agents can be highly efficacious in the treatment of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis; however, their use is associated with an increased risk of developing active TB. In particular, TNF- plays critical role in preventing TB infection and reactivation of latent TB infection (LTBI). Therefore, it is critical that all patients be screened for LTBI prior to initiating therapy. An expert panel of Italian dermatologists met recently with the goal of producing a consensus paper on screening and chemoprophylaxis for LTBI in Italian psoriasis patients treated with biologics. Current recommendations for the screening algorithm include medical history, chest x-ray, and tests that evaluate immunologic response to the presence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Patients with positive screening results and without active disease are to be treated with a full course of chemoprophylaxis; however, if the patient is compliant and tolerating the regimen, biologic therapy for psoriasis may be started after at least 1 month on prophylactic therapy when prompt control of disease is required.
In this work, we propose a new approach for three-dimensional registration of MR fractional anisotropy images with T1-weighted anatomy images of human brain. From the clinical point of view, this accurate coregistration allows precise detection of nerve fibers that is essential in neuroscience. A template matching algorithm combined with normalized cross-correlation was used for this registration task. To show the suitability of the proposed method, it was compared with the normalized mutual information-based B-spline registration provided by the Elastix software library, considered a reference method. We also propose a general framework for the evaluation of robustness and reliability of both registration methods. Both registration methods were tested by four evaluation criteria on a dataset consisting of 74 healthy subjects. The template matching algorithm has shown more reliable results than the reference method in registration of the MR fractional anisotropy and T1 anatomy image data. Significant differences were observed in the regions splenium of corpus callosum and genu of corpus callosum, considered very important areas of brain connectivity. We demonstrate that, in this registration task, the currently used mutual information-based parametric registration can be replaced by more accurate local template matching utilizing the normalized cross-correlation similarity measure.
We examined developmental changes in the influence of averageness on judgments of facial attractiveness by showing adults and children pairs of individual faces in which one face was transformed 50% toward its group average, whereas the other face was transformed 50% away from that average. In one comparison, adults and 5-year-olds rated the more average faces as more attractive whether the faces were of adult females, 5-year-old boys, or 5-year-old girls. The influence of averageness, however, was weaker in 5-year-olds than in adults. In another comparison, a new group of adults and 9-year-olds rated the more average faces as more attractive for male and female faces of adults, 9-year-olds, and 5-year-olds. The influence of averageness was again weaker for children than for adults, although the strength of 9-year-olds' preference was greater than that of 5-year-olds. Developmental changes may reflect the refinement of an average face prototype as children are exposed to more faces, increased sensitivity as visual perception develops, and/or the greater salience of attractiveness after puberty.
Huge amounts of money are spent every year on unlearning programs--in drug-treatment facilities, prisons, psychotherapy clinics, and schools. Yet almost all of these programs fail, since recidivism rates are high in each of these fields. Progress on this problem requires a better understanding of the mechanisms that make unlearning so difficult. Much cognitive neuroscience evidence suggests that an important component of these mechanisms also dictates success on categorization tasks that recruit procedural learning and depend on synaptic plasticity within the striatum. A biologically detailed computational model of this striatal-dependent learning is described (based on Ashby &amp; Crossley, 2011). The model assumes that a key component of striatal-dependent learning is provided by interneurons in the striatum called the tonically active neurons (TANs), which act as a gate for the learning and expression of striatal-dependent behaviors. In their tonically active state, the TANs prevent the expression of any striatal-dependent behavior. However, they learn to pause in rewarding environments and thereby permit the learning and expression of striatal-dependent behaviors. The model predicts that when rewards are no longer contingent on behavior, the TANs cease to pause, which protects striatal learning from decay and prevents unlearning. In addition, the model predicts that when rewards are partially contingent on behavior, the TANs remain partially paused, leaving the striatum available for unlearning. The results from 3 human behavioral studies support the model predictions and suggest a novel unlearning protocol that shows promising initial signs of success.
We investigated the effect of posture congruence on social perception. Specifically, we tested the hypothesis that completing &quot;body gestalts,&quot; rather than being a purely visual process, is mediated by congruence in the postures of observer and stimulus. We developed novel stimuli showing a face and 2 hands that could be combined in various ways to form &quot;body gestalts&quot; implying different postures. In 3 experiments we found that imitative finger movements were consistently faster when the observer's posture matched the posture implied by the configuration of face and hands shown onscreen, suggesting that participants intuitively used their own body schema to &quot;fill in the gaps&quot; in the stimuli. Besides shaping how humans perceive others' bodies, embodied body-gestalt (eBG) completion may be an essential social and survival mechanism, for example, allowing for quick recovery from deceptive actions. It may also partly explain why humans subconsciously align themselves in everyday interactions: This might facilitate optimal corepresentation at higher, conscious levels.
We contrasted the effects of different types of working memory (WM) load on detection. Considering the sensory-recruitment hypothesis of visual short-term memory (VSTM) within load theory (e.g., Lavie, 2010) led us to predict that VSTM load would reduce visual-representation capacity, thus leading to reduced detection sensitivity during maintenance, whereas load on WM cognitive control processes would reduce priority-based control, thus leading to enhanced detection sensitivity for a low-priority stimulus. During the retention interval of a WM task, participants performed a visual-search task while also asked to detect a masked stimulus in the periphery. Loading WM cognitive control processes (with the demand to maintain a random digit order [vs. fixed in conditions of low load]) led to enhanced detection sensitivity. In contrast, loading VSTM (with the demand to maintain the color and positions of six squares [vs. one in conditions of low load]) reduced detection sensitivity, an effect comparable with that found for manipulating perceptual load in the search task. The results confirmed our predictions and established a new functional dissociation between the roles of different types of WM load in the fundamental visual perception process of detection.
A 22-year-old male suffered severe injuries to the head, chest and abdominal cavities in a vehicle crash, with death occurring at the scene. At autopsy, the cranial cavity was opened and markedly disrupted with compound and comminuted fracturing of all bones of the skull and facial skeleton. The brain showed extensive lacerations with almost complete parenchymal disruption. However, a preserved fragment of right frontal lobe exhibited marked swelling with gyral flattening. This case could provide further evidence for prompt cerebral swelling after blunt head trauma, and is supportive of animal studies that have demonstrated rapid swelling that is most likely is related to reactive vasodilation rather than to vasogenic oedema.
Voltage-gated sodium channels are critical for the generation and propagation of electrical signals in most excitable cells. Activation of Na(+) channels initiates an action potential, and fast inactivation facilitates repolarization of the membrane by the outward K(+) current. Fast inactivation is also the main determinant of the refractory period between successive electrical impulses. Although the voltage sensor of domain IV (DIV) has been implicated in fast inactivation, it remains unclear whether the activation of DIV alone is sufficient for fast inactivation to occur. Here, we functionally neutralize each specific voltage sensor by mutating several critical arginines in the S4 segment to glutamines. We assess the individual role of each voltage-sensing domain in the voltage dependence and kinetics of fast inactivation upon its specific inhibition. We show that movement of the DIV voltage sensor is the rate-limiting step for both development and recovery from fast inactivation. Our data suggest that activation of the DIV voltage sensor alone is sufficient for fast inactivation to occur, and that activation of DIV before channel opening is the molecular mechanism for closed-state inactivation. We propose a kinetic model of sodium channel gating that can account for our major findings over a wide voltage range by postulating that DIV movement is both necessary and sufficient for fast inactivation.
In whole cell patch clamp recordings, we found that normal human adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells express voltage-gated, rapidly inactivating Ca(2+) and K(+) currents and a noninactivating, leak-type K(+) current. Characterization of these currents with respect to voltage-dependent gating and kinetic properties, pharmacology, and modulation by the peptide hormones adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and AngII, in conjunction with Northern blot analysis, identified these channels as Cav3.2 (encoded by CACNA1H), Kv1.4 (KCNA4), and TREK-1 (KCNK2). In particular, the low voltage-activated, rapidly inactivating and slowly deactivating Ca(2+) current (Cav3.2) was potently blocked by Ni(2+) with an IC50 of 3 M. The voltage-gated, rapidly inactivating K(+) current (Kv1.4) was robustly expressed in nearly every cell, with a current density of 95.0  7.2 pA/pF (n = 64). The noninactivating, outwardly rectifying K(+) current (TREK-1) grew to a stable maximum over a period of minutes when recording at a holding potential of -80 mV. This noninactivating K(+) current was markedly activated by cinnamyl 1-3,4-dihydroxy--cyanocinnamate (CDC) and arachidonic acid (AA) and inhibited almost completely by forskolin, properties which are specific to TREK-1 among the K2P family of K(+) channels. The activation of TREK-1 by AA and inhibition by forskolin were closely linked to membrane hyperpolarization and depolarization, respectively. ACTH and AngII selectively inhibited the noninactivating K(+) current in human AZF cells at concentrations that stimulated cortisol secretion. Accordingly, mibefradil and CDC at concentrations that, respectively, blocked Cav3.2 and activated TREK-1, each inhibited both ACTH- and AngII-stimulated cortisol secretion. These results characterize the major Ca(2+) and K(+) channels expressed by normal human AZF cells and identify TREK-1 as the primary leak-type channel involved in establishing the membrane potential. These findings also suggest a model for cortisol secretion in human AZF cells wherein ACTH and AngII receptor activation is coupled to membrane depolarization and the activation of Cav3.2 channels through inhibition of hTREK-1.
Charcot Marie Tooth disease (CMT) encompasses the inherited peripheral neuropathies. While four genes have been found to cause over 90% of genetically identifiable causes of CMT (PMP22, GJB1, MPZ, MFN2), at least 51 genes and loci have been found to cause CMT when mutated, creating difficulties for clinicians to find a genetic subtype for families. Here, the classic features of CMT as well as characteristic features of the most common subtypes of CMT are described, as well as methods for narrowing down the possible subtypes. Psychosocial concerns particular to the CMT population are identified. This is the most inclusive publication for CMT-specific genetic counseling.



The immune system functions to counteract the wide range of pathogens an insect may encounter during its lifespan, ultimately maintaining fitness and increasing the likelihood of survival to reproductive maturity. In this study, we describe the maturation of the innate immune system of the male house cricket Acheta domesticus during the last two nymphal stages, and during early and late adulthood. Total hemolymph phenoloxidase enzyme activity, lysozyme-like enzyme activity, the number of circulating hemocytes, and encapsulation ability were all determined for each developmental stage or age examined. The number of circulating hemocytes and lysozyme-like enzyme activity were similar for all developmental stages examined. Nymphs and newly molted adult males, however, had significantly lower total phenoloxidase activity than later adult stages, yet nymphs were able to encapsulate a nylon thread just as well as adults. Encapsulation ability would thus appear to be independent of total phenoloxidase activity.
Cognitive reserve (CR) has been proposed as a latent variable that can account for the frequent discrepancy between an individual's underlying level of brain pathology and their observed clinical outcome. A possible behavioral manifestation of CR is best strategy choice. Older adults have been shown to choose sub-optimal strategies for performing various tasks. The present study attempted to investigate whether greater levels of CR could predict greater strategy selection, particularly in older adults. A computational estimation task was administered to 20 healthy young adults (mean age = 24.7  3.6; 20-31 years) and 18 healthy older adults (68.2  4.5; 62-77 years) wherein participants needed to estimate the product of two two-digit numbers by using one of two strategies. The results revealed an effect of age group on strategy choice and supported the hypothesis that CR is associated with increased strategy selection abilities.
Cerebral toxoplasmosis is a frequent cause of focal brain lesions in the setting of immunodeficiency states, particularly acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an important diagnostic modality to differentiate toxoplasmosis from tuberculoma, and primary central nervous system lymphoma with diverse therapeutic implications. Several imaging patterns have been described in cerebral toxoplasmosis. The &quot;concentric target sign&quot; is a recently described MRI sign on T2-weighted imaging of cerebral toxoplasmosis that has concentric alternating zones of hypo- and hyperintensities. It is believed to be more specific than the well-known &quot;eccentric target sign&quot; in the diagnosis of cerebral toxoplasmosis and hence more useful in differentiation from other focal brain lesions in the context of AIDS. The concentric target sign, seen in deep parenchymal lesions, is distinct from the surface-based cortical &quot;eccentric&quot; target sign. The histopathological correlate of the latter has been recently described, but that of the concentric target sign is not known. In this study we describe the neuropathological correlate of this concentric target sign from the postmortem of a 40-year-old man with AIDS-associated cerebral toxoplasmosis. The concentric alternating zones of hypo/hyper/iso/intensities corresponded to zones of hemorrhage/fibrin-rich necrosis with edema/coagulative compact necrosis/inflammation with foamy histiocytes admixed with hemorrhage forming the outermost zone, respectively. The exclusive specificity of this sign in cerebral toxoplasmosis remains to be further elucidated.

NEURONIC-A 6.0 is a system for objective detection of hearing loss by means of the recording and analysis of auditory steady state responses. The system generates digitally Amplitude Modulated tones of different frequencies, allowing the mix of these and the simultaneous presentation through different transducers (earphone and bone vibrator) at different intensities. The system also includes a procedure for artefacts rejection based on the trajectory of variation of the residual noise through time and quantitative indicators or statistics, calculated in the frequency domain, to control the acquisition of the response process and detect automatically the presence or absence of the same. The whole working procedure is automated, which means that once the recording has started, a final result can be obtained in binary form (pass or fail) without the intervention of the examiner.
Diagnosis and therapeutic strategies in Sjgren's syndrome (SS) might greatly benefit of the present multidisciplinary approach to studying the molecular pathogenesis of the disease. A deregulated inflammatory response has been described in the SS. The research in the last years sheds light on the importance of the NF-B pathway regulating the pro-inflammatory cytokine production and leukocyte recruitment. These are important contributors to the inflammatory response during the development of SS. In this study we examine the expression of the NF-B inhibitory protein termed IB in salivary glands epithelial cells (SGEC) comparing it with SGEC from healthy controls, to test the hypothesis that an altered expression of IB occurs in SGEC from SS biopsies. Real-Time PCR, western blot and immunohistochemistry demonstrated that the expression level of IB was significantly lower in SS with respect to healthy controls leading to an increased NF-B activity. Our results suggest that the analysis of IB expression at salivary gland epithelial cell level could be a potential new hallmark of SS progression and sustain a rationale to more deeply investigate the therapeutic potential of specific NF-B inhibitors in SS.
The present study examined the relationship between posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and lateral preference, as reflected by handedness, in Israeli reserve combat troops. Data were gathered from 147 right-handed reserve combat personnel who filled out the Edinburgh Handedness Inventory, a questionnaire examining the severity of PTSD symptoms according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, criteria and a questionnaire on the details of military service and familial status. The participants without children exhibited significantly more PTSD symptoms compared with the participants with children but did not differ in lateral preference levels. Multiple linear regression analysis revealed an altered pattern in the relationship between PTSD symptoms severity and lateral preference between the two groups. This alternation could suggest that being a parent might compel a reservist to inhibit the use of avoidance mechanisms for coping with intrusive memories, resulting in reduction of visible symptoms of PTSD while respectively contributing to their synchronization to lateral preference.



Friedreich's ataxia is a debilitating progressive neurodegenerative disease associated with cardiomyopathy and other features. The underlying cause is a deficiency of the mitochondrial protein frataxin which causes mitochondrial iron deposition, increased oxidative stress and impaired adenosine triphosphate production. Over the last 15 years, multiple clinical trials have assessed the efficacy of antioxidant agents in this disease. This article reviews trials of the two most important agents, namely co-enzyme Q10 and idebenone.
One hundred and fifty years since Nikolaus Friedreich's first description of the degenerative ataxic syndrome which bears his name, his description remains at the core of the classical clinical phenotype of gait and limb ataxia, poor balance and coordination, leg weakness, sensory loss, areflexia, impaired walking, dysarthria, dysphagia, eye movement abnormalities, scoliosis, foot deformities, cardiomyopathy and diabetes. Onset is typically around puberty with slow progression and shortened life-span often related to cardiac complications. Inheritance is autosomal recessive with the vast majority of cases showing an unstable intronic GAA expansion in both alleles of the frataxin gene on chromosome 9q13. A small number of cases are caused by a compound heterozygous expansion with a point mutation or deletion. Understanding of the underlying molecular biology has enabled identification of atypical phenotypes with late onset, or atypical features such as retained reflexes. Late-onset cases tend to have slower progression and are associated with smaller GAA expansions. Early-onset cases tend to have more rapid progression and a higher frequency of non-neurological features such as diabetes, cardiomyopathy, scoliosis and pes cavus. Compound heterozygotes, including those with large deletions, often have atypical features. In this paper, we review the classical and atypical clinical phenotypes of Friedreich's ataxia.
K channel-interacting proteins (KChIPs) enhance functional expression of Kv4 channels by binding to an N-terminal regulatory region located in the first 40 amino acids of Kv4.2 that we call the functional expression regulating N-terminal (FERN) domain. Mutating two residues in the FERN domain to alanines, W8A and F11A, disrupts KChIP binding and regulation of Kv4.2 without eliminating the FERN domain's control of basal expression level or regulation by DPP6. When Kv4.2(W8A,F11A) is co-expressed with wild type Kv4.2 and KChIP3 subunits, a dominant negative effect is seen where the current expression is reduced to levels normally seen without KChIP addition. The dominant negative effect correlates with heteromultimeric channels remaining on intracellular membranes despite KChIP binding to non-mutant Kv4.2 subunits. In contrast, the deletion mutant Kv4.2(1-40), eliminating both KChIP binding and the FERN domain, has no dominant negative effect even though the maximal conductance level is 5x lower than seen with KChIP3. The 5x increased expression seen with KChIP integration into the channel is fully apparent even when a reduced number of KChIP subunits are incorporated as long as all FERN domains are bound. Our results support the hypothesis that KChIPs enhances Kv4.2 functional expression by a 1:1 suppression of the N-terminal FERN domain and by producing additional positive regulatory effects on functional channel expression.
Synthesis of acetylcholine (ACh) by non-neuronal cells is now well established and plays diverse physiologic roles. In neurons, the Na(+) -dependent, high affinity choline transporter (CHT1) is absolutely required for ACh synthesis. In contrast, some non-neuronal cells synthesize ACh in the absence of CHT1 indicating a fundamental difference in ACh synthesis compared to neurons. The aim of this study was to identify choline transporters, other than CHT1, that play a role in non-neuronal ACh synthesis. ACh synthesis was studied in lung and colon cancer cell lines focusing on the choline transporter-like proteins, a five gene family choline-transporter like protein (CTL)1-5. Supporting a role for CTLs in choline transport in lung cancer cells, choline transport was Na(+) -independent and CTL1-5 were expressed in all cells examined. CTL1, 2, and 5 were expressed at highest levels and knockdown of CTL1, 2, and 5 decreased choline transport in H82 lung cancer cells. Knockdowns of CTL1, 2, 3, and 5 had no effect on ACh synthesis in H82 cells. In contrast, knockdown of CTL4 significantly decreased ACh secretion by both lung and colon cancer cells. Conversely, increasing expression of CTL4 increased ACh secretion. These results indicate that CTL4 mediates ACh synthesis in non-neuronal cell lines and presents a mechanism to target non-neuronal ACh synthesis without affecting neuronal ACh synthesis.
The pre-Btzinger complex (pre-BtC) in the ventrolateral medulla oblongata is a presumed kernel of respiratory rhythmogenesis. Ca(2+) -activated non-selective cationic current is an essential cellular mechanism for shaping inspiratory drive potentials. Ca(2+) /calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), an ideal 'interpreter' of diverse Ca(2+) signals, is highly expressed in neurons in mediating various physiological processes. Yet, less is known about CaMKII activity in the pre-BtC. Using neurokinin-1 receptor as a marker of the pre-BtC, we examined phospho (P)-CaMKII subcellular distribution, and found that P-CaMKII was extensively expressed in the region. P-CaMKII-ir neurons were usually oval, fusiform, or pyramidal in shape. P-CaMKII immunoreactivity was distributed within somas and dendrites, and specifically in association with the post-synaptic density. In dendrites, most synapses (93.1%) examined with P-CaMKII expression were of asymmetric type, occasionally with symmetric type (6.9%), whereas in somas, 38.1% were of symmetric type. P-CaMKII asymmetric synaptic identification implicates that CaMKII may sense and monitor Ca(2+) activity, and phosphorylate post-synaptic proteins to modulate excitatory synaptic transmission, which may contribute to respiratory modulation and plasticity. In somas, CaMKII acts on both symmetric and asymmetric synapses, mediating excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission. P-CaMKII was also localized to the perisynaptic and extrasynaptic regions in the pre-BtC.
Barrington's nucleus (BN), commonly known as the pontine micturition center, controls micturition and other visceral functions through projections to the spinal cord. In this study, we developed a rat brain slice preparation to determine the intrinsic and synaptic mechanisms regulating pre-sympathetic output (PSO) and pre-parasympathetic output (PPO) neurons in the BN using patch-clamp recordings. The PSO and PPO neurons were retrogradely labeled by injecting fluorescent tracers into the intermediolateral region of the spinal cord at T13-L1 and S1-S2 levels, respectively. There were significantly more PPO than PSO neurons within the BN. The basal activity and membrane potential were significantly lower in PPO than in PSO neurons, and A-type K(+) currents were significantly larger in PPO than in PSO neurons. Blocking A-type K(+) channels increased the excitability more in PPO than in PSO neurons. Stimulting -opioid receptors inhibited firing in both PPO and PSO neurons. The glutamatergic EPSC frequency was much lower, whereas the glycinergic IPSC frequency was much higher, in PPO than in PSO neurons. Although blocking GABAA receptors increased the excitability of both PSO and PPO neurons, blocking glycine receptors increased the firing activity of PPO neurons only. Furthermore, blocking ionotropic glutamate receptors decreased the excitability of PSO neurons but paradoxically increased the firing activity of PPO neurons by reducing glycinergic input. Our findings indicate that the membrane and synaptic properties of PSO and PPO neurons in the BN are distinctly different. This information improves our understanding of the neural circuitry and central mechanisms regulating the bladder and other visceral organs.
Social isolation in male rats at weaning results in reduced basal levels of the neuroactive steroid 3,5-tetrahydroprogesterone (3,5-TH PROG) in the brain and plasma as well as increased anxiety-like behavior. We now show that socially isolated female rats also manifest a reduced basal cerebrocortical concentration of 3,5-TH PROG as well as an anxiety-like profile in the elevated plus-maze and Vogel conflict tests compared with group-housed controls. In contrast, despite the fact that they were raised under normal conditions, adult male offspring of male and female rats subjected to social isolation before mating exhibited an increased basal cerebrocortical level of 3,5-TH PROG but no difference in emotional reactivity compared with the offspring of group-housed parents. These animals also showed an increased basal activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis as well as reduced abundance of corticotropin-releasing factor in the hypothalamus and of corticotropin-releasing factor receptor type 1 in the pituitary. Moreover, negative feedback regulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity by glucocorticoid was enhanced in association with up-regulation of glucocorticoid receptor expression in the hippocampus. There was also attenuation of corticosterone release induced by foot-shock stress in the offspring of socially isolated parents. The increase in the brain concentration of 3,5-TH PROG induced by acute stress was also blunted in these animals. Our results thus show that a stressful experience before mating can influence neuroendocrine signaling in the next generation.
Drosophila melanogaster is widely used to study genetic factors causing Parkinson's disease (PD) largely because of the use of sophisticated genetic approaches and the presence of a high conservation of gene sequence/function between Drosophila and mammals. However, in Drosophila, little has been done to study the environmental factors which cause over 90% of PD cases. We used Drosophila primary neuronal culture to study degenerative effects of a well-known PD toxin MPP(+) . Dopaminergic (DA) neurons were selectively degenerated by MPP(+) , whereas cholinergic and GABAergic neurons were not affected. This DA neuronal loss was because of post-mitotic degeneration, not by inhibition of DA neuronal differentiation. We also found that MPP(+) -mediated neurodegeneration was rescued by D2 agonists quinpirole and bromocriptine. This rescue was through activation of Drosophila D2 receptor DD2R, as D2 agonists failed to rescue MPP(+) -toxicity in neuronal cultures prepared from both a DD2R deficiency line and a transgenic line pan-neuronally expressing DD2R RNAi. Furthermore, DD2R autoreceptors in DA neurons played a critical role in the rescue. When DD2R RNAi was expressed only in DA neurons, MPP(+) toxicity was not rescued by D2 agonists. Our study also showed that rescue of DA neurodegeneration by Drosophila DD2R activation was mediated through suppression of action potentials in DA neurons.
Neurodevelopmental psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia may be caused by a combination of gene  environment, gene  gene, and/or gene  sex interactions. Reduced expression of both Reelin and Brain-Derived Neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been associated with schizophrenia in human post-mortem studies. However, it remains unclear how Reelin and BDNF interact (gene  gene) and whether this is sex-specific (gene  sex). This study investigated BDNF-TrkB signaling in the hippocampus of male and female Reelin heterozygous (Rln(+/-) ) mice. We found significantly increased levels of BDNF in the ventral hippocampus (VHP) of female, but not male Rln(+/-) compared to wild-type (WT) controls. While levels of TrkB were not significantly altered, phosphorylated TrkB (pTrkB) levels were significantly lower, again only in female Rln(+/-) compared to WT. This translated to downstream effects with a significant decrease in phosphorylated ERK1 (pERK1). No changes in BDNF, TrkB, pTrkB or pERK1/2 were observed in the dorsal hippocampus of Rln(+/-) mice. Ovariectomy (OVX) had no effect in WT controls, but caused a significant decrease in BDNF expression in the VHP of Rln(+/-) mice to the levels of intact WT controls. The high expression of BDNF was restored in OVX Rln(+/-) mice by 17-estradiol treatment, suggesting that Rln(+/-) mice respond differently to an altered estradiol state than WT controls. In addition, while OVX had no significant effect on TrkB or ERK expression/phosphorylation, OVX+estradiol treatment markedly increased TrkB and ERK1 phosphorylation in Rln(+/-) and, to a lesser extent in WT controls, compared to intact genotype-matched controls. These data may provide a better understanding of the interaction of Reelin and BDNF in the hippocampus, which may be involved in schizophrenia.
In females, cyclical changes in the ovarian hormone oestradiol are known to modulate feeding behaviour. However, what is less clear is how these behavioural effects of oestradiol are modified by the macronutrient content of a diet. In the present study, we report data showing that oestradiol treatment results in both significantly smaller meals and a reduced total calorie intake in ovariectomised, socially-housed female rhesus macaques when only chow diet is available. Conversely, during a choice dietary condition where both palatable and chow options are available, oestradiol treatment had no observable, attenuating effect on calorie intake. During this choice dietary phase, all animals consumed more of the palatable diet than chow diet; however, oestradiol treatment appeared to further increase preference for the palatable diet. Finally, oestradiol treatment increased snacking behaviour (i.e. the consumption of calories outside of empirically defined meals), regardless of diet condition. These findings illustrate how oestradiol differentially influences feeding behaviour depending on the dietary environment and provides a framework in which we can begin to examine the mechanisms underlying these observed changes.
Mounting magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) research is characterising the neurobiological trajectories of healthy human brain development. In parallel, studies increasingly acknowledge the relevance of perturbations of these trajectories for adolescent and adult psychopathology. Although an influence of steroid hormones on mood and anxiety disorders has been demonstrated in adults, very little is known about how steroid hormones alter human brain development and contribute to adolescent psychopathology. This review focuses on recent evidence obtained from structural and functional MRI in children and adolescents with genetic endocrine disorders and with characteristic fluctuations in androgen or oestrogen levels (familial male precocious puberty, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, Klinefelter syndrome and Turner syndrome). It aims to highlight how neurobiological findings from these paediatric endocrine disorders can provide insight into the contribution of sex steroids with respect to the development of neurocircuitry involved in affective processing (amygdala, hippocampus) and cognitive control (prefrontal cortex, inferior frontal gyrus, striatum). In addition, findings from these populations may also provide important information on aberrant psychological processes relevant for the clinical care and management of these populations. Finally, the findings are discussed within the context of current frameworks in animal models, such as the organisational-activational hypothesis or the aromatisation hypothesis. The review ends with a discussion of open questions for future enquiry with the goal of integrating translational models with current knowledge of endocrine disorders and developmental studies in healthy populations.
Although many studies have shown no significant change in global cognitive function after subthalamic brain stimulation (STN DBS) in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) and have concluded that STN DBS is generally safe from a cognitive standpoint, some studies have reported a decline in global cognitive function after STN DBS. Interestingly, in some studies, the decline in cognitive function appears to be greater during the initial short period after surgery (within 6 or 12 months after surgery) than the decline thereafter. To this end, we examined whether the rate of change in global cognitive function during the initial 6 months after STN DBS was different from the mean 6-month change that occurred between 6 and 36 months after surgery. Thirty-six PD patients who underwent bilateral STN DBS and were followed for more than 3 years were included. Change in Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) score during the first 6 months after surgery was compared with the 6-month MMSE score change between 6 and 36 months after surgery. Mean MMSE change during the first 6 months after surgery was significantly greater than the mean 6-month MMSE change between 6 to 36 months after surgery. The levodopa equivalent daily dose at baseline and the score for Stroop Color-word test at baseline were significantly associated with the decline in MMSE score during the first 6 months after surgery. Our result showed that decline in global cognitive function was faster in the first 6 months after surgery, compared with that after 6 months.
Leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and elevated lactate (LBSL) is clinically characterized by progressive pyramidal and cerebellar dysfunction, dorsal column dysfunction and sometimes with axonal neuropathy. Magnetic resonance imaging of brain and the spinal cord reveals characteristic findings. LBSL is caused by mutations in the DARS2 gene that encodes the mitochondrial aspartyl-tRNA synthetase. The presentation and clinical course of LBSL is not uniform, and there is lack of longitudinal data on these patients. In addition, the existing data on the prevalence and characteristics of cognitive abnormalities in patients with LBSL are scarce and somewhat conflicting. Here we report long-term data of neurological and cognitive functioning in three non-related adult patients with LBSL. Cognitive impairment seems to be common among patients with LBSL and DARS2 mutations. The cognitive profile in LBSL shares similarities with that reported in multiple sclerosis, as information-processing speed and working memory are especially affected. In addition, our results and the previously reported carrier frequencies of common pathogenic DARS2 mutations suggest that LBSL may be underdiagnosed in the population.
We have investigated how the abnormal head posture and motility in spasmodic torticollis interferes with ecological movements such as combined eye-to-foot whole-body reorientations to visual targets. Eight mildly affected patients and 10 controls voluntarily rotated eyes and body in response to illuminated targets of eccentricities up to  180. The experimental protocol allowed separate evaluation of the effects of target location, visibility and predictability on movement parameters. Patients' latencies of eye, head, trunk and foot motion were prolonged but showed a normal modification pattern when target location was predictable. Peak head-on-trunk displacement and velocity were reduced both ipsi- and contralaterally with respect to the direction of torticollis. Surprisingly, peak trunk velocity was also reduced, even more than in previously studied patients with Parkinson's disease. As a consequence, patients made short, hypometric gaze saccades and only exceptionally foveated initially nonvisible targets with a single large gaze shift (4 % of predictable trials as opposed to 30 % in controls). Foveation of distant targets was massively delayed by more than half a second on average. Spontaneous dystonic head movements did not interfere with the execution of voluntary gaze shifts. The results show that neck dystonia does not arise from gaze (head-eye) motor centres but the eye-to-foot turning synergy is seriously compromised. For the first time we identify significant 'secondary' complications of torticollis such as trunk bradykinesia and foveation delays, likely to cause additional disability in patients. Eye movements per se are intact and compensate for the reduced head/trunk performance in an adaptive manner.
Of the seven autosomal dominant genetically distinct forms of LGMD so far described, in only four the causative gene has been identified (LGMD1A-1D). We describe clinical, histopathological and muscle MRI features of a large Italo-Spanish kindred with LGMD1F presenting proximal-limb and axial muscle weakness. We obtained complete clinical data and graded the progression of the disease in 29 patients. Muscle MRI was performed in seven patients. Three muscle biopsies from two patients were investigated. Patients with age at onset in the early teens, had a more severe phenotype with a rapid disease course; adult onset patients presented a slow course. Muscle MRI showed prominent atrophy of lower limb muscles, involving especially the vastus lateralis. Widening the patients population resulted in the identification of previously unreported features, including dysphagia, arachnodactyly and respiratory insufficiency. Muscle biopsies showed diffuse fibre atrophy, which evolved with time, chronic myopathic changes, basophilic cytoplasmic areas, autophagosomes and accumulation of myofibrillar and cytoskeletal proteins. The LGMD1F is characterized by a selective involvement of limb muscles with respiratory impairment in advanced stages, and by different degrees of clinical progression. Novel clinical features emerged from the investigation of additional patients.




Glioblastoma, the most lethal brain tumor, remains incurable despite aggressive chemotherapy and surgical interventions. New chemotherapeutics for glioblastoma have been explored in preclinical models and some agents have reached the clinical setting. However, success rates are not significant. Previous investigations involving diallyl trisulfide (DATS), a garlic compound, indicated significant anti-cancer effects in glioblastoma in vitro. DATS has also been shown to inhibit histone deacetylase activity and impede glioblastoma tumor progression. We hypothesized that DATS would block ectopic U87MG tumor by multiple pro-apoptotic pathways via inhibiting histone deacetylase (HDAC). To prove this, we developed ectopic U87MG tumors in SCID mice and treated them daily with intraperitoneal injections of DATS for 7 days. Results indicated that DATS (10 g/kg-10 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced tumor mass and number of mitotic cells within tumors. Histological and biochemical assays demonstrated that DATS reduced mitosis in tumors, decreased HDAC activity, increased acetylation of H3 and H4, inhibited cell cycle progression, decreased pro-tumor markers (e.g., survivin, Bcl-2, c-Myc, mTOR, EGFR, VEGF), promoted apoptotic factors (e.g., bax, mcalpian, active caspase-3), and induced DNA fragmentation. Our data also demonstrated an increase in p21Waf1 expression, which correlated with increased p53 expression and MDM2 degradation following DATS treatment. Finally, histological assessment and enzyme assays showed that even the highest dose of DATS did not negatively impact hepatic function. Collectively, our results clearly demonstrated that DATS could be an effective therapeutic agent in preventing tumor progression and inducing apoptosis in human glioblastoma in vivo, without impairing hepatic function.
The presence of neurocognitive late effects in survivors of pediatric brain tumors is well established. However, there remains some debate about how best to conceptualize these deficits. Sluggish cognitive tempo (SCT) is a proposed conceptual framework that has been used to describe a subset of children with ADHD who exhibit a particular profile characterized by lethargy, day dreaming and staring, and poor organization. Previous work has suggested that survivors of leukemia exhibit a similar profile, but it has not yet been examined in survivors of pediatric brain tumors. A sample of 65 survivors of pediatric brain tumors, 25 survivors of leukemia and 50 community controls completed the Child Behavior Checklist, with four items used to measure SCT. Survivors completed additional measures of neurocognitive functioning. Survivors of brain tumors demonstrated significantly greater symptoms of SCT than survivors of leukemia or controls. SCT was associated with attention problems and working memory deficits and the presence of a VP-shunt. Results provided conditional support for the presence of SCT in survivors of brain tumors, with further research needed to determine the clinical utility of the framework.
Dendritic spines are the site of most excitatory synapses, the loss of which correlates with cognitive impairment in patients with Alzheimer disease. Substantial evidence indicates that amyloid- (A) peptide, either insoluble fibrillar A deposited into plaques or soluble nonfibrillar A species, can cause spine loss but the concurrent contributions of fibrillar A and nonfibrillar A to spine loss has not been previously assessed. We used multiple-label immunohistochemistry to measure spine density, size, and F-actin content surrounding plaques in the cerebral cortex in the PSAPP mouse model of A deposition. Our approach allowed us to measure fibrillar A plaque content and an index of nonfibrillar A species concurrently. We found that spine density was reduced within 6 m of the plaque perimeter, remaining spines were more compact, and F-actin content per spine was increased. Measures of fibrillar A plaque content were associated with reduced spine density near plaques, whereas measures of nonfibrillar A species were associated with reduced spine density and size but not altered F-actin content. These findings suggest that strategies to preserve dendritic spines in AD patients may need to address both nonfibrillar and fibrillar forms of A and that nonfibrillar A may exert spine toxicity through pathways not mediated by depolymerization of F-actin.
Engraftment of intramuscularly transplanted myogenic cells in mice can be optimized after induction of massive myofiber damage that triggers myofiber regeneration and recruitment of grafted cells; this generally involves either myotoxin injection or cryodamage. There are no effective methods to produce a similar process in the muscles of large mammals such as primates. In this study, we tested the use of intramuscular electroporation for this purpose in 11 macaques. The test sites were 1 cm of skeletal muscle. Each site was treated with 3 penetrations of a 2-needle electrode with 1 cm spacing, applying 3 pulses of 400 V/cm, for a duration of 5 milliseconds and a delay of 200 milliseconds during each penetration. Transplantation of -galactosidase-labeled myoblasts was done in electroporated and nonelectroporated sites. Electroporation induced massive myofiber necrosis that was followed by efficient muscle regeneration. Myoblast engraftment was substantially increased in electroporated compared with nonelectroporated sites. This suggests that electroporation may be a useful tool to study muscle regeneration in primates and other large mammals and as a method for increasing the engraftment of myoblasts and other myogenic cells in intramuscular transplantation.
Responses of many neurons in primary visual cortex (V1) are suppressed by stimuli exceeding the classical receptive field (RF), an important property that might underlie the computation of visual saliency. Traditionally, it has proven difficult to disentangle the underlying neural circuits, including feedforward, horizontal intracortical, and feedback connectivity. Since circuit-level analysis is particularly feasible in the mouse, we asked whether neural signatures of spatial integration in mouse V1 are similar to those of higher-order mammals and investigated the role of parvalbumin-expressing (PV+) inhibitory interneurons. Analogous to what is known from primates and carnivores, we demonstrate that, in awake mice, surround suppression is present in the majority of V1 neurons and is strongest in superficial cortical layers. Anesthesia with isoflurane-urethane, however, profoundly affects spatial integration: it reduces the laminar dependency, decreases overall suppression strength, and alters the temporal dynamics of responses. We show that these effects of brain state can be parsimoniously explained by assuming that anesthesia affects contrast normalization. Hence, the full impact of suppressive influences in mouse V1 cannot be studied under anesthesia with isoflurane-urethane. To assess the neural circuits of spatial integration, we targeted PV+ interneurons using optogenetics. Optogenetic depolarization of PV+ interneurons was associated with increased RF size and decreased suppression in the recorded population, similar to effects of lowering stimulus contrast, suggesting that PV+ interneurons contribute to spatial integration by affecting overall stimulus drive. We conclude that the mouse is a promising model for circuit-level mechanisms of spatial integration, which relies on the combined activity of different types of inhibitory interneurons.
The motor cortices exhibit substantial activity while preparing movements, yet the arm remains still during preparation. We investigated whether a subpopulation of presumed inhibitory neurons in primary motor cortex (M1) might be involved in &quot;gating&quot; motor output during preparation, while permitting output during movement. This hypothesis predicts a release of inhibition just before movement onset. In data from M1 of two monkeys, we did not find evidence for this hypothesis: few neurons exhibited a clear pause during movement, and these were at the tail end of a broad distribution. We then identified a subpopulation likely to be enriched for inhibitory interneurons, using their waveform shapes. We found that the firing rates of this subpopulation tended to increase during movement instead of decreasing as predicted by the M1 gating model. No clear subset that might implement an inhibitory gate was observed. Together with previous evidence against upstream inhibitory mechanisms in premotor cortex, this provides evidence against an inhibitory &quot;gate&quot; for motor output in cortex. Instead, it appears that some other mechanism must likely exist.
Reaches performed in many natural situations involve selecting a specific target from a number of alternatives. Recent studies show that before reaching, multiple potential reach targets are encoded in brain regions involved in action control and that, when people are required to initiate the reach before the target is specified, initial hand direction is biased by the spatial distribution of potential targets. These findings have led to the suggestion that the brain, during planning, simultaneously prepares multiple reaches to potential targets. In addition to hand direction, reach planning often involves specifying other parameters such as wrist orientation. For example, when posting a letter in a mail slot, both the location and orientation of the slot must be encoded to control hand direction and orientation. Therefore, if the brain prepares multiple reaches to potential targets and if these targets require the specification of hand direction and orientation, then both of these variables should be biased by the spatial distribution of potential targets. To test this prediction, we examined a task in which participants moved a hand-held rectangular tool toward multiple rectangular targets of varying location and orientation, one of which was selected, with equal probability as the actual target after movement initiation. We found that initial hand direction and orientation were biased by the spatial distributions of potential target locations and orientations, respectively. This result is consistent with the idea that the brain, in cases of target uncertainty, simultaneously plans fully specified reaching movements to all potential targets.
Studies of fingertip force production have shown that self-produced forces are perceived as weaker than externally generated forces. This is due to mechanisms of sensory reafference where the comparison between predicted and actual sensory feedback results in attenuated perceptions of self-generated forces. Without an external reference to calibrate attenuated performance judgments, a compensatory overproduction of force is exhibited. It remains unclear whether the force overproduction seen in the absence of visual reference stimuli differs when forces are produced bimanually. We studied performance of two versions of a bimanual sequential force production task compared with each hand performing the task unimanually. When the task goal was shared, force series produced by each hand in bimanual conditions were found to be uncorrelated. When the bimanual task required each hand to reach a target force level, we found asymmetries in the degree of force overproduction between the hands following visual feedback removal. Unilateral continuous theta-burst stimulation of the left primary motor cortex yielded a selective reduction of force overproduction in the hand contralateral to stimulation by disrupting sensory reafference processes. While variability was lower in bimanual trials when the task goal was shared, this influence of hand condition disappeared when the target force level was to be reached by each hand simultaneously. Our findings strengthen the notion that force control in bimanual action is less tightly coupled than other mechanisms of bimanual motor control and show that this effector specificity may be extended to the processing and compensation for mechanisms of sensory reafference.
To compute spatially correct smooth pursuit eye movements, the brain uses both retinal motion and extraretinal signals about the eyes and head in space (Blohm and Lefvre 2010). However, when smooth eye movements rely solely on memorized target velocity, such as during anticipatory pursuit, it is unknown if this velocity memory also accounts for extraretinal information, such as head roll and ocular torsion. To answer this question, we used a novel behavioral updating paradigm in which participants pursued a repetitive, spatially constant fixation-gap-ramp stimulus in series of five trials. During the first four trials, participants' heads were rolled toward one shoulder, inducing ocular counterroll (OCR). With each repetition, participants increased their anticipatory pursuit gain, indicating a robust encoding of velocity memory. On the fifth trial, they rolled their heads to the opposite shoulder before pursuit, also inducing changes in ocular torsion. Consequently, for spatially accurate anticipatory pursuit, the velocity memory had to be updated across changes in head roll and ocular torsion. We tested how the velocity memory accounted for head roll and OCR by observing the effects of changes to these signals on anticipatory trajectories of the memory decoding (fifth) trials. We found that anticipatory pursuit was updated for changes in head roll; however, we observed no evidence of compensation for OCR, representing the absence of ocular torsion signals within the velocity memory. This indicated that the directional component of the memory must be coded retinally and updated to account for changes in head roll, but not OCR.
The neural mechanisms of sensory responses recorded from the scalp or cortical surface remain controversial. Evoked vs. induced response components (i.e., changes in mean vs. variance) are associated with bottom-up vs. top-down processing, but trial-by-trial response variability can confound this interpretation. Phase reset of ongoing oscillations has also been postulated to contribute to sensory responses. In this article, we present evidence that responses under passive listening conditions are dominated by variable evoked response components. We measured the mean, variance, and phase of complex time-frequency coefficients of epidurally recorded responses to acoustic stimuli in rats. During the stimulus, changes in mean, variance, and phase tended to co-occur. After the stimulus, there was a small, low-frequency offset response in the mean and modest, prolonged desynchronization in the alpha band. Simulations showed that trial-by-trial variability in the mean can account for most of the variance and phase changes observed during the stimulus. This variability was state dependent, with smallest variability during periods of greatest arousal. Our data suggest that cortical responses to auditory stimuli reflect variable inputs to the cortical network. These analyses suggest that caution should be exercised when interpreting variance and phase changes in terms of top-down cortical processing.
Sound localization accuracy in elevation can be affected by sound spectrum alteration. Correspondingly, any stimulus manipulation that causes a change in the peripheral representation of the spectrum may degrade localization ability in elevation. The present study examined the influence of sound duration and level on localization performance in cats with the head unrestrained. Two cats were trained using operant conditioning to indicate the apparent location of a sound via gaze shift, which was measured with a search-coil technique. Overall, neither sound level nor duration had a notable effect on localization accuracy in azimuth, except at near-threshold levels. In contrast, localization accuracy in elevation improved as sound duration increased, and sound level also had a large effect on localization in elevation. For short-duration noise, the performance peaked at intermediate levels and deteriorated at low and high levels; for long-duration noise, this &quot;negative level effect&quot; at high levels was not observed. Simulations based on an auditory nerve model were used to explain the above observations and to test several hypotheses. Our results indicated that neither the flatness of sound spectrum (before the sound reaches the inner ear) nor the peripheral adaptation influences spectral coding at the periphery for localization in elevation, whereas neural computation that relies on &quot;multiple looks&quot; of the spectral analysis is critical in explaining the effect of sound duration, but not level. The release of negative level effect observed for long-duration sound could not be explained at the periphery and, therefore, is likely a result of processing at higher centers.
When recording the membrane potential, V, of a neuron it is desirable to be able to extract the synaptic input. Critically, the synaptic input is stochastic and nonreproducible so one is therefore often restricted to single-trial data. Here, we introduce means of estimating the inhibition and excitation and their confidence limits from single sweep trials. The estimates are based on the mean membrane potential, V, and the membrane time constant, . The time constant provides the total conductance (G = capacitance/) and is extracted from the autocorrelation of V. The synaptic conductances can then be inferred from V when approximating the neuron as a single compartment. We further employ a stochastic model to establish limits of confidence. The method is verified on models and experimental data, where the synaptic input is manipulated pharmacologically or estimated by an alternative method. The method gives best results if the synaptic input is large compared with other conductances, the intrinsic conductances have little or no time dependence or are comparably small, the ligand-gated kinetics is faster than the membrane time constant, and the majority of synaptic contacts are electrotonically close to soma (recording site). Although our data are in current clamp, the method also works in V-clamp recordings, with some minor adaptations. All custom made procedures are provided in Matlab.
Adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is an evolutionarily conserved signaling molecule that is emerging as one of the most important energy sensors in the body. AMPK monitors cellular energy status and is activated via phosphorylation when energy stores are low. This allows for maintenance of energy homeostasis by promoting catabolic pathways for ATP production and limiting processes that consume ATP. Growing number of stimuli have been shown to activate AMPK, and AMPK has been implicated in many diverse biological processes, including cell polarity, autophagy, and senescence. The effect of AMPK activation and its biological functions are extremely diverse and depend on both the overall energy &quot;milieu&quot; and the location and duration of activation. AMPK has tissue- and isoform-specific functions in the brain vs. periphery. These functions and the pathways activated also appear to differ by cell location (hypothalamus vs. cortex), cell type (astrocyte vs. neuron), and duration of exposure. Short bursts of AMPK activation have been found to be involved in ischemic preconditioning and neuronal survival; however, prolonged AMPK activity during ischemia leads to neuronal cell death. AMPK may also underlie some of the beneficial effects of hypothermia, a potential therapy for ischemic brain injury. This review discusses the role of AMPK in ischemic stroke, a condition of severe energy depletion.
Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) mediates a broad, conserved adaptive response to hypoxia, and the HIF pathway is a potential therapeutic target in cerebral ischemia. This study investigated the mechanism by which in vitro ischemia (oxygen-glucose deprivation; OGD) affects canonical hypoxic HIF-1 stabilization. We validated the use of a reporter containing the oxygen-dependent degradation domain of HIF-1 fused to firefly luciferase (ODD-luc) to monitor quantitatively distinct biochemical events leading to hypoxic HIF-1 expression or stabilization in a human neuroblastoma cell line (SH-SY5Y). When OGD was imposed following a 2-hr hypoxic stabilization of ODD-luc, the levels of the reporter were reduced, consistent with prior models proposing that OGD enhances HIF prolylhydroxylase (PHD) activity. Surprisingly, PHD inhibitors and proteasome inhibitors do not stabilize ODD-luc in OGD. Furthermore, OGD does not affect the half-life of ODD-luc protein following hypoxia, suggesting that OGD abrogates hypoxic HIF-1 induction by reducing HIF-1 synthesis rather than by enhancing its degradation. We observed ATP depletion under OGD vs. hypoxia and propose that ATP depletion enhances translational suppression, overcoming the selective synthesis of HIF concurrent with global decreases in protein synthesis in hypoxia. Taken together, these findings biochemically characterize a practical reporter for monitoring HIF-1 levels and support a novel model for HIF regulation in an in vitro model of human ischemia.



Ependymoma is one of the uncommon tumors of the central nervous system (CNS) in the adult age group. These tumors have a distinct propensity for metastasis, both within and outside the CNS. However, dissemination at the time of first presentation and retrograde dissemination of the tumor is rare. We report the case of a patient with fourth ventricular anaplastic ependymoma who presented with left lateral ventricular metastasis which was anatomically different from the primary tumor. We describe the clinic-pathological detail of the patient and discuss the probable pathophysiological basis for this rare presentation and its significance in management of the patient.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is less common in children than in adults, but in children it is generally more severe. Spinal loading conditions (speed and displacement) are also thought to affect SCI severity, but the relationship between these parameters is not well understood. This study aimed to investigate the effects of vertebral speed and displacement on the severity of SCI in infants and adults using a rodent model of vertebral dislocation. Thoracolumbar vertebral dislocation was induced in anaesthetized infant rats (30g, 13-15 days postnatal, n=40) and adult rats (250g, n=57). The 12th thoracic vertebra was secured, whereas the first lumbar vertebra was dislocated laterally. Dislocation speed and magnitude were varied independently and scaled between adults and infants (Adults: 100-250mm/s, 4-10mm; Infants: 40-100mm/s, 1.6-4mm). At 5h post-injury, rats were euthanized and spinal cords harvested. Spinal cord sections were stained to detect hemorrhage (hematoxylin and eosin) and axonal injury (-amyloid precursor protein). For each millimeter increase in vertebral displacement, normalized hemorrhage volume increased by 1.910(-3) mm(3) (p=0.028) and normalized area of axonal injury increased by 2.210(-1)mm(2) (p&lt;0.001). Normalized hemorrhage volume was 3.310(-3) mm(3) greater for infants than for adults (p&lt;0.001). Magnitude of dislocation was found to have a different effect on the normalized area of axonal injury in adults than in infants (p=0.003). Speed of dislocation was not found to have a significant effect on normalized hemorrhage volume (p=0.427) or normalized area of axonal injury (p=0.726) independent of displacement for the range of speeds tested. The findings of this study suggest that both age and amount of spinal motion are key factors in the severity of acute SCI.




As stereotypes of social groups undergo change, group members gain access to previously denied social and cultural roles. Although such access is desirable, to the extent that the behavior, traits, and attitudes required to succeed in a new role are in opposition to those required to do well in a still-valued old role, conflict in the self-concept may ensue. Specifically, the individual must necessarily fall short in social comparisons of the self to the ideal group member in 1 or both roles, threatening self-integrity. Examining the specific case of oppositional identities between career and mom roles, we argue that women respond to this conflict by shifting back and forth between activation of whichever identity is relevant in a given situational context in a way that men do not. This shifting of self-associations is hypothesized to deplete scarce cognitive resources, interfering with performance on a task that requires executive function capacity. In addition, to the extent the identities are viewed as trading off against one another, failure in 1 domain may be responded to by activating the alternate identity in an effort to restore self-integrity, again in a way that is not true for men. These hypotheses are explored across 4 studies, utilizing both college students in the midst of formulating--and working parents in the midst of negotiating--these identities.
Explanations based in attribution theory claim that strong external controls such as parental restrictiveness and punishment undermine moral internalization. In contrast, 3 studies provide evidence that parental punishment does socialize morality, but of a particular sort: a morality focused on prohibitions (i.e., proscriptive orientation) rather than positive obligations (i.e., prescriptive orientation). Study 1 found young adults' accounts of parental restrictiveness and punishment activated their sensitivity to prohibitions and predicted a proscriptive orientation. Consistent with the greater potency of temptations for proscriptively oriented children, as well as past research linking shame to proscriptive morality, Study 2 found that restrictive parenting was also associated with greater suppression of temptations. Finally, Studies 3A and 3B found that suppressing these immoral thoughts is paradoxically harder for those with strong proscriptive orientations; more specifically, priming a proscriptive (versus prescriptive) orientation and inducing mental suppression of &quot;immoral&quot; thoughts led to the most ego depletion for those with restrictive parents. Overall, individuals who had restrictive parents had the lowest self-regulatory ability to resist their &quot;immoral&quot; temptations after prohibitions were activated. In contrast to common attributional explanations, these studies suggest that harsh external control by parents does not undercut moral socialization but rather undermines individuals' ability to resist temptation.
The neuropeptides oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (AVP) have been shown to play a central role in social behaviors; as a consequence, they have been recognized as potential drugs to treat neurodevelopmental and psychiatric disorders characterized by impaired social interactions. However, despite the basic and preclinical relevance of mouse strains carrying genetic alterations in the OT/AVP systems to basic and preclinical translational neuroscience, the pharmacological profile of mouse OT/AVP receptor subtypes has not been fully characterized. To fill in this gap, we have characterized a number of OT and AVP agonists and antagonists at three murine OT/AVP receptors expressed in the nervous system as follows: the oxytocin (mOTR) and vasopressin V1a (mV1aR) and V1b (mV1bR) subtypes. These three receptors were transiently expressed in vitro for binding and intracellular signaling assays, and then a homology model of the mOTR structure was constructed to investigate how its molecular features compare with human and rat OTR orthologs. Our data indicate that the selectivity profile of the natural ligands, OT and AVP, is conserved in humans, rats, and mice. Furthermore, we found that the synthetic peptide [Thr(4)Gly(7)]OT (TGOT) is remarkably selective for the mOTR and, like the endogenous OT ligand, activates Gq and Gi and recruits -arrestins. Finally, we report three antagonists that exhibit remarkably high affinities and selectivities at mOTRs. These highly selective pharmacological tools will contribute to the investigation of the specific physiologic and pathologic roles of mOTR for the development of selective OT-based therapeutics.

The central noradrenergic neurone, like the peripheral sympathetic neurone, is characterized by a diffusely arborizing terminal axonal network. The central neurones aggregate in distinct brainstem nuclei, of which the locus coeruleus (LC) is the most prominent. LC neurones project widely to most areas of the neuraxis, where they mediate dual effects: neuronal excitation by -adrenoceptors and inhibition by -adrenoceptors. The LC plays an important role in physiological regulatory networks. In the sleep/arousal network the LC promotes wakefulness, via excitatory projections to the cerebral cortex and other wakefulness-promoting nuclei, and inhibitory projections to sleep-promoting nuclei. The LC, together with other pontine noradrenergic nuclei, modulates autonomic functions by excitatory projections to preganglionic sympathetic, and inhibitory projections to preganglionic parasympathetic neurones. The LC also modulates the acute effects of light on physiological functions ('photomodulation'): stimulation of arousal and sympathetic activity by light via the LC opposes the inhibitory effects of light mediated by the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus on arousal and by the paraventricular nucleus on sympathetic activity. Photostimulation of arousal by light via the LC may enable diurnal animals to function during daytime. LC neurones degenerate early and progressively in Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease, leading to cognitive impairment, depression and sleep disturbance.

A large number of accidents are due to the driver falling asleep at the wheel, but details of this link have not been studied on a real road. The purpose of the present study was to describe the development of sleepiness indicators, leading to the drive being terminated prematurely by the onboard expert driving instructor because of imminent danger. Eighteen individuals participated during a day drive and a night drive on a motorway (both 90min). Eight drivers terminated (N) prematurely (after 43min) because of sleep-related imminent danger [according to the driving instructor or their own judgement (two cases)]. The results showed very high sleepiness ratings (8.5 units on the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale) immediately before termination (&lt;7 at a similar time interval for those 10 who completed the drive). Group N also showed significantly higher levels of sleep intrusions on the electroencephalography/electro-oculography (EEG/EOG) than those who completed the drive (group C). The sleep intrusions were increased in group N during the first 40min of the night drive. During the day drive, sleep intrusions were increased significantly in group N. The night drive showed significant increases of all sleepiness indicators compared to the day drive, but also reduced speed and driving to the left in the lane. It was concluded that 44% of drivers during late-night driving became dangerously sleepy, and that this group showed higher perceived sleepiness and more sleep intrusions in the EEG/EOG.
To investigate the effects of real-life stress on the sleep of adolescents, we performed a repeated-measures study on actigraphic sleep estimates and subjective measures during one regular school week, two stressful examination weeks and a week's holiday. Twenty-four adolescents aged 17.630.10years (meanstandard error of the mean) wore actigraphs and completed diaries on subjective stress, fatigue, sleep quality, number of examinations and consumption of caffeine and alcohol for 4weeks during their final year of secondary school. The resulting almost 500 assessments were analysed using mixed-effect models to estimate the effects of mere school attendance and additional examination stress on sleep estimates and subjective ratings. Total sleep time decreased from 7:38h12min during holidays to 6:40h12min during a regular school week. This 13% decrease elicited a partial compensation, as indicated by a 3% increase in sleep efficiency and a 6% decrease in the duration of nocturnal awakenings. During examination weeks total sleep time decreased to 6:23h8min, but it was now accompanied by a decrease in sleep efficiency and subjective sleep quality and an increase in wake bout duration. In conclusion, school examination stress affects the sleep of adolescents. The compensatory mechanism of more consolidated sleep, as elicited by the sleep restriction associated with mere school attendance, collapsed during 2weeks of sustained examination stress.








Plasma glucose (2) H-enrichment in positions 5 ((2) H5) and 2 ((2) H2) from deuterated water ((2) H2 O) provides a measure of the gluconeogenic contribution to endogenous glucose production. Urinary glucuronide analysis can circumvent blood sampling but it is not known if glucuronide and glucose enrichments are equal. Thirteen subjects with impaired fasting glucose/impaired glucose tolerance and 11 subjects with normal fasting glucose and normal glucose tolerance ingested (2) H2 O to 0.5% body water and acetaminophen. Glucose and glucuronide (2) H5 and (2) H2 were measured by (2) H NMR spectroscopy of monoacetone glucose. For normal fasting glucose/normal glucose tolerance, (2) H5 was 0.23  0.02% and 0.25  0.02% for glucose and glucuronide, respectively, whereas (2) H2 was 0.47  0.01% and 0.49  0.02%, respectively. For impaired fasting glucose/impaired glucose tolerance, (2) H5 was 0.22  0.01% and 0.26  0.02% for glucose and glucuronide, respectively, whereas (2) H2 was 0.46  0.01% and 0.49  0.02%, respectively. The gluconeogenic contribution to endogenous glucose production measured from glucose and glucuronide were identical for both normal fasting glucose/normal glucose tolerance (48  4 vs. 51  3%) and impaired fasting glucose/impaired glucose tolerance (48  2 vs. 53  3%).


Melancholia has long evaded attempts at clarifying underlying biological signals. Techniques that have attempted differentiation of melancholia from the non-melancholic conditions have largely weighted a greater contribution of biological factors to melancholia. More recently, several avenues of research have highlighted the potential utility of visual electrophysiological technologies in clarifying disease processes, driven by reports of those with melancholia that life loses its 'colour', and by clinical observations that such patients often 'lose the light in their eyes' during an episode. This led to the development of our hypothesis that melancholia may be able to be measured through the eyes reflected by disrupted dopaminergic signaling in the retina, thus allowing clarification of any hypodopaminergic contribution to the disorder. We report on research from visual neuroscience and research localizing key brain structures as well as consider likely genetic contributions to propose a unique paradigm for pursuing the biological basis of melancholic depression.
Electrical nerve stimulation (ENS) is used in clinical settings for the treatment of chronic pain, but the mechanism underlying its effects remains unknown. ENS has been found to mimic neural activity, inducing the accumulation of Arc in synapses. Activity-dependent synaptic accumulation of Arc protein has been shown to reduce synaptic strength by promoting endocytosis of the AMPA receptors in the synaptic membrane. These receptors play a decisive role in central sensitization, which is one of the main mechanisms underlying chronic pain. It is here hypothesized that ENS induces Arc expression in synapses, where Arc promotes endocytosis of membrane AMPARs that are up-regulated during chronic pain. High frequency and high intensity are characteristics of ENS, which may be effective in the treatment of chronic pain. Stimulation-site of ENS may also influence the outcome of ENS.
Localization of cortical regions of interests (ROIs) in structural neuroimaging data such as diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and T1-weighted MRI images has significant importance in basic and clinical neurosciences. However, this problem is considerably challenging due to the lack of quantitative mapping between brain structure and function, which relies on the availability of multimodal training data including benchmark task-based functional MRI (fMRI) images and effective machine learning algorithms. This paper presents a novel joint modeling approach that learns predictive models of ROIs from concurrent task-based fMRI, DTI, and T1-weighted MRI datasets. In particular, the effective generalized multiple kernel learning (GMKL) algorithm and ROI coordinate principal component analysis (PCA) model are employed to infer the intrinsic relationships between anatomical T1-weighted MRI/connectional DTI features and task-based fMRI-derived functional ROIs. Then, these predictive models of cortical ROIs are evaluated by cross-validation studies, independent datasets, and reproducibility studies. Experimental results are promising. We envision that these predictive models can be potentially applied in many scenarios that have only DTI and/or T1-weighted MRI data, but without task-based fMRI data.
Hydatid disease is a parasitic infection caused by Echinococcus granulosus (larval form) in humans with lesionsmost frequently encountered in the liver and lungs. It can rarely involve extra-hepatic organs. It is endemicin some regions of Iran. The omental hydatid cyst is a very rare manifestation of the disease. This report presentsthe interesting case of a very large omental hydatid cyst.


This research investigated the relationship between false memories induced by two different paradigms (misinformation and Deese-Roediger-McDermott [DRM]). The misinformation effect refers to the phenomenon that a person's recollection of a witnessed event can be altered after exposure to misleading information about the event. DRM false memory represents the intrusion of words that are semantically related but not actually presented in the study session. Subjects (N = 432) completed both misinformation and DRM false memory tests. Results showed a small but significant correlation (r = .12, p = .02) between the misinformation and DRM false memories. Furthermore, using signal detection theory, we found that the discrimination ability index (d') was related to both the misinformation and DRM false memories (r = -.12 and -.13, p = .01), while the response bias was related only to DRM false memory (r = -.46, p &lt; .001). These results suggest that misinformation and DRM false memories generally involve different mechanisms and that their shared mechanism may involve the global discrimination ability.

Electron tomography (ET) has recently afforded new insights into neuronal architecture. However, the tedious process of sample preparation, image acquisition, alignment, back projection, and additional segmentation process of ET repels beginners. We have tried Hitachi's commercial packages integrated with a Hitachi H-7650 TEM to examine the potential of using an automated fiducial-less approach for our own neuroscience research. Semi-thick sections (200-300 nm) were cut from blocks of fixed mouse (C57BL) cerebellum and prepared for ET. Sets of images were collected automatically as each section was tilted by 2 increments (60). &quot;Virtual&quot; image volumes were computationally reconstructed in three dimension (3D) with the EMIP software using either the commonly used &quot;weighted back-projection&quot; (WBP) method or &quot;topography-based reconstruction&quot; (TBR) algorithm for comparison. Computed tomograms using the TBR were more precisely reconstructed compared with the WBP method. Following reconstruction, the image volumes were imported into the 3D editing software A-View and segmented according to synaptic organization. The detailed synaptic components were revealed by very thin virtual image slices; 3D models of synapse structure could be constructed efficiently. Overall, this simplified system provided us with a graspable tool for pursuing ET studies in neuroscience.
Family-centered preventive interventions have been proposed as relevant to mitigating psychological health risk and promoting resilience in military families facing wartime deployment and reintegration. This study evaluates the impact of a family-centered prevention program, Families OverComing Under Stress Family Resilience Training (FOCUS), on the psychological adjustment of military children. Two primary goals include (1) understanding the relationships of distress among family members using a longitudinal path model to assess relations at the child and family level and (2) determining pathways of program impact on child adjustment. Multilevel data analysis using structural equation modeling was conducted with deidentified service delivery data from 280 families (505 children aged 3-17) in two follow-up assessments. Standardized measures included service member and civilian parental distress (Brief Symptom Inventory, PTSD Checklist-Military), child adjustment (Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire), and family functioning (McMaster Family Assessment Device). Distress was significantly related among the service member parent, civilian parent, and children. FOCUS improved family functioning, which in turn significantly reduced child distress at follow-up. Salient components of improved family functioning in reducing child distress mirrored resilience processes targeted by FOCUS. These findings underscore the public health potential of family-centered prevention for military families and suggest areas for future research.
Zona occludens 2 (ZO-2) has a dual localization. In confluent epithelia, ZO-2 is present at tight junctions (TJs), whereas in sparse proliferating cells it is also found at the nucleus. Previously we demonstrated that in sparse cultures, newly synthesized ZO-2 travels to the nucleus before reaching the plasma membrane. Now we find that in confluent cultures newly synthesized ZO-2 goes directly to the plasma membrane. Epidermal growth factor induces through AKT activation the phosphorylation of the kinase for SR repeats, serine arginine protein kinase 1, which in turn phosphorylates ZO-2, which contains 16 SR repeats. This phosphorylation induces ZO-2 entry into the nucleus and accumulation in speckles. ZO-2 departure from the nucleus requires intact S257, and stabilizing the -O-linked N-acetylglucosylation (O-GlcNAc) of S257 with O-(2-acetamido-2-deoxy-d-glucopyranosylidene)amino-N-phenylcarbamate, an inhibitor of O-GlcNAcase, triggers nuclear exportation and proteosomal degradation of ZO-2. At the plasma membrane ZO-2 is not O-GlcNAc, and instead, as TJs mature, it becomes phosphorylated at S257 by protein kinase C. This late phosphorylation of S257 is required for the correct cytoarchitecture to develop, as cells transfected with ZO-2 mutant S257A or S257E form aberrant cysts with multiple lumens. These results reveal novel posttranslational modifications of ZO-2 that regulate the intracellular fate of this protein.
The lineage-specific basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor Ptf1a is a critical driver for development of both the pancreas and nervous system. How one transcription factor controls diverse programs of gene expression is a fundamental question in developmental biology. To uncover molecular strategies for the program-specific functions of Ptf1a, we identified bound genomic regions in vivo during development of both tissues. Most regions bound by Ptf1a are specific to each tissue, lie near genes needed for proper formation of each tissue, and coincide with regions of open chromatin. The specificity of Ptf1a binding is encoded in the DNA surrounding the Ptf1a-bound sites, because these regions are sufficient to direct tissue-restricted reporter expression in transgenic mice. Fox and Sox factors were identified as potential lineage-specific modifiers of Ptf1a binding, since binding motifs for these factors are enriched in Ptf1a-bound regions in pancreas and neural tube, respectively. Of the Fox factors expressed during pancreatic development, Foxa2 plays a major role. Indeed, Ptf1a and Foxa2 colocalize in embryonic pancreatic chromatin and can act synergistically in cell transfection assays. Together, these findings indicate that lineage-specific chromatin landscapes likely constrain the DNA binding of Ptf1a, and they identify Fox and Sox gene families as part of this process.

Our previous data indicated that hypoxic preconditioning (HPC) ameliorates transient global cerebral ischemia (tGCI)-induced neuronal death in hippocampal CA1 subregion of adult rats. However, the possible molecular mechanisms for neuroprotection of this kind are largely unknown. This study was performed to investigate the role of the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extra-cellular signal-regulated kinase kinase (MEK)/extra-cellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway in HPC-induced neuroprotection. tGCI was induced by applying the four-vessel occlusion method. Pretreatment with 30 min of hypoxia applied 1 day before 10 min tGCI significantly decreased the level of MEK1/2 and ERK1/2 phosphorylation in ischemic hippocampal CA1 subregion. Also, HPC decreased the expression of phosphorylated ERK1/2 in degenerating neurons and astrocytes. However, the administration of U0126, a MEK kinase inhibitor, partly blocked MEK1/2 and ERK1/2 phosphorylation induced by tGCI. Meanwhile, neuronal survival was improved, and glial cell activation was significantly reduced. Collectively, these data indicated that the MEK/ERK signaling pathway might be involved in HPC-induced neuroprotection following tGCI. Also, HPC resulted in a reduction of glial activation.
Congenital muscular dystrophies present mutated gene in the LARGE mice model and it is characterized by an abnormal glycosylation of -dystroglycan (-DG), strongly implicated as having a causative role in the development of central nervous system abnormalities such as cognitive impairment seen in patients. However, the pathophysiology of the brain involvement remains unclear. Therefore, the objective of this study is to evaluate the oxidative damage and energetic metabolism in the brain tissue as well as cognitive involvement in the LARGE((myd)) mice model of muscular dystrophy. With this aim, we used adult homozygous, heterozygous, and wild-type mice that were divided into two groups: behavior and biochemical analyses. In summary, it was observed that homozygous mice presented impairment to the habituation and avoidance memory tasks; low levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, cortex and cerebellum; increased lipid peroxidation in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and cerebellum; an increase of protein peroxidation in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum, cerebellum, and cortex; a decrease of complex I activity in the prefrontal cortex and cerebellum; a decrease of complex II activity in the prefrontal cortex and cerebellum; a decrease of complex IV activity in the prefrontal cortex and cerebellum; an increase in the cortex; and an increase of creatine kinase activity in the striatum and cerebellum. This study shows the first evidence that abnormal glycosylation of -DG may be affecting BDNF levels, oxidative particles, and energetic metabolism thus contributing to the memory storage and restoring process.
The cys-loop receptors are neurotransmitter-operated ion channels, which mediate fast synaptic transmission for communication between neurons. However, prolonged exposure to the neurotransmitter drives the receptor to a desensitization state, which plays an important role in shaping synaptic transmission. Much progress has been made through more than half a century's research since Katz and Thesleff first descried desensitization for muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. In this review, we summarized recent research developments of receptor desensitization. Now, it has been identified that many parts of the receptor, such as the pore domain (including the hinge in the M2-M3 linker), the binding domain, the coupling region, and the intracellular domain, are all involved in the cys-loop receptor desensitization and that uncoupling between the amino-terminal domain and channel lining domain seems to play a central role in desensitization. This uncoupling is mainly governed by the balance between coupling strength and relative tightness of gating machinery and influenced by other parts of the receptor. Agonist binding induces conformational change to overcome the gating barrier to open the channel through the stressed coupling region, which is subsequently broken, causing receptor desensitization. With rapid advancement in structural biology of membrane receptors, final validation of this mechanism is expected to occur in the near future when the high-resolution structure of the desensitized state is available.
Available treatments for depression have significant limitations, including low response rates and substantial lag times for response. Reports of rapid antidepressant effects of a number of compounds, including the glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist ketamine, have spurred renewed translational neuroscience efforts aimed at elucidating the molecular and cellular mechanisms of action that result in rapid therapeutic response. This perspective provides an overview of recent advances utilizing compounds with rapid-acting antidepressant effects, discusses potential mechanism of action and provides a framework for future research directions aimed at developing safe, efficacious antidepressants that achieve satisfactory remission not only by working rapidly but also by providing a sustained response.
Western countries are experiencing aging populations and increased longevity; thus, the incidence of dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD) in these countries is projected to soar. In the absence of a therapeutic drug, non-pharmacological preventative approaches are being investigated. One of these approaches is regular participation in physical activity or exercise. This paper reviews studies that have explored the relationship between physical activity and cognitive function, cognitive decline, AD/dementia risk and AD-associated biomarkers and processes. There is now strong evidence that links regular physical activity or exercise to higher cognitive function, decreased cognitive decline and reduced risk of AD or dementia. Nevertheless, these associations require further investigation, more specifically with interventional studies that include long follow-up periods. In particular, relatively little is known about the underlying mechanism(s) of the associations between physical activity and AD neuropathology; clearly this is an area in need of further research, particularly in human populations. Although benefits of physical activity or exercise are clearly recognised, there is a need to clarify how much physical activity provides the greatest benefit and also whether people of different genotypes require tailored exercise regimes.
The prevalence of major depression has increased in recent decades and women are twice as likely as men to develop the disorder. Recent environmental changes almost certainly have a role in this phenomenon, but a complete set of contributors remains unspecified. Exposure to artificial light at night (LAN) has surged in prevalence during the past 50 years, coinciding with rising rates of depression. Chronic exposure to LAN is linked to increased risk of breast cancer, obesity and mood disorders, although the relationship to mood is not well characterized. In this study, we investigated the effects of chronic exposure to 5 lux LAN on depression-like behaviors in female hamsters. Using this model, we also characterized hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression and hippocampal dendritic morphology, and investigated the reversibility of these changes 1, 2 or 4 weeks following elimination of LAN. Furthermore, we explored the mechanism of action, focusing on hippocampal proinflammatory cytokines given their dual role in synaptic plasticity and the pathogenesis of depression. Using reverse transcription-quantitative PCR, we identified a reversible increase in hippocampal tumor necrosis factor (TNF), but not interleukin-1, mRNA expression in hamsters exposed to LAN. Direct intracerebroventricular infusion of a dominant-negative inhibitor of soluble TNF, XPro1595, prevented the development of depression-like behavior under LAN, but had no effect on dendritic spine density in the hippocampus. These results indicate a partial role for TNF in the reversible depression-like phenotype observed under chronic dim LAN. Recent environmental changes, such as LAN exposure, may warrant more attention as possible contributors to rising rates of mood disorders.
Saposin C-dioleoylphosphatidylserine (SapC-DOPS) nanovesicles are a nanotherapeutic which effectively target and destroy cancer cells. Here, we explore the systemic use of SapC-DOPS in several models of brain cancer, including glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), and the molecular mechanism behind its tumor-selective targeting specificity. Using two validated spontaneous brain tumor models, we demonstrate the ability of SapC-DOPS to selectively and effectively cross the blood-brain tumor barrier (BBTB) to target brain tumors in vivo and reveal the targeting to be contingent on the exposure of the anionic phospholipid phosphatidylserine (PtdSer). Increased cell surface expression of PtdSer levels was found to correlate with SapC-DOPS-induced killing efficacy, and tumor targeting in vivo was inhibited by blocking PtdSer exposed on cells. Apart from cancer cell killing, SapC-DOPS also exerted a strong antiangiogenic activity in vitro and in vivo. Interestingly, unlike traditional chemotherapy, hypoxic cells were sensitized to SapC-DOPS-mediated killing. This study emphasizes the importance of PtdSer exposure for SapC-DOPS targeting and supports the further development of SapC-DOPS as a novel antitumor and antiangiogenic agent for brain tumors.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder with no effective treatment to date. Despite its multi-factorial aetiology, oxidative stress is hypothesized to be one of the key pathogenic mechanisms. It is thus proposed that manipulation of the expression of antioxidant genes that are downregulated in the presence of mutant SOD1 may serve as a therapeutic strategy for motor neuronal protection. Lentiviral vectors expressing either PRDX3 or NRF2 genes were tested in the motor neuronal-like NSC34 cell line, and in the ALS tissue culture model, NSC34 cells expressing the human SOD1(G93A) mutation. The NSC34 SOD1(G93A) cells overexpressing either PRDX3 or NRF2 showed a significant decrease in endogenous oxidation stress levels by 40 and 50% respectively compared with controls, whereas cell survival was increased by 30% in both cases. The neuroprotective potential of those two genes was further investigated in vivo in the SOD1(G93A) ALS mouse model, by administering intramuscular injections of adenoassociated virus serotype 6 (AAV6) expressing either of the target genes at a presymptomatic stage. Despite the absence of a significant effect in survival, disease onset or progression, which can be explained by the inefficient viral delivery, the promising in vitro data suggest that a more widespread CNS delivery is needed.
This monograph presents the pediatric portion of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Toolbox Cognition Battery (CB) of the NIH Toolbox for the Assessment of Neurological and Behavioral Function. The NIH Toolbox is an initiative of the Neuroscience Blueprint, a collaborative framework through which 16 NIH Institutes, Centers, and Offices jointly support neuroscience-related research, to accelerate discoveries and reduce the burden of nervous system disorders. The CB is one of four modules that measure cognitive, emotional, sensory, and motor health across the lifespan. The CB is unique in its continuity across childhood, adolescence, early adulthood, and old age, and in order to help create a common currency among disparate studies, it is also available at low cost to researchers for use in large-scale longitudinal and epidemiologic studies. This chapter describes the evolution of the CB; methods for selecting cognitive subdomains and instruments; the rationale for test design; and a validation study in children and adolescents, ages 3-15 years. Subsequent chapters feature detailed discussions of each test measure and its psychometric properties (Chapters 2-6), the factor structure of the test battery (Chapter 7), the effects of age and education on composite test scores (Chapter 8), and a final summary and discussion (Chapter 9). As the chapters in this monograph demonstrate, the CB has excellent psychometric properties, and the validation study provided evidence for the increasing differentiation of cognitive abilities with age.
Recently, a number of genetic parkinsonian conditions have been recognized that share some features with the clinical syndromes of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), corticobasal degeneration (CBD), and multiple system atrophy (MSA), the classic phenotypic templates of atypical parkinsonism. For example, patients with progranulin, dynactin, or ATP13A gene mutations may have vertical supranuclear gaze palsy. This has made differential diagnosis difficult for practitioners. In this review, our goal is to make clinicians aware of these genetic disorders and provide clinical clues and syndromic associations, as well as investigative features, that may help in diagnosing these disorders. The correct identification of these patients has important clinical, therapeutic, and research implications.  2013 Movement Disorder Society.




We present a summary of the scientific deliberations and major conclusions that arose from a workshop on the BRAIN Initiative.


In the hippocampus, spatial and non-spatial parameters may be represented by a dual coding scheme, in which coordinates in space are expressed by the collective firing locations of place cells and the diversity of experience at these locations is encoded by orthogonal variations in firing rates. Although the spatial signal may reflect input from medial entorhinal cortex, the sources of the variations in firing rate have not been identified. We found that rate variations in rat CA3 place cells depended on inputs from the lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC). Hippocampal rate remapping, induced by changing the shape or the color configuration of the environment, was impaired by lesions in those parts of the ipsilateral LEC that provided the densest input to the hippocampal recording position. Rate remapping was not observed in LEC itself. The findings suggest that LEC inputs are important for efficient rate coding in the hippocampus.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are classically known as coincidence detectors for the induction of long-term synaptic plasticity and have been implicated in hippocampal CA3 cell-dependent spatial memory functions that likely rely on dynamic cellular ensemble encoding of space. The unique functional properties of both NMDARs and mossy fiber projections to CA3 pyramidal cells place mossy fiber NMDARs in a prime position to influence CA3 ensemble dynamics. By mimicking presynaptic and postsynaptic activity patterns observed in vivo, we found a burst timing-dependent pattern of activity that triggered bidirectional long-term NMDAR plasticity at mossy fiber-CA3 synapses in rat hippocampal slices. This form of plasticity imparts bimodal control of mossy fiber-driven CA3 burst firing and spike temporal fidelity. Moreover, we found that mossy fiber NMDARs mediate heterosynaptic metaplasticity between mossy fiber and associational-commissural synapses. Thus, bidirectional NMDAR plasticity at mossy fiber-CA3 synapses could substantially contribute to the formation, storage and recall of CA3 cell assembly patterns.
A choice that reliably produces a preferred outcome can be automated to liberate cognitive resources for other tasks. Should an outcome become less desirable, behavior must adapt in parallel or it becomes perseverative. Corticostriatal systems are known to mediate choice learning and flexibility, but the molecular mechanisms of these processes are not well understood. We integrated mouse behavioral, immunocytochemical, in vivo electrophysiological, genetic and pharmacological approaches to study choice. We found that the dorsal striatum (DS) was increasingly activated with choice learning, whereas reversal of learned choice engaged prefrontal regions. In vivo, DS neurons showed activity associated with reward anticipation and receipt that emerged with learning and relearning. Corticostriatal or striatal deletion of Grin2b (encoding the NMDA-type glutamate receptor subunit GluN2B) or DS-restricted GluN2B antagonism impaired choice learning, whereas cortical Grin2b deletion or OFC GluN2B antagonism impaired shifting. Our convergent data demonstrate how corticostriatal GluN2B circuits govern the ability to learn and shift choice behavior.
The construction of cerebral cortex begins with the formation of radial glia. Once formed, polarized radial glial cells divide either symmetrically or asymmetrically to balance appropriate production of progenitor cells and neurons. Following birth, neurons use the processes of radial glia as scaffolding for oriented migration. Radial glia therefore provide an instructive structural matrix to coordinate the generation and placement of distinct groups of cortical neurons in the developing cerebral cortex. We found that Arl13b, a cilia-enriched small GTPase that is mutated in Joubert syndrome, was critical for the initial formation of the polarized radial progenitor scaffold. Using developmental stage-specific deletion of Arl13b in mouse cortical progenitors, we found that early neuroepithelial deletion of ciliary Arl13b led to a reversal of the apical-basal polarity of radial progenitors and aberrant neuronal placement. Arl13b modulated ciliary signaling necessary for radial glial polarity. Our findings indicate that Arl13b signaling in primary cilia is crucial for the initial formation of a polarized radial glial scaffold and suggest that disruption of this process may contribute to aberrant neurodevelopment and brain abnormalities in Joubert syndrome-related ciliopathies.
Attention is commonly thought to be manifest through local variations in neural gain. However, what would be the effects of brain-wide changes in gain? We hypothesized that global fluctuations in gain modulate the breadth of attention and the degree to which processing is focused on aspects of the environment to which one is predisposed to attend. We found that measures of pupil diameter, which are thought to track levels of locus coeruleus norepinephrine activity and neural gain, were correlated with the degree to which learning was focused on stimulus dimensions that individual human participants were more predisposed to process. In support of our interpretation of this effect in terms of global changes in gain, we found that the measured pupillary and behavioral variables were strongly correlated with global changes in the strength and clustering of functional connectivity, as brain-wide fluctuations of gain would predict.
Syndromes caused by insufficient secretion of peptide hormones originate either from an inadequate population of endocrine secretory cells or from deficiencies in the secretory process. Two remarkable new studies highlight the importance of PICK1 and ICA69 in creating the protein storage organelles needed for regulated exocytosis, independent of stimulus-secretion coupling.
Hypnosis uses the powerful effects of attention and suggestion to produce, modify and enhance a broad range of subjectively compelling experiences and behaviours. For more than a century, hypnotic suggestion has been used successfully as an adjunctive procedure to treat a wide range of clinical conditions. More recently, hypnosis has attracted a growing interest from a cognitive neuroscience perspective. Recent studies using hypnotic suggestion show how manipulating subjective awareness in the laboratory can provide insights into brain mechanisms involved in attention, motor control, pain perception, beliefs and volition. Moreover, they indicate that hypnotic suggestion can create informative analogues of clinical conditions that may be useful for understanding these conditions and their treatments.
Planar cell polarity (PCP) is complementary to the intrinsic polarization of single cells and refers to the global coordination of cell behaviour in the plane of a tissue and, by extension, to the signalling pathways that control it. PCP is most evident in cell sheets, and research into PCP was for years confined to studies in Drosophila melanogaster. However, PCP has more recently emerged as an important phenomenon in vertebrates, in which it regulates various developmental processes and is associated with multiple disorders. In particular, core PCP genes are crucial for the development and function of the nervous system. They are involved in neural tube closure, ependymal polarity, neuronal migration, dendritic growth and axon guidance.




Many psychoactive drugs are used recreationally, particularly by young people. This use and its perceived dangers have led to many different classes of drugs being banned under national laws and international conventions. Indeed, the possession of cannabis, 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine (MDMA; also known as ecstasy) and psychedelics is stringently regulated. An important and unfortunate outcome of the controls placed on these and other psychoactive drugs is that they make research into their mechanisms of action and potential therapeutic uses - for example, in depression and post-traumatic stress disorder - difficult and in many cases almost impossible.
All forms of locomotion are repetitive motor activities that require coordinated bilateral activation of muscles. The executive elements of locomotor control are networks of spinal neurons that determine gait pattern through the sequential activation of motor-neuron pools on either side of the body axis. However, little is known about the constraints that link left-right coordination to locomotor speed. Recent advances have indicated that both excitatory and inhibitory commissural neurons may be involved in left-right coordination. But the neural underpinnings of this, and a possible causal link between these different groups of commissural neurons and left-right alternation, are lacking. Here we show, using intersectional mouse genetics, that ablation of a group of transcriptionally defined commissural neurons--the V0 population--leads to a quadrupedal hopping at all frequencies of locomotion. The selective ablation of inhibitory V0 neurons leads to a lack of left-right pattern at low frequencies, mixed coordination at medium frequencies, and alternation at high locomotor frequencies. When ablation is targeted to excitatory V0 neurons, left-right alternation is present at low frequencies, and hopping is restricted to medium and high locomotor frequencies. Therefore, the intrinsic logic of the central control of locomotion incorporates a modular organization, with two subgroups of V0 neurons required for the existence of left-right alternating modes at different speeds of locomotion. The two molecularly distinct sets of commissural neurons may constrain species-related naturally occurring frequency-dependent coordination and be involved in the evolution of different gaits.
We study a rate-model neural network composed of excitatory and inhibitory neurons in which neuronal input-output functions are power laws with a power greater than 1, as observed in primary visual cortex. This supralinear input-output function leads to supralinear summation of network responses to multiple inputs for weak inputs. We show that for stronger inputs, which would drive the excitatory subnetwork to instability, the network will dynamically stabilize provided feedback inhibition is sufficiently strong. For a wide range of network and stimulus parameters, this dynamic stabilization yields a transition from supralinear to sublinear summation of network responses to multiple inputs. We compare this to the dynamic stabilization in the balanced network, which yields only linear behavior. We more exhaustively analyze the two-dimensional case of one excitatory and one inhibitory population. We show that in this case, dynamic stabilization will occur whenever the determinant of the weight matrix is positive and the inhibitory time constant is sufficiently small, and analyze the conditions for supersaturation, or decrease of firing rates with increasing stimulus contrast (which represents increasing input firing rates). In work to be presented elsewhere, we have found that this transition from supralinear to sublinear summation can explain a wide variety of nonlinearities in cerebral cortical processing.
We assessed patterns of gray matter atrophy according to-age-at-onset in a large sample of 215 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and 129 control subjects with voxel-based morphometry using 3-Tesla 3D T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. Local gray matter amounts were compared between late- and early-onset AD patients and older and younger control subjects, taking into account the effect of apolipoprotein E. Additionally, combined effects of age and diagnosis on volumes of hippocampus and precuneus were assessed. Compared with age-matched control subjects, late-onset AD patients exhibited atrophy of the hippocampus, right temporal lobe, and cerebellum, whereas early-onset AD patients showed gray matter atrophy in hippocampus, temporal lobes, precuneus, cingulate gyrus, and inferior frontal cortex. Direct comparisons between late- and early-onset AD patients revealed more pronounced atrophy of precuneus in early-onset AD patients and more severe atrophy in medial temporal lobe in late-onset AD patients. Age and diagnosis independently affected the hippocampus; moreover, the interaction between age and diagnosis showed that precuneus atrophy was most prominent in early-onset AD patients. Our results suggest that patterns of atrophy might vary in the spectrum of AD.
Our aim was to compare the predictive accuracy of 4 different medial temporal lobe measurements for Alzheimer's disease (AD) in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Manual hippocampal measurement, automated atlas-based hippocampal measurement, a visual rating scale (MTA-score), and lateral ventricle measurement were compared. Predictive accuracy for AD 2 years after baseline was assessed by receiver operating characteristics analyses with area under the curve as outcome. Annual cognitive decline was assessed by slope analyses up to 5 years after baseline. Correlations with biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were investigated. Subjects with MCI were selected from the Development of Screening Guidelines and Clinical Criteria for Predementia AD (DESCRIPA) multicenter study (n= 156) and the single-center VU medical center (n= 172). At follow-up, area under the curve was highest for automated atlas-based hippocampal measurement (0.71) and manual hippocampal measurement (0.71), and lower for MTA-score (0.65) and lateral ventricle (0.60). Slope analysis yielded similar results. Hippocampal measurements correlated with CSF total tau and phosphorylated tau, not with beta-amyloid 1-42. MTA-score and lateral ventricle volume correlated with CSF beta-amyloid 1-42. We can conclude that volumetric hippocampal measurements are the best predictors of AD conversion in subjects with MCI.
Compelling evidence suggests that accumulation and aggregation of alpha-synuclein (-syn) contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we describe a novel Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) transgenic model, in which we have expressed wild-type human -syn fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP), under control of the mouse -syn promoter. We observed a widespread and high expression of -syn-GFP in multiple brain regions, including the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and the ventral tegmental area, the olfactory bulb as well as in neocortical neurons. With increasing age, transgenic mice exhibited reductions in amphetamine-induced locomotor activity in the open field, impaired rotarod performance and a reduced striatal dopamine release, as measured by amperometry. In addition, they progressively developed deficits in an odor discrimination test. Western blot analysis revealed that -syn-GFP and phospho--syn levels increased in multiple brain regions, as the mice grew older. Further, we observed, by immunohistochemical staining for phospho--syn and in vivo by two-photon microscopy, the formation of -syn aggregates as the mice aged. The latter illustrates that the model can be used to track -syn aggregation in vivo. In summary, this novel BAC -syn-GFP model mimics a unique set of aspects of PD progression combined with the possibility of tracking -syn aggregation in neocortex of living mice. Therefore, this -syn-GFP-mouse model can provide a powerful tool that will facilitate the study of -syn biology and its involvement in PD pathogenesis.
Neuroglobin (Ngb) is an endogenous neuroprotective molecule against hypoxic/ischemic brain injury, but the underlying mechanisms remain largely undefined. Our recent study revealed that Ngb can bind to voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), a regulator of mitochondria permeability transition (MPT). In this study we examined the role of Ngb in MPT pore (mPTP) opening following oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) in primary cultured mouse cortical neurons. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and immunocytochemistry showed that the binding between Ngb and VDAC was increased after OGD compared to normoxia, indicating the OGD-enhanced Ngb-VDAC interaction. Ngb overexpression protected primary mouse cortical neurons from OGD-induced neuronal death, to an extent comparable to mPTP opening inhibitor, cyclosporine A (CsA) pretreatment. We further measured the role of Ngb in OGD-induced mPTP opening using Ngb overexpression and knockdown approaches in primary cultured neurons, and recombinant Ngb exposure to isolated mitochondria. Same as CsA pretreatment, Ngb overexpression significantly reduced OGD-induced mPTP opening markers including mitochondria swelling, mitochondrial NAD(+) release, and cytochrome c (Cyt c) release in primary cultured neurons. Recombinant Ngb incubation significantly reduced OGD-induced NAD(+) release and Cyt c release from isolated mitochondria. In contrast, Ngb knockdown significantly increased OGD-induced neuron death, and increased OGD-induced mitochondrial NAD(+) release and Cyt c release as well, and these outcomes could be rescued by CsA pretreatment. In summary, our results demonstrated that Ngb overexpression can inhibit OGD-induced mPTP opening in primary cultured mouse cortical neurons, which may be one of the molecular mechanisms of Ngb's neuroprotection.
NAP (davunetide) is a novel neuroprotective compound with mechanism of action that appears to involve microtubule (MT) stabilization and repair. To evaluate, for the first time, the impact of NAP on axonal transport in vivo and to translate it to neuroprotection in a severe neurodegeneration, the SOD1-G93A mouse model for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) was used. Manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), estimating axonal transport rates, revealed a significant reduction of the anterograde axonal transport in the ALS mice compared to healthy control mice. Acute NAP treatment normalized axonal transport rates in these ALS mice. Tau hyperphosphorylation, associated with MT dysfunction and defective axonal transport, was discovered in the brains of the ALS mice and was significantly reduced by chronic NAP treatment. Furthermore, in healthy wild type (WT) mice, NAP reversed axonal transport disruption by colchicine, suggesting drug-dependent protection against axonal transport impairment through stabilization of the neuronal MT network. Histochemical analysis showed that chronic NAP treatment significantly protected spinal cord motor neurons against ALS-like pathology. Sequential MRI measurements, correlating brain structure with ALS disease progression, revealed a significant damage to the ventral tegmental area (VTA), indicative of impairments to the dopaminergic pathways relative to healthy controls. Chronic daily NAP treatment of the SOD1-G93A mice, initiated close to disease onset, delayed degeneration of the trigeminal, facial and hypoglossal motor nuclei as was significantly apparent at days 90-100 and further protected the VTA throughout life. Importantly, protection of the VTA was significantly correlated with longevity and overall, NAP treatment significantly prolonged life span in the ALS mice.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents an escalating global threat as life expectancy and disease prevalence continue to increase. There is a considerable need for earlier diagnoses to improve clinical outcomes. Fluid biomarkers measured from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood, or imaging biomarkers have considerable potential to assist in the diagnosis and management of AD. An additional important utility of biomarkers is in novel therapeutic development and clinical trials to assess efficacy and side effects of therapeutic interventions. Because many biomarkers are initially examined in animal models, the extent to which markers translate from animals to humans is an important issue. The current review highlights many existing and pipeline biomarker approaches, focusing on the degree of correspondence between AD patients and animal models. The review also highlights the need for greater translational correspondence between human and animal biomarkers.
The identification of a drug that stimulates endogenous myelination and spares axon degeneration during multiple sclerosis (MS) could potentially reduce the rate of disease progression. Using experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a mouse model of MS, we have previously shown that prophylactic administration of the estrogen receptor (ER)  ligand 2,3-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)-propionitrile (DPN) decreases clinical disease, is neuroprotective, stimulates endogenous myelination, and improves axon conduction without altering peripheral cytokine production or reducing central nervous system (CNS) inflammation. Here, we assessed the effects of therapeutic DPN treatment during peak EAE disease, which represents a more clinically relevant treatment paradigm. In addition, we investigated the mechanism of action of DPN treatment-induced recovery during EAE. Given that prophylactic and therapeutic treatments with DPN during EAE improved remyelination-induced axon conduction, and that ER ( and ) and membrane (m)ERs are present on oligodendrocyte lineage cells, a direct effect of treatment on oligodendrocytes is likely. DPN treatment of EAE animals resulted in phosphorylated ER and activated the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/serine-threonine-specific protein kinase (Akt)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway, a pathway required for oligodendrocyte survival and axon myelination. These results, along with our previous studies of prophylactic DPN treatment, make DPN and similar ER ligands immediate and favorable therapeutic candidates for demyelinating disease.
Spinocerebellar Ataxia Type 1 (SCA1) is an autosomal dominant late onset neurodegenerative disease caused by an expanded polyglutamine tract in ataxin-1. Here, we compared the protective effects of overexpressing ataxin-1-like using recombinant AAVs, or reducing expression of mutant ataxin-1 using virally delivered RNA interference (RNAi), in a transgenic mouse model of SCA1. For the latter, we used an artificial microRNA (miR) design that optimizes potency, efficacy and safety to suppress ataxin-1 expression (miS1). Delivery of either ataxin-1-like or miS1 viral vectors to SCA1 mice cerebella resulted in widespread cerebellar Purkinje cell transduction and improved behavioral and histological phenotypes. Our data indicate the utility of either approach as a possible therapy for SCA1 patients.
We report a case study of a semantic dementia patient, whose episodic memory consolidation was tested over a 2-month period. The results reveal that despite early retention of information, the patient lost all explicit information of the newly learnt material after 2 weeks. By contrast, he retained implicit word information even after a 4-week delay. These findings highlight the critical time window of 2-4 weeks in which newly learnt information should be re-encoded in rehabilitations studies. The results also indicate that learnt information can be still accessed with implicit retrieval strategies when explicit retrieval fails.
Altered expression and activity of GLT-1 have been characterized in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients and in animal models of the disease. Data suggest that the expression of two C-terminus splice variants of GLT-1 (namely GLT-1a and GLT-1b) can be differentially regulated in this pathological context. We herein characterized the expression of GLT-1a and GLT-1b mRNA and the glutamate uptake activity in the fronto-temporal cortex and the lumbar spinal cord of transgenic rats expressing hSOD1(G93A) at various stages of the disease. We also investigated the expression and activity of the other key glutamate transporters GLAST and EAAC1. While the progression of the disease was associated with a reduction of the overall GLT-1 activity in both cortex and spinal cord, the regulation of GLT-1a and GLT-1b transcripts showed different profiles. In the cortex, GLT-1a mRNA which appears as the most abundant isoform at a pre-symptomatic stage was strongly decreased during the progression of the disease while GLT-1b mRNA increased to reach a similar level as GLT-1a at end-stage. In the lumbar spinal cord of transgenic rats, both GLT-1a and GLT-1b mRNAs, expressed at the same levels before the symptom onset, were strongly decreased in the ventral horns. While no modification of GLAST was detected, EAAC1 mRNA was highly increased at a pre-symptomatic stage in transgenic animals, explaining a higher activity of glutamate transporters at this age. These results demonstrate that glutamate transporters are differentially expressed in nervous structures of wild-type and transgenic animals although the total GLT-1 activity was constantly decreased during the disease progression.
Long-term exposure of ethanol (EtOH) alters the structure and function in brain and spinal cord. The present study addresses the mechanisms of EtOH-induced damaging effects on spinal motoneurons in vitro. Altered morphology and biochemical changes of such damage were demonstrated by in situ Wright staining and DNA ladder assay. EtOH at low to moderate (25-50mM) concentrations induced damaging effects in the motoneuronal scaffold which involved activation of proteases like -calpain and caspase-3. Caspase-8 was seen only at higher (100mM) EtOH concentration. Further, pretreatment with calpeptin, a potent calpain inhibitor, confirmed the involvement of active proteases in EtOH-induced damage to motoneurons. The lysosomal enzyme cathepsin D was also elevated in the motoneurons by EtOH, and this effect was significantly attenuated by inhibitor treatment. Overall, EtOH exposure rendered spinal motoneurons vulnerable to damage, and calpeptin provided protection, suggesting a critical role of calpain activation in EtOH-induced alterations in spinal motoneurons.


How do populations of neurons represent a variable of interest? The notion of feature spaces is a useful concept to approach this question: According to this model, the activation patterns across a neuronal population are composed of different pattern components. The strength of each of these components varies with one latent feature, which together are the dimensions along which the population represents the variable. Here we propose a new method to determine the number of feature dimensions that best describes the activation patterns. The method is based on Gaussian linear classifiers that use only the first d most important pattern dimensions. Using cross-validation, we can identify the classifier that best matches the dimensionality of the neuronal representation. We test this method on two datasets of motor cortical activation patterns measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), during (i) simultaneous presses of all fingers of a hand at different force levels and (ii) presses of different individual fingers at a single force level. As expected, the new method shows that the representation of force is low-dimensional; the neural activation for different force levels is scaled versions of each other. In comparison, individual finger presses are represented in a full, four-dimensional feature space. The approach can be used to determine an important characteristic of neuronal population codes without knowing the form of the underlying features. It therefore provides a novel tool in the building of quantitative models of neuronal population activity as measured with fMRI or other approaches.
Knowledge of the physical attributes of objects is commonly assumed to be distributed near their respective modality-specific brain regions. The exact neural correlates for such knowledge, especially how it is maintained in the resting state, are largely unknown. In the current study, we explored the intrinsic neural basis related to a specific type of object knowledge - color - by investigating the relationship between spontaneous brain activity and color knowledge behavioral performance. We correlated the regional amplitude of spontaneous low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF, a resting-state fMRI parameter) with healthy participants' performance on two object color knowledge tasks (object color verification and color attribute judgment). We found that ALFF in bilateral lingual and fusiform gyri and right inferior occipital gyrus reliably predicted participants' color knowledge performance (correlation coefficients=0.55-0.70), and that calcarine cortex showed a similar trend, although less stable. Furthermore, the ALFF-behavior correlations for other types of object knowledge (i.e. form, motion and sound) in these regions were minimal and significantly lower than those for color knowledge, suggesting that the effects in the observed regions were not merely due to general object processing. Furthermore, we showed that functional connectivity strengths of the lingual/fusiform and inferior occipital regions are significantly associated with color knowledge performance, indicating that they work as a network to support color knowledge processing or the acquisition of such knowledge. Our findings show the critical role of ventral medial occipito-temporal regions in processing or acquiring color knowledge and highlight the behavioral significance of spontaneous brain activity in the resting state.
In everyday life, expert advice has a great impact on individual decision making. Although often beneficial, advice may sometimes be misleading and cause people to pursue actions that entail suboptimal outcomes. This detrimental effect may diminish over time, when individuals have gathered sufficient contradicting evidence. Given the strong influence initial information has on opinion and personality impression formation, we aimed to investigate whether initial advice-confirmatory experience potentiates the rigidity with which persons stick to misleading advice. Furthermore, we intended to characterize the neuronal basis of such putative primacy effect. While undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), participants selected between probabilistically reinforced symbols and were given the misleading tip that two low-probability symbols had a high reinforcement probability. One of these symbols initially received manipulated advice-congruent positive feedback (PF), the other one advice-incongruent negative feedback. Behaviorally, participants were impaired at learning to avoid advice-receiving symbols and overvalued them in terms of willingness to pay (WTP) in an auction market. Crucially, initial PF potentiated all effects. Greater ventral pallidal response to initial but not later PF during learning predicted higher behavioral WTP. Our results demonstrate that the nature of the very first advice-related experience already determines how strongly misleading advice will influence learning and ensuing decision making-an effect that is mediated by the ventral pallidum. Thus, in contrast to conventional reinforcement learning, learning under the influence of advice is susceptible to primacy effects. The present findings advance our understanding of why false beliefs are particularly difficult to change once they have been reinforced.
Multivariate classification algorithms are powerful tools for predicting cognitive or pathophysiological states from neuroimaging data. Assessing the utility of a classifier in application domains such as cognitive neuroscience, brain-computer interfaces, or clinical diagnostics necessitates inference on classification performance at more than one level, i.e., both in individual subjects and in the population from which these subjects were sampled. Such inference requires models that explicitly account for both fixed-effects (within-subjects) and random-effects (between-subjects) variance components. While models of this sort are standard in mass-univariate analyses of fMRI data, they have not yet received much attention in multivariate classification studies of neuroimaging data, presumably because of the high computational costs they entail. This paper extends a recently developed hierarchical model for mixed-effects inference in multivariate classification studies and introduces an efficient variational Bayes approach to inference. Using both synthetic and empirical fMRI data, we show that this approach is equally simple to use as, yet more powerful than, a conventional t-test on subject-specific sample accuracies, and computationally much more efficient than previous sampling algorithms and permutation tests. Our approach is independent of the type of underlying classifier and thus widely applicable. The present framework may help establish mixed-effects inference as a future standard for classification group analyses.
Previous studies have shown that taking into account another person's perspective to guide decisions is more difficult when their perspective is incongruent from one's own compared to when it is congruent. Here we used dynamic causal modelling (DCM) for functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate effective connectivity between prefrontal and posterior brain regions in a task that requires participants to take into account another person's perspective in order to guide the selection of an action. Using a new procedure to score model evidence without computationally costly estimation, we conducted an exhaustive search for the best of all possible models. The results elucidate how the activity in the areas from our previously reported analysis (Dumontheil et al., 2010) are causally linked and how the connections are modulated by both the social as well as executive task demands of the task. We find that the social demands modulate the backward connections from the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) more strongly than the forward connections from the superior occipital gyrus (SOG) and the medial temporal gyrus (MTG) to the MPFC. This was also the case for the backward connection from the MTG to the SOG. Conversely, the executive task demands modulated the forward connections of the SOG and the MTG to the MPFC more strongly than the backward connections. We interpret the results in terms of hierarchical predictive coding.
Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) provides information on neuronal and axonal viability, energetics of cellular structures, and status of cellular membranes. Proton MRS appeals to clinicians and scientists because its application in the clinical setting can increase the specificity of MR imaging. The objective of this article is to provide descriptive concepts of the technique and its application in vivo for a variety of patient populations. When appropriately incorporating MRS into the neuroradiologic evaluation, this technique produces relevant information to radiologists and clinicians for their understanding of adult and pediatric neurologically based disease processes.
Advances in functional neurosurgery have expanded the treatment of Parkinson disease (PD) to targeted electrical stimulation of specific nodes in the basal ganglia circuitry. Deep brain stimulation (DBS), applied to selected patients and difficult-to-manage motor fluctuations, yields substantial reductions in off time and dyskinesia. Emerging concepts in DBS include examination of new targets, such as the potential efficacy of pedunculopontine nucleus stimulation for treatment of freezing and falls, the use of pathologic oscillations in the beta band to construct an adaptive &quot;closed-loop&quot; DBS, and new technologies, including segmented electrodes to steer current toward specific neural populations.
The concept of flow diversion is based on placing a stent across the neck of an intracranial aneurysm, which then results in flow away from the aneurysm, inducing thrombosis and occlusion of the aneurysm over time. Modern flow diverters, such as the Pipeline embolization device, are currently used for unruptured anterior circulation aneurysm. As the use and application of flow diverters becomes more widespread, some important questions remain relating to the effective treatment of dual antiplatelet therapy, the occurrence of delayed aneurysm ruptures and intraparenchymal hemorrhages, and long-term patency rates.

The behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) is one of the most frequent neurodegenerative disorders with a presenile onset. It is characterized by a long phase of subclinical behavioral changes and social conduct disorders, associated with a progressive modification of personality. Recently, an international consortium of experts developed revised guidelines for its clinical diagnosis, which highlight the supportive role of biomarkers in the diagnostic process. According to new criteria, bvFTD can be classified in &quot;possible&quot; (requiring three of six specific clinical features), &quot;probable&quot; (in the presence of functional disability and typical neuroimaging features), and &quot;with definite frontotemporal lobar degeneration&quot; (requiring the presence of a known causal mutation or a histopathological confirmation). Familial aggregation is frequently reported in bvFTD and frontotemporal lobar degeneration in general, with an autosomal dominant transmission in about 10 % cases. The aim of this paper is to review and discuss recent advances in the knowledge of clinical, neuropsychological, and imaging features of bvFTD. We also briefly summarize the available genetic information about the frontotemporal lobar degeneration spectrum.
Role of mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress has been well documented in various cognitive-related disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. Aluminum is a neurotoxic metal that may be involved in the progression of neurodegenerative processes. The antioxidant and memory enhancing effects of Centella asiatica (CA) are well known in the last few decades. Therefore, the present study has been designed to explore the neuroprotective effect of CA on chronic aluminum exposure induced mitochondrial enzyme alteration, oxidative stress, apoptosis and cognitive dysfunction in rat. Aluminum (100 mg/kg) and CA (150 and 300 mg/kg) were administered daily for a period of 6 weeks in male Wistar rats. Various behavioral, biochemical and cellular estimations and aluminum concentration were assessed. Chronic aluminum administration resulted in memory impairment and caused marked oxidative damage associated with mitochondria impairment. It also caused a significant increase in caspase-3 activity, acetylcholine esterase activity and aluminum concentration in hippocampus and cerebral cortex of rat brain. Chronic administration of CA significantly improved memory performance, oxidative defense decreased aluminum concentration, caspase-3, acetylcholinestrease activity and reversal of mitochondrial enzyme activity as compared to aluminum-treated animals. Results of the study demonstrate neuroprotective potential of CA against aluminum-induced cognitive dysfunction and mito- oxidative damage.
Distribution of aquaporin-4 (AQP4) was studied by western analysis and immunofluorescence in rat astrocytes exposed to either hypothermic (30 C) or hyperosmolar (0.45 M sucrose) stress, and in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients who suffered traumatic brain injury (TBI). CSF was obtained from 5 healthy subjects and from 20 patients suffering from severe TBI. CSF samples were taken at admission and on days 3 and 5-7. Here we report that, in response to both hypothermia and hyperosmolar stress, AQP4 was markedly reduced in cultured astrocytes. We also found that AQP4 significantly increased in patients with severe brain injury in respect to healthy subjects (P &lt; 0.002). AQP4 in CSF remained unchanged in patients with elevated intracranial pressure (ICP), whereas there was a clear tendency to further increase in those patients whose ICP could be controlled within the normal range. We conclude that AQP4 levels in CSF are elevated after TBI and it might serve as a useful biochemical marker to assess brain water metabolism in clinical settings.
We assessed the presence, frequency and pattern of MRI abnormalities in non-dystrophic myotonia patients. We reviewed T1-weighted and STIR (short-tau-inversion-recovery) 3T MRI sequences of lower limb muscles at thigh and calf level in 21 patients with genetically confirmed non-dystrophic myotonia: 11 with CLCN1 mutations and 10 with SCN4A mutations, and 19 healthy volunteers. The MRI examinations of all patients showed hyperintensity within muscles on either T1-weighted or STIR images. Mild extensive or marked T1-weighted changes were noted in 10/21 patients and no volunteers. Muscles in the thigh were equally likely to be affected but in the calf there was sparing of tibialis posterior. Oedema was common in calf musculature especially in the medial gastrocnemius with STIR hyperintensity observed in 18/21 patients. In 10/11 CLCN1 patients this included a previously unreported &quot;central stripe&quot;, also present in 3/10 SCN4A patients but no volunteers. Degree of fatty infiltration correlated with age (rho=0.46, p&lt;0.05). Muscle MRI is frequently abnormal in non-dystrophic myotonia providing evidence of fatty infiltration and/or oedema. The pattern is distinct from other myotonic disorders; in particular the &quot;central stripe&quot; has not been reported in other conditions. Correlations with clinical parameters suggest a potential role for MRI as a biomarker.
We report two sisters, aged 11 and 6years, with AGAT deficiency syndrome (OMIM 612718) which is the least common creatine deficiency syndrome. They were born full-term to consanguineous parents and had moderate developmental delay. Examination showed an important language delay, a progressive proximal muscular weakness in the lower limbs with Gowers sign and myopathic electromyography. Investigations revealed undetectable guanidinoacetate and low level of creatine in plasma and urine, characteristic findings of AGAT deficiency syndrome. Brain magnetic resonance spectroscopy showed a markedly reduced level of creatine. Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase (GATM) gene sequencing revealed a homozygous missense mutation in exon 4:c.608A&gt;C, (p.Tyr203Ser). Thirteen months after beginning the treatment with oral creatine monohydrate 200mg/kg/day, then 400mg/kg/day, there was a dramatic improvement in muscle strength with Gowers sign disappearance in both patients, and a mild improvement in language and cognitive functions. AGAT deficiency syndrome should be considered in all patients with language retardation and cognitive impairment associated to a myopathy of unknown etiology such that early diagnosis must lead to creatine supplementation to cure the myopathy and improve language and cognitive function.
Vitamin D and its metabolites have pleomorphic roles in both nervous system health and disease. Animal models have been paramount in contributing to our knowledge and understanding of the consequences of vitamin D deficiency on brain development and its implications for adult psychiatric and neurological diseases. The conflation of in vitro, ex vivo, and animal model data provide compelling evidence that vitamin D has a crucial role in proliferation, differentiation, neurotrophism, neuroprotection, neurotransmission, and neuroplasticity. Vitamin D exerts its biological function not only by influencing cellular processes directly, but also by influencing gene expression through vitamin D response elements. This review highlights the epidemiological, neuropathological, experimental and molecular genetic evidence implicating vitamin D as a candidate in influencing susceptibility to a number of psychiatric and neurological diseases. The strength of evidence varies for schizophrenia, autism, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and is especially strong for multiple sclerosis.

Some clinical experiences indicate that H1-antihistamines, especially first-generation H1-antagonists, occasionally provoke convulsions in healthy children as well as epileptic patients. Desloratadine is a frequently used second-generation antihistamine considered to be effective and safe for the treatment of allergic diseases. We describe four children who experienced epilepsy associated with the nonsedating H(1)-antagonist desloratadine and discuss the neurophysiologic role of the central histaminergic system in seizure susceptibility. In conclusion, we recommend caution in treating epileptic patients with the histamine H(1)-antagonists, including second- and third-generation drugs that are frequently referred because they are considered to be nonsedating antihistamines.
Enhanced corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) release in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) is strongly associated with the generation of behavioral stress responses through activation of the CRF-R1 receptor subtype. Stress and anxiety-like behavior are modulated in part by the balance of peptide actions such as excitatory CRF and inhibitory neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor activation in the BLA. While the actions of CRF are clear, little is known about the cell type influenced by CRF receptor stimulation. These studies were designed to identify the cell types within the BLA activated by intra-BLA administration of CRF using multi-label immunohistochemistry for cFos and markers for pyramidal (CaMKII-immunopositive) and interneuronal [glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65)] cell populations. Administration of CRF into the BLA produced a dose-dependent increase in the expression of cFos-ir. Intra-BLA injection of CRF induced significant increases in cFos-ir in the CaMKII-ir population. Although increases in cFos-ir in GAD65-ir cells were observed, this did not reach statistical significance perhaps in part due to the decreased numbers of GAD65-ir cells within the BLA after CRF treatment. These findings demonstrate that CRF, when released into the BLA, activates projection neurons and that the activity of GABAergic interneurons is also altered by CRF treatment. Decreases in the number of GAD65-ir neurons could reflect either increased or decreased activity of these cells and future studies will more directly address these possibilities. The expression of cFos is associated with longer term regulation of gene expression which may be involved in the profound long term effects of neuropeptides, such as CRF, on the activity and plasticity of BLA pyramidal neurons.
Several psychiatric disorders involving the prefrontal cortex (PFC) are associated with a dysfunction of 5-HT(1A) receptors (5-HT(1A)R). These receptors, located on interneurons and pyramidal neurons, may influence neuronal excitability through a regulation of the balance between excitation (E) and inhibition (I). Patch-clamp recordings in mouse cortical slices were performed to determine the modulatory role of 5-HT(1A)R on the excitability and the synaptic plasticity of layer 5 pyramidal neurons (L5PyNs) of the PFC. This was done by a comparison of postsynaptic currents evoked by electrical stimulation in layer 2/3 of 5-HT(1A)R-KO and wild-type (WT) mice. We observed that the E-I balance was significantly changed from 20% E-80% I in WT mice to 23% E-77% I in 5-HT(1A)R-KO mice, demonstrating that 5-HT(1A)Rs contribute to the control of the balance between excitation and inhibition. Furthermore, we show that interfering with 5-HT(1A)R reduced the magnitude of the long term potentiation of excitation (eLTP) (induced by high frequency stimulation). In addition, we show that 5-HT(1A)Rs determine the orientation of the synaptic plasticity towards LTP or LTD or no plasticity through the modulation of NMDAR-mediated currents. Our data point out to a unique role of 5-HT(1A) postsynaptic receptors in PFC to adapt the functional plasticity of L5PyNs towards LTP, LTD or no plasticity. This brings a new way to intervene on neuronal networks of the PFC in anxiety disorders and schizophrenia.
Patients with neglect show disorders in horizontal space perception. It has been argued that these disorders may depend on a distortion of space that takes the form of a left-right relaxation of the representational medium that becomes progressively &quot;relaxed&quot; toward the contralesional space and progressively &quot;compressed&quot; toward the ipsilesional space (the space anisometry hypothesis). In the present paper we tested this hypothesis by using the Oppel-Kundt illusion that consists of the perception of a filled space as larger than an empty space of the same size. Two experiments were carried out with 14 brain-damaged patients with neglect, 9 brain-damaged patients without neglect and 12 healthy subjects. In the first experiment participants were requested to bisect and read words with different letter spacing simulating the way space is thought to be distorted in neglect. In the second experiment we asked the participants to physically and numerically bisect numerical intervals. The results of the two experiments are in line with the predictions of the space anisometry hypothesis. Specifically, with a background resembling the space distortion proposed by the space anisometry hypothesis, neglect signs are ameliorated in reading words and in numerically bisect numerical intervals, while they are worsened in bisecting words and physically bisect numerical intervals. These results support the idea that the abnormalities observed in typical neglect tests are due to a distorted internal representation of the outside world that takes the form of a mental continuum logarithmically distorted along the horizontal dimension.
Along with the understanding of the goal of an action (&quot;what&quot; is done) and the intention underlying it (&quot;why&quot; it is done), social interactions largely depend on the appraisal of the action from the dynamics of the movement: &quot;how&quot; it is performed (its &quot;vitality form&quot;). Do individuals with autism, especially children, possess this capacity? Here we show that, unlike typically developing individuals, individuals with autism reveal severe deficits in recognizing vitality forms, and their capacity to appraise them does not improve with age. Deficit in vitality form recognition appears, therefore, to be a newly recognized trait marker of autism.
Intrasensory interference during visual working memory (WM) maintenance by object stimuli (such as faces and scenes), has been shown to negatively impact WM performance, with greater detrimental impacts of interference observed in aging. Here we assessed age-related impacts by intrasensory WM interference from lower-level stimulus features such as visual and auditory motion stimuli. We consistently found that interference in the form of ignored distractions and secondary task interruptions presented during a WM maintenance period, degraded memory accuracy in both the visual and auditory domain. However, in contrast to prior studies assessing WM for visual object stimuli, feature-based interference effects were not observed to be significantly greater in older adults. Analyses of neural oscillations in the alpha frequency band further revealed preserved mechanisms of interference processing in terms of post-stimulus alpha suppression, which was observed maximally for secondary task interruptions in visual and auditory modalities in both younger and older adults. These results suggest that age-related sensitivity of WM to interference may be limited to complex object stimuli, at least at low WM loads.
Accessing the meaning of words, objects, people and facts is a human ability, made possible thanks to semantic processing. Although studies concerning its cortical organization are proficient, the subcortical connectivity underlying this semantic network received less attention. We used intraoperative direct electrostimulation, which mimics a transient virtual lesion during brain surgery for glioma in eight awaken patients, to map the anatomical white matter substrate subserving the semantic system. Patients performed a picture naming task and a non-verbal semantic association test during the electrical mapping. Direct electrostimulation of the inferior fronto-occipital fascicle, a poorly known ventral association pathway which runs throughout the brain, induced in all cases semantic disturbances. These transient disorders were highly reproducible, and concerned verbal as well as non-verbal output. Our results highlight for the first time the essential role of the left inferior fronto-occipital fascicle in multimodal (and not only in verbal) semantic processing. On the basis of these original findings, and in the lights of phylogenetic considerations regarding this fascicle, we suggest its possible implication in the monitoring of the human level of consciousness related to semantic memory, namely noetic consciousness.
When asked to bisect mentally numerical intervals, neglect patients show a displacement of the numerical midpoint similar to the one observed in physical line bisection. This spatial-numerical bias has been taken as evidence of the spatial nature of numerical magnitude representations. However, to date, neuropsychological studies in neglect patients have only used symbolic numerical material. Here, we compare the results of patients with right-hemisphere damage with and without unilateral left neglect and age-matched healthy control participants in two numerical comparison tasks using symbolic and non-symbolic materials, in order to determine whether the representation of non-symbolic numerosities was altered or not by the presence of neglect. When asked to judge if an Arabic digit or a sequence of flashed dots was smaller or larger than a reference value (i.e., 5), the responses of neglect patients to smaller magnitudes (i.e., 4) were impaired. Moreover, only neglect patients presented an asymmetrical distance effect (i.e., an enhanced effect only for stimuli of smaller numerical magnitude than the reference). These results provide the first direct evidence of a spatial bias in non-symbolic numerosity in neglect patients, and support the existence of common processing mechanisms and/or a representational system for symbolic and non-symbolic inputs.
The extent of visual perceptual processing that occurs in the absence of awareness is as yet unclear. Here we examined event-related-potential (ERP) indices of visual and cognitive processes as awareness was manipulated through object-substitution masking (OSM), an awareness-disrupting effect that has been hypothesized to result from the disruption of reentrant signaling to low-level visual cortical areas. In OSM, a visual stimulus array is briefly presented that includes a parafoveal visual target denoted by a cue, typically consisting of several surrounding dots. When the offset of the target-surrounding cue dots is delayed relative to the rest of the array, a striking reduction in the perception of the target image surrounded by the dots is observed. Using faces and houses as the target stimuli, we found that successful OSM reduced or eliminated all the measured electrophysiological indices of visual processing stages after 130ms post-stimulus. More specifically, when targets were missed within the masked condition (i.e., on trials with effective OSM that disrupted awareness), we observed fully intact early feed-forward processing up through the visual extrastriate P1 ERP component peaking at 100ms, followed by reduced low-level activity over the occipital pole 130-170ms post-stimulus, reduced ERP indices of lateralized shifts of attention toward the parafoveal target, reduced object-generic visual processing, abolished object-category-specific (face-specific) processing, and reduced late visual short-term-memory processing activity. The results provide a comprehensive electrophysiological account of the neurocognitive underpinnings of effective OSM of visual-object images, including evidence for central roles of early reentrant signal disruption and insufficient visual attentional deployment.
The corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) neuropeptide is found to have a pivotal role in the regulation of the behavioral and neuroendocrine responses to stressful challenges. Here, we studied the involvement of the hypothalamic CRF in learning under stressful conditions. We have used a site-specific viral approach to knockdown (KD) CRF expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). The two-way shuttle avoidance (TWSA) task was chosen to assess learning and memory under stressful conditions. Control animals learned to shuttle from one side to the other to avoid electrical foot shock by responding to a tone. Novel object and social recognition tasks were used to assess memory under less stressful conditions. KD of PVN-CRF expression decreased the number of avoidance responses in a TWSA session under moderate (0.8 mA), but not strong (1.5 mA), stimulus intensity compared to control rats. On the other hand, KD of PVN-CRF had no effect on memory performance in the less stressful novel object or social recognition tasks. Interestingly, basal or stress-induced corticosterone levels in CRF KD rats were not significantly different from controls. Taken together, the data suggest that the observed impairment was not a result of alteration in HPA axis activity, but rather due to reduced PVN-CRF activity on other brain areas. We propose that hypothalamic CRF is centrally involved in learning under moderate stressful challenge. Under 'basal' (less stressful) conditions or when the intensity of the stress is more demanding, central CRF ceases to be the determinant factor, as was indicated by performances in the TWSA with higher stimulus intensity or in the less stressful tasks of object and social recognition.
Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs) accumulate in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) after 1 month of withdrawal from a long-access cocaine self-administration regimen (6 h/d, 10d). This is functionally significant because CP-AMPARs mediate the 'incubated' cue-induced cocaine craving produced by this regimen. Our present goal was to determine if other commonly employed cocaine self-administration regimens also elicit CP-AMPAR accumulation. We compared four regimens, named according to whether sessions were short-access (ShA, 2 h) or long-access (LgA, 6 h) and the total number of sessions: LgA/10d (already shown to elicit CP-AMPAR accumulation), ShA/11d, ShA/20-24d, and LgA/20-24d. In the latter regimens, rats began with 10 days of ShA and then entered a differential phase (10-14 days) in which ShA sessions either continued or switched to LgA. Controls self-administered saline. After &gt;40 days of withdrawal, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were performed in NAc core medium spiny neurons to assess the contribution of CP-AMPAR transmission, based on the magnitude of synaptic suppression elicited by bath application of the selective CP-AMPAR antagonist naspm (100M). Naspm produced a non-significant (10%) attenuation of electrically evoked local excitatory postsynaptic current in the saline and ShA groups. By contrast, a significant naspm-induced synaptic attenuation (25-30%) was observed in both the LgA groups. Further analyses indicate that this emergence of CP-AMPAR transmission in the LgA groups is associated with increased baseline responsiveness of MSN to excitatory drive. Together with data on cocaine infusions in each group, our results show that CP-AMPAR accumulation and enhanced glutamate transmission is associated with longer sessions (6 h), rather than the number of sessions or cocaine infusions.
Kappa-opioid receptors (KORs) are important for motivation and other medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC)-dependent behaviors. Although KORs are present in the mPFC, their role in regulating transmission in this brain region and their contribution to KOR-mediated aversion are not known. Using in vivo microdialysis in rats and mice, we demonstrate that intra-mPFC administration of the selective KOR agonist U69,593 decreased local dopamine (DA) overflow, while reverse dialysis of the KOR antagonist nor-Binaltorphimine (nor-BNI) enhanced mPFC DA overflow. Extracellular amino-acid levels were also affected by KORs, as U69,593 reduced glutamate and GABA levels driven by the glutamate reuptake blocker, l-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate. Whole-cell recordings from mPFC layer V pyramidal neurons revealed that U69,593 decreased the frequency, but not amplitude, of glutamatergic mini EPSPs. To determine whether KOR regulation of mPFC DA overflow was mediated by KOR on DA terminals, we utilized a Cre recombinase-driven mouse line lacking KOR in DA neurons. In these mice, basal DA release or uptake was unaltered relative to controls, but attenuation of mPFC DA overflow by local U69,593 was not observed, indicating KOR acts directly on mPFC DA terminals to locally inhibit DA levels. Conditioning procedures were then used to determine whether mPFC KOR signaling was necessary for KOR-mediated aversion. U69,593-mediated conditioned place aversion was blocked by intra-mPFC nor-BNI microinjection. These findings demonstrate that mPFC KORs negatively regulate DA and amino-acid neurotransmission, and are necessary for KOR-mediated aversion.
Cocaine has actions in the peripheral nervous system that reliably precede--and thus predict--its soon-to-follow central rewarding effects. In cocaine-experienced animals, the peripheral cocaine signal is relayed to the central nervous system, triggering excitatory input to the ventral tegmental origin of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system, the system that mediates the rewarding effects of the drug. We used cocaine methiodide, a cocaine analog that does not cross the blood-brain barrier, to isolate the peripheral actions of cocaine and determine their central and behavioral effects in animals first trained to lever-press for cocaine hydrochloride (the centrally acting and abused form of the drug). We first confirmed with fast-scan cyclic voltammetry that cocaine methiodide causes rapid dopamine release from dopamine terminals in cocaine hydrochloride-trained rats. We then compared the ability of cocaine hydrochloride and cocaine methiodide to establish conditioned place preferences in rats with self-administration experience. While cocaine hydrochloride established stronger place preferences, cocaine methiodide was also effective and its effectiveness increased (incubated) over weeks of cocaine abstinence. Cocaine self-administration was extinguished when cocaine methiodide or saline was substituted for cocaine hydrochloride in the intravenous self-administration paradigm, but cocaine hydrochloride and cocaine methiodide each reinstated non-rewarded lever-pressing after extinction. Rats extinguished by cocaine methiodide substitution showed weaker cocaine-induced reinstatement than rats extinguished by saline substitution. These findings suggest that the conditioned peripheral effects of cocaine can contribute significantly to cocaine-induced (but not stress-induced) cocaine craving, and also suggest the cocaine cue as an important target for cue-exposure therapies for cocaine addiction.
The ability of amylin, a pancreatic -cell-derived neuropeptide, to promote negative energy balance has been ascribed to neural activation at the area postrema. However, despite amylin binding throughout the brain, the possible role of amylin signaling at other nuclei in the control of food intake has been largely neglected. We show that mRNA for all components of the amylin receptor complex is expressed in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a mesolimbic structure mediating food intake and reward. Direct activation of VTA amylin receptors reduces the intake of chow and palatable sucrose solution in rats. This effect is mediated by reductions in meal size and is not due to nausea/malaise or prolonged suppression of locomotor activity. VTA amylin receptor activation also reduces sucrose self-administration on a progressive ratio schedule. Finally, antagonist studies provide novel evidence that VTA amylin receptor blockade increases food intake and attenuates the intake-suppressive effects of a peripherally administered amylin analog, suggesting that amylin receptor signaling in the VTA is physiologically relevant for food intake control and potentially clinically relevant for the treatment of obesity.
Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) has recently become a noteworthy treatment option for significant stenosis involving the vertebral artery (VA) in selected patients. We conducted a prospective study to evaluate the efficacy, safety and mid-term follow up results of 206 cases received PTA with or without stent implant to treat their symptomatic atherosclerotic VA stenosis in all segments (V1-V4). In a prospective mono-arm trial from October 2008 to July 2012 in a single center, 239 lesions affecting the intra or extracranial VA (171 in V1, 17 in V2, 14 in V3, 21 in V4 and 16 in combined segments) were treated by PTA with or without stent implant. Non-disabling stroke patients who had failed conservative medical treatment and had angiographic evidence of &gt;50% stenosis in the dominant VA with clinical signs and symptoms of VB stenosis were included in this study. They were mean followed for 13.155.24 months after treatment. Overall, 206 patients underwent the procedure. A stent was implemented in 199 patients (96.6%). The periprocedural complication rate was 7.2%. The procedural (technical) success rate was 97.6%. Of the total 239 lesions, 223 were treated with stent implant. Clinical success was achieved in all 206 symptomatic patients after the procedure. Restenosis occurred in 15.9% after a mean 10.8 (6-24) months. Of those, 63.1% and 34.2% had mild and moderate stenosis that was treated medically, whereas one case (2.6%) with severe restenosis underwent balloon angioplasty. No deaths occurred during the follow-up period. The follow-up complication rate was 6.3%. TIA occurred in 4.4%, a minor stroke in 1.4% and a major stroke in one patient. The overall patient event-free survival was 92.4%. These results demonstrate the safety and feasibility of PTA with or without stent implant, with a high technical success rate, a low complication rate, a low restenosis rate and durable clinical success in patients with symptomatic VA stenosis. This approach seems to improve patients' immediate and mid-term clinical results. Randomized controlled trials are necessary to further validate this treatment option.


We rarely, if ever, repeatedly encounter exactly the same situation. This makes generalization crucial for real world decision making. We argue that categorization, the study of generalizable representations, is a type of decision making, and that categorization learning research would benefit from approaches developed to study the neuroscience of decision making. Similarly, methods developed to examine generalization and learning within the field of categorization may enhance decision making research. We first discuss perceptual information processing and integration, with an emphasis on accumulator models. We then examine learning the value of different decision making choices via experience, emphasizing reinforcement learning modeling approaches. Next we discuss how value is combined with other factors in decision making, emphasizing the effects of uncertainty. Finally, we describe how a final decision is selected via thresholding processes implemented by the basal ganglia and related regions. We also consider how memory related functions in the hippocampus may be integrated with decision making mechanisms and contribute to categorization.
Glial scarring following severe tissue damage and inflammation after spinal cord injury (SCI) is due to an extreme, uncontrolled form of reactive astrogliosis that typically occurs around the injury site. The scarring process includes the misalignment of activated astrocytes and the deposition of inhibitory chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans. Here, we first discuss recent developments in the molecular and cellular features of glial scar formation, with special focus on the potential cellular origin of scar-forming cells and the molecular mechanisms underlying glial scar formation after SCI. Second, we discuss the role of glial scar formation in the regulation of axonal regeneration and the cascades of neuro-inflammation. Last, we summarize the physical and pharmacological approaches targeting the modulation of glial scarring to better understand the role of glial scar formation in the repair of SCI.
Expansion of the secondary injury following primary spinal cord injury is a major pathological event that increases destruction in the spinal cord, so measures to reduce secondary injury are needed. Our previous study demonstrated that, at the front of the expanding secondary injury in the spinal cord, there is an ischemic area in which many neurons can still be rescued. Therefore, enhancement of blood circulation in the cord may be helpful, and indeed, we found that a traditional Chinese medicine, shu-xue-tong, efficiently reduces the secondary injury. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of reducing fibrinogen with Batroxobin, a drug widely used clinically for ischemia, in rats with spinal cord contusion. We found that both 2 and 4 Batroxobin units (BU)/kg efficiently decreased the plasma fibrinogen, and 2 BU/kg significantly increased spinal blood flow, enhanced neuronal survival, mitigated astrocyte and microglia activation, and improved locomotor recovery. However, 4 BU/kg had no effect on the secondary spinal cord injury. These data suggest that Batroxobin has multiple beneficial effects on spinal cord injury, indicating a potential clinical application.
We examined the neural activity associated with true and false recognition during both encoding and retrieval using the Remember/Know procedure to separate recollection (i.e., mental reinstatement of experienced events during which unique details of a memory are recalled) and familiarity (i.e., mental awareness that an event has been experienced previously without the unique details of the event) in recognition memory. Neuroimaging data at retrieval revealed that the right parahippocampal gyrus was activated during recollection-based true recognition compared with familiarity-based true recognition, indicating the item-specific retrieval of visual details. This effect in the right parahippocampal gyrus was not observed for false recognition. Contrary to our expectation, the reactivation effect in early visual cortex was not observed during true recognition, as opposed to false recognition. Neuroimaging data at encoding revealed that the right visual cortex (the right occipitotemporal sulcus) was activated during the encoding of items that yielded recollection-based true recognition compared with familiarity-based true recognition, indicating item-specific visual processing. This effect in the right visual cortex was not observed for false recognition. These results suggest that the subjective feeling of Remember/Know with respect to both veridical and false memories varies with the neural activity during both encoding and retrieval.
Disorders of the brain and its sensory organs have traditionally been associated with deficits in movement, perception, cognition, emotion, and behavior. It is increasingly evident, however, that positive phenomena may also occur in such conditions, with implications for the individual, science, medicine, and for society. This article provides a selective review of such positive phenomena--enhanced function after brain lesions, better-than-normal performance in people with sensory loss, creativity associated with neurological disease, and enhanced performance associated with aging. We propose that, akin to the well-established field of positive psychology and the emerging field of positive clinical psychology, the nascent fields of positive neurology and positive neuropsychology offer new avenues to understand brain-behavior relationships, with both theoretical and therapeutic implications.





Important reduction of reelin, a neural development- and plasticity-associated protein, and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67) are reported in brains of schizophrenic patients. These individuals are consistently engaged in tobacco smoking and nicotine is thought to alleviate negative behavioral symptoms or cognitive alterations. In mouse brain, nicotine has been shown to reduce GAD67 promoter methylation and increase its transcription. We assessed the effects of administration of nicotine (1mg/kgs.c.) for 6days, in male mice heterozygous for reelin (HRM), a putative model for symptoms related to schizophrenia. Expression of reelin, GAD67 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was measured in different brain areas. RNA expression analysis evidenced genotype-related changes, with a marked reduction in reelin and GAD67 gene expression in prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum, and striatum from HRM. Nicotine treatment selectively reversed the HRM-related phenotype in most brain areas and increased BDNF gene expression in cortex and hippocampus of both genotypes. Locomotor performance in their home cage revealed that HRM subjects were characterized by general hyperactivity; with nicotine administration restoring WT-like levels of locomotion. These findings are interpreted within the hypothesis of pre-existing vulnerability (based on haploinsufficiency of reelin) to brain and behavioral disorders and regulative effects associated with nicotine exposure.
Functional MRI (fMRI) based on changes in cerebral blood volume (CBV) can probe directly vasodilatation and vasoconstriction during brain activation or physiologic challenges, and can provide important insights into the mechanism of blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal changes. At present, the most widely used CBV fMRI technique in humans is called vascular-space-occupancy (VASO) MRI, and this article provides a technical review of this method. VASO MRI utilizes T1 differences between blood and tissue to distinguish between these two compartments within a voxel, and employs a blood-nulling inversion recovery sequence to yield an MR signal proportional to 1 - CBV. As such, vasodilatation will result in a VASO signal decrease and vasoconstriction will have the reverse effect. The VASO technique can be performed dynamically with a temporal resolution comparable with several other fMRI methods, such as BOLD or arterial spin labeling (ASL), and is particularly powerful when conducted in conjunction with these complementary techniques. The pulse sequence and imaging parameters of VASO can be optimized such that the signal change is predominantly of CBV origin, but careful considerations should be taken to minimize other contributions, such as those from the BOLD effect, cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The sensitivity of the VASO technique is the primary disadvantage when compared with BOLD, but this technique is increasingly demonstrating its utility in neuroscientific and clinical applications.
The cerebral blood volume (CBV) is a crucial physiological indicator of tissue viability and vascular reactivity. Thus, noninvasive CBV mapping has been of great interest. For this, ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide (USPIO) nanoparticles, including monocrystalline iron oxide nanoparticles, can be used as long-half-life, intravascular susceptibility agents of CBV MRI measurements. Moreover, CBV-weighted functional MRI (fMRI) with USPIO nanoparticles provides enhanced sensitivity, reduced large vessel contribution and improved spatial specificity relative to conventional blood oxygenation level-dependent fMRI, and measures a single physiological parameter that is easily interpretable. We review the physiochemical and magnetic properties, and pharmacokinetics, of USPIO nanoparticles in brief. We then extensively discuss quantifications of baseline CBV, vessel size index and functional CBV change. We also provide reviews of dose-dependent sensitivity, vascular filter function, specificity, characteristics and impulse response function of CBV fMRI. Examples of CBV fMRI specificity at the laminar and columnar resolution are provided. Finally, we briefly review the application of CBV measurements to functional and pharmacological studies in animals. Overall, the use of USPIO nanoparticles can determine baseline CBV and its changes induced by functional activity and pharmacological interventions.







Translational studies are key to furthering our understanding of nociceptive signalling and bridging the gaps between molecules and pathways to the patients. This requires use of appropriate preclinical models that accurately depict outcome measures used in humans. Whereas behavioural animal studies classically involve reports related to nociceptive thresholds of, for example, withdrawal, electrophysiological recordings of spinal neurones that receive convergent input from primary afferents permits investigation of suprathreshold events and exploration of the full-range coding of different stimuli. We explored the central processing of nociceptive inputs in a novel parallel investigation between rats and humans. Using radiant laser pulses, we first compared the electrophysiological responses of deep wide dynamic range and superficial nociceptive-specific neurones in the rat dorsal horn with human psychophysics and cortical responses. Secondly, we explored the effects of spatial summation using laser pulses of identical energy and different size. We observed 3 main findings. Firstly, both rodent and human data confirmed that neodymium-yttrium aluminium perovskite laser stimulation is a nociceptive-selective stimulus that never activates A afferents. Secondly, graded laser stimulation elicited similarly graded electrophysiological and behavioural responses in both species. Thirdly, there was a significant degree of spatial summation of laser nociceptive input. The remarkable similarity in rodent and human coding indicates that responses of rat dorsal horn neurones can translate to human nociceptive processing. These findings suggest that recordings of spinal neuronal activity elicited by laser stimuli could be a valuable predictive measure of human pain perception.

Oxytocin (OT) and arginine vasopressin (AVP) are 2 neuropeptides that display well-known effects on the reproductive system. Although still controversial, oxytocin and vasopressin were demonstrated to exert potent effects on the nociceptive system when administered directly in various central nervous structures. On the other hand, little is known about their peripheral (hormonal) actions on nociception and pain responses. The aim of the present work was to characterize the effects of physiological blood concentrations of OT and AVP on spinal nociception and on pain responses. To do so, growing doses of OT or AVP were administered intravenously and the nociceptive processing by spinal cord neurons was analyzed in anesthetized male rats in vivo. We observed that the action potentials mediated by C-type nociceptive fibers was strongly reduced (antinociception) after intravenous injections of low doses of OT (&lt;5 g) or AVP (&lt;500 pg), whereas an increase (pronociception) was observed at higher doses. Interestingly, antinociceptive and pronociceptive effects were fully abolished in the presence of the OT receptor antagonist and the AVP receptor antagonist type 1A (V1A), respectively. We confirmed this result with a behavioral model of forced swim stress-induced analgesia associated with plasmatic release of OT (and not vasopressin). Stress-induced analgesia was transiently lost after i.v. administration of OTR antagonist. Together, the present work provides straightforward evidence that blood levels of OT and AVP modulate nociception, windup plasticity and pain responses. The final target structures explaining these effects remains to be identified but are likely to be C-type nociceptors.


Essential Tremor is the most common form of movement disorder. Aggregation in families suggests a strong genetic component to disease. Linkage and association studies have identified several risk loci but the specific causal variants are still unknown. A recent study using whole exome sequencing identified a rare nonsense variant in the FUS gene (p.Q290X) that segregated with Essential Tremor in a large French Canadian family. In addition, two other rare FUS variants were identified (p.R216C and p.P431L) in Essential Tremor patients however co-segregation analysis with disease was not possible. In the present study, we sequenced all 15 exons of FUS in 152 familial probands with Essential Tremor and genotyped three reported FUS variants in 112 sporadic Essential Tremor patients and 716 control subjects recruited at Mayo Clinic Florida. Only known synonymous SNPs unlikely to be pathogenic were detected in our sequencing and not any of the recently identified mutations or novel ones. We conclude that the FUS mutations associated with risk of Essential Tremor are probably a rare occurrence.
Stationary targets can fade perceptually during steady visual fixation, a phenomenon known as Troxler fading. Recent research found that microsaccades-small, involuntary saccades produced during attempted fixation-can restore the visibility of faded targets, both in the visual periphery and in the fovea. Because the targets tested previously extended beyond the foveal area, however, the ability of microsaccades to restore the visibility of foveally-contained targets remains unclear. Here, subjects reported the visibility of low-to-moderate contrast targets contained entirely within the fovea during attempted fixation. The targets did not change physically, but their visibility varied intermittently during fixation, in an illusory fashion (i.e., foveal Troxler fading). Microsaccade rates increased significantly before the targets became visible, and decreased significantly before the targets faded, for a variety of target contrasts. These results support previous research linking microsaccade onsets to the visual restoration of peripheral and foveal targets, and extend the former conclusions to minute targets contained entirely within the fovea. Our findings suggest that the involuntary eye movements produced during attempted fixation do not always prevent fading-in either the fovea or the periphery-and that microsaccades can restore perception, when fading does occur. Therefore, microsaccades are relevant to human perception of foveal stimuli.
Hypothalamic gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) and gonadotropin inhibitory hormone (GnIH) are vital to reproduction in all vertebrates. These neuropeptides are also present outside of the hypothalamus, but the roles of extra-hypothalamic GnRH and GnIH remain enigmatic and widely underappreciated. We used immunohistochemistry and PCR to examine whether multiple forms of GnRH (chicken GnRH-I (GnRH1), chicken GnRH-II (GnRH2) and lamprey GnRH-III (GnRH4)) and GnIH are present in the hippocampus (Hp) of adult zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata). Using immunohistochemistry, we provide evidence that GnRH1, GnRH2 and GnRH4 are present in hippocampal cell bodies and/or fibers and that GnIH is present in hippocampal fibers only. There are regional differences in hippocampal GnRH immunoreactivity, and these vary across the different forms of GnRH. There are also sex differences in hippocampal GnRH immunoreactivity, with generally more GnRH1 and GnRH2 in the female Hp. In addition, we used PCR to examine the presence of GnRH1 mRNA and GnIH mRNA in micropunches of Hp. PCR and subsequent product sequencing demonstrated the presence of GnRH1 mRNA and the absence of GnIH mRNA in the Hp, consistent with the pattern of immunohistochemical results. To our knowledge, this is the first study in any species to systematically examine multiple forms of GnRH in the Hp or to quantify sex or regional differences in hippocampal GnRH. Moreover, this is the first demonstration of GnIH in the avian Hp. These data shed light on an important issue: the sites of action and possible functions of GnRH and GnIH outside of the HPG axis.

Dual-system approaches to psychology explain the fundamental properties of human judgment, decision making, and behavior across diverse domains. Yet, the appropriate characterization of each system is a source of debate. For instance, a large body of research on moral psychology makes use of the contrast between &quot;emotional&quot; and &quot;rational/cognitive&quot; processes, yet even the chief proponents of this division recognize its shortcomings. Largely independently, research in the computational neurosciences has identified a broad division between two algorithms for learning and choice derived from formal models of reinforcement learning. One assigns value to actions intrinsically based on past experience, while another derives representations of value from an internally represented causal model of the world. This division between action- and outcome-based value representation provides an ideal framework for a dual-system theory in the moral domain.
Association between response to antidepressant treatment and genetic polymorphisms was examined in two independent Japanese samples of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). Genome-wide approach using the Illumina Human CNV370-quad Bead Chip was utilized in the analysis of the 92 MDD patients in the first sample. In all, 11 non-intergenic single-nucleotide polymorphisms with uncorrected allelic P-value &lt;0.0001 were selected for the subsequent association analyses in the second sample of 136 MDD patients. Difference in allele distribution between responders and nonresponders were found in the second-stage sample for rs365836 and rs201522 of the CUX1 gene (P=0.005 and 0.004, respectively). The allelic P-values for rs365836 and rs201522 in both samples combined were 0.0000023 and 0.0000040, respectively. Our results provide the first evidence that polymorphisms of the CUX1 gene may be associated with response to antidepressant treatment in Japanese patients with MDD.
Serotonergic agonists may act neuroprotectively against brain injury. This study addressed the therapeutic potential of 8-hydroxy-2-di-n-propylamino-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), a selective 5-HT1A/7 receptor agonist, after mechanical brain injury, and evaluated its effects in terms of acquisition of an allocentric place learning task in a water maze. Rats were divided into 6 experimental groups, three of which were subjected to bilateral transection of fimbria-fornix (FF), while three groups were given control surgery (Sham). After surgery, within both the lesioned, and sham-operated animals, respectively, one group was administered a single dose of saline, one group was given a single dose (0.5 mg/kg/b.w.) of 8-OH-DPAT, and one group was treated with daily administration of 8-OH-DPAT (0.5 mg/kg/b.w.) for eight days. The acquisition of the water maze based place learning task started on the 8th day post-surgery and continued for 20 days. The results show that the lesioned group subjected to repeated administration of 8-OH-DPAT demonstrated a significantly improved acquisition of the place learning task compared to the vehicle injected lesion group. In contrast, the lesioned group treated with a single administration displayed impaired performance compared to the baseline lesion group. There were no significant effects of the 8-OH-DPAT administration in the sham control groups. We conclude that only the repeated stimulation of the 5-HT1A/7 system was associated with beneficial, recovery enhancing effects.
Memantine and ketamine block N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors with similar affinity and kinetics, yet their behavioral consequences differ: e.g., memantine is used to alleviate symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, whereas ketamine reproduces symptoms of schizophrenia. The two drugs exhibit different pharmacokinetics, which may play a principal role in their differential behavioral effects. To gain insight into the drugs' behavioral consequences, we treated adult male rats acutely with varying doses (0-40 mg/kg i.p.) of memantine or ketamine and assessed exploratory behavior and spatial working memory. To examine the importance of pharmacokinetics, we assessed behavior either 15 or 45 min after drug administration. Both drugs decreased ambulation, fine movements, and rearing at the beginning of the exploratory activity test; however, at the end of the test, high doses of only memantine increased ambulation and fine movements. High doses of both drugs disrupted spontaneous alternation, a measure of working memory, but high doses of only memantine elicited perseverative behavior. Surprisingly, ketamine's effects were influenced by the delay between drug administration and testing no more frequently than were memantine's. Our findings show that, regardless of test delay, memantine and ketamine evoke similar behavioral effects at lower doses, consistent with NMDA receptors being both drugs' principal site of action, but can have divergent effects at higher doses. Our results suggest that the divergence of memantine's and ketamine's behavioral consequences is likely to result from differences in mechanisms of NMDA receptor antagonism or actions at other targets.
The effects on penile erection and yawning of subcutaneous (SC) injections of the mixed dopamine D1/D2-like agonist apomorphine (0.02-0.2 mg/kg) were studied in outbred Roman high- (RHA) and low-avoidance (RLA) male rats, two lines selectively bred for their respectively rapid versus poor acquisition of the active avoidance response in the shuttle-box, and compared with the effects observed in male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. Apomorphine dose-response curves were bell-shaped in all rat lines/strains. Notably, more penile erections and yawns were recorded mainly in the ascending part of these curves (e.g., apomorphine 0.02-0.08 mg/kg) in both RLA and RHA rats compared to SD rats, with RLA rats showing the higher response (especially for yawning) with respect to RHA rats. Similar results were found with PD-168,077 (0.02-0.2 mg/kg SC), a D4 receptor agonist, which induced penile erection but not yawning. In all rat lines/strains, apomorphine responses were markedly reduced by the D2 antagonist L-741,626, but not by the D3 antagonist, SB277011A, whereas the D4 antagonists L-745,870 and FAUC213 elicited a partial, yet statistically significant, inhibitory effect. In contrast, the pro-erectile effect of PD-168,077 was completely abolished by L-745,870 and FAUC213, as expected. The present study confirms and extends previously reported differences in dopamine transmission between RLA and RHA rats and between the SD strain and the Roman lines. Moreover, it confirms previous studies supporting the view that dopamine receptors of the D2 subtype play a predominant role in the pro-yawning and pro-erectile effect of apomorphine, and that the selective stimulation of D4 receptors induces penile erection.
The partial 2,3,5 GABA(A) receptor agonist, L-838,417 has been reported to have anxiolytic effects in adult rodents. Although maturational differences exist for the GABA(A) receptor subunits, the anxiolytic effects of L-838,417 have not been tested in younger animals. The goal of the present experiments was to determine whether L-838,417 reverses anxiety-like behavior induced by either an unfamiliar environment (Experiment 1) or repeated restraint stress (Experiment 2) differentially in adolescent and adult, male and female Sprague-Dawley rats using a modified social interaction test. In Experiment 1, rats were injected with 0, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, or 4.0 mg/kg L-838,417, i.p. and tested 30 min later in an unfamiliar test context for 10 min. In Experiment 2, rats were exposed to restraint stress (90 min daily for 5 days). Immediately after the last restraint session, animals were injected with L-838,417 and placed alone for 30 min in the test apparatus to familiarize them to this context prior to the 10 min social interaction test. In Experiment 1, L-838,417 produced anxiolytic effects in adults at 1.0 mg/kg, as indexed by a transformation of social avoidance into preference and an increase in social investigation. In adolescents, a dose of 2.0 mg/kg eliminated social avoidance, but had no anxiolytic effects on social investigation. Testing under familiar circumstances (Experiment 2) after repeated restraint stress eliminated age differences in sensitivity to L-838,417, with 0.5 mg/kg reversing the anxiogenic effects of prior stress regardless of age, but with doses  1 mg/kg decreasing social investigation, an effect possibly due in part to locomotor-impairing effects of this compound. Although locomotor activity was suppressed in both experiments, higher doses of L-838,417 were necessary to suppress locomotor activity in Experiment 1. Thus, anxiolytic effects of L-838,417 were found to be context-, age-, and stress-dependent.
Ligneous conjunctivitis is a severe and rare chronic &quot;idiopathic membraneous&quot; conjunctivitis, characterized by the formation of pseudomembranes mostly on the palpebral surfaces that progressively replace the normal mucosa. Evidence has been provided that ligneous conjunctivitis is caused by a severe systemic plasminogen deficiency with decreased plasminogen antigen and decreased plasminogen functional activities. Objective of the present study is to verify the hypothesis that a topical eye application of plasminogen is able to ameliorate the consequences of this disease. Here we report the results of pre-clinical studies performed to investigate the therapeutic effectiveness of an eye-drop plasminogen preparation in B6.129P2-Plg(tm1Jld) transgenic mice, a model of ligneous conjunctivitis. The entity of protection mediated by plasminogen was evaluated by measuring the extent of the eye lesion by means of a computerized system and dedicated software. The results of the present study clearly showed that the administration for six times a day of plasminogen eye-drop solution in the lesioned eye of animals knock-out for plasminogen gene and developing ligneous conjunctivitis caused a dose and time related reduction of the extent of the ocular lesion. These findings may pave the road for the pharmacological treatment of the ocular lesion associated to the ligneous conjunctivitis that at the present is surgically treated by removing the pseudomembranes generated on the eye.
Encoding information about continuous variables using noisy computational units is a challenge; nonetheless, asymptotic theory shows that combining multiple periodic scales for coding can be highly precise despite the corrupting influence of noise [Mathis, Herz, and Stemmler, Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 018103 (2012)]. Indeed, the cortex seems to use periodic, multiscale grid codes to represent position accurately. Here we show how such codes can be read out without taking the long-term limit; even on short time scales, the precision of such codes scales exponentially in the number N of neurons. Does this finding also hold for neurons that are not firing in a statistically independent fashion? To assess the extent to which biological grid codes are subject to statistical dependences, we first analyze the noise correlations between pairs of grid code neurons in behaving rodents. We find that if the grids of two neurons align and have the same length scale, the noise correlations between the neurons can reach values as high as 0.8. For increasing mismatches between the grids of the two neurons, the noise correlations fall rapidly. Incorporating such correlations into a population coding model reveals that the correlations lessen the resolution, but the exponential scaling of resolution with N is unaffected.
Cable theory has been developed over the last decade, usually assuming that the extracellular space around membranes is a perfect resistor. However, extracellular media may display more complex electrical properties due to various phenomena, such as polarization, ionic diffusion, or capacitive effects, but their impact on cable properties is not known. In this paper, we generalize cable theory for membranes embedded in arbitrarily complex extracellular media. We outline the generalized cable equations, then consider specific cases. The simplest case is a resistive medium, in which case the equations recover the traditional cable equations. We show that for morecomplex media, for example, in the presence of ionic diffusion, the impact on cable properties such as voltage attenuation can be significant. We illustrate this numerically, always by comparing the generalized cable to the traditional cable. We conclude that the nature of intracellular and extracellular media may have a strong influence on cable filtering as well as on the passive integrative properties of neurons.
During heavy exercise, hyperventilation-induced hypocapnia leads to cerebral vasoconstriction, resulting in a reduction in cerebral blood flow (CBF). A reduction in CBF would impair cerebral O2 delivery and potentially account for reduced exercise performance in hypoxia. We tested the hypothesis that end-tidal Pco2 (PETCO2) clamping in hypoxic exercise would prevent the hypocapnia-induced reduction in CBF during heavy exercise, thus improving exercise performance. We measured PETCO2, middle cerebral artery velocity (MCAv; index of CBF), prefrontal cerebral cortex oxygenation (cerebral O2Hb; index of cerebral oxygenation), cerebral O2 delivery (DO2), and leg muscle oxygenation (muscle O2Hb) in 10 healthy men (age 27  7 years; VO2max 63.3  6.6 mL/kg/min; mean  SD) during simulated 15-km time trial cycling (TT) in normoxia and hypoxia (FIO2 = 0.10) with and without CO2 clamping. During exercise, hypoxia elevated MCAv and lowered cerebral O2Hb, cerebral DO2, and muscle O2Hb (P &lt; 0.001). CO2 clamping elevated PETCO2 and MCAv during exercise in both normoxic and hypoxic conditions (P &lt; 0.001 and P = 0.024), but had no effect on either cerebral and muscle O2Hb (P = 0.118 and P = 0.124). Nevertheless, CO2 clamping elevated cerebral DO2 during TT in both normoxic and hypoxic conditions (P &lt; 0.001). CO2 clamping restored cerebral DO2 to normoxic values during TT in hypoxia and tended to have a greater effect on TT performance in hypoxia compared to normoxia (P = 0.097). However, post hoc analysis revealed no effect of CO2 clamping on TT performance either in normoxia (P = 0.588) or in hypoxia (P = 0.108). Our findings confirm that the hyperventilation-induced hypocapnia and the subsequent drop in cerebral oxygenation are unlikely to be the cause of the reduced endurance exercise performance in hypoxia.
Many temperate zone animals adapt to seasonal changes by altering their physiology. This is mediated in large part by endocrine signals that encode day length and regulate energy balance and metabolism. The objectives of this study were to determine if the daily patterns of two important hormones, melatonin and cortisol, varied with day length in captive brown bears (Ursus arctos) under anesthetized and nonanesthetized conditions during the active (March-October) and hibernation periods. Melatonin concentrations varied with time of day and season in nonanesthetized female bears despite exceedingly low nocturnal concentrations (1-4 pg/mL) in the active season. In contrast, melatonin concentrations during hibernation were 7.5-fold greater than those during the summer in anesthetized male bears. Functional assessment of the pineal gland revealed a slight but significant reduction in melatonin following nocturnal light application during hibernation, but no response to beta-adrenergic stimulation was detected in either season. Examination of pineal size in two bear species bears combined with a phylogenetically corrected analysis of pineal glands in 47 other species revealed a strong relationship to brain size. However, pineal gland size of both bear species deviated significantly from the expected pattern. Robust daily plasma cortisol rhythms were observed during the active season but not during hibernation. Cortisol was potently suppressed following injection with a synthetic glucocorticoid. The results suggest that melatonin and cortisol both retain their ability to reflect seasonal changes in day length in brown bears. The exceptionally small pineal gland in bears may be the result of direct or indirect selection.
Certain genes exhibit notable diversity in their expression patterns both within and between species. One such gene is the vasopressin receptor 1a gene (Avpr1a), which exhibits striking differences in neural expression patterns that are responsible for mediating differences in vasopressin-mediated social behaviors. The genomic mechanisms that contribute to these remarkable differences in expression are not well understood. Previous work has suggested that both the proximal 5' flanking region and a polymorphic microsatellite element within that region of the vole Avpr1a gene are associated with variation in V1a receptor (V1aR) distribution and behavior, but neither has been causally linked. Using homologous recombination in mice, we reveal the modest contribution of proximal 5' flanking sequences to species differences in V1aR distribution, and confirm that variation in V1aR distribution impacts stress-coping in the forced swim test. We also demonstrate that the vole Avpr1a microsatellite structure contributes to Avpr1a expression in the amygdala, thalamus, and hippocampus, mirroring a subset of the inter- and intra-species differences observed in central V1aR patterns in voles. This is the first direct evidence that polymorphic microsatellite elements near behaviorally relevant genes can contribute to diversity in brain gene expression profiles, providing a mechanism for generating behavioral diversity both at the individual and species level. However, our results suggest that many features of species-specific expression patterns are mediated by elements outside of the immediate 5' flanking region of the gene.

Parkinson's disease (PD) pathology is characterized by the formation of intra-neuronal inclusions called Lewy bodies, which are comprised of alpha-synuclein (-syn). Duplication, triplication or genetic mutations in -syn (A53T, A30P and E46K) are linked to autosomal dominant PD; thus implicating its role in the pathogenesis of PD. In both PD patients and mouse models, there is increasing evidence that neuronal dysfunction occurs before the accumulation of protein aggregates (i.e., -syn) and neurodegeneration. Characterization of the timing and nature of symptomatic dysfunction is important for understanding the impact of -syn on disease progression. Furthermore, this knowledge is essential for identifying pathways and molecular targets for therapeutic intervention. To this end, we examined various functional and morphological endpoints in the transgenic mouse model expressing the human A53T -syn variant directed by the mouse prion promoter at specific ages relating to disease progression (2, 6 and 12 months of age). Our findings indicate A53T mice develop fine, sensorimotor, and synaptic deficits before the onset of age-related gross motor and cognitive dysfunction. Results from open field and rotarod tests show A53T mice develop age-dependent changes in locomotor activity and reduced anxiety-like behavior. Additionally, digigait analysis shows these mice develop an abnormal gait by 12 months of age. A53T mice also exhibit spatial memory deficits at 6 and 12 months, as demonstrated by Y-maze performance. In contrast to gross motor and cognitive changes, A53T mice display significant impairments in fine- and sensorimotor tasks such as grooming, nest building and acoustic startle as early as 1-2 months of age. These mice also show significant abnormalities in basal synaptic transmission, paired-pulse facilitation and long-term depression (LTD). Combined, these data indicate the A53T model exhibits early- and late-onset behavioral and synaptic impairments similar to PD patients and may provide useful endpoints for assessing novel therapeutic interventions for PD.


Traumatic brain injury (TBI) remains a major public health problem. This review aims to present the principles upon which modern TBI management should be based. The early management phase aims to achieve haemodynamic stability, limit secondary insults (eg hypotension, hypoxia), obtain accurate neurological assessment and appropriately select patients for further investigation. Since 2003, the mainstay of risk stratification in the UK emergency departments has been a system of triage based on clinical assessment, which then dictates the need for a CT scan of the head. For patients with acute subdural or extradural haematomas, time from clinical deterioration to operation should be kept to a minimum, as it can affect their outcome. In addition, it is increasingly recognised that patients with severe and moderate TBI should be managed in neuroscience centres, regardless of the need for neurosurgical intervention. The monitoring and treatment of raised intracranial pressure is paramount for maintaining cerebral blood supply and oxygen delivery in patients with severe TBI. Decompressive craniectomy and therapeutic hypothermia are the subject of ongoing international multi-centre randomised trials. TBI is associated with a number of complications, some of which require specialist referral. Patients with post-concussion syndrome can be helped by supportive management in the context of a multi-disciplinary neurotrauma clinic and by patient support groups. Specialist neurorehabilitation after TBI is important for improving outcome.

48, XXYY syndrome is a form of sex chromosome aneuploidy that affects between 1 in 18&amp;emsp14;000 to 1 in 40&amp;emsp14;000 males. It is not inherited and is diagnosed by karyotyping. It has similarities to 47, XXY Klinefelter's syndrome, with tall stature, micro-orchidism, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism and infertility in males. However, patients with 48, XXYY syndrome also commonly have dental problems, tremor, attention deficit disorder, learning difficulties, allergies and asthma. The tremor is typically reported as an intention tremor (in 71% of patients XXYY aged &gt;20 years with 48), which becomes more common with age and worsens over time.
This study evaluated the effect of a one month 17-estradiol treatment on brain serotonin (5-HT) reuptake transporter (SERT) in long-term ovariectomized (OVX) female monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) bearing a unilateral lesion with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) injected directly into the left substantia nigra modeling Parkinson disease (PD). Ovariectomy and MPTP lesion were performed four years before the estrogen treatment to model postmenopausal PD patients. SERT was measured by autoradiography using the radioligand [(3)H]Citalopram. Specific binding to SERT decreased in anterior cerebral cortex, nucleus accumbens, caudate nucleus and putamen on the lesioned side of 17-estradiol and vehicle-treated monkeys compared to the intact side. In caudate nucleus and putamen the lesioned-induced decrease of [(3)H]Citalopram specific binding was more extensive in anterior and middle than posterior parts. [(3)H]Citalopram specific binding was increased in the cortex anterior cingulate gyrus of monkeys treated with 17-estradiol in both brain hemispheres and was unchanged in the other brain regions investigated including the raphe nucleus. Positive correlations between [(3)H]Citalopram specific binding and 5-HT as well as 5-HIAA concentrations (reported previously) were obtained in the caudate nucleus and putamen and a negative correlation between SERT binding and 5-HIAA/5-HT concentration ratio suggesting MPTP lesion-induced 5-HT neuronal loss and lower 5-HT neurotransmission controlling and decreasing SERT for homeostasis. 17-estradiol treatment initiated four years after ovariectomy of monkeys modeling hormonal conditions of post-menopause shows that SERT still displays some responsiveness to estrogens as observed in the anterior cingulate cortex. These results support a role of estrogens in 5-HT activity in PD.
Extensive studies showed that monoaminergic neurotransmission that involves serotonin (5-HT), norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA) exerts major influence on brain circuits concerned by the regulation of mood, reactivity to psychological stress, self-control, motivation, drive, and cognitive performance. Antidepressants targeting monoamines directly affect the functional tone of these circuits, notably in limbic and frontocortical areas, and evidence has been provided that this action plays a key role in their therapeutic efficacy. Indeed, at least some of functional changes detected by functional magnetic resonance imaging in emotion- and cognitive-related circuits such as the one involving limbic-cortical-striatal-pallidal-thalamic connections in depressed patients can be reversed by monoamine-targeted antidepressants. However, antidepressants acting selectively on only one monoamine, such as selective inhibitors of 5-HT or NE reuptake, alleviate depression symptoms in a limited percentage of patients, and are poorly effective to prevent recurrence. Thorough investigations for the last 30 years allowed the demonstration of the existence of functional interactions between 5-HT, NE and DA systems, and the identification of the specific receptors involved. In particular, 5-HT systems were shown to exert negative influence on NE and DA systems through 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptor- mediated mechanisms, respectively. On the other hand, complex positive and negative influences of NE system on 5-HT neurotransmission are mediated through 1- and 2-adrenergic receptors, respectively. These data provided a rationale for the design of new, multimodal, therapeutic strategies involving drugs acting not only at the &quot;historical&quot; targets such as the 5-HT and/or the NE transporter, but also at other molecular targets to improve their efficacy and their tolerability.


Freud's insight that mental processes are fundamentally unconscious is now an unquestioned assumption of neuroscience and cognitive psychology. Psychoanalysts are now faced with the question, What differentiated the psychoanalytic unconscious from that of other disciplines? Behind this question lies a more profound issue, the mind-body or mind-brain problem. It appears to be an insoluble paradox. Freud's concept of repression as a defense &quot;mechanism&quot; illustrates this paradox. To describe repression as a &quot;mechanism&quot; is to claim that it is analogous to a physiological process. Yet we know that repression is highly individualistic and subject to cultural values. In examining the Freudian concept of the primary process, the Noble prize-winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman has shown that the primary process is not wish fulfilling, as Freud claimed, but adaptive. The waking primary process is in the service of the reality principle. The growth of contemporary neuroscience has created challenging problems for psychoanalysis that did not exist in Freud's lifetime.



Young, Erickson, and Drevets (2012) reported that positive and neutral cue words elicited less positive memories among patients with major depression than among healthy controls, while memories from patients were less specific than those from controls, regardless of their intrinsic valence. These results suggested methodological refinements that may shed light on several aspects of autobiographical memory impairment in mental disorders.
Fragile visual short-term memory (FM) is a recently discovered form of visual short-term memory. Evidence suggests that it provides rich and high-capacity storage, like iconic memory, yet it exists, without interference, almost as long as visual working memory. In the present study, we sought to unveil the functional underpinnings of this memory storage. We found that FM is only completely erased when the new visual scene appears at the same location and consists of the same objects as the to-be-recalled information. This result has two important implications: First, it shows that FM is an object- and location-specific store, and second, it suggests that FM might be used in everyday life when the presentation of visual information is appropriately designed.
A little over a decade ago, Martino and Marks (Current Directions in Psychological Science 10:61-65, 2001) put forward the influential claim that cases of intuitive matchings between stimuli in different sensory modalities should be considered as a weak form of synesthesia. Over the intervening years, many other researchers have agreed-at the very least, implicitly-with this position (e.g., Bien, ten Oever, Goebel, &amp; Sack NeuroImage 59:663-672, 2012; Eagleman Cortex 45:1266-1277, 2009; Esterman, Verstynen, Ivry, &amp; Robertson Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 18:1570-1576, 2006; Ludwig, Adachi, &amp; Matzuzawa Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 108:20661-20665, 2011; Mulvenna &amp; Walsh Trends in Cognitive Sciences 10:350-352, 2006; Sagiv &amp; Ward 2006; Zellner, McGarry, Mattern-McClory, &amp; Abreu Chemical Senses 33:211-222:2008). Here, though, we defend the separatist view, arguing that these cases are likely to form distinct kinds of phenomena despite their superficial similarities. We believe that crossmodal correspondences should be studied in their own right and not assimilated, either in terms of the name used or in terms of the explanation given, to synesthesia. To conflate these two phenomena is both inappropriate and potentially misleading. Below, we critically evaluate the evidence concerning the descriptive and constitutive features of crossmodal correspondences and synesthesia and highlight how they differ. Ultimately, we wish to provide a general definition of crossmodal correspondences as acquired, malleable, relative, and transitive pairings between sensory dimensions and to provide a framework in which to integrate the nonsystematic cataloguing of new cases of crossmodal correspondences, a tendency that has increased in recent years.
In psychiatry, neuroendocrine techniques were initially considered a potential &quot;window into the brain&quot; by indirectly marking central nervous system limbic dysfunction. At present this conception has evolved, owing to significant progress over the last decades demonstrating direct involvement of neuropeptides and neurohormones in psychiatric diseases. In a synchronic perspective, neuroendocrine investigations evaluate a functional status at a given moment in the evolution of the disease, which results from both etiopathogenic processes and compensatory homeostatic mechanisms. These vital physiological changes appear to be potential targets for novel hormonally based pharmacotherapies. However, in the past few years, the interest for the study of neuroendocrine dysregulations in psychiatric patients has declined. In order to better understand this relative disinterest, this article will attempt to shed light on strengths and limitations of the neuroendocrine approaches in psychiatry. It is necessary to bear in mind that the usefulness of these techniques in the clinical, pathophysiological and therapeutic fields depends largely on the selectivity of stimuli and the appropriateness of the methodologies used. Owing to the complexity of the clinical phenomena, multifactorial approaches (combining several neuroendocrine challenge tests to imaging, immunological, neurophysiological, neurochemical and/or genetic techniques) are to be privileged in psychiatric investigations. Despite the inherent limitations of these approaches, due to their technical and ethical constraints, the neuroendocrine strategy can inform modern clinical practice and lead to new breakthroughs in future science and practice.
Most studies relating experimental depression and neurogenesis use mainly male rodents subjected to models of chronic stress. The forced swimming test (FST) is a widely utilized model of acute stress, but its effects on the neurogenic process in the hippocampus using females in different endocrine conditions has not been explored. The aim of this study was to evaluate the cell proliferation and early-, short- and long-lasting effects of forced swimming (FS) on adult hippocampal neurogenesis in rats in two endocrine conditions: proestrous and ovariectomized. To determine cell proliferation we used the endogenous marker Ki67. Cell survival was established with the thymidine analog, BrdU (75mg/kg, 2/12, i.p.), which was administered before FS to proestrous and ovariectomized rats. FS increased immobility and corticosterone levels in OVX but not in rats in proestrus. In addition, FS did not affect cell proliferation but significantly decreased the number of BrdU-labeled cells at 2h only in OVX-rats, an effect that remained for 3 and 14 days after FS. Data are discussed taking into consideration the relationship between gonadal and adrenal hormones in adult hippocampal neurogenesis in adult females. Our data also support the use of FS as a model for studying neurogenesis.
Stress effects on memory are well-known. Most studies, however, focused on the impact of stress on hippocampus-dependent 'declarative' memory processes. Less is known about whether stress influences also striatum-based memory processes, such as stimulus-response (S-R) memory. First evidence from rodent experiments shows that glucocorticoid stress hormones may enhance the consolidation of S-R memories. Whether stress affects also S-R memory retrieval remains largely elusive. Therefore, we tested in the present experiment in humans the effect of stress on the retrieval of S-R memories. Healthy men and women were trained to locate three objects in an S-R version of a virtual eight-arm radial maze. One week later, participants underwent a stressor or a control condition before their memory of the S-R task was tested. Our results showed that participants (n=43) who were exposed to the stressor before retention testing made significantly more errors in this test trial, suggesting that stress impaired S-R memory retrieval. Moreover, high cortisol concentrations were associated with reduced S-R memory. These findings indicate that stress may affect memory retrieval processes in humans beyond hippocampal 'declarative' memory.
Chromosomal deletions at Xp22.3 appear to influence vulnerability to the neurodevelopmental disorders attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and autism. 39,X(Y*)O mice, which lack the murine orthologue of the Xp22.3 ADHD candidate gene STS (encoding steroid sulfatase), exhibit behavioural phenotypes relevant to such disorders (e.g. hyperactivity), elevated hippocampal serotonin (5-HT) levels, and reduced serum levels of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA). Here we initially show that 39,X(Y*)O mice are also deficient for the recently-characterised murine orthologue of the Xp22.3 autism candidate gene ASMT (encoding acetylserotonin-O-methyltransferase). Subsequently, to specify potential behavioural correlates of elevated hippocampal 5-HT arising due to the genetic lesion, we compared 39,X(Y*)O MF1 mice to 40,XY MF1 mice on behavioural tasks taxing hippocampal and/or 5-HT function (a 'foraging' task, an object-location task, and the 1-choice serial reaction time task of impulsivity). Although Sts/Asmt deficiency did not influence foraging behaviour, reactivity to familiar objects in novel locations, or 'ability to wait', it did result in markedly increased response rates; these rates correlated with hippocampal 5-HT levels and are likely to index behavioural perseveration, a frequent feature of neurodevelopmental disorders. Additionally, we show that whilst there was no systematic relationship between serum DHEA levels and hippocampal 5-HT levels across 39,X(Y*)O and 40,XY mice, there was a significant inverse linear correlation between serum DHEA levels and activity. Our data suggest that deficiency for genes within Xp22.3 could influence core behavioural features of neurodevelopmental disorders via dissociable effects on hippocampal neurochemistry and steroid hormone levels, and that the mediating neurobiological mechanisms may be investigated in the 39,X(Y*)O model.
Adult hippocampal neurogenesis is often associated with hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. Throughout a new neuron's development, it is differentially sensitive to factors that can influence its survival and functionality. Previous research shows that spatial training that occurred 6-10 days after an injection of the DNA synthesis marker, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), increased cell survival in male rats. Because sex differences in spatial cognition and hippocampal neurogenesis have been reported, it is unclear whether spatial training would influence hippocampal neurogenesis in the same way in males and females. Therefore, this study examined sex differences in hippocampal neurogenesis following training in a spatial task. Male and female rats were trained in the spatial or cued version of the Morris water maze 6-10 days after one injection of BrdU (200mg/kg). Twenty days following BrdU injection, all animals were given a probe trial and perfused. Males performed better in the spatial, but not cue, task than females. Spatial training increased BrdU-labeled cells relative to cue training only in males, but both males and females showed greater activation of new cells (BrdU co-labeled with immediate early gene product zif268) after spatial training compared to cue training. Furthermore, performance during spatial training was positively correlated with cell activation in females but not males. This study shows that while spatial training differentially regulates hippocampal neurogenesis in males and females, the activity of new neurons in response to spatial memory retrieval is similar. These findings highlight the importance of sex on neural plasticity and cognition.
Development of alcohol use disorders largely depends on the effects of alcohol on the brain reward systems. Emerging evidence indicate that common mechanisms regulate food and alcohol intake and raise the possibility that endocrine signals from the gut may play an important role for alcohol consumption, alcohol-induced reward and the motivation to consume alcohol. Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), a gastrointestinal peptide regulating food intake and glucose homeostasis, has recently been shown to target central brain areas involved in reward and motivation, including the ventral tegmental area and nucleus accumbens. Herein we investigated the effects of the GLP-1 receptor agonist, Exendin-4 (Ex4), on various measures of alcohol-induced reward as well as on alcohol intake and alcohol seeking behavior in rodents. Treatment with Ex4, at a dose with no effect per se, attenuated alcohol-induced locomotor stimulation and accumbal dopamine release in mice. Furthermore, conditioned place preference for alcohol was abolished by both acute and chronic treatment with Ex4 in mice. Finally we found that Ex4 treatment decreased alcohol intake, using the intermittent access 20% alcohol two-bottle-choice model, as well as alcohol seeking behavior, using the progressive ratio test in the operant self-administration model, in rats. These novel findings indicate that GLP-1 signaling attenuates the reinforcing properties of alcohol implying that the physiological role of GLP-1 extends beyond glucose homeostasis and food intake regulation. Collectively these findings implicate that the GLP-1 receptor may be a potential target for the development of novel treatment strategies for alcohol use disorders.





Although previous ERP studies have demonstrated slowing of visuospatial and motor processes with age, such studies frequently included only young and elderly participants, and lacked information about age-related changes across the adult lifespan. The present research used a Simon task with two irrelevant dimensions (position and direction of an arrow) to study visuospatial (N2 posterior contralateral, N2pc) and motor (response-locked lateralized readiness potential, LRP-r) processes in young, middle-aged, and elderly adults. The reaction time and motor execution stage (LRP-r) increased gradually with age, while visuospatial processes (N2pc latency) were similarly delayed in the older groups. No age-related increase in interference was observed, probably related to a delay in processing the symbolic meaning of the direction in older groups, which was consistent with age-related differences in distributional analyses and N2pc amplitude modulations.
Several protocols have been developed for inducing acute stress in laboratory settings. Still, effectively eliciting stress in a neuroimaging environment remains challenging. Here, we describe the evaluation of a combined physical and psychosocial stress protocol (n = 42). The imaging Maastricht Acute Stress Test (iMAST) consists of a 5-min preparation phase and a 10-min acute stress phase, with alternating trials of cold pressor stress generated through an advanced thermal stimulator and mental arithmetic challenges along with social-evaluative pressure (i.e., negative feedback). Results demonstrate that participants displayed meaningful subjective stress responses, as well as significant increases in salivary alpha-amylase and cortisol levels. Our data show that the iMAST may prove to be a potent alternative to existing imaging stress paradigms to explore poststress neuronal changes and brain determinants of resilience.
In the current study, we examined how short-term memory for location-identity feature bindings is influenced by subsequent cognitive and perceptual processing demands. Previous work has shown that memory performance for feature bindings can be disrupted by the presentation of subsequent visual information, particularly when this information is similar to that held in memory. The present study demonstrates that memory performance for feature bindings can be profoundly disrupted by also requiring a response to visual information presented subsequent to the visual memory array. Across five experiments, memory for a location-identity binding was substantially impaired following a localization response to a following item that matched the location but mismatched the identity of the memory target. The results point to an important role for action in the episodic integration processes that control short-term visual memory performance.
People can switch quickly and flexibly from one task to another, but suffer the effects of between-task competition when they do so: After switching, they tend to be distracted by irrelevant stimulus information and hampered by incorrect actions associated with recently performed tasks. This competition results in performance costs of switching, as well as a bias against switching when there is choice over which task to perform, particularly when switching from a difficult task to an easier one. Two experiments investigated the locus of these between-task competition effects in voluntary task switching. Participants switched between an easy location classification and a harder shape classification, making two responses on each trial: the first to register their task choice, the second to perform the chosen task on a subsequently presented stimulus. The results indicated that participants chose to perform the difficult shape task more often than the easier location task, evidence that between-task competition affects intentions that are expressed independently of task-specific actions. The bias was stronger in participants with faster choice speed, suggesting that these influences are relatively automatic. Moreover, even though participants had unlimited time to choose and prepare a task before stimulus presentation, their subsequent performance was nonetheless sensitive to persisting effects of between-task competition. Altogether these results indicate the pervasive influence of between-task competition, which affects both the expression of global task intentions and the production of task-specific actions.

This review synthesizes behavioral research with neuromolecular mechanisms putatively involved with the low-toxicity cognitive enhancing action of Bacopa monnieri (BM), a medicinal Ayurvedic herb. BM is traditionally used for various ailments, but is best known as a neural tonic and memory enhancer. Numerous animal and in vitro studies have been conducted, with many evidencing potential medicinal properties. Several randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials have substantiated BM's nootropic utility in humans. There is also evidence for potential attenuation of dementia, Parkinson's disease, and epilepsy. Current evidence suggests BM acts via the following mechanisms-anti-oxidant neuroprotection (via redox and enzyme induction), acetylcholinesterase inhibition and/or choline acetyltransferase activation, -amyloid reduction, increased cerebral blood flow, and neurotransmitter modulation (acetylcholine [ACh], 5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT], dopamine [DA]). BM appears to exhibit low toxicity in model organisms and humans; however, long-term studies of toxicity in humans have yet to be conducted. This review will integrate molecular neuroscience with behavioral research.

Unaccustomed eccentric exercise may cause skeletal muscle damage with an increase in plasma creatine kinase (CK) activity. Although the wide variability among individuals in CK response to standardized lengthening contractions has been well described, the reasons underlying this phenomenon have not yet been understood. Therefore, this study investigated a possible correlation of the changes in muscle damage indirect markers after an eccentric exercise with the decline in muscle performance during the exercise. Twenty-seven healthy untrained male subjects performed three sets of 30 maximal isokinetic eccentric contractions of the knee extensors. The muscular work was recorded using an isokinetic dynamometer to assess muscle fatigue by means of various fatigue indices. Plasma CK activity, muscle soreness, and stiffness were measured before (pre) and one day after (post) exercise. The eccentric exercise bout induced significant changes of the three muscle damage indirect markers. Large inter-subject variability was observed for all criteria measured. More interestingly, the log (CK(post) /CK(pre)) and muscle stiffness appeared to be closely correlated with the relative work decrease (r=0.84, r(2) =0.70 and r=0.75, r(2) =0.56, respectively). This is the first study to propose that the muscle fatigue profile during maximal eccentric protocol could predict the magnitude of the symptoms associated with muscle damage in humans.
Schizophrenia (SCZ) is characterized by disordered activation and disordered connectivity, yet few fMRI studies have convergently investigated both. Here, we compared differences in activation and connectivity between SCZ and controls (HC). Twenty-two subjects (18age35yrs) participated in a paired-associative learning task, a behavioral domain particularly dependent on fronto-hippocampal connectivity and of relevance to the schizophrenia diathesis. Activation differences were assessed using standard approaches. Seed-based connectivity differences were compared using Psychophysiological Interaction (PPI) with a hippocampus-based seed. SCZ evinced significantly increased activation, but significantly decreased connectivity with the hippocampus across a cortical-striatal learning network. These results assess potentially complementary patterns of network dysfunction in schizophrenia: increased activation suggests inefficient responses relating to functional specialization; decreased connectivity suggests impaired integration of functional signals between regions. Inefficiency and dysconnection appear to collectively characterize functional deficits in schizophrenia.
Social cognition (SC) and neuro-cognition (NC) have emerged as predictors of functional outcome and possible endophenotype-markers in schizophrenia. The distinctiveness of these two domains is not well established. Factor analysis is used to identify distinct cognitive dimensions. This paper aims to systematically review studies reporting factor analysis of SC and NC in schizophrenia to provide empirical evidence for (a) distinctiveness of SC and NC; and (b) factor structure of SC. The review comprised 20 studies. Most of the studies were cross-sectional, involving variably defined 'stable' schizophrenia patients, using objective assessments of SC and NC. A quality check on reporting practices of factor analytic studies showed important deficiencies in reporting both exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses. There was fairly consistent evidence for the existence of distinct SC and NC factors, with eight out of nine studies supporting this separateness of the two cognitive dimensions. The results were inconsistent regarding factor structure of SC. Unitary, binary and multi-factorial constructs were reported, possibly due to variability and lack of comprehensiveness of the SC measures used. This review highlights distinctiveness of SC and NC dimensions in schizophrenia. It thus provides construct validity for cognition in schizophrenia and offers clues regarding the potential neural processes underlying these cognitive dimensions. Future studies exploring the factor structure of SC should be guided by more careful theoretical work and use comprehensive measures of SC in large homogeneous samples of schizophrenia patients.

People pay more and more attention to the prolongation of QT interval caused by drugs because it could probably result in lethal arrhythmia. This article introduces mechanisms, risk factors and guidelines for QT interval, and also reviews drugs withdrawal from the market due to the results of prolongations of QT interval. It discusses as well the value of new drugs in the QT interval for the evaluation of safety.

The ability to read emotions in the face of another person is an important social skill that can be impaired in subjects with traumatic brain injury (TBI). To determine the brain regions that modulate facial emotion recognition, we conducted a whole-brain analysis using a well-validated facial emotion recognition task and voxel-based lesion symptom mapping (VLSM) in a large sample of patients with focal penetrating TBIs (pTBIs). Our results revealed that individuals with pTBI performed significantly worse than normal controls in recognizing unpleasant emotions. VLSM mapping results showed that impairment in facial emotion recognition was due to damage in a bilateral fronto-temporo-limbic network, including medial prefrontal cortex (PFC), anterior cingulate cortex, left insula and temporal areas. Beside those common areas, damage to the bilateral and anterior regions of PFC led to impairment in recognizing unpleasant emotions, whereas bilateral posterior PFC and left temporal areas led to impairment in recognizing pleasant emotions. Our findings add empirical evidence that the ability to read pleasant and unpleasant emotions in other people's faces is a complex process involving not only a common network that includes bilateral fronto-temporo-limbic lobes, but also other regions depending on emotional valence.
Human neuroimaging offers a powerful way to connect animal and human research on emotion, with profound implications for psychological science. However, the gulf between animal and human studies remains a formidable obstacle: human studies typically focus on the cortex and a few subcortical regions such as the amygdala, whereas deeper structures such as the brainstem periaqueductal gray (PAG) play a key role in animal models. Here, we directly assessed the role of PAG in human affect by interleaving in a single fMRI session two conditions known to elicit strong emotional responses--physical pain and negative image viewing. Negative affect and PAG activity increased in both conditions. We next examined eight independent data sets, half featuring pain stimulation and half negative image viewing. In sum, these data sets comprised 198 additional participants. We found increased activity in PAG in all eight studies. Taken together, these findings suggest PAG is a key component of human affective responses.

Recent developments in in vitro disease modeling and regenerative medicine have placed induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) in the center of attention as a unique source to study Parkinson's disease. After only 5 years of intensive research, human iPSCs can be generated without viral integration and under xeno-free conditions. This, combined with increasingly sophisticated methods to differentiate iPSCs into functional dopaminergic (DA) neurons, led us to recapitulate the most important findings concerning the use of iPSC technology as a prospective tool to treat symptoms of Parkinson's disease as well as to obtain insight in disease related cell pathogenesis. Moreover, we touch upon some of the latest discoveries in which patient-derived autologous DA neurons come into even more direct reach thanks to a method that allows transdifferentiation of fibroblasts into DA neurons.
Ryk is an atypical transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase that has been shown to play multiple roles in development through the modulation of Wnt signaling. Within the developing ventral midbrain (VM), Wnts have been shown to contribute to the proliferation, differentiation, and connectivity of dopamine (DA) neurons; however, the Wnt-related receptors regulating these events remain less well described. In light of the established roles of Wnt5a in dopaminergic development (regulating DA differentiation as well as axonal growth and repulsion), and its interaction with Ryk elsewhere within the central nervous system, we investigated the potential role of Ryk in VM development. Here we show temporal and spatial expression of Ryk within the VM, suggestive of a role in DA neurogenesis and axonal plasticity. In VM primary cultures, we show that the effects of Wnt5a on VM progenitor proliferation, DA differentiation, and DA axonal connectivity can be inhibited using an Ryk-blocking antibody. In support, Ryk knockout mice showed reduced VM progenitors and DA precursor populations, resulting in a significant decrease in DA cells. However, Ryk(-/-) mice displayed no defects in DA axonal growth, guidance, or fasciculation of the MFB, suggesting other receptors may be involved and/or compensate for the loss of this receptor. These findings identify for the first time Ryk as an important receptor for midbrain DA development.






Complex I deficiency culminating in oxidative stress is proposed as one of the upstream mechanisms of nigral neuronal death in Parkinson's disease. We investigated whether sodium salicylate, an active metabolite of aspirin, could afford protection against rotenone-induced oxidative stress, neuronal degeneration, and behavioral dysfunction in rats, because it has the potential to accept a molecule each of hydroxyl radical (OH) at the third or fifth position of its benzyl ring. Rotenone caused dose-dependent increase in OH in isolated mitochondria from the cerebral cortex and time- (24-48 h) and dose-dependent (0.1-100 M) increase in the substantia nigra and the striatum, ipsilateral to the side of rotenone infusion. Administration of sodium salicylate at 12-h intervals for 4 days showed dose-dependent (50-100 mg/kg, i.p) reductions in the levels of OH in the nigra on the fifth day. These animals showed significant attenuation in rotenone-induced loss in striatal dopamine levels, number of nigral dopaminergic neurons, reduced and oxidized glutathione levels, and complex I activity loss, but superoxide dismutase activity was increased further. Amphetamine- or apomorphine-induced ipsilateral rotations in rotenone-treated rats were significantly reduced in rats treated with sodium salicylate. Our results indicate a direct role of OH in mediating nigral neuronal death by rotenone and confirm the neuroprotective potential of salicylate in a rodent model of parkinsonism.
Best known for its interaction with the -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor subunit GluA2 and for its influence on excitatory synapse activity, the protein interacting with C kinase, PICK1, is the focus of considerable attention from neurobiologists. Indeed, this PSD-95/DlgA/ZO-1 (PDZ) domain-containing protein has been shown to interact with a wide variety of neurotransmitter receptors, transporters, and enzymes, including glutamate and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, dopamine and glutamate transporters, and the enzyme serine racemase. Through its lipid binding domain, PICK1 is targeted to the inner surface of the cell membrane where it contributes to anchoring these partners and thereby influences their synaptic localization and function. Under pathological conditions, the regulation of some PICK1-interacting partners is altered, pointing to an involvement of PICK1 in neurological disorders. Also, genetic or pharmacological manipulations of PICK1 expression, localization, or function have been shown to influence several physiological or pathological processes in which putative PICK1 partners are involved. This review will summarize recent experimental observations that highlight the involvement of PICK1 in neurological disorders, including schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, chronic pain, drug abuse, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
The human ejaculate contains subpopulations of sperm with distinct properties. Human X- and Y-bearing sperm were separated with fluorescence activated cell sorting. To avoid the use of UV light the quantitative DNA dyes DRAQ5 and Dyecycle Vybrant Violet were used. Sorting efficiency was similar for both dyes, but lower than what is usually obtained with the classical method involving Hoechst 33342 and UV light (60-70% enrichment, versus 80-90%). A total of 2,739 spermatozoa were evaluated, from seven distinct samples using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) chromosomal probes. No differences were found in sorted and unsorted populations in terms of chromosome positioning, and numeric chromosomal anomalies were not more evident following cell sorting. Furthermore in both sorted and unsorted populations the sex chromosomes were clearly located in the anterior portion of the sperm head, while a control autosome (chromosome 18) showed no such tendency, confirming previous findings. These results suggest that other quantitative DNA dyes may be used for sex chromosome-based human sperm sorting, but with lower efficiency than the standard UV-Hoechst based assay.

Cardiovascular complications have been documented in HIV-1 infected populations, and antiretroviral therapy may play a role. Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are antiretrovirals known to induce mitochondrial damage in endothelial cells, culminating in endothelial dysfunction, an initiating event in atherogenesis. Though the mechanism for NRTI-induced endothelial toxicity is not yet clear, our prior work suggested that a mitochondrial oxidative stress may be involved. To further delineate the mechanism of toxicity, endothelial cells were treated with NRTIs of varying subclasses, and the level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and mitochondrial function were assessed. To test whether rescue of mitochondrial electron transport attenuated NRTI-induced endothelial cytotoxicity, in some cases, cells were cotreated with the electron transport cofactor coenzyme Q10 (Q10). At 4-6h, NRTIs increased levels of ROS but decreased the activities of electron transport chain complexes I-IV, levels of ATP and the NAD/NADH ratio. Moreover, nitric oxide levels were decreased, whereas endothelin-1 release was increased. Q10 abolished NRTI-induced mitochondria injury and effects on endothelial agonist production. Interestingly, in cells treated with NRTIs only, markers for mitochondrial toxicity returned to baseline levels by 18-24h, suggesting a compensatory mechanism for clearing damaged mitochondria. Using confocal microscopy, with confirmation utilizing the autophagy and mitophagy markers LC-3 and Nix, respectively, we observed autophagy of mitochondria at 8-10h after treatment. Q10 prevented NRTI-mediated increase in LC-3. These findings suggest that NRTI-induced mitophagy may be involved in NRTI-induced endothelial dysfunction and that this damage likely results from oxidant injury. Further, Q10 supplementation could potentially prevent NRTI-induced endothelial dysfunction.
Stroke is a leading cause of death and the most common cause of long-term disability in the USA. Women have a lower incidence of stroke compared with men throughout most of the lifespan which has been ascribed to protective effects of gonadal steroids, most notably estrogen. Due to the lower stroke incidence observed in pre-menopausal women and robust preclinical evidence of neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory properties of estrogen, researchers have focused on the potential benefits of hormones to reduce ischemic brain injury. However, as women age, they are disproportionately affected by stroke, coincident with the loss of estrogen with menopause. The risk of stroke in elderly women exceeds that of men and it is clear that in some settings estrogen can have pro-inflammatory effects. This review will focus on estrogen and inflammation and its interaction with aging.
Visual working memory capacity is of great interest because it is strongly correlated with overall cognitive ability, can be understood at the level of neural circuits, and is easily measured. Recent studies have shown that capacity influences tasks ranging from saccade targeting to analogical reasoning. A debate has arisen over whether capacity is constrained by a limited number of discrete representations or by an infinitely divisible resource, but the empirical evidence and neural network models currently favor a discrete item limit. Capacity differs markedly across individuals and groups, and recent research indicates that some of these differences reflect true differences in storage capacity whereas others reflect variations in the ability to use memory capacity efficiently.
Physical pain can be clearly distinguished from other states of distress. In recent years, however, the notion that social distress is experienced as physically painful has permeated the scientific literature and popular media. This conclusion is based on the overlap of brain regions that respond to nociceptive input and sociocultural distress. Here we challenge the assumption that underlies this conclusion - that physical pain can be easily inferred from a particular pattern of activated brain regions - by showing that patterns of activation commonly presumed to constitute the 'pain matrix' are largely unspecific to pain. We then examine recent analytical advances that may improve the specificity of imaging for parsing pain from a broad range of perceptually unique human experiences.
Using functional MRI (fMRI) and a sophisticated forward encoding and decoding approach across the cortical surface, a new study examines how attention alternates tuning functions across a large set of semantic categories. The results suggest a dynamic attention mechanism that allocates greater resources to the attended and related semantic categories at the expense of unattended ones.
Although signs of empathy have now been well documented in non-human primates, only during the past few years have systematic observations suggested that a primal form of empathy exists in rodents. Thus, the study of empathy in animals has started in earnest. Here we review recent studies indicating that rodents are able to share states of fear, and highlight how affective neuroscience approaches to the study of primary-process emotional systems can help to delineate how primal empathy is constituted in mammalian brains. Cross-species evolutionary approaches to understanding the neural circuitry of emotional 'contagion' or 'resonance' between nearby animals, together with the underlying neurochemistries, may help to clarify the origins of human empathy.
Image processing begins in the retina, where neurons respond with graded voltage changes that must be converted into spikes. This conversion from 'analog' to 'digital' coding is a fundamental transformation carried out by the visual system, but the mechanisms are still not well understood. Recent work demonstrates that, in vertebrates, graded-to-spiking conversion of the visual signal begins in the axonal system of bipolar cells (BCs), which transmit visual information through ribbon-type synapses specialized for responding to graded voltage signals. Here, we explore the evidence for and against the idea that ribbon synapses also transmit digital information. We then discuss the potential costs and benefits of digitization at different stages of visual pathways in vertebrates and invertebrates.
Henri Laborit (1914-1995) was a French military MD. He contributed to the discovery of an important molecule that has changed the face of psychiatry, namely chlorpromazine, which became the first drug in the class of first-generation antipsychotics, which later led to the dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia. He did not receive the Nobel Prize for this discovery, unlike Daniel Bovet who get the Nobel Prize for the discovery of antihistaminics. Henri Laborit is also the author of a book that has contributed to the popularization of neurosciences in France, &quot;The Praise of flight&quot; (1976).






We report a case of a middle-aged woman with a solitary osteochondroma of the L2 right lamina with intraspinal extension and spinal cord compression. The case is unusual in terms of localisation and age at clinical presentation. In fact, spinal osteochondromas as solitary lesions-especially when affecting the lumbar segment-are rare tumours of a maturing adolescent skeleton, infrequently affecting the neurological structures, because most of the lesions grow out of the spinal canal. Although unusual, they should be considered in the differential diagnosis. Prompt and accurate radiological investigations are important in planning appropriate management. Surgical total excision is the best treatment modality to remove spinal cord and/or nerve root compression, and to avoid the risk of recurrence or malignant transformation.


Baclofen is a GABAB receptor agonist commonly used to relief spasticity related to motor disorders. The effects of baclofen on voluntary motor output are limited and not yet understood. Using noninvasive transcranial magnetic and electrical stimulation techniques, we examined electrophysiological measures probably involving GABAB (long-interval intracortical inhibition and the cortical silent period) and GABAA (short-interval intracortical inhibition) receptors, which are inhibitory effects mediated by subcortical and cortical mechanisms. We demonstrate increased active long-interval intracortical inhibition and prolonged cortical silent period during voluntary activity of an intrinsic finger muscle in humans with chronic incomplete cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) compared with age-matched controls, whereas resting long-interval intracortical inhibition was unchanged. However, long-term (~6 years) use of baclofen decreased active long-interval intracortical inhibition to similar levels as controls but did not affect the duration of the cortical silent period. We found a correlation between signs of spasticity and long-interval intracortical inhibition in patients with SCI. Short-interval intracortical inhibition was decreased during voluntary contraction compared with rest but there was no effect of SCI or baclofen use. Together, these results demonstrate that baclofen selectively maintains use-dependent modulation of largely subcortical but not cortical GABAB neuronal pathways after human SCI. Thus, cortical GABA(B) circuits may be less sensitive to baclofen than spinal GABAB circuits. This may contribute to the limited effects of baclofen on voluntary motor output in subjects with motor disorders affected by spasticity.
Astroglial scars surround damaged tissue after trauma, stroke, infection, or autoimmune inflammation in the CNS. They are essential for wound repair, but also interfere with axonal regrowth. A better understanding of the cellular mechanisms, regulation, and functions of astroglial scar formation is fundamental to developing safe interventions for many CNS disorders. We used wild-type and transgenic mice to quantify and dissect these parameters. Adjacent to crush spinal cord injury (SCI), reactive astrocytes exhibited heterogeneous phenotypes as regards proliferation, morphology, and chemistry, which all varied with distance from lesions. Mature scar borders at 14 d after SCI consisted primarily of newly proliferated astroglia with elongated cell processes that surrounded large and small clusters of inflammatory, fibrotic, and other cells. During scar formation from 5 to 14 d after SCI, cell processes deriving from different astroglia associated into overlapping bundles that quantifiably reoriented and organized into dense mesh-like arrangements. Selective deletion of STAT3 from astroglia quantifiably disrupted the organization of elongated astroglia into scar borders, and caused a failure of astroglia to surround inflammatory cells, resulting in increased spread of these cells and neuronal loss. In cocultures, wild-type astroglia spontaneously corralled inflammatory or fibromeningeal cells into segregated clusters, whereas STAT3-deficient astroglia failed to do so. These findings demonstrate heterogeneity of reactive astroglia and show that scar borders are formed by newly proliferated, elongated astroglia, which organize via STAT3-dependent mechanisms to corral inflammatory and fibrotic cells into discrete areas separated from adjacent tissue that contains viable neurons.
Plasticity of synaptic connections in the primary motor cortex (M1) is thought to play an essential role in learning and memory. Human and animal studies have shown that motor learning results in long-term potentiation (LTP)-like plasticity processes, namely potentiation of M1 and a temporary occlusion of additional LTP-like plasticity. Moreover, biochemical processes essential for LTP are also crucial for certain types of motor learning and memory. Thus, it has been speculated that the occlusion of LTP-like plasticity after learning, indicative of how much LTP was used to learn, is essential for retention. Here we provide supporting evidence of it in humans. Induction of LTP-like plasticity can be abolished using a depotentiation protocol (DePo) consisting of brief continuous theta burst stimulation. We used transcranial magnetic stimulation to assess whether application of DePo over M1 after motor learning affected (1) occlusion of LTP-like plasticity and (2) retention of motor skill learning. We found that the magnitude of motor memory retention is proportional to the magnitude of occlusion of LTP-like plasticity. Moreover, DePo stimulation over M1, but not over a control site, reversed the occlusion of LTP-like plasticity induced by motor learning and disrupted skill retention relative to control subjects. Altogether, these results provide evidence of a link between occlusion of LTP-like plasticity and retention and that this measure could be used as a biomarker to predict retention. Importantly, attempts to reverse the occlusion of LTP-like plasticity after motor learning comes with the cost of reducing retention of motor learning.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has greatly extended the exploration of neuroplasticity in behaving animals and humans. Imaging studies recently uncovered structural changes that occur in gray and white matter, mainly after long-term training. A recent diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) study showed that training in a car racing game for 2 h induces changes in the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyri. However, the effect of short-term training on the white matter microstructure is unknown. Here we investigated the influence of short learning tasks on structural plasticity in the white matter, and specifically in the fornix, in humans and rats. Human subjects performed a 2 h spatial learning task, and rats underwent training for 1 d in a Morris water maze. Between tasks, subjects were scanned with DTI, a diffusion MRI framework sensitive to tissue microstructure. Using tract-based spatial statistics, we found changes in diffusivity indices in both humans and rats. In both species, changes in diffusion in the fornix were correlated with diffusion changes in the hippocampus, as well as with behavioral measures of improvement in the learning tasks. These results, which provide the first indication of short-term white matter plasticity in the human brain, suggest that the adult brain white matter preserves dynamic characteristics and can be modified by short-term learning experiences. The extent of change in white matter was correlated with their extent in gray matter, suggesting that all components of the neural network are capable of rapid remodeling in response to cognitive experiences.
As a relatively recent cultural invention in human evolution, reading is an important gateway to personal development and socioeconomic success. Despite the well documented individual differences in reading ability, its neuroanatomical correlates have not been well understood, largely due to the fact that reading is a complex skill that consists of multiple components. Using a large sample of 416 college students and 7 reading tasks, the present study successfully identified three uncorrelated components of reading ability: phonological decoding, form-sound association, and naming speed. We then tried to predict individuals' scores in these components from their gray matter volume (GMV) on a subset of participants (N = 253) with high-quality structural images, adopting a multivariate support vector regression analysis with tenfold cross-validation. Our results revealed distinct neural regions that supported different aspects of reading ability: whereas phonological decoding was associated with the GMV in the left superior parietal lobe extending to the supramarginal gyrus, form-sound association was predicted by the GMV in the hippocampus and cerebellum. Naming speed was associated with GMV in distributed brain regions in the occipital, temporal, parietal, and frontal cortices. Phonological decoding and form-sound association were uncorrelated with general cognitive abilities. However, naming speed was correlated with intelligence and processing speed, and some of the regions that were predictive of naming speed also predicted these general cognitive abilities. These results provide further insights on the cognitive and neural architecture of reading and the structural basis of individual differences in reading abilities.
Notch is a cell surface receptor that is known to regulate developmental processes by establishing physical contact between neighboring cells. Many recent studies show that it also plays an important role in the formation of long-term memory (LTM) in adults, implying that memory formation requires regulation at the level of cell-cell contacts among brain cells. Neither the target of Notch activity in LTM formation nor the underlying mechanism of regulation is known. We report here results of our studies in adult Drosophila melanogaster showing that Notch regulates dCrebB-17A, the CREB protein. CREB is a transcriptional factor that is pivotal for intrinsic and synaptic plasticity involved in LTM formation. Notch in conjunction with PKC activity upregulates the level of a hyperphosphorylated form of CREB (hyper-PO4 CREB) and triggers its ultradian oscillation, both of which are linked to LTM formation. One of the sites that is phosphorylated in hyper-PO4 CREB is serine 231, which is the functional equivalent of mammalian CREB serine 133, the phosphorylation of which is an important regulator of CREB functions. Our data suggest the model that Notch and PKC activities generate a cyclical accumulation of cytoplasmic hyper-PO4 CREB that is a precursor for generating the nuclear CREB isoforms. Cyclical accumulation of CREB might be important for repetitive aspects of LTM formation, such as memory consolidation. Because Notch, PKC, and CREB have been implicated in many neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., Alzheimer's disease), our data might also shed some light on memory loss and dementia.
Loss of shape recognition in visual-form agnosia occurs without equivalent losses in the use of vision to guide actions, providing support for the hypothesis of two visual systems (for &quot;perception&quot; and &quot;action&quot;). The human individual DF received a toxic exposure to carbon monoxide some years ago, which resulted in a persisting visual-form agnosia that has been extensively characterized at the behavioral level. We conducted a detailed high-resolution MRI study of DF's cortex, combining structural and functional measurements. We present the first accurate quantification of the changes in thickness across DF's occipital cortex, finding the most substantial loss in the lateral occipital cortex (LOC). There are reduced white matter connections between LOC and other areas. Functional measures show pockets of activity that survive within structurally damaged areas. The topographic mapping of visual areas showed that ordered retinotopic maps were evident for DF in the ventral portions of visual cortical areas V1, V2, V3, and hV4. Although V1 shows evidence of topographic order in its dorsal portion, such maps could not be found in the dorsal parts of V2 and V3. We conclude that it is not possible to understand fully the deficits in object perception in visual-form agnosia without the exploitation of both structural and functional measurements. Our results also highlight for DF the cortical routes through which visual information is able to pass to support her well-documented abilities to use visual information to guide actions.
The dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) receives visual information from the retina and transmits it to the cortex. In this study, we made extracellular recordings in the dLGN of both anesthetized and awake mice, and found that a surprisingly high proportion of cells were selective for stimulus orientation. The orientation selectivity of dLGN cells was unchanged after silencing the visual cortex pharmacologically, indicating that it is not due to cortical feedback. The orientation tuning of some dLGN cells correlated with their elongated receptive fields, while in others orientation selectivity was observed despite the fact that their receptive fields were circular, suggesting that their retinal input might already be orientation selective. Consistently, we revealed orientation/axis-selective ganglion cells in the mouse retina using multielectrode arrays in an in vitro preparation. Furthermore, the orientation tuning of dLGN cells was largely maintained at different stimulus contrasts, which could be sufficiently explained by a simple linear feedforward model. We also compared the degree of orientation selectivity in different visual structures under the same recording condition. Compared with the dLGN, orientation selectivity is greatly improved in the visual cortex, but is similar in the superior colliculus, another major retinal target. Together, our results demonstrate prominent orientation selectivity in the mouse dLGN, which may potentially contribute to visual processing in the cortex.
GABA-mediated tonic and phasic inhibition of thalamic relay neurons of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) was studied after ablating tyrosine (Y) phosphorylation of receptor 2-subunits. As phosphorylation of 2 Y365 and Y367 reduces receptor internalization, to understand their importance for inhibition we created a knock-in mouse in which these residues are replaced by phenylalanines. On comparing wild-type (WT) and 2(Y365/367F)+/- (HT) animals (homozygotes are not viable in utero), the expression levels of GABAA receptor 4-subunits were increased in the thalamus of female, but not male mice. Raised -subunit expression levels were also observed in female 2(Y365/367F) +/- thalamus. Electrophysiological analyses revealed no difference in the level of inhibition in male WT and HT dLGN, while both the spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic activity and the tonic current were significantly augmented in female HT relay cells. The sensitivity of tonic currents to the -subunit superagonist THIP, and the blocker Zn(2+), were higher in female HT relay cells. This is consistent with upregulation of extrasynaptic GABAA receptors containing 4- and -subunits to enhance tonic inhibition. In contrast, the sensitivity of GABAA receptors mediating inhibition in the female 2(Y356/367F) +/- to neurosteroids was markedly reduced compared with WT. We conclude that disrupting tyrosine phosphorylation of the 2-subunit activates a sex-specific increase in tonic inhibition, and this most likely reflects a genomic-based compensation mechanism for the reduced neurosteroid sensitivity of inhibition measured in female HT relay neurons.
Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) plays important roles in the enteric system in the wall of the gastrointestinal tract. There have been no studies on whether H2S is endogenously generated in peripheral sympathetic ganglia and, if so, its effect on synaptic transmission. In this study, we examined the effect of H2S on cholinergic excitatory fast synaptic transmission in the mouse superior mesenteric ganglion (SMG). Our study revealed that NaHS and endogenously generated H2S selectively potentiated cholinergic fast EPSPs (F-EPSPs) evoked by splanchnic nerve stimulation but not F-EPSPs evoked by colonic nerve stimulation. The H2S-producing enzyme cystathionine--lyase (CSE) was expressed in both neurons and glial cells. The CSE blocker PAG (dl-propargylglycine) significantly reduced the amplitude of F-EPSPs evoked by splanchnic nerve stimulation but not F-EPSPs evoked by colonic nerve stimulation. Inhibiting the breakdown of endogenously generated H2S with stigmatellin potentiated the amplitude of F-EPSPs evoked by splanchnic nerve stimulation but not F-EPSPs evoked by colonic nerve stimulation. Splanchnic F-EPSPs but not colonic F-EPSPs were reduced in CSE knock-out (KO) mice. Functional studies showed that NaHS enhanced the inhibitory effect of splanchnic nerve stimulation on colonic motility. Colonic motility in CSE-KO mice was significantly higher than colonic motility in wild-type mice. We conclude that endogenously generated H2S acted selectively on presynaptic terminals of splanchnic nerves to modulate fast cholinergic synaptic input and that this effect of H2S modulates CNS control of gastrointestinal motility. Our results show for the first time that the facilitatory effect of endogenous H2S in the mouse SMG is pathway specific.
In addition to its well established role in motor coordination, the cerebellum has been hypothesized to be involved in the control of cognitive and emotional functions. Although a cerebellar contribution to nonmotor functions has been supported by recent studies in human and monkey, it remains to be clarified with an in-depth, systematic approach in mouse mutants. Here we subjected four different cerebellar cell-specific mouse lines whereby the excitatory or inhibitory input to Purkinje cells (PCs) and/or PC postsynaptic plasticity were compromised, to a wide battery of standard cognitive and emotional tests. The four lines, which have all been shown to suffer from impaired motor learning without being ataxic, were tested for social behavior using a sociability task, for spatial navigation using the Morris watermaze, for fear responses using contextual and cued conditioning, and general anxiety using the open-field task. None of the four cerebellum-specific genetic perturbations showed significantly impaired cognitive or emotional behavior. In fact, even without correction for multiple comparisons, only 5 of 154 statistical comparisons showed a marginally significant deficit. Therefore, our data indicate that none of the perturbations of cerebellar functioning studied here affected the cognitive or emotional tests we used. This suggests that there may be a differential impact of the murine and human cerebellum on nonmotor functions. We hypothesize that these differences could be a consequence of the remarkable enlargement of the cerebellar hemispheres during the latest phase of vertebrate phylogeny, which occurred in parallel with the evolution of the cerebral cortex.
During NMDA receptor-mediated long-term potentiation (LTP), synapses are strengthened by trafficking AMPA receptors to the synapse through a calcium-dependent kinase cascade following activation of NMDA receptors. This process results in a long-lasting increase in synaptic strength that is thought to be a cellular mechanism for learning and memory. Over the past 20 years, many signaling pathways have been shown to be involved in the induction and maintenance of LTP including the MAPK cascade. However, the crucial link between NMDA receptors and the signaling cascades involved in AMPA receptor trafficking during LTP remains elusive. In this study, we aimed to identify and characterize NMDA receptor signaling proteins that link NMDA receptor activation to downstream signaling pathways that lead to trafficking of AMPA receptors. We have identified a novel NMDA receptor interacting signaling protein, AGAP3. AGAP3 contains multiple signaling domains, a GTPase-like domain, a pleckstrin homology domain, and an ArfGAP domain, and exists as a component of the NMDA receptor complex. In addition, we found that AGAP3 regulates NMDA receptor-mediated Ras/ERK and Arf6 signaling pathways during chemically induced LTP in rat primary neuronal cultures. Finally, knocking down AGAP3 expression leads to occlusion of AMPA receptor trafficking during chemically induced LTP. Together, AGAP3 is an essential signaling component of the NMDA receptor complex that links NMDA receptor activation to AMPA receptor trafficking.
The molecular mechanisms that regulate adult neural precursor cell (NPC) survival, and thus maintain adult neurogenesis, are not well defined. Here, we investigate the role of p63, a p53 family member, in adult NPC function in mice. Conditional ablation of p63 in adult NPCs or p63 haploinsufficiency led to reduced numbers of NPCs and newborn neurons in the neurogenic zones of the hippocampus and lateral ventricles and in the olfactory bulb. These reductions were attributable to enhanced apoptosis of NPCs and newborn neurons and were rescued by inhibition of caspase activity, p53, or the p53 apoptotic effector PUMA (p53-upregulated modulator of apoptosis). Moreover, these cellular deficits were functionally important because they led to perturbations in hippocampus-dependent memory formation. These results indicate that p63 regulates the numbers of adult NPCs and adult-born neurons as well as neural stem cell-dependent cognitive functions, and that it does so, at least in part, by inhibiting p53-dependent cell death.

One of the fundamental interests in neuroscience is to understand the integration of excitatory and inhibitory inputs along the very complex structure of the dendritic tree, which eventually leads to neuronal output of action potentials at the axon. The influence of diverse spatial and temporal parameters of specific synaptic input on neuronal output is currently under investigation, e.g. the distance-dependent attenuation of dendritic inputs, the location-dependent interaction of spatially segregated inputs, the influence of GABAergig inhibition on excitatory integration, linear and non-linear integration modes, and many more. With fast micro-iontophoresis of glutamate and GABA it is possible to precisely investigate the spatial and temporal integration of glutamatergic excitation and GABAergic inhibition. Critical technical requirements are either a triggered fluorescent lamp, light-emitting diode (LED), or a two-photon scanning microscope to visualize dendritic branches without introducing significant photo-damage of the tissue. Furthermore, it is very important to have a micro-iontophoresis amplifier that allows for fast capacitance compensation of high resistance pipettes. Another crucial point is that no transmitter is involuntarily released by the pipette during the experiment. Once established, this technique will give reliable and reproducible signals with a high neurotransmitter and location specificity. Compared to glutamate and GABA uncaging, fast iontophoresis allows using both transmitters at the same time but at very distant locations without limitation to the field of view. There are also advantages compared to focal electrical stimulation of axons: with micro-iontophoresis the location of the input site is definitely known and it is sure that only the neurotransmitter of interest is released. However it has to be considered that with micro-iontophoresis only the postsynapse is activated and presynaptic aspects of neurotransmitter release are not resolved. In this article we demonstrate how to set up micro-iontophoresis in brain slice experiments.

Evidence is increasing for involvement of the endocannabinoid system in cognitive functions including attention and executive function, as well as in psychiatric disorders characterized by cognitive deficits, such as schizophrenia. Executive function appears to be associated with both modulation of active networks and inhibition of activity in the default mode network. In the present study, we examined the role of the endocannabinoid system in executive function, focusing on both the associated brain network and the default mode network. A pharmacological functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study was conducted with a placebo-controlled, cross-over design, investigating effects of the endocannabinoid agonist 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) on executive function in 20 healthy volunteers, using a continuous performance task with identical pairs. Task performance was impaired after THC administration, reflected in both an increase in false alarms and a reduction in detected targets. This was associated with reduced deactivation in a set of brain regions linked to the default mode network, including posterior cingulate cortex and angular gyrus. Less deactivation was significantly correlated with lower performance after THC. Regions that were activated by the continuous performance task, notably bilateral prefrontal and parietal cortex, did not show effects of THC. These findings suggest an important role for the endocannabinoid system in both default mode modulation and executive function. This may be relevant for psychiatric disorders associated with executive function deficits, such as schizophrenia and ADHD.
Learning the functional properties of objects is a core mechanism in the development of conceptual, cognitive and linguistic knowledge in children. The cerebral processes underlying these learning mechanisms remain unclear in adults and unexplored in children. Here, we investigated the neurophysiological patterns underpinning the learning of functions for novel objects in 10-year-old healthy children. Event-related fields (ERFs) were recorded using magnetoencephalography (MEG) during a picture-definition task. Two MEG sessions were administered, separated by a behavioral verbal learning session during which children learned short definitions about the &quot;magical&quot; function of 50 unknown non-objects. Additionally, 50 familiar real objects and 50 other unknown non-objects for which no functions were taught were presented at both MEG sessions. Children learned at least 75% of the 50 proposed definitions in less than one hour, illustrating children's powerful ability to rapidly map new functional meanings to novel objects. Pre- and post-learning ERFs differences were analyzed first in sensor then in source space. Results in sensor space disclosed a learning-dependent modulation of ERFs for newly learned non-objects, developing 500-800 msec after stimulus onset. Analyses in the source space windowed over this late temporal component of interest disclosed underlying activity in right parietal, bilateral orbito-frontal and right temporal regions. Altogether, our results suggest that learning-related evolution in late ERF components over those regions may support the challenging task of rapidly creating new semantic representations supporting the processing of the meaning and functions of novel objects in children.
Men generally prefer feminine women's faces and voices over masculine women's faces and voices, and these cross-modal preferences are positively correlated. Men's preferences for female facial and vocal femininity have typically been investigated independently by presenting soundless still images separately from audio-only vocal recordings. For the first time ever, we presented men with short video clips in which dynamic faces and voices were simultaneously manipulated in femininity/masculinity. Men preferred feminine men's faces over masculine men's faces, and preferred masculine men's voices over feminine men's voices. We found that men preferred feminine women's faces and voices over masculine women's faces and voices. Men's attractiveness ratings of both feminine and masculine faces were increased by the addition of vocal femininity. Also, men's attractiveness ratings of feminine and masculine voices were increased by the addition of facial femininity present in the video. Men's preferences for vocal and facial femininity were significantly and positively correlated when stimuli were female, but not when they were male. Our findings complement other evidence for cross-modal femininity preferences among male raters, and show that preferences observed in studies using still images and/or independently presented vocal stimuli are also observed when dynamic faces and voices are displayed simultaneously in video format.
We examined the use of social information in fruitfly larvae, which represent an ideal model system owing to their robust learning abilities, small number of neurons and well-studied neurogenetics. Focal larvae showed attraction to the distinct odour emanating from food occupied by other larvae. In controlled learning experiments, focal larvae preferred novel odours previously paired with food occupied by other larvae over novel odours previously paired with unoccupied food. When we gave groups of larvae a choice between food patches differing in quality, more larvae aggregated on the higher-quality food, suggesting that attraction to and learning about cues associated with other larvae can be beneficial. Furthermore, larvae were more likely to find the best available food patch in trials when that food patch was occupied by other larvae than in trials when that food patch was unoccupied. Our data suggest, however, that the benefits from joining others may be at least partially offset by the fitness costs of increased competition, because larvae reared in isolation did as well as or better than larvae reared in groups on three key fitness parameters: developmental rate, survival rate and adult dry body mass. Our work establishes fruitfly larvae as a highly tractable model species for further research on the mechanisms that modulate behaviour and learning in a social context.


Membrane-bound guanylate cyclases harbor a region called the dimerization or linker domain, which aids the enzymes in adopting an optimal monomer-monomer arrangement for catalysis. One subgroup of these guanylate cyclases is expressed in rod and cone cells of vertebrate retina, and mutations in the dimerization domain of rod outer segment guanylate cyclase 1 (ROS-GC1, encoded by the GUCY2D gene) correlate with retinal cone-rod dystrophies. We investigate how a Q847L/K848Q double mutation, which was found in patients suffering from cone-rod dystrophy, and the Q847L and K848Q single-point mutations affect the regulatory mechanism of ROS-GC1. Both the wild type and mutants of heterologously expressed ROS-GC1 were present in membranes. However, the mutations affected the catalytic properties of ROS-GC1 in different manners. All mutants had higher basal guanylate cyclase activities but lower levels of activation by Ca-sensing guanylate cyclase-activating proteins (GCAPs). Further, incubation with wild-type GCAP1 and GCAP2 revealed for all ROS-GC1 mutants a shift in Ca sensitivity, but activation of the K848Q mutant by GCAPs was severely impaired. Apparent affinities for GCAP1 and GCAP2 were different for the double mutant and the wild type. Circular dichroism spectra of the dimerization domain showed that the wild type and mutants adopt a prevalently -helical structure, but mutants exhibited lower thermal stability. Our results indicate that the dimerization domain serves as a Ca-sensitive control module. Although it is per se not a Ca-sensing unit, it seems to integrate and process information regarding Ca sensing by sensor proteins and regulator effector affinity.
Visual pigments have a conserved phenylalanine in transmembrane helix 5 located near the -ionone ring of the retinal chromophore. Site-directed mutants of this residue (F207) in a short-wavelength sensitive visual pigment (VCOP) were studied using UV-visible spectroscopy to investigate its role in photosensitivity and formation of the light-activated state. The side chain is important for pigment formation: VCOP(F207A), VCOP(F207L), VCOP(F207M), and VCOP(F207W) substitutions all bound 11-cis-retinal and formed a stable visual pigment, while VCOP(F207V), VCOP(F207S), VCOP(F207T), and VCOP(F207Y) substitutions do not. The extinction coefficients of all pigments are close, ranging between 35800 and 45600 M cm. Remarkably, the mutants exhibit an up to 5-fold reduction in photosensitivity and also abnormal photobleaching behavior. One mutant, VCOP(F207A), forms an isomeric composition of the retinal chromophore after illumination comparable to that of wild-type VCOP yet does not release the all-trans-retinal chromophore. These findings suggest that the conserved F207 residue is important for a normal photoactivation pathway, formation of the active conformation and the exit of all-trans-retinal from the chromophore-binding pocket.



Microinjecting recombinant adenoassociated viral (rAAV) vectors expressing Cre recombinase into distinct mouse brain regions to selectively knockout genes of interest allows for enhanced temporally- and regionally-specific control of gene deletion, compared to existing methods. While conditional deletion can also be achieved by mating mice that express Cre recombinase under the control of specific gene promoters with mice carrying a floxed gene, stereotaxic microinjection allows for targeting of discrete brain areas at experimenter-determined time points of interest. In the context of cocaine conditioned place preference, and other cocaine behavioral paradigms such as self-administration or psychomotor sensitization that can involve withdrawal, extinction and/or reinstatement phases, this technique is particularly useful in exploring the unique contribution of target genes to these distinct phases of behavioral models of cocaine-induced plasticity. Specifically, this technique allows for selective ablation of target genes during discrete phases of a behavior to test their contribution to the behavior across time. Ultimately, this understanding allows for more targeted therapeutics that are best able to address the most potent risk factors that present themselves during each phase of addictive behavior.



Cognitive effort leads to a seeming cacophony of brain oscillations. For example, during tasks engaging working memory (WM), specific oscillatory frequency bands modulate in space and time. Despite ample data correlating such modulation to task performance, a mechanistic explanation remains elusive. We propose that flexible control of neural oscillations provides a unified mechanism for the rapid and controlled transitions between the computational operations required by WM. We show in a spiking network model that modulating the input oscillation frequency sets the network in different operating modes: rapid memory access and load is enabled by the beta-gamma oscillations, maintaining a memory while ignoring distractors by the theta, rapid memory clearance by the alpha. The various frequency bands determine the dynamic gating regimes enabling the necessary operations for WM, whose succession explains the need for the complex oscillatory brain dynamics during effortful cognition.
The monoamine oxidase isoenzymes (MAOs) A and B play important roles in the homeostasis of monoaminergic neurotransmitters. The combined deficiency of MAO A and B results in significantly elevated levels of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine), norepinephrine, dopamine, and -phenylethylamine; in humans and mice, these neurochemical changes are accompanied by neurodevelopmental perturbations as well as autistic-like responses. Ample evidence indicates that normal levels of monoamines in the hippocampus, amygdala, frontal cortex, and cerebellum are required for the integrity of learning and memory. Thus, in the present study, the cognitive status of MAO A/B knockout (KO) mice was examined with a wide array of behavioral tests. In comparison with male wild-type littermates, MAO A/B KO mice exhibited abnormally high and overgeneralized fear conditioning and enhanced eye-blink conditioning. These alterations were accompanied by significant increases in hippocampal long-term potentiation and alterations in the relative expression of NMDA glutamate receptor subunits. Our data suggest that chronic elevations of monoamines, because of the absence of MAO A and MAO B, cause functional alterations that are accompanied with changes in the cellular mechanisms underlying learning and memory. The characteristics exhibited by MAO A/B KO mice highlight the potential of these animals as a useful tool to provide further insight into the molecular bases of disorders associated with abnormal monoaminergic profiles.
An illusory sensation of ownership over a surrogate limb or whole body can be induced through specific forms of multisensory stimulation, such as synchronous visuotactile tapping on the hidden real and visible rubber hand in the rubber hand illusion. Such methods have been used to induce ownership over a manikin and a virtual body that substitute the real body, as seen from first-person perspective, through a head-mounted display. However, the perceptual and behavioral consequences of such transformed body ownership have hardly been explored. In Exp. 1, immersive virtual reality was used to embody 30 adults as a 4-y-old child (condition C), and as an adult body scaled to the same height as the child (condition A), experienced from the first-person perspective, and with virtual and real body movements synchronized. The result was a strong body-ownership illusion equally for C and A. Moreover there was an overestimation of the sizes of objects compared with a nonembodied baseline, which was significantly greater for C compared with A. An implicit association test showed that C resulted in significantly faster reaction times for the classification of self with child-like compared with adult-like attributes. Exp. 2 with an additional 16 participants extinguished the ownership illusion by using visuomotor asynchrony, with all else equal. The size-estimation and implicit association test differences between C and A were also extinguished. We conclude that there are perceptual and probably behavioral correlates of body-ownership illusions that occur as a function of the type of body in which embodiment occurs.
The dexamethasone/corticotropin-releasing hormone (DEX/CRH) test has been proposed as a potential diagnostic test for major depressive disorder (MDD). A previously proposed four-step approach assesses the stage of development for a biological finding into a clinically useful diagnostic test. Using this approach, we evaluated the progress of the DEX/CRH test using meta-analysis as a part of step 1. A literature review identified 15 studies of the DEX/CRH test in patients with MDD and healthy controls. Meta-analysis estimated the effect size, heterogeneity, and confidence intervals using random effects models. Studies consistent with any step of the four-step approach were identified, and their characteristics were presented. Eleven studies reported significantly higher cortisol levels with the DEX/CRH test in patients with MDD, compared with the healthy controls (step 1). Eight eligible studies were included in meta-analysis, and had an effect size of 1.34 (95% confidence interval: 0.70-1.97). Most studies were step-1 studies (comparison of patients and healthy controls), and no step-4 studies (multicenter trials) were found. This review emphasizes that despite appearing as a promising test, the DEX/CRH has not been adequately studied for the required stages of development into a clinically useful laboratory test. Particularly, additional step-3 and step-4 studies are necessary.
Cognitive impairment in schizophrenia is a core feature and seems to be related mainly to dopaminergic dysfunction in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). The functional polymorphism Val158Met of the COMT (catechol-O-methyltransferase) gene could mediate the relationship between cognition and dopamine activity in PFC. The present study tested the influence of this polymorphism on the cognitive performance of schizophrenia spectrum patients and their relatives, using some subtests of the neuropsychological battery, the Measurement and Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (MATRICS) Consensus Cognitive Battery, and evaluated the impact of this polymorphism on a specific prefrontal cognitive function using a cognitive neuroscience paradigm. A Group of 74 schizophrenia spectrum disorder patients, 48 relatives and 67 controls performed some subtests of the MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery. In addition, 40 schizophrenia spectrum disorder patients, 26 relatives and 63 controls performed the Dot Pattern Expectancy Task (DPX) to study context processing. For the neuropsychological battery, no differences in any of the cognitive domains were found according to genotype. The DPX task was sensitive to genotype effects in patients as well as in relatives. Context processing deficits in schizophrenia patients and their relatives may be mediated by COMT genotype. The influence of the COMT genotype on cognition is more relevant in specific cognitive tasks related to prefrontal function. These results should be replicated in larger samples.




Reporting recently in Cell, Lyons et al. (2013) reveal key roles for transient LSD1 histone demethylase activity in activation of a single olfactory receptor allele and suppression of the rest of the olfactory receptor gene family, thereby locking in the expression of a single olfactory receptor per sensory neuron.

Plasticity at the cerebellar parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapse may underlie information processing and motor learning. In vivo, parallel fibers appear to fire in short high frequency bursts likely to activate sparsely distributed synapses over the Purkinje cell dendritic tree. Here, we report that short parallel fiber tetanic stimulation evokes a 7-15% depression which develops over 2 min and lasts for at least 20 min. In contrast to the concomitantly evoked short-term endocannabinoid-mediated depression, this persistent posttetanic depression (PTD) does not exhibit a dependency on the spatial pattern of synapse activation and is not caused by any detectable change in presynaptic calcium signaling. This persistent PTD is however associated with increased paired-pulse facilitation and coefficient of variation of synaptic responses, suggesting that its expression is presynaptic. The chelation of postsynaptic calcium prevents its induction, suggesting that post- to presynaptic (retrograde) signaling is required. We rule out endocannabinoid signaling since the inhibition of type 1 cannabinoid receptors, monoacylglycerol lipase or vanilloid receptor 1, or incubation with anandamide had no detectable effect. The persistent PTD is maximal in pre-adolescent mice, abolished by adrenergic and dopaminergic receptors block, but unaffected by adrenergic and dopaminergic agonists. Our data unveils a novel form of plasticity at parallel fiber synapses: a persistent PTD induced by physiologically relevant input patterns, age-dependent, and strongly modulated by the monoaminergic system. We further provide evidence supporting that the plasticity mechanism involves retrograde signaling and presynaptic diacylglycerol.
Narcolepsy patients often suffer from insomnia in addition to excessive daytime sleepiness. Narcoleptic animals also show behavioral instability characterized by frequent transitions between all vigilance states, exhibiting very short bouts of NREM sleep as well as wakefulness. The instability of wakefulness states in narcolepsy is thought to be due to deficiency of orexins, neuropeptides produced in the lateral hypothalamic neurons, which play a highly important role in maintaining wakefulness. However, the mechanism responsible for sleep instability in this disorder remains to be elucidated. Because firing of orexin neurons ceases during sleep in healthy animals, deficiency of orexins does not explain the abnormality of sleep. We hypothesized that chronic compensatory changes in the neurophysiologica activity of the locus coeruleus (LC) and dorsal raphe (DR) nucleus in response to the progressive loss of endogenous orexin tone underlie the pathological regulation of sleep/wake states. To evaluate this hypothesis, we examined firing patterns of serotonergic (5-HT) neurons and noradrenergic (NA) neurons in the brain stem, two important neuronal populations in the regulation of sleep/wakefulness states. We recorded single-unit activities of 5-HT neurons and NA neurons in the DR nucleus and LC of orexin neuron-ablated narcoleptic mice. We found that while the firing pattern of 5-HT neurons in narcoleptic mice was similar to that in wildtype mice, that of NA neurons was significantly different from that in wildtype mice. In narcoleptic mice, NA neurons showed a higher firing frequency during both wakefulness and NREM sleep as compared with wildtype mice. In vitro patch-clamp study of NA neurons of narcoleptic mice suggested a functional decrease of GABAergic input to these neurons. These alterations might play roles in the sleep abnormality in narcolepsy.
The mechanism underlying the pathogenesis of schizophrenia remains poorly understood. The hyper-dopamine and hypo-NMDA receptor hypotheses have been the most enduring ideas. Recently, emerging evidence implicates alterations of the major inhibitory system, GABAergic neurotransmission in the schizophrenic patients. However, the pathophysiological role of GABAergic system in schizophrenia still remains dubious. In this study, we took advantage of GABA transporter 1 (GAT1) knockout (KO) mouse, a unique animal model with elevated ambient GABA, to study the schizophrenia-related behavioral abnormalities. We found that GAT1 KO mice displayed multiple behavioral abnormalities related to schizophrenic positive, negative and cognitive symptoms. Moreover, GAT1 deficiency did not change the striatal dopamine levels, but significantly enhanced the tonic GABA currents in prefrontal cortex. The GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin could effectively ameliorate several behavioral defects of GAT1 KO mice. These results identified a novel function of GAT1, and indicated that the elevated ambient GABA contributed critically to the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Furthermore, several commonly used antipsychotic drugs were effective in treating the locomotor hyperactivity in GAT1 KO mice, suggesting the utility of GAT1 KO mice as an alternative animal model for studying schizophrenia pathogenesis and developing new antipsychotic drugs.
Activity plays critical roles in development and maintenance of the olfactory system, which undergoes considerable neurogenesis throughout life. In the mouse olfactory epithelium, each olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) stably expresses a single odorant receptor (OR) type out of a repertoire of 1200 and the OSNs with the same OR identity are distributed within one of the few broadly-defined zones. However, it remains elusive whether and how activity modulates such OR expression patterns. Here we addressed this question by investigating OR gene expression via in situ hybridization when sensory experience or neuronal excitability is manipulated. We first examined the expression patterns of fifteen OR genes in mice which underwent neonatal, unilateral naris closure. After four-week occlusion, the cell density in the closed (sensory-deprived) side was significantly lower (for four ORs), similar (for three ORs), or significantly higher (for eight ORs) as compared to that in the open (over-stimulated) side, suggesting that sensory inputs have differential effects on OSNs expressing different OR genes. We next examined the expression patterns of seven OR genes in transgenic mice in which mature OSNs had reduced neuronal excitability. Neuronal silencing led to a significant reduction in the cell density for most OR genes tested and thinner olfactory epithelium with an increased density of apoptotic cells. These results suggest that sensory experience plays important roles in shaping OR gene expression patterns and the neuronal activity is critical for survival of OSNs.
Oligodendrogliomas originate from oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs), whose development is regulated by the Sonic hedgehog and Wnt/beta-catenin pathways. We investigated the contribution of these pathways in the proliferation and differentiation of human oligodendroglioma cells (HOG). Inhibition of Hedgehog signaling with cyclopamine decreased cell survival and increased phosphorylated beta-catenin without altering myelin protein levels. Conversely, treatment of HOG with the Wnt antagonist secreted frizzled related protein (SFRP1), led to increased myelin protein levels and reduced cell proliferation, suggesting cell cycle arrest and differentiation. Unlike normal primary human OPCs, beta-catenin in HOG cells is not associated with endogenous Sox17 protein despite high levels of both proteins. Retroviral overexpression of recombinant Sox17 increased HOG cell cycle exit and apoptosis, and raised myelin protein levels and the percentage of O4(+) cells, indicating increased differentiation. Recombinant Sox17 also increased beta-catenin-TCF4-Sox17 complex formation and decreased total cellular levels of beta-catenin. These changes were associated with increased SFRP1, and reduced expression of Wnt-1 and Frizzled-1, -3 and -7 RNA, indicating that Sox17 induced a Hedgehog target, and regulated Wnt signaling at multiple levels. Our studies indicate that Wnt signaling regulates HOG cell cycle arrest and differentiation, and that recombinant Sox17 mediates modulation of the Wnt pathway through changes in beta-catenin, SFRP1 and Wnt/Frizzled expression. Our results thus identify Sox17 as a potential molecular target to include in HOG therapeutic strategies.

Apoptosis and autophagy are crucial mechanisms regulating cell death, and the relationship between apoptosis and autophagy in the liver has yet to be thoroughly explored. TIGAR (TP53-induced glycolysis and apoptosis regulator), which is a p53-inducible gene, functions in the suppression of ROS (reactive oxygen species) and protects U2OS cells from undergoing cell death. In this study, silencing TIGAR by RNAi (RNA interference) in HepG2 cells down-regulated both TIGAR mRNA (75%) and protein levels (80%) and led to the inhibition of cell growth (P&lt;0.01) by apoptosis (P&lt;0.001) and autophagy. We demonstrated that TIGAR can increase ROS levels in HepG2 cells. The down-regulation of TIGAR led to the induction of LC-3 II (specific autophagic marker), the formation of the autophagosome, and increased Beclin-1 expression. 3-MA (3-Methyladenine), an inhibitor of autophagic sequestration blocker, inhibited TIGAR siRNA-enhanced autophagy, as indicated by the decrease in LC-3 II levels. Consequently, these data provide the first evidence that targeted silencing of TIGAR induces apoptotic and autophagic cell death in HepG2 cells, and our data raise hope for the future successful application of TIGAR siRNA in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Glucocorticoids are given to pregnant women at risk for premature delivery to promote lung maturation. Despite reports of detrimental effects of glucocorticoids on telencephalic neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs), the regional and cellular expressions of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in various NSPC populations in the intact brain have not been thoroughly assessed. Therefore in this study we performed a detailed analysis of GR protein expression in the developing mouse ventral and dorsal telencephalon in vivo. At embryonic day 11.5 (E11.5), the majority of Pax6-positive radial glial cells (RGCs) and Tbr2-positive intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs) expressed nuclear GR, while a small number of RGCs on the apical ventricular zone (aVZ), expressed cytoplasmic GR. However, on E13.5, the latter population of RGCs increased in size, whereas abventricular NSPCs and especially neurons of the cortical plate, expressed nuclear GR. In IPCs, GR was always nuclear. A similar expression profile was observed throughout the ventral telencephalon, hippocampus and olfactory bulb, with NSPCs of the aVZ primarily expressing cytoplasmic GR, while abventricular NSPCs and mature cells primarily expressed nuclear GR. Close to birth, nuclear GR accumulated within specific cortical areas such as layer V, the subplate and CA1 area of the hippocampus. In summary, our data show that GR protein is present in early NSPCs of the dorsal and ventral telencephalon at E11.5 and primarily occupies the nucleus. Moreover, our study suggests that the subcellular localization of the receptor may be subjected to region and neurodevelopmental stage-specific regulation.
Increased spontaneous firing (hyperactivity) is induced in fusiform cells of the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) following intense sound exposure and is implicated as a possible neural correlate of noise-induced tinnitus. Previous studies have shown that in normal hearing animals, fusiform cell activity can be modulated by activation of parallel fibers, which represent the axons of granule cells. The modulation consists of a transient excitation followed by a more prolonged period of inhibition, presumably reflecting direct excitatory inputs to fusiform cells and an indirect inhibitory input to fusiform cells from the granule cell-cartwheel cell system. We hypothesized that since granule cells can be activated by cholinergic inputs, it might be possible to suppress tinnitus-related hyperactivity of fusiform cells using the cholinergic agonist, carbachol. To test this hypothesis, we recorded multiunit spontaneous activity in the fusiform soma layer (FSL) of the DCN in control and tone-exposed hamsters (10 kHz, 115 dB SPL, 4h) before and after application of carbachol to the DCN surface. In both exposed and control animals, 100 M carbachol had a transient excitatory effect on spontaneous activity followed by a rapid weakening of activity to near or below normal levels. In exposed animals, the weakening of activity was powerful enough to completely abolish the hyperactivity induced by intense sound exposure. This suppressive effect was partially reversed by application of atropine and was usually not associated with significant changes in neural best frequencies (BF) or BF thresholds. These findings demonstrate that noise-induced hyperactivity can be pharmacologically controlled and raise the possibility that attenuation of tinnitus may be achievable by using an agonist of the cholinergic system.

Although Tau accumulation is a feature of several neurodegenerative conditions, treatment options for these conditions are nonexistent. Targeting Tau kinases represents a potential therapeutic approach. Small molecules in the diaminothiazole class are potent Tau kinase inhibitors that target CDK5 and GSK3. Lead compounds from the series have IC50 values toward CDK5/p25 and GSK3 in the low nanomolar range and no observed toxicity in the therapeutic dose range. Neuronal protective effects and decreased PHF-1 immunoreactivity were observed in two animal models, 3Tg-AD and CK-p25. Treatment nearly eliminated Sarkosyl-insoluble Tau with the most prominent effect on the phosphorylation at Ser-404. Treatment also induced the recovery of memory in a fear conditioning assay. Given the contribution of both CDK5/p25 and GSK3 to Tau phosphorylation, effective treatment of tauopathies may require dual kinase targeting.
Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) is prevalent and rarely diagnosed due to the difficulty in recognizing its symptoms as belonging to a disorder. Therefore, the evaluation/screening scales are of great importance for its detection, with the most used being the Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale (LSAS). Thus, this study proposed to evaluate the psychometric properties of internal consistency and convergent validity, as well as the confirmatory factorial analysis and reliability of the self-reported version of the LSAS (LSAS-SR), translated into Brazilian Portuguese, in a sample of the general population (N=413) and in a SAD clinical sample (N=252). The convergent validity with specific scales for the evaluation of SAD and a general anxiety scale presented correlations ranging from 0.21 to 0.84. The confirmatory factorial analysis did not replicate the previously indicated findings of the literature, with the difficulty being in obtaining a consensus factorial structure common to the diverse cultures in which the instrument was studied. The LSAS-SR presented excellent internal consistency (=0.90-0.96) and test-retest reliability (Intraclass Correlation Coefficient=0.81; Pearson's=0.82). The present findings support those of international studies that attest to the excellent psychometric properties of the LSAS-SR, endorsing its status as the gold standard.
Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) is an inhibitor of histone deacetylases (HDACs) used for the treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma (CTCL) and under consideration for other indications. In vivo studies suggest reducing HDAC function can enhance synaptic function and memory, raising the possibility that SAHA treatment could have neurological benefits. We first examined the impacts of SAHA on synaptic function in vitro using rat organotypic hippocampal brain slices. Following several days of SAHA treatment, basal excitatory but not inhibitory synaptic function was enhanced. Presynaptic release probability and intrinsic neuronal excitability were unaffected suggesting SAHA treatment selectively enhanced postsynaptic excitatory function. In addition, long-term potentiation (LTP) of excitatory synapses was augmented, while long-term depression (LTD) was impaired in SAHA treated slices. Despite the in vitro synaptic enhancements, in vivo SAHA treatment did not rescue memory deficits in the Tg2576 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Along with the lack of behavioral impact, pharmacokinetic analysis indicated poor brain availability of SAHA. Broader assessment of in vivo SAHA treatment using high-content phenotypic characterization of C57Bl6 mice failed to demonstrate significant behavioral effects of up to 150 mg/kg SAHA following either acute or chronic injections. Potentially explaining the low brain exposure and lack of behavioral impacts, SAHA was found to be a substrate of the blood brain barrier (BBB) efflux transporters Pgp and Bcrp1. Thus while our in vitro data show that HDAC inhibition can enhance excitatory synaptic strength and potentiation, our in vivo data suggests limited brain availability may contribute to the lack of behavioral impact of SAHA following peripheral delivery. These results do not predict CNS effects of SAHA during clinical use and also emphasize the importance of analyzing brain drug levels when interpreting preclinical behavioral pharmacology.
Tar DNA binding protein 43 (TDP-43) is the major component of pathological deposits in frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 inclusions (FTLD-TDP) and in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). It has been reported that TDP-43 transgenic mouse models expressing human TDP-43 wild-type or ALS-associated mutations recapitulate certain ALS and FTLD pathological phenotypes. Of note, expression of human TDP-43 (hTDP-43) reduces the levels of mouse Tdp-43 (mTdp-43). However, it remained unclear whether the mechanisms through which TDP-43 induces ALS or FTLD-like pathologies resulted from a reduction in mTdp-43, an increase in hTDP-43, or a combination of both. In elucidating the role of mTdp-43 and hTDP-43 in hTDP-43 transgenic mice, we observed that reduction of mTdp-43 in non-transgenic mice by intraventricular brain injection of AAV1-shTardbp leads to a dramatic increase in the levels of splicing variants of mouse sortilin 1 and translin. However, the levels of these two abnormal splicing variants are not increased in hTDP-43 transgenic mice despite significant downregulation of mTdp-43 in these mice. Moreover, further downregulation of mTdp-43 in hTDP-43 hemizygous mice, which are asymptomatic, to the levels equivalent to that of mTdp-43 in hTDP-43 homozygous mice does not induce the pathological phenotypes observed in the homozygous mice. Lastly, the number of dendritic spines and the RNA levels of TDP-43 RNA targets critical for synapse formation and function are significantly decreased in symptomatic homozygous mice. Together, our findings indicate that mTdp-43 downregulation does not lead to a loss of function mechanism or account for the pathological phenotypes observed in hTDP-43 homozygous mice because hTDP-43 compensates for the reduction, and associated functions of mTdp-43. Rather, expression of hTDP-43 beyond a certain threshold leads to abnormal metabolism of TDP-43 RNA targets critical for neuronal structure and function, which might be responsible for the ALS or FTLD-like pathologies observed in homozygous hTDP-43 transgenic mice.
Neurological function in patients with slowly growing brain tumors can be preserved even after extensive tumor resection. However, the global process of cortical reshaping and cerebral redistribution cannot be understood without taking into account the white matter tracts. The aim of this study was to predict the functional consequences of tumor-induced white matter damage by computer simulation. A computational model was proposed, incorporating two cortical patches and the white matter connections of the uncinate fasciculus. Tumor-induced structural changes were modeled such that different aspects of the connectivity were altered, mimicking the biological heterogeneity of gliomas. The network performance was quantified by comparing memory pattern recall and the plastic compensatory capacity of the network was analyzed. The model predicts an optimal level of synaptic conductance boost that compensates for tumor-induced connectivity loss. Tumor density appears to change the optimal plasticity regime, but tumor size does not. Compensatory conductance values that are too high lead to performance loss in the network and eventually to epileptic activity. Tumors of different configurations show differences in memory recall performance with slightly lower plasticity values for dense tumors compared to more diffuse tumors. Simulation results also suggest an optimal noise level that is capable of increasing the recall performance in tumor-induced white matter damage. In conclusion, the model presented here is able to capture the influence of different tumor-related parameters on memory pattern recall decline and provides a new way to study the functional consequences of white matter invasion by slowly growing brain tumors.
A major challenge of neuroscience is to understand the circuit and gene bases of behavior. C. elegans is commonly used as a model system to investigate how various gene products function at specific tissue, cellular, and synaptic foci to produce complicated locomotory and bending behavior. The investigation generally requires quantitative behavioral analyses using an automated single-worm tracker, which constantly records and analyzes the position and body shape of a freely moving worm at a high magnification. Many single-worm trackers have been developed to meet lab-specific needs, but none has been widely implemented for various reasons, such as hardware difficult to assemble, and software lacking sufficient functionality, having closed source code, or using a programming language that is not broadly accessible. The lack of a versatile system convenient for wide implementation makes data comparisons difficult and compels other labs to develop new worm trackers. Here we describe Track-A-Worm, a system rich in functionality, open in source code, and easy to use. The system includes plug-and-play hardware (a stereomicroscope, a digital camera and a motorized stage), custom software written to run with Matlab in Windows 7, and a detailed user manual. Grayscale images are automatically converted to binary images followed by head identification and placement of 13 markers along a deduced spline. The software can extract and quantify a variety of parameters, including distance traveled, average speed, distance/time/speed of forward and backward locomotion, frequency and amplitude of dominant bends, overall bending activities measured as root mean square, and sum of all bends. It also plots worm travel path, bend trace, and bend frequency spectrum. All functionality is performed through graphical user interfaces and data is exported to clearly-annotated and documented Excel files. These features make Track-A-Worm a good candidate for implementation in other labs.
Neuroticism is a robust personality trait that constitutes a risk factor for psychopathology, especially anxiety disorders and depression. High neurotic individuals tend to be more self-critical and are overly sensitive to criticism by others. Hence, we used a novel resting-state paradigm to investigate the effect of criticism on functional brain connectivity and associations with neuroticism. Forty-eight participants completed the NEO Personality Inventory Revised (NEO-PI-R) to assess neuroticism. Next, we recorded resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) during two sessions. We manipulated the second session before scanning by presenting three standardized critical remarks through headphones, in which the subject was urged to please lie still in the scanner. A seed-based functional connectivity method and subsequent clustering were used to analyse the resting state data. Based on the reviewed literature related to criticism, we selected brain regions associated with self-reflective processing and stress-regulation as regions of interest. The findings showed enhanced functional connectivity between the clustered seed regions and brain areas involved in emotion processing and social cognition during the processing of criticism. Concurrently, functional connectivity was reduced between these clusters and brain structures related to the default mode network and higher-order cognitive control. Furthermore, individuals scoring higher on neuroticism showed altered functional connectivity between the clustered seed regions and brain areas involved in the appraisal, expression and regulation of negative emotions. These results may suggest that the criticized person is attempting to understand the beliefs, perceptions and feelings of the critic in order to facilitate flexible and adaptive social behavior. Furthermore, multiple aspects of emotion processing were found to be affected in individuals scoring higher on neuroticism during the processing of criticism, which may increase their sensitivity to negative social-evaluation.
Despite a wealth of EEG epilepsy data that accumulated for over half a century, our ability to understand brain dynamics associated with epilepsy remains limited. Using EEG data from 15 controls and 9 left temporal lobe epilepsy (LTLE) patients, in this study we characterize how the dynamics of the healthy brain differ from the &quot;dynamically balanced&quot; state of the brain of epilepsy patients treated with anti-epileptic drugs in the context of resting state. We show that such differences can be observed in band power, synchronization and network measures, as well as deviations from the small world network (SWN) architecture of the healthy brain. The  (4-7 Hz) and high  (10-13 Hz) bands showed the biggest deviations from healthy controls across various measures. In particular, patients demonstrated significantly higher power and synchronization than controls in the  band, but lower synchronization and power in the high  band. Furthermore, differences between controls and patients in graph theory metrics revealed deviations from a SWN architecture. In the  band epilepsy patients showed deviations toward an orderly network, while in the high  band they deviated toward a random network. These findings show that, despite the focal nature of LTLE, the epileptic brain differs in its global network characteristics from the healthy brain. To our knowledge, this is the only study to encompass power, connectivity and graph theory metrics to investigate the reorganization of resting state functional networks in LTLE patients.


Attention is a critical component of perception. However, the mechanisms by which attention modulates neuronal communication to guide behaviour are poorly understood. To elucidate the synaptic mechanisms of attention, we developed a sensitive assay of attentional modulation of neuronal communication. In alert monkeys performing a visual spatial attention task, we probed thalamocortical communication by electrically stimulating neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus while simultaneously recording shock-evoked responses from monosynaptically connected neurons in primary visual cortex. We found that attention enhances neuronal communication by increasing the efficacy of presynaptic input in driving postsynaptic responses, by increasing synchronous responses among ensembles of postsynaptic neurons receiving independent input, and by decreasing redundant signals between postsynaptic neurons receiving common input. The results demonstrate that attention finely tunes neuronal communication at the synaptic level by selectively altering synaptic weights, enabling enhanced detection of salient events in the noisy sensory environment.

Neurotrauma or focal brain ischemia are known to trigger molecular and structural responses in the uninjured hemisphere. These responses may have implications for tissue repair processes as well as for the recovery of function. To determine whether the plasticity response in the uninjured hemisphere occurs even after a subtle trauma, we subjected mice to a partial unilateral deafferentation of the hippocampus induced by stereotactically performed entorhinal cortex lesion (ECL). The expression of selected genes was assessed by quantitative real-time PCR in the hippocampal tissue at the injured side and the contralesional side at day 4 and 14 after injury. We observed that expression of genes coding for synaptotagmin 1, ezrin, thrombospondin 4, and C1q proteins, that have all been implicated in the synapse formation, re-arrangement and plasticity, were upregulated both in the injured and the contralesional hippocampus, implying a plasticity response in the uninjured hemisphere. Several of the genes, the expression of which was altered in response to ECL, are known to be expressed in astrocytes. To test whether astrocyte activation plays a role in the observed plasticity response to ECL, we took advantage of mice deficient in two intermediate filament (nanofilament) proteins glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin (GFAP(-/-)Vim(-/-) ) and exhibiting attenuated astrocyte activation and reactive gliosis. The absence of GFAP and vimentin reduced the ECL-induced upregulation of thrombospondin 4, indicating that this response to ECL depends on astrocyte activation and reactive gliosis. We conclude that even a very limited focal neurotrauma triggers a distinct response at the contralesional side, which at least to some extent depends on astrocyte activation.
The question of how the structure of a neuronal network affects its functionality has gained a lot of attention in neuroscience. However, the vast majority of the studies on structure-dynamics relationships consider few types of network structures and assess limited numbers of structural measures. In this in silico study, we employ a wide diversity of network topologies and search among many possibilities the aspects of structure that have the greatest effect on the network excitability. The network activity is simulated using two point-neuron models, where the neurons are activated by noisy fluctuation of the membrane potential and their connections are described by chemical synapse models, and statistics on the number and quality of the emergent network bursts are collected for each network type. We apply a prediction framework to the obtained data in order to find out the most relevant aspects of network structure. In this framework, predictors that use different sets of graph-theoretic measures are trained to estimate the activity properties, such as burst count or burst length, of the networks. The performances of these predictors are compared with each other. We show that the best performance in prediction of activity properties for networks with sharp in-degree distribution is obtained when the prediction is based on clustering coefficient. By contrast, for networks with broad in-degree distribution, the maximum eigenvalue of the connectivity graph gives the most accurate prediction. The results shown for small ([Formula: see text]) networks hold with few exceptions when different neuron models, different choices of neuron population and different average degrees are applied. We confirm our conclusions using larger ([Formula: see text]) networks as well. Our findings reveal the relevance of different aspects of network structure from the viewpoint of network excitability, and our integrative method could serve as a general framework for structure-dynamics studies in biosciences.

Much of what we know regarding the effect of stimulus repetition on neuroelectric adaptation comes from studies using artificially produced pure tones or harmonic complex sounds. Little is known about the neural processes associated with the representation of everyday sounds and how these may be affected by aging. In this study, we used real life, meaningful sounds presented at various azimuth positions and found that auditory evoked responses peaking at about 100 and 180 ms after sound onset decreased in amplitude with stimulus repetition. This neural adaptation was greater in young than in older adults and was more pronounced when the same sound was repeated at the same location. Moreover, the P2 waves showed differential patterns of domain-specific adaptation when location and identity was repeated among young adults. Background noise decreased ERP amplitudes and modulated the magnitude of repetition effects on both the N1 and P2 amplitude, and the effects were comparable in young and older adults. These findings reveal an age-related difference in the neural processes associated with adaptation to meaningful sounds, which may relate to older adults' difficulty in ignoring task-irrelevant stimuli.



Increasing evidence suggests that soluble aggregates of amyloid- (A) initiate the neurotoxicity that eventually leads to dementia in Alzheimer's disease. Knowledge on soluble aggregate structures will enhance our understanding of the relationship between structures and toxicities. Our group has reported a stable and homogeneous preparation of A(1-42) oligomers that has been characterized by various biophysical techniques. Here, we have further analyzed this species by solid state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and compared NMR results to similar observations on amyloid fibrils. NMR experiments on A(1-42) oligomers reveal chemical shifts of labeled residues that are indicative of -strand secondary structure. Results from two-dimensional dipolar-assisted rotational resonance experiments indicate proximities between I31 aliphatic and F19 aromatic carbons. An isotope dilution experiment further indicates that these contacts between F19 and I31 are intermolecular, contrary to models of A oligomers proposed previously by others. For A(1-42) fibrils, we observed similar NMR lineshapes and inter-side-chain contacts, indicating similar secondary and quaternary structures. The most prominent structural differences between A(1-42) oligomers and fibrils were observed through measurements of intermolecular (13)C-(13)C dipolar couplings observed in PITHIRDS-CT experiments. PITHIRDS-CT data indicate that, unlike fibrils, oligomers are not characterized by in-register parallel -sheets. Structural similarities and differences between A(1-42) oligomers and fibrils suggest that folded -strand peptide conformations form early in the course of self-assembly and that oligomers and fibrils differ primarily in schemes of intermolecular organization. Distinct intermolecular arrangements between A(1-42) oligomers and fibrils may explain why this oligomeric state appears off-pathway for monomer self-assembly to fibrils.
We have previously demonstrated that Sox17 regulates cell cycle exit and differentiation in oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. Here we investigated its function in white matter (WM) development and adult injury with a newly generated transgenic mouse overexpressing Sox17 in the oligodendrocyte lineage under the CNPase promoter. Sox17 overexpression in CNP-Sox17 mice sequentially promoted postnatal oligodendrogenesis, increasing NG2 progenitor cells from postnatal day (P) 15, then O4+ and CC1+ cells at P30 and P120, respectively. Total Olig2+ oligodendrocyte lineage cells first decreased between P8 and P22 through Sox17-mediated increase in apoptotic cell death, and thereafter significantly exceeded WT levels from P30 when cell death had ceased. CNP-Sox17 mice showed increased Gli2 protein levels and Gli2+ cells in WM, indicating that Sox17 promotes the generation of oligodendrocyte lineage cells through Hedgehog signaling. Sox17 overexpression prevented cell loss after lysolecithin-induced demyelination by increasing Olig2+ and CC1+ cells in response to injury. Furthermore, Sox17 overexpression abolished the injury-induced increase in TCF7L2/TCF4+ cells, and protected oligodendrocytes from apoptosis by preventing decreases in Gli2 and Bcl-2 expression that were observed in WT lesions. Our study thus reveals a biphasic effect of Sox17 overexpression on cell survival and oligodendrocyte formation in the developing WM, and that its potentiation of oligodendrocyte survival in the adult confers resistance to injury and myelin loss. This study demonstrates that overexpression of this transcription factor might be a viable protective strategy to mitigate the consequences of demyelination in the adult WM.
d-Serine is an endogenous ligand for NMDARs generated from l-serine by the enzyme serine racemase (Srr). Both neuronal and glial localizations have been reported for d-serine and Srr. 3-Phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase is an exclusively astrocytic enzyme that catalyzes the first committed step of l-serine biosynthesis. Using transgenic mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein under the Srr promoter and mice with targeted deletion of Srr or 3-Phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase, we demonstrate predominantly neuronal sources of d-serine dependent on astrocytic supply of l-serine. These findings clarify the cellular basis for the regulation of NMDAR neurotransmission by d-serine.
Time is embedded in any sensory experience: the movements of a dance, the rhythm of a piece of music, the words of a speaker are all examples of temporally structured sensory events. In humans, if and how visual cortices perform temporal processing remains unclear. Here we show that both primary visual cortex (V1) and extrastriate area V5/MT are causally involved in encoding and keeping time in memory and that this involvement is independent from low-level visual processing. Most importantly we demonstrate that V1 and V5/MT come into play simultaneously and seem to be functionally linked during interval encoding, whereas they operate serially (V1 followed by V5/MT) and seem to be independent while maintaining temporal information in working memory. These data help to refine our knowledge of the functional properties of human visual cortex, highlighting the contribution and the temporal dynamics of V1 and V5/MT in the processing of the temporal aspects of visual information.
Eye-position signals (EPS) are found throughout the primate visual system and are thought to provide a mechanism for representing spatial locations in a manner that is robust to changes in eye position. It remains unknown, however, whether cortical EPS (also known as &quot;gain fields&quot;) have the necessary spatial and temporal characteristics to fulfill their purported computational roles. To quantify these EPS, we combined single-unit recordings in four dorsal visual areas of behaving rhesus macaques (lateral intraparietal area, ventral intraparietal area, middle temporal area, and the medial superior temporal area) with likelihood-based population-decoding techniques. The decoders used knowledge of spiking statistics to estimate eye position during fixation from a set of observed spike counts across neurons. Importantly, these samples were short in duration (100 ms) and from individual trials to mimic the real-time estimation problem faced by the brain. The results suggest that cortical EPS provide an accurate and precise representation of eye position, albeit with unequal signal fidelity across brain areas and a modest underestimation of eye eccentricity. The underestimation of eye eccentricity predicted a pattern of mislocalization that matches the errors made by human observers. In addition, we found that eccentric eye positions were associated with enhanced precision relative to the primary eye position. This predicts that positions in visual space should be represented more reliably during eccentric gaze than while looking straight ahead. Together, these results suggest that cortical eye-position signals provide a useable head-centered representation of visual space on timescales that are compatible with the duration of a typical ocular fixation.
Transient global ischemia causes selective, delayed death of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons in humans and animals. It is well established that estrogens ameliorate neuronal death in animal models of focal and global ischemia. However, the role of signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3) and its target genes in estradiol neuroprotection in global ischemia remains unclear. Here we show that a single intracerebral injection of 17-estradiol to ovariectomized female rats immediately after ischemia rescues CA1 neurons destined to die. Ischemia promotes activation of STAT3 signaling, association of STAT3 with the promoters of target genes, and STAT3-dependent mRNA and protein expression of prosurvival proteins in the selectively vulnerable CA1. In animals subjected to ischemia, acute postischemic estradiol further enhances activation and nuclear translocation of STAT3 and STAT3-dependent transcription of target genes. Importantly, we show that STAT3 is critical to estradiol neuroprotection, as evidenced by the ability of STAT3 inhibitor peptide and STAT3 shRNA delivered directly into the CA1 of living animals to abolish neuroprotection. In addition, we identify survivin, a member of the inhibitor-of-apoptosis family of proteins and known gene target of STAT3, as essential to estradiol neuroprotection, as evidenced by the ability of shRNA to survivin to reverse neuroprotection. These findings indicate that ischemia and estradiol act synergistically to promote activation of STAT3 and STAT3-dependent transcription of survivin in insulted CA1 neurons and identify STAT3 and survivin as potentially important therapeutic targets in an in vivo model of global ischemia.
Heteromeric nAChRs are pentameric cation channels, composed of combinations of two or three  and three or two  subunits, which play key physiological roles in the central and peripheral nervous systems. The prototypical agonist nicotine acts intracellularly to upregulate many nAChR subtypes, a phenomenon that is thought to contribute to the nicotine dependence of cigarette smokers. The 34 subtype has recently been genetically linked to nicotine dependence and lung cancer; however, the mode of action of nicotine on this receptor subtype has been incompletely investigated. Here, using transfected mammalian cells as model system, we characterized the response of the human 34 receptor subtype to nicotine and the mechanism of action of the drug. Nicotine, when present at 1 mm concentration, elicited a 5-fold increase of cell surface 34 and showed a more modest upregulatory effect also at concentrations as low as 10 M. Upregulation was obtained if nicotine was present during, but not after, pentamer assembly and was caused by increased stability and trafficking of receptors assembled in the presence of the drug. Experimental determinations as well as computational studies of subunit stoichiometry showed that nicotine favors assembly of pentamers with (3)2(4)3 stoichiometry; these are less prone than (3)3(4)2 receptors to proteasomal degradation and, because of the presence in the  subunit of an endoplasmic reticulum export motif, more efficiently transported to the plasma membrane. Our findings uncover a novel mechanism of nicotine-induced 34 nAChR upregulation that may be relevant also for other nAChR subtypes.
The neural mechanisms that support the late postnatal development of spatial navigation are currently unknown. We investigated this in rats and found that an increase in the duration of AMPAR-mediated synaptic responses in the hippocampus was related to the emergence of spatial navigation. More specifically, spontaneous alternation rate, a behavioral indicator of hippocampal integrity, increased at the end of the third postnatal week in association with increases in AMPAR response duration at SC-CA1 synapses and synaptically driven postsynaptic discharge of CA1 pyramidal neurons. Pharmacological prolongation of glutamatergic synaptic transmission in juveniles increased the spontaneous alternation rate and CA1 postsynaptic discharge and reduced the threshold for the induction of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity at SC-CA1 synapses. A decrease in GluA1 and increases in GluA3 subunit and transmembrane AMPAR regulatory protein (TARP) expression at the end of the third postnatal week provide a molecular explanation for the increase in AMPAR response duration and reduced efficacy of AMPAR modulators with increasing age. A shift in the composition of AMPARs and increased association with AMPAR protein complex accessory proteins at the end of the third postnatal week likely &quot;turns on&quot; the hippocampus by increasing AMPAR response duration and postsynaptic excitability and reducing the threshold for activity-dependent synaptic potentiation.

Communicating science to the public takes time away from busy research careers. So why would you do it? I here offer six reasons. First, we owe that understanding to the people who fund our experiments, the taxpaying public. Second, we can leverage our skills as scientists to inspire critical thinking in public and political dialog. Third, researchers are optimally positioned to stem the flow of scientific misinformation in the media. Fourth, we can explain the ways and the means by which science can (and cannot) improve law and social policy. Fifth, it is incumbent upon us to explain what science is and is not: while it is a way of thinking that upgrades our intuitions, it also comes with a deep understanding of (and tolerance for) uncertainty. Finally, we find ourselves in the pleasurable position of being able to share the raw beauty of the world around us-and in the case of neuroscience, the world inside us. I suggest that scientists are optimally stationed to increase their presence in the public sphere: our training positions us to synthesize large bodies of data, weigh the evidence, and communicate with nuance, sincerity and exactitude.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic progressive, demyelinating condition whose therapeutic needs are unmet, and whose pathoetiology is elusive. We report that transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1) expressed in a major sensory neuron subset, controls severity and progression of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in mice and likely in primary progressive MS. TRPV1-/- B6 congenics are protected from EAE. Increased survival reflects reduced central nervous systems (CNS) infiltration, despite indistinguishable T cell autoreactivity and pathogenicity in the periphery of TRPV1-sufficient and -deficient mice. The TRPV1+ neurovascular complex defining the blood-CNS barriers promoted invasion of pathogenic lymphocytes without the contribution of TRPV1-dependent neuropeptides such as substance P. In MS patients, we found a selective risk-association of the missense rs877610 TRPV1 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in primary progressive disease. Our findings indicate that TRPV1 is a critical disease modifier in EAE, and we identify a predictor of severe disease course and a novel target for MS therapy.
Humans can resist temptations by exerting willpower, the effortful inhibition of impulses. But willpower can be disrupted by emotions and depleted over time. Luckily, humans can deploy alternative self-control strategies like precommitment, the voluntary restriction of access to temptations. Here, we examined the neural mechanisms of willpower and precommitment using fMRI. Behaviorally, precommitment facilitated choices for large delayed rewards, relative to willpower, especially in more impulsive individuals. While willpower was associated with activation in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), posterior parietal cortex (PPC), and inferior frontal gyrus, precommitment engaged lateral frontopolar cortex (LFPC). During precommitment, LFPC showed increased functional connectivity with DLPFC and PPC, especially in more impulsive individuals, and the relationship between impulsivity and LFPC connectivity was mediated by value-related activation in ventromedial PFC. Our findings support a hierarchical model of self-control in which LFPC orchestrates precommitment by controlling action plans in more caudal prefrontal regions as a function of expected value.
The immediate early gene neuronal activity-regulated pentraxin (NARP) is an -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR) binding protein that is specifically enriched at excitatory synapses onto fast-spiking parvalbumin-positive interneurons (FS [PV] INs). Here, we show that transgenic deletion of NARP decreases the number of excitatory synaptic inputs onto FS (PV) INs and reduces net excitatory synaptic drive onto FS (PV) INs. Accordingly, the visual cortex of NARP(-/-) mice is hyperexcitable and unable to express ocular dominance plasticity, although many aspects of visual function are unimpaired. Importantly, the number and strength of inhibitory synaptic contacts from FS (PV) INs onto principle neurons in the visual cortex is normal in NARP(-/-) mice, and enhancement of thisoutput recovers the expression of experience-dependent synaptic plasticity. Thus the recruitment of inhibition from FS (PV) INs plays a central role in enabling the critical period for ocular dominance plasticity.
The dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) has a near-ubiquitous presence in the neuroscience of cognitive control. It has been implicated in a diversity of functions, from reward processing and performance monitoring to the execution of control and action selection. Here, we propose that this diversity can be understood in terms of a single underlying function: allocation of control based on an evaluation of the expected value of control (EVC). We present a normative model of EVC that integrates three critical factors: the expected payoff from a controlled process, the amount of control that must be invested to achieve that payoff, and the cost in terms of cognitive effort. We propose that dACC integrates this information, using it to determine whether, where and how much control to allocate. We then consider how the EVC model can explain the diverse array of findings concerning dACC function.
In this issue of Neuron, Lin etal. (2013) describe InSynC, an optogenetic approach that utilizes chromophore-assisted light inactivation (CALI) to inactivate presynaptic neurotransmitter release proteins VAMP2 and synaptophysin. InSynC selectively reduces synaptic transmission in illuminated regions invitro and invivo.
As new technology makes it possible to perform experiments that were unimaginable a decade ago, Eve Marder argues that we can still learn from the past.
Development of biofluid-based molecular diagnostic tests for cancer is an important step towards tumor characterization and real-time monitoring in a minimally invasive fashion. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are released from tumor cells into body fluids and can provide a powerful platform for tumor biomarkers because they carry tumor proteins and nucleic acids. Detecting rare point mutations in the background of wild-type sequences in biofluids such as blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) remains a major challenge. Techniques such as BEAMing (beads, emulsion, amplification, magnetics) PCR and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) are substantially more sensitive than many other assays for mutant sequence detection. Here, we describe a novel approach that combines biofluid EV RNA and BEAMing RT-PCR (EV-BEAMing), as well droplet digital PCR to interrogate mutations from glioma tumors. EVs from CSF of patients with glioma were shown to contain mutant IDH1 transcripts, and we were able to reliably detect and quantify mutant and wild-type IDH1 RNA transcripts in CSF of patients with gliomas. EV-BEAMing and EV-ddPCR represent a valuable new strategy for cancer diagnostics, which can be applied to a variety of biofluids and neoplasms.Molecular Therapy-Nucleic Acids (2013) 2, e109; doi:10.1038/mtna.2013.28; published online 23 July 2013.

In previous work our group described the synthesis and the activity on rat cerebellum granule cell GABAA receptors of new 1,5-benzodiazepine compounds. Here we are describing the synthesis of new triazolobenzodiazepines (mainly 1,5-benzodiazepine derivatives) and the evaluation of their biological activity in terms of effects on those GABAA receptors. Their effects were compared to those of 1,4-benzodiazepine agonists and some known 1,5-benzodiazepines. The activities were evaluated for the two GABAA receptor populations present in cerebellar granule cells, one mediating phasic inhibition and the other one mediating tonic inhibition. Some of the compounds displayed a profile of agonist at the component mediating phasic inhibition. This agonistic activity was prevented by the benzodiazepine site antagonist flumazenil. Interestingly, the active compounds displayed an agonistic activity at these receptors significantly greater than that of &quot;classical&quot; 1,4-benzodiazepine agonists, such as diazepam, flunitrazepam and alprazolam.

Repetition suppression (RS) in cortical sensory systems optimizes the size of neuronal ensemble reacting to repetitive stimuli such as sounds. Recently RS has also been demonstrated to occur with mental imaging of movement. We studied the existence of RS in the motor system using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Six healthy subjects participated in this study. TMS was focused on the primary motor cortex with neuronavigation and RS was studied by measuring the motor-evoked potentials from the contralateral first dorsal interosseous muscle. At the same time, we measured TMS-induced cortical responses using electroencephalography (EEG). For a comparison baseline, we evaluated RS by recording EEG responses to sounds with the same stimulation protocol as with TMS. Each stimulus train included four identical stimuli repeated at 1-s intervals, and the stimulation trains were repeated at 20-s intervals. The response amplitude was reduced significantly (p&lt;.01) after the first stimulus in all stimulus trains. This suggests that RS may be a general mechanism for adaptation of neuronal population responses in the human cortex.
During voluntary limb movements, humans exert anticipatory postural adjustments (APAs) to prevent any upcoming equilibrium disturbance that might be provoked by limb movements. Dysfunction in generation or control of APAs is associated with postural deficits in some human patients with cerebellar damage. To examine the role of the cerebellum in APAs, we investigated a conditional transgenic mouse of spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3Tg) that has defective cerebellar Purkinje cells. Kinematic analyses and monitoring of electromyographic activities during quadrupedal standing showed that SCA3Tg mice exhibited greater hindlimb instability than wild-type (WT) mice. This instability increased during a reaching task that required postural adjustments associated with voluntary neck movements. Normally, the activities of the hindlimb muscles are synchronized with those in the neck that are the agonists for movement of the head in this reaching task; however, in SCA3Tg mice, activities in the hindlimbs were markedly delayed compared to the neck. These observations cannot simply be explained as a secondary outcome of the muscle atrophy that occurs in SCA3Tg mice. In WT mice with muscle atrophy induced by immobilization of the hindlimbs, we did not find impairment of APAs. These findings suggest that the deficits in APAs during the reaching task in SCA3Tg mice were not due to muscle atrophy in the hindlimbs, but were mainly caused by cerebellar degeneration. Therefore, we conclude that the cerebellum is critically involved in APAs.
The olfactory system responds to the same stimulus with great variability according to the current state of the brain. At the levels of multi-unit activity and local field potentials, the response of the olfactory bulb (OB) to a given olfactory stimulus during a state of lower background activity is stronger than the response that occurs during higher background activity, but the distribution pattern of activity remains similar. However, these results have only been established at the individual neuron and neuron cluster scales in previous studies. It remains unclear whether these results are consistent at a larger scale (e.g., OB regions); therefore, intrinsic optical signals imaging was employed in the present study to clarify this issue. The basal brain states of rats were manipulated by using different levels of anesthesia. Under a state of low basal brain activity, the intensity of the activity pattern elicited in the dorsal OB by a given odorant was significantly higher than that under high basal brain activity, but the topography was highly similar across different brain states. These results were consistent across the levels of individual neurons, neuron clusters, glomeruli, and the OB regions, which suggest that the OB contains as yet unknown neural mechanisms that ensure the high-fidelity representation of the same olfactory stimulation under different brain states.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) and infralimbic (IL) cortex share strong reciprocal interconnections and are key structures in conditioned fear circuitry. Gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) or its receptor antagonists can modulate the conditioned fear response when exogenously administered at either of these sites, and increased release of GRP at the BLA occurs in response to conditioned fear recall. The present study sought to determine whether a functional pathway utilizing GRP exists between the IL cortex and BLA and whether this pathway is also influenced by amygdala corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) release. To this end, we assessed the effects of intra-IL cortex injection of GRP or GRP co-administered with a receptor antagonist, RC-3095, on the downstream release of GRP and/or CRF at the BLA. Results showed that microinjection of GRP at the IL cortex increased the release of GRP, but not CRF, at the BLA, an effect blocked by co-administration of RC-3095. Administration of RC-3095 into the IL cortex on its own, however, also elicited the release of GRP (but not CRF) at the BLA. These findings suggest that a functional pathway utilizing GRP (among other factors) exists between the IL cortex and BLA that may be relevant to conditioned fear, but that GRP and CRF do not interact within this circuitry. Moreover, the finding that the release profile of GRP was similar following administration of either GRP or its receptor antagonist, lends support to the view that RC-3095 has partial agonist properties. Together these findings provide further evidence for the involvement of GRP in fear and anxiety-related disorders.
Parallel representations of the visual world are already established at the very first synapse of the visual system. Cone photoreceptors, which hyperpolarize in response to light, forward the visual signal onto distinct types of ON and OFF cone bipolar cells (BCs). In the case of OFF BCs, the glutamatergic cone input is integrated by ionotropic glutamate receptors, giving rise to a sign-preserving mode of synaptic transmission. The combination of glutamate receptor (GluR) subunits, i.e. AMPA or kainate subunits, importantly contributes to shaping the OFF bipolar cells' distinct response properties. The mouse is one of the few mammals in which the (most likely) complete set of (five) retinal OFF BC types is identified. However, it is not clear which GluR subtypes are expressed by the different mouse OFF BC types. We addressed this question by combining immunolabeling, electrical whole-cell recordings and pharmacology, and present evidence that the different types of OFF BCs express distinct types of glutamate receptors: Type 1 BCs exclusively expressed AMPA receptors, whereas type 2 and type 3a BCs expressed kainate receptors of different subunit compositions. Additionally, we found that two OFF BC types (3b and 4) very likely express both AMPA and kainate receptors but, interestingly, the two receptor subunits were not co-localized at the same dendritic site. The complex, BC type-specific expression pattern of GluRs we describe here supports their essential role in establishing parallel pathways at the first synapse of the mouse visual system.
The hypothalamic release of glutamate and GABA regulates neurosecretory functions that may control the onset of puberty. This release may be influenced by neurosteroids such as allopregnanolone. Using superfusion experiments we examined the role of allopregnanolone on the K(+)-evoked and basal [(3)H]-glutamate and [(3)H]-GABA release from mediobasal hypothalamus and anterior preoptic area in prepubertal, vaginal opening and pubertal (P) rats and evaluated its modulatory effect on GABAA and NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartic acid) receptors. Also, we examined the hypothalamic activity and mRNA expression of 3-hydroxysteroid oxidoreductase (3-HSOR) - enzyme that synthesizes allopregnanolone - using a spectrophotometric method and RT-PCR, respectively. Allopregnanolone increased both the K(+)-evoked [(3)H]-glutamate and [(3)H]-GABA release in P rats, being the former effect mediated by the modulation of NMDA receptors - as was reverted by Mg(2+) and by the NMDA receptor antagonist AP-7 and the latter by the modulation of NMDA and GABAA receptors - as was reverted by Mg(2+) and the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline. The neurosteroid also increased the basal release of [(3)H]-glutamate in VO rats in an effect that was dependent on the modulation of NMDA receptors as was reverted by Mg(2+). On the other hand we show that allopregnanolone reduced the basal release of [(3)H]-GABA in P rats although we cannot elucidate the precise mechanism by which the neurosteroid exerted this latter effect. The enzymatic activity and the mRNA expression of 3-HSOR were both increased in P rats regarding the other two studied stages of sexual development. These results suggest an important physiological function of allopregnanolone in the hypothalamus of the P rat where it might be involved in the 'fine tuning' of neurosecretory functions related to the biology of reproduction of the female rats.
Nicotine and methamphetamine (METH) cause addiction by triggering neuroplastic changes in brain reward pathways though they each engage distinct molecular targets (nicotine receptors and dopamine transporters respectively). Addiction to both drugs is very prevalent, with the vast majority of METH users also being smokers of cigarettes. This co-morbid occurrence thus raised questions about potential synergistic rewarding effects of the drugs. However, few studies have investigated the chronic neurobiological changes associated with co-morbid nicotine and METH addiction. Here we investigated the effects of these two drugs alone and in combination on the expression of several immediate early genes (IEGs) that are sensitive to drug exposures. Chronic exposure to either nicotine or METH caused significant decreases in the expression of fosb, fra1, and fra2 in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) but not in the dorsal striatum whereas the drug combination increased fra2 expression in both structures. Except for junB mRNA levels that were decreased by the three drug treatments in the NAc, there were no significant changes in the Jun family members. Of the Egr family members, NAc egr2 expression was decreased after nicotine and the drug combination whereas NAc egr3 was decreased after METH and the drug combination. The drug combination also increased striatal egr3 expression. The Nr4a family member, nr4a2/nurr1, showed increased striatal expression after all three drug treatments, while striatal nr4a3/nor-1 expression was increased by the drug combination whereas NAc nr4a1/nurr77 was decreased by nicotine and the drug combination. These observations suggest that, when given in combination, the two drugs exert distinct effects on the expression of IEGs in dopaminergic projection areas from those elicited by each drug alone. The significance of these changes in IEG expression and in other molecular markers in fostering co-morbid METH and nicotine abuse needs to be further evaluated.
Autism and Asperger's disorder (AD) are neurodevelopmental disorders primarily characterized by deficits in social interaction and communication, however motor coordination deficits are increasingly recognized as a prevalent feature of these conditions. Although it has been proposed that children with autism and AD may have difficulty utilizing visual feedback during motor learning tasks, this has not been directly examined. Significantly, changes within the cerebellum, which is implicated in motor learning, are known to be more pronounced in autism compared to AD. We used the classic double-step saccade adaptation paradigm, known to depend on cerebellar integrity, to investigate differences in motor learning and the use of visual feedback in children aged 9-14 years with high-functioning autism (HFA; IQ&gt;80; n=10) and AD (n=13). Performance was compared to age and IQ matched typically developing children (n=12). Both HFA and AD groups successfully adapted the gain of their saccades in response to perceived visual error, however the time course for adaptation was prolonged in the HFA group. While a shift in saccade dynamics typically occurs during adaptation, we revealed aberrant changes in both HFA and AD groups. This study contributes to a growing body of evidence centrally implicating the cerebellum in ocular motor dysfunction in autism. Specifically, these findings collectively imply functional impairment of the cerebellar network and its inflow and outflow tracts that underpin saccade adaptation, with greater disturbance in HFA compared to AD.

Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3) is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with polyglutamine (polyQ) protein ataxin-3. Ataxin-3 is a multi-functional protein, but the precise mechanisms underlying the cellular functions of ataxin-3 remain to be elucidated. Here we demonstrate that ataxin-3 plays a protective role against cellular oxidative stress induced by H2O2 in a Bcl-XL-dependent manner. Ataxin-3 directly interacts with Bcl-XL. The N-terminus of ataxin-3 and the C-terminus of Bcl-XL are essential for the interaction. Ataxin-3 promotes the interaction between Bcl-XL and Bax, but does not affect the ubiquitination and degradation of Bcl-XL. Our data suggest that ataxin-3 plays an important role in regulating the Bcl-XL-Bax-mediated anti-oxidative response by modulating the interaction between Bcl-XL and Bax.
Hemeoxygenase (HO) is an enzymatic system that degrades heme. HO-1 is an inducible isoform whereas HO-2 is constitutive. Stroke strongly induces HO-1 expression but the underlying mechanisms are not fully elucidated. Cytokines that are up-regulated after ischemia, like interleukin (IL)-10, can induce HO-1 gene expression, which is positively regulated by the transcriptional activator nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and negatively regulated by the transcriptional repressor breast cancer type 1 susceptibility protein (BRCA1) associated C-terminal helicase 1 (Bach-1). While Nrf2 is activated after ischemia and drugs promoting Nrf2 activation increase HO-1 and are beneficial, the involvement of Bach-1 is unknown. Here we investigated mechanisms involved in HO-1 induction and evaluated the effects of HO activity inhibition in mouse permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO). HO-1 was induced after ischemia in IL-10-deficient mice suggesting that post-ischemic HO-1 induction was IL-10-independent. Attenuation of Bach-1 gene repression after ischemia was associated to enhanced HO-1 induction. Administration of the HO activity inhibitor zinc proto-porphyrin IX (ZnPP) i.p. 24h before pMCAO exacerbated ischemia-induced tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) and IL-1, nitro-oxidative stress, and the presence of neutrophils at 8h, and increased infarct volume at day 4. However, ZnPP did not worsen ischemic damage when given 30min before pMCAO. ZnPP induced HO-1 expression in the cerebral vasculature at 24h, when it was still detected by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) in plasma. While ZnPP was not found in brain tissue extracts of controls, it could be detected after ischemia, supporting that a small fraction of the injected drug can reach the tissue following blood-brain barrier breakdown. The deleterious effect of inhibiting HO activity in ischemia became apparent in the presence of ZnPP-induced HO-1, which is known to exert effects independent of its enzymatic activity. In conclusion, HO-1 induction after ischemia was associated to down-regulation of transcriptional repressor Bach-1, and induction of HO-1 when HO enzymatic activity was inhibited was related to worst outcome after brain ischemia.
L-DOPA alleviates the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease, but its long-term use is associated with undesirable dyskinesia. We now tested whether exercise can attenuate this L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). We tested the effects of exercise on LID in 6-hydroxydopamine hydrochloride-hemiparkinsonian mice. Animals were treated with L-DOPA/benserazide (25/12.5 mg/kg, i.p.) without and with possibility to exercise (running wheel) during 2 weeks. Exercise drastically prevented the development of LID, and its associated aberrant striatal signaling, namely the hyperphosphorylation of dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein 32 kDa protein and c-Fos expression. Our results indicate that exercise can partially prevent the development of LID through the normalization of striatopallidal dopaminergic signaling.
People with Parkinson's disease (PD) perceive that their movement amplitude is greater than what they actually perform. The neural mechanisms underlying one's perception of movement are believed to involve the sensorimotor integration process (SIP). How PD affects the SIP is not well understood. A previous study interrogating the SIP showed healthy adults (HAs) overestimated their limb position in the direction of movement and the error and its variance (VOE) depended on movement duration. We asked if PDs showed errors in perceived limb position and if the dependence on movement duration was different from HAs. We used an existing computational model of the SIP to explore mechanisms for the error and VOE as a function of movement duration. Twenty PDs, off medication, and 20 age-matched HAs were asked to estimate the position of their hand after performing 50, slow, non-visually guided wrist flexion or extension movements for a random period of time (&lt;4.0 s). Both groups overestimated the amount they moved; however, the PDs' error and VOE were larger (p&lt;0.001). HAs showed increasing error/VOE for small movement durations that reduced/stabilized for longer movement durations. PDs however showed increasing error/VOE with increasing movement duration that did not significantly improve/stabilize. The model suggested that the basis for such perceptual deficits may be abnormal proprioceptive feedback and/or processing of an abnormal internal impression (prediction) that underestimates movement amplitude. Simulation results imply that the PD's SIP could no longer effectively access sensory (proprioceptive) feedback to correct errors in other components of the SIP due to the abnormal processing of sensory feedback. We suggest from this study that an impaired perception of movement amplitude and sensory processing deficits contribute to hypokinesia in PD.
Synapsins are nerve-terminal proteins that are linked to synaptic transmission and key factors in several forms of synaptic plasticity. While synapsins are generally assumed to be ubiquitous in synaptic terminals, whether they are excluded from certain types of terminals is of interest. In the visual pathway, synapsins are lacking in photoreceptor and bipolar cell terminals as well as in retinogeniculate synapses. These are the terminals of the first three feedforward synapses in the visual pathway, implying that lack of synapsins may be a common property of terminals that provide the primary driver activity onto their postsynaptic neurons. To further investigate this idea, we studied the fourth driver synapse, thalamocortical synapses in visual cortex, using glutamatergic terminal antibody markers anti-VGluT1 and VGluT2, anti-Synapsin I and II, and confocal microscopy to analyze co-localization of these proteins in terminals. We also used pre-embedding immunocytochemical labeling followed by electron microscopy to investigate morphological similarities or differences between terminals containing synapsins or VGluT2. In visual cortex, synapsin coincided extensively with non-TC-neuron marker, VGluT1, while thalamocortical terminal marker VGluT2 and synapsin overlap was sparse. Morphologically, synapsin-stained terminals were smaller than non-stained, while VGluT2-positive thalamocortical terminals constituted the largest terminals in cortex. The size discrepancy between synapsin- and VGluT2-positive terminals, together with the complementary staining patterns, indicates that thalamocortical synapses are devoid of synapsins, and support the hypothesis that afferent sensory information is consistently transmitted without the involvement of synapsins. Furthermore, VGluT2 and synapsins were colocalized in other brain structures, suggesting that lack of synapsins is not a property of VGluT2-containing terminals, but a property of primary driver terminals in the visual system.
To capture patterns in the environment, neurons in the auditory brainstem rapidly alter their firing based on the statistical properties of the soundscape. How this neural sensitivity relates to behavior is unclear. We tackled this question by combining neural and behavioral measures of statistical learning, a general-purpose learning mechanism governing many complex behaviors including language acquisition. We recorded complex auditory brainstem responses (cABRs) while human adults implicitly learned to segment patterns embedded in an uninterrupted sound sequence based on their statistical characteristics. The brainstem's sensitivity to statistical structure was measured as the change in the cABR between a patterned and a pseudo-randomized sequence composed from the same set of sounds but differing in their sound-to-sound probabilities. Using this methodology, we provide the first demonstration that behavioral-indices of rapid learning relate to individual differences in brainstem physiology. We found that neural sensitivity to statistical structure manifested along a continuum, from adaptation to enhancement, where cABR enhancement (patterned&gt;pseudo-random) tracked with greater rapid statistical learning than adaptation. Short- and long-term auditory experiences (days to years) are known to promote brainstem plasticity and here we provide a conceptual advance by showing that the brainstem is also integral to rapid learning occurring over minutes.
In many avian species, vocal repertoire expands and changes throughout life as new syllables are added and sounds adapted to neighbours and circumstances. Referential signals, on the other hand, demand stability and lack of variation so that their meaning can be understood by conspecifics at all times. It is not known how stable such signals may be when the context is changed entirely but the point of reference remains unchanged. We investigated these questions in a rare case of forced translocation of an avian species, the Australian magpie (Gymnorhina tibicen), from Australia to the remote Fijian island of Taveuni decades ago. By using playbacks of vocalisations to 45 magpie groups in Australia, we first established that magpies use functionally referential signals in their alarm call repertoire signalling aerial danger (measured as looking up in response to a specific alarm call even though the speakers were on the ground). With these results in hand, we then used the same playbacks to magpie groups on the island of Taveuni. Our results showed that the meaning of one specific call (eagle alarm call) is stable and maintained even in populations that have been isolated from Australian conspecifics over many (at least 10) generations. To our knowledge, this is the first time such a stability of a referential signal has been shown in the natural habitat.
Growing evidence suggests that drugs interact with diverse molecular targets mediating both therapeutic and toxic effects. Prediction of these complex interactions from chemical structures alone remains challenging, as compounds with different structures may possess similar toxicity profiles. In contrast, predictions based on systems-level measurements of drug effect may reveal pharmacologic similarities not evident from structure or known therapeutic indications. Here we utilized drug-induced transcriptional responses in the Connectivity Map (CMap) to discover such similarities among diverse antagonists of the human ether--go-go related (hERG) potassium channel, a common target of promiscuous inhibition by small molecules. Analysis of transcriptional profiles generated in three independent cell lines revealed clusters enriched for hERG inhibitors annotated using a database of experimental measurements (hERGcentral) and clinical indications. As a validation, we experimentally identified novel hERG inhibitors among the unannotated drugs in these enriched clusters, suggesting transcriptional responses may serve as predictive surrogates of cardiotoxicity complementing existing functional assays.

The decoding of social signals from nonverbal cues plays a vital role in the social interactions of socially gregarious animals such as humans. Because nonverbal emotional signals from the face and body are normally seen together, it is important to investigate the mechanism underlying the integration of emotional signals from these two sources. We conducted a study in which the time course of the integration of facial and bodily expressions was examined via analysis of event-related potentials (ERPs) while the focus of attention was manipulated. Distinctive integrating features were found during multiple stages of processing. In the first stage, threatening information from the body was extracted automatically and rapidly, as evidenced by enhanced P1 amplitudes when the subjects viewed compound face-body images with fearful bodies compared with happy bodies. In the second stage, incongruency between emotional information from the face and the body was detected and captured by N2. Incongruent compound images elicited larger N2s than did congruent compound images. The focus of attention modulated the third stage of integration. When the subjects' attention was focused on the face, images with congruent emotional signals elicited larger P3s than did images with incongruent signals, suggesting more sustained attention and elaboration of congruent emotional information extracted from the face and body. On the other hand, when the subjects' attention was focused on the body, images with fearful bodies elicited larger P3s than did images with happy bodies, indicating more sustained attention and elaboration of threatening information from the body during evaluative processes.
Abnormal deposition of neuriticplaques is the uniqueneuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD).Amyloid  protein (A), the major component of plaques, is generated from sequential cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by -secretase and -secretase complex. Patients with diabetes mellitus (DM), characterized by chronic hyperglycemia,have increased risk of AD development.However, the role of high blood glucose in APP processing and A generation remains elusive. In this study, we investigated the effect of high glucose on APP metabolism and A generation in cultured human cells. We found that high glucose treatment significantly increased APP protein level in both neuronal-like and non-neuronal cells, and promoted A generation. Furthermore, we found that high glucose-induced increase of APP level was not due to enhancement of APP gene transcription but resulted from inhibition of APP protein degradation. Taken together, our data indicated that hyperglycemia could promote AD pathogenesis by inhibiting APP degradation and enhancing A production. More importantly, the elevation of APP level and A generation by high glucose was caused by reduction of APP turnover rate.Thus,our study provides a molecular mechanism of increased risk of developing AD in patients withDMand suggests thatglycemic control might be potentially beneficial for reducing the incidence of AD in diabetic patients and delaying the AD progression.
Hypothermia has been proposed as a treatment for reducing neuronal damage in the brain induced by hypoxic ischemia. In the developing brain, hypoxic ischemia-induced injury may give rise to cerebral palsy (CP). However, it is unknown whether hypothermia might affect the development of CP. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether hypothermia would have a protective effect on the brains of immature, 3-day old (P3) mice after a challenge of cerebral ischemia. Cerebral ischemia was induced in P3 mice with a right common carotid artery ligation followed by hypoxia (6% O2, 37C) for 30 min. Immediately after hypoxic ischemia, mice were exposed to hypothermia (32C) or normothermia (37C) for 24 h. At 4 weeks of age, mouse motor development was tested in a behavioral test. Mice were sacrificed at P4, P7, and 5 weeks to examine brain morphology. The laminar structure of the cortex was examined with immunohistochemistry (Cux1/Ctip2); the number of neurons was counted; and the expression of myelin basic protein (MBP) was determined. The hypothermia treatment was associated with improved neurological outcomes in the behavioral test. In the normothermia group, histological analyses indicated reduced numbers of neurons, reduced cortical laminar thickness in the deep, ischemic cortical layers, and significant reduction in MBP expression in the ischemic cortex compared to the contralateral cortex. In the hypothermia group, no reductions were noted in deep cortical layer thickness and in MBP expression in the ischemic cortex compared to the contralateral cortex. At 24 h after the hypothermia treatment prevented the neuronal cell death that had predominantly occurred in the ischemic cortical deep layers with normothermia treatment. Our findings may provide a preclinical basis for testing hypothermal therapies in patients with CP induced by hypoxic ischemia in the preterm period.
This paper aims to study the abnormal patterns of brain glucose metabolism co-variations in Alzheimer disease (AD) and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) patients compared to Normal healthy controls (NC) using the Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database. The local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRgl) in a set of 90 structures belonging to the AAL atlas was obtained from Fluro-Deoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography data in resting state. It is assumed that brain regions whose CMRgl values are significantly correlated are functionally associated; therefore, when metabolism is altered in a single region, the alteration will affect the metabolism of other brain areas with which it interrelates. The glucose metabolism network (represented by the matrix of the CMRgl co-variations among all pairs of structures) was studied using the graph theory framework. The highest concurrent fluctuations in CMRgl were basically identified between homologous cortical regions in all groups. Significant differences in CMRgl co-variations in AD and MCI groups as compared to NC were found. The AD and MCI patients showed aberrant patterns in comparison to NC subjects, as detected by global and local network properties (global and local efficiency, clustering index, and others). MCI network's attributes showed an intermediate position between NC and AD, corroborating it as a transitional stage from normal aging to Alzheimer disease. Our study is an attempt at exploring the complex association between glucose metabolism, CMRgl covariations and the attributes of the brain network organization in AD and MCI.
Osteoarthritis (OA), the most common joint disorder, is a disease involving all the articular structures. It presents both degenerative and inflammatory aspects. Recently, the important role of Bradykinin (BK), a phlogistic mediator, has been proposed in the pathophysiology of OA. In our review, we summarized the currently available information on the mechanisms of action of BK in OA by linking its B2 receptors. Then, we analyzed the data about the effects of BK in synoviocytes and chondrocytes cultures. Furthermore, we described the action of B2 receptor antagonists (Icatibant and Fasitibant), presenting them as new promising symptom-anddisease- modifying agents in the treatment of OA. However, more in vitro, animal model and clinical studies, are needed to better understand the mechanisms of action as well as the efficacy and tolerability of the B2 receptor antagonists in OA.





Multisensory interactions are the norm in perception, and an abundance of research on the interaction and integration of the senses has demonstrated the importance of combining sensory information from different modalities on our perception of the external world. However, although research on mental imagery has revealed a great deal of functional and neuroanatomical overlap between imagery and perception, this line of research has primarily focused on similarities within a particular modality and has yet to address whether imagery is capable of leading to multisensory integration. Here, we devised novel versions of classic multisensory paradigms to systematically examine whether imagery is capable of integrating with perceptual stimuli to induce multisensory illusions. We found that imagining an auditory stimulus at the moment two moving objects met promoted an illusory bounce percept, as in the classic cross-bounce illusion; an imagined visual stimulus led to the translocation of sound toward the imagined stimulus, as in the classic ventriloquist illusion; and auditory imagery of speech stimuli led to a promotion of an illusory speech percept in a modified version of the McGurk illusion. Our findings provide support for perceptually based theories of imagery and suggest that neuronal signals produced by imagined stimuli can integrate with signals generated by real stimuli of a different sensory modality to create robust multisensory percepts. These findings advance our understanding of the relationship between imagery and perception and provide new opportunities for investigating how the brain distinguishes between endogenous and exogenous sensory events.
Axonal mitochondria are recruited to synaptic terminals in response to neuronal activity, but the mechanisms underlying activity-dependent regulation of mitochondrial transport are largely unknown. In this paper, using genetic mouse model combined with live imaging, we demonstrate that syntaphilin (SNPH) mediates the activity-dependent immobilization of axonal mitochondria through binding to KIF5. In vitro analysis showed that the KIF5-SNPH coupling inhibited the motor adenosine triphosphatase. Neuronal activity further recruited SNPH to axonal mitochondria. This motor-docking interplay was induced by Ca(2+) and synaptic activity and was necessary to establish an appropriate balance between motile and stationary axonal mitochondria. Deleting snph abolished the activity-dependent immobilization of axonal mitochondria. We propose an &quot;Engine-Switch and Brake&quot; model, in which SNPH acts both as an engine off switch by sensing mitochondrial Rho guanosine triphosphatase-Ca(2+) and as a brake by anchoring mitochondria to the microtubule track. Altogether, our study provides new mechanistic insight into the molecular interplay between motor and docking proteins, which arrests axonal mitochondrial transport in response to changes in neuronal activity.


It has long been assumed that people treat cognitive effort as costly, but also that such effort costs may vary greatly across individuals. Individual differences in subjective effort could present a major and pervasive confound in behavioral and neuroscience assessments, by conflating cognitive ability with cognitive motivation. Self-report cognitive effort scales have been developed, but objective measures are lacking. In this study, we use the behavioral economic approach of revealed preferences to quantify subjective effort. Specifically, we adapted a well-established discounting paradigm to measure the extent to which cognitive effort causes participants to discount monetary rewards. The resulting metrics are sensitive to both within-individual factors, including objective load and reward amount, and between-individual factors, including age and trait cognitive engagement. We further validate cognitive effort discounting by benchmarking it against well-established measures of delay discounting. The results highlight the promise and utility of behavioral economic tools for assessing trait and state influences on cognitive motivation.

The most remarkable feature of the nervous system is that the development and functions of the brain are largely reshaped by postnatal experiences, in joint with genetic landscapes. The nature vs. nurture argument reminds us that both genetic and epigenetic information is indispensable for the normal function of the brain. The epigenetic regulatory mechanisms in the central nervous system have been revealed over last a decade. Moreover, the mutations of epigenetic modulator genes have been shown to be implicated in neuropsychiatric disorders, such as autism spectrum disorders. The epigenetic study has initiated in the neuroscience field for a relative short period of time. In this review, we will summarize recent discoveries about epigenetic regulation on neural development, synaptic plasticity, learning and memory, as well as neuropsychiatric disorders. Although the comprehensive view of how epigenetic regulation contributes to the function of the brain is still not completed, the notion that brain, the most complicated organ of organisms, is profoundly shaped by epigenetic switches is widely accepted.

Bivalent ligands that contain two pharmacophores linked by a spacer are promising tools to investigate the pharmacology of opioid receptor heteromers. Evidence for occupation of neighboring protomers by two phamacophores of a single bivalent ligand (bridging) has relied mainly on pharmacological data. In the present study, we have employed an immunocytochemical correlate to support in vivo biological studies that are consistent with bridging. We show that a bivalent mu agonist/delta antagonist (MDAN-21) that is devoid of tolerance due to possible bridging of mu and delta protomers prevents endocytosis of the heteromeric receptors in HEK-293 cells. Conversely, a bivalent ligand (MDAN-16) with a short spacer or monovalent mu agonist give rise to robust internalization. The data suggest that the immobilization of proximal mu and delta protomers is due to bridging by MDAN-21. The finding that MDAN-21 and its shorter spacer homologue MDAN-16 possess equivalent activity in HEK-293 cells, but produce dramatically divergent internalization of mu-delta heteromer, is relevant to the role of internalization and tolerance.
Rett syndrome (RTT) and Angelman syndrome (AS) are devastating neurological disorders that share many clinical features. The disease-causing mutations have been identified for both syndromes. Mutations in Methyl-CpG Binding Protein 2 (MECP2) are found in a majority of patients with classical RTT while absence of maternal allele or intragenic mutation in the maternal copy of UBE3A gene encoding the human papilloma virus E6-associated protein (E6AP) cause most cases of AS. Extensive studies have been performed to determine the cause of the neurological problems in each disease. However, the genetic and molecular basis of the overlap in phenotypes between RTT and AS remains largely unknown. Here we present evidence that the phenotypic similarities between the two syndromes might be due to the shared molecular functions between MeCP2 and E6AP in gene expression. Our genetic and biochemical studies suggest that E6AP acts as an essential cofactor for a subset of MeCP2 functions. Specifically, decreased expression of Ube3a was able to rescue the cellular phenotypes induced by MECP2-overexpression in Drosophila. And biochemical assays using mice and cell culture systems show that MeCP2 and E6AP physically interact and regulate the expression of shared target genes. Together these data suggest that MeCP2 and E6AP play a role in the transcriptional control of common target gene expression and provide some insight into why RTT and AS share several neurological phenotypes.



PCAF and GCN5 acetylate cyclin A at specific lysine residues targeting it for degradation at mitosis. We report here that histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3) directly interacts with and deacetylates cyclin A. HDAC3 interacts with a domain included in the first 171 aa of cyclin A, a region involved in the regulation of its stability. In cells, overexpression of HDAC3 reduced cyclin A acetylation whereas the knocking down of HDAC3 increased its acetylation. Moreover, reduction of HDAC3 levels induced a decrease of cyclin A that can be reversed by proteasome inhibitors. These results indicate that HDAC3 is able to regulate cyclin A degradation during mitosis via proteasome. Interestingly, HDAC3 is abruptly degraded at mitosis also via proteasome thus facilitating cyclin A acetylation by PCAF/GCN5, which will target cyclin A for degradation. Because cyclin A is crucial for S phase progression and mitosis entry, the knock down of HDAC3 affects cell cycle progression specifically at both, S phase and G2/M transition. In summary we propose here that HDAC3 regulates cyclin A stability by counteracting the action of the acetylases PCAF/GCN5.
Many extracellular signals act via the Raf/MEK/ERK cascade in which kinetics, cell-cell variability, and sensitivity of the ERK response can all influence cell fate. Here we used automated microscopy to explore the effects of ERK-mediated negative feedback on these attributes in cells expressing endogenous ERK or ERK2-GFP reporters. We studied acute rather than chronic stimulation with either epidermal growth factor (ErbB1 activation) or phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (PKC activation). In unstimulated cells, ERK-mediated negative feedback reduced the population-average and cell-cell variability of the level of activated ppERK and increased its robustness to changes in ERK expression. In stimulated cells, negative feedback (evident between 5 min and 4 h) also reduced average levels and variability of phosphorylated ERK (ppERK) without altering the &quot;gradedness&quot; or sensitivity of the response. Binning cells according to total ERK expression revealed, strikingly, that maximal ppERK responses initially occur at submaximal ERK levels and that this non-monotonic relationship changes to an increasing, monotonic one within 15 min. These phenomena occur in HeLa cells and MCF7 breast cancer cells and in the presence and absence of ERK-mediated negative feedback. They were best modeled assuming distributive (rather than processive) activation. Thus, we have uncovered a novel, time-dependent change in the relationship between total ERK and ppERK levels that persists without negative feedback. This change makes acute response kinetics dependent on ERK level and provides a &quot;gating&quot; or control mechanism in which the interplay between stimulus duration and the distribution of ERK expression across cells could modulate the proportion of cells that respond to stimulation.
A modified invertebrate glutamate-gated Cl(-) channel (GluCl ) was previously employed to allow pharmacologically induced silencing of electrical activity in CNS neurons upon exposure to the anthelmintic drug ivermectin (IVM). Usefulness of the previous receptor was limited by 1) the high concentration of IVM necessary to elicit a consistent silencing phenotype, raising concern about potential side effects, and 2) the variable extent of neuronal spike suppression, due to variations in the co-expression levels of the fluorescent protein-tagged  and  subunits. To address these issues, mutant receptors generated via rational protein engineering strategies were examined for improvement. Introduction of a gain-of-function mutation (L9'F) in the second transmembrane domain of the  subunit appears to facilitate  subunit incorporation and substantially increase heteromeric GluCl  sensitivity to IVM. Removal of an arginine-based endoplasmic reticulum retention motif (RSR mutated to AAA) from the intracellular loop of the  subunit further promotes heteromeric expression at the plasma membrane possibly by preventing endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation of the  subunit rather than simply reducing endoplasmic reticulum retention. A monomeric XFP (mXFP) mutation that prevents fluorescent protein dimerization complements the mutant channel effects. Expression of the newly engineered GluCl opt -mXFP L9'F + opt -mXFP Y182F RSR_AAA receptor in dissociated neuronal cultures markedly increases conductance and reduces variability in spike suppression at 1 nm IVM. This receptor, named &quot;GluClv2.0,&quot; is an improved tool for IVM-induced silencing.





A wealth of studies has found that adapting to second-order visual stimuli has little effect on the perception of first-order stimuli. This is physiologically and psychologically troubling, since many cells show similar tuning to both classes of stimuli, and since adapting to first-order stimuli leads to aftereffects that do generalize to second-order stimuli. Focusing on high-level visual stimuli, we recently proposed the novel explanation that the lack of transfer arises partially from the characteristically different backgrounds of the two stimulus classes. Here, we consider the effect of stimulus backgrounds in the far more prevalent, lower-level, case of the orientation tilt aftereffect. Using a variety of first- and second-order oriented stimuli, we show that we could increase or decrease both within- and cross-class adaptation aftereffects by increasing or decreasing the similarity of the otherwise apparently uninteresting or irrelevant backgrounds of adapting and test patterns. Our results suggest that similarity between background statistics of the adapting and test stimuli contributes to low-level visual adaptation, and that these backgrounds are thus not discarded by visual processing but provide contextual modulation of adaptation. Null cross-adaptation aftereffects must also be interpreted cautiously. These findings reduce the apparent inconsistency between psychophysical and neurophysiological data about first- and second-order stimuli.
Natural killer (NK) cells play an important role in protective immunity against viral infection and tumor progression, but they also contribute to rejection of bone marrow grafts via contact-dependent cytotoxicity. Ligation of activating NK receptors with their ligands expressed on target cells induces receptor clustering and actin reorganization at the interface and triggers polarized movement of lytic granules to the contact site. Although activation of the small GTPase Rac has been implicated in NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity, its precise role and the upstream regulator remain elusive. Here, we show that DOCK2, an atypical guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Rac, plays a key role in NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity. We found that although DOCK2 deficiency in NK cells did not affect conjugate formation with target cells, DOCK2-deficienct NK cells failed to effectively kill leukemia cells in vitro and major histocompatibility complex class I-deficient bone marrow cells in vivo, regardless of the sorts of activating receptors. In DOCK2-deficient NK cells, NKG2D-mediated Rac activation was almost completely lost, resulting in a severe defect in the lytic synapse formation. Similar results were obtained when the Rac guanine nucleotide exchange factor activity of DOCK2 was selectively abrogated. These results indicate that DOCK2-Rac axis controls NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity through the lytic synapse formation.
Synaptic contacts are largely established during embryogenesis and are then maintained during growth. To identify molecules involved in this process, we conducted a forward genetic screen in C. elegans and identified cima-1. In cima-1 mutants, synaptic contacts are correctly established during embryogenesis, but ectopic synapses emerge during postdevelopmental growth. cima-1 encodes a solute carrier in the SLC17 family of transporters that includes sialin, a protein that when mutated in humans results in neurological disorders. cima-1 does not function in neurons but rather functions in the nearby epidermal cells to correctly position glia during postlarval growth. Our findings indicate that CIMA-1 antagonizes the FGF receptor (FGFR), and does so most likely by inhibiting FGFR's role in epidermal-glia adhesion rather than signaling. Our data suggest that epidermal-glia crosstalk, in this case mediated by a transporter and the FGF receptor, is vital to preserve embryonically derived circuit architecture during postdevelopmental growth.

Although the study of helping behavior has revolutionized the field of behavioral ecology, scientific examination of rescue behavior remains extremely rare, except perhaps in ants, having been described as early as 1874. Nonetheless, recent work in our laboratories has revealed several new patterns of rescue behavior that appear to be much more complex than previously studied forms. This precisely-directed rescue behavior bears a remarkable resemblance to what has been labeled empathy in rats, and thus raises numerous philosophical and theoretical questions: How should rescue behavior (or empathy) be defined? What distinguishes rescue from other forms of altruism? In what ways is rescue behavior in ants different from, and similar to, rescue in other non-human animals? What selection pressures dictate its appearance? In this paper, we review our own experimental studies of rescue in both laboratory and field, which, taken together, begin to reveal some of the behavioral ecological conditions that likely have given rise to rescue behavior in ants. Against this background, we also address important theoretical questions involving rescue, including those outlined above. In this way, we hope not only to encourage further experimental analysis of rescue behavior, but also to highlight important similarities and differences in very distant taxa.
How do primates, humans included, deal with novel problems that arise in interactions with other group members? Despite much research regarding how animals and humans solve social problems, few studies have utilized comparable procedures, outcomes, or measures across different species. Thus, it is difficult to piece together the evolution of decision making, including the roots from which human economic decision making emerged. Recently, a comparative body of decision making research has emerged, relying largely on the methodology of experimental economics in order to address these questions in a cross-species fashion. Experimental economics is an ideal method of inquiry for this approach. It is a well-developed method for distilling complex decision making involving multiple conspecifics whose decisions are contingent upon one another into a series of simple decision choices. This allows these decisions to be compared across species and contexts. In particular, our group has used this approach to investigate coordination in New World monkeys, Old World monkeys, and great apes (including humans), using identical methods. We find that in some cases there are remarkable continuities of outcome, as when some pairs in all species solved a coordination game, the Assurance game. On the other hand, we also find that these similarities in outcomes are likely driven by differences in underlying cognitive mechanisms. New World monkeys required exogenous information about their partners' choices in order to solve the task, indicating that they were using a matching strategy. Old World monkeys, on the other hand, solved the task without exogenous cues, leading to investigations into what mechanisms may be underpinning their responses (e.g., reward maximization, strategy formation, etc.). Great apes showed a strong experience effect, with cognitively enriched apes following what appears to be a strategy. Finally, humans were able to solve the task with or without exogenous cues. However, when given the chance to do so, they incorporated an additional mechanism unavailable to the other primates - language - to coordinate outcomes with their partner. We discuss how these results inform not only comparative psychology, but also evolutionary psychology, as they provide an understanding of the evolution of human economic behavior, and the evolution of decision making more broadly.


With the availability and ease of small molecule production and design continuing to improve, robust, high-throughput methods for screening are increasingly necessary to find pharmacologically relevant compounds amongst the masses of potential candidates. Here, we demonstrate that a primary oxygen glucose deprivation assay in primary cortical neurons followed by secondary assays (i.e. post-treatment protocol in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures and cortical neurons) can be used as a robust screen to identify neuroprotective compounds with potential therapeutic efficacy. In our screen about 50% of the compounds in a library of pharmacologically active compounds displayed some degree of neuroprotective activity if tested in a pre-treatment toxicity assay but just a few of these compounds, including Carbenoxolone, remained active when tested in a post-treatment protocol. When further examined, Carbenoxolone also led to a significant reduction in infarction size and neuronal damage in the ischemic penumbra when administered six hours post middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. Pharmacological testing of Carbenoxolone-related compounds, acting by inhibition of 11--hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-1 (11-HSD1), gave rise to similarly potent in vivo neuroprotection. This indicates that the increase of intracellular glucocorticoid levels mediated by 11-HSD1 may be involved in the mechanism that exacerbates ischemic neuronal cell death, and inhibiting this enzyme could have potential therapeutic value for neuroprotective therapies in ischemic stroke and other neurodegenerative disorders associated with neuronal injury.
Noisy galvanic vestibular stimulation has been associated with numerous cognitive and behavioural effects, such as enhancement of visual memory in healthy individuals, improvement of visual deficits in stroke patients, as well as possibly improvement of motor function in Parkinson's disease; yet, the mechanism of action is unclear. Since Parkinson's and other neuropsychiatric diseases are characterized by maladaptive dynamics of brain rhythms, we investigated whether noisy galvanic vestibular stimulation was associated with measurable changes in EEG oscillatory rhythms within theta (4-7.5 Hz), low alpha (8-10 Hz), high alpha (10.5-12 Hz), beta (13-30 Hz) and gamma (31-50 Hz) bands. We recorded the EEG while simultaneously delivering noisy bilateral, bipolar stimulation at varying intensities of imperceptible currents - at 10, 26, 42, 58, 74 and 90% of sensory threshold - to ten neurologically healthy subjects. Using standard spectral analysis, we investigated the transient aftereffects of noisy stimulation on rhythms. Subsequently, using robust artifact rejection techniques and the Least Absolute Shrinkage Selection Operator regression and cross-validation, we assessed the combinations of channels and power spectral features within each EEG frequency band that were linearly related with stimulus intensity. We show that noisy galvanic vestibular stimulation predominantly leads to a mild suppression of gamma power in lateral regions immediately after stimulation, followed by delayed increase in beta and gamma power in frontal regions approximately 20-25 s after stimulation ceased. Ongoing changes in the power of each oscillatory band throughout frontal, central/parietal, occipital and bilateral electrodes predicted the intensity of galvanic vestibular stimulation in a stimulus-dependent manner, demonstrating linear effects of stimulation on brain rhythms. We propose that modulation of neural oscillations is a potential mechanism for the previously-described cognitive and motor effects of vestibular stimulation, and noisy galvanic vestibular stimulation may provide an additional non-invasive means for neuromodulation of functional brain networks.
Impaired Theory of Mind (ToM) has been repeatedly reported as a feature of psychotic disorders. ToM is crucial in social interactions and for the development of social behavior. It has been suggested that reasoning about the belief of others, requires inhibition of the self-perspective. We investigated the neural correlates of self-inhibition in nineteen low psychosis prone (PP) and eighteen high PP subjects presenting with subclinical features. High PP subjects have a more than tenfold increased risk of developing a schizophrenia-spectrum disorder. Brain activation was measured with functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging during a ToM task differentiating between self-perspective inhibition and belief reasoning. Furthermore, to test underlying inhibitory mechanisms, we included a stop-signal task. We predicted worse behavioral performance for high compared to low PP subjects on both tasks. Moreover, based on previous neuroimaging results, different activation patterns were expected in the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) in high versus low PP subjects in self-perspective inhibition and simple response inhibition. Results showed increased activation in left IFG during self-perspective inhibition, but not during simple response inhibition, for high PP subjects as compared to low PP subjects. High and low PP subjects showed equal behavioral performance. The results suggest that at a neural level, high PP subjects need more resources for inhibiting the self-perspective, but not for simple motor response inhibition, to equal the performance of low PP subjects. This may reflect a compensatory mechanism, which may no longer be available for patients with schizophrenia-spectrum disorders resulting in ToM impairments.
subunits of mammalian sodium channels play important roles in modulating the expression and gating of mammalian sodium channels. However, there are no orthologs of  subunits in insects. Instead, an unrelated protein, TipE in Drosophila melanogaster and its orthologs in other insects, is thought to be a sodium channel auxiliary subunit. In addition, there are four TipE-homologous genes (TEH1-4) in D. melanogaster and three to four orthologs in other insect species. TipE and TEH1-3 have been shown to enhance the peak current of various insect sodium channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes. However, limited information is available on how these proteins modulate the gating of sodium channels, particularly sodium channel variants generated by alternative splicing and RNA editing. In this study, we compared the effects of TEH1 and TipE on the function of three Drosophila sodium channel splice variants, DmNav9-1, DmNav22, and DmNav26, in Xenopus oocytes. Both TipE and TEH1 enhanced the amplitude of sodium current and accelerated current decay of all three sodium channels tested. Strikingly, TEH1 caused hyperpolarizing shifts in the voltage-dependence of activation, fast inactivation and slow inactivation of all three variants. In contrast, TipE did not alter these gating properties except for a hyperpolarizing shift in the voltage-dependence of fast inactivation of DmNav26. Further analysis of the gating kinetics of DmNav9-1 revealed that TEH1 accelerated the entry of sodium channels into the fast inactivated state and slowed the recovery from both fast- and slow-inactivated states, thereby, enhancing both fast and slow inactivation. These results highlight the differential effects of TipE and TEH1 on the gating of insect sodium channels and suggest that TEH1 may play a broader role than TipE in regulating sodium channel function and neuronal excitability in vivo.
Clozapine was the first true breakthrough in schizophrenia treatment since the discovery of chlorpromazine in 1950, effectively treating positive, negative, and some cognitive symptoms, as well as possessing unprecedented efficacy in treatment-resistant patients. Despite over 30 years of intense study, the precise molecular underpinnings that account for clozapine's unique efficacy remain elusive. In this Viewpoint, we will showcase the history and importance of clozapine to neuroscience in general, as well as for the treatment of schizophrenia, and review the synthesis, pharmacology, drug metabolism, and adverse events of clozapine.

The spatial localization and molecular distribution of metabolites and neurotransmitters within biological organisms is of tremendous interest to neuroscientists. In comparison to conventional imaging techniques such as immunohistochemistry, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometric imaging (MSI) has demonstrated its unique advantage by directly localizing the distribution of a wide range of biomolecules simultaneously from a tissue specimen. Although MALDI-MSI of metabolites and neurotransmitters is hindered by numerous matrix-derived peaks, high-resolution and high-accuracy mass spectrometers (HRMS) allow differentiation of endogenous analytes from matrix peaks, unambiguously obtaining biomolecular distributions. In this study, we present MSI of metabolites and neurotransmitters in rodent and crustacean central nervous systems acquired on HRMS. Results were compared with those obtained from a medium-resolution mass spectrometer (MRMS), tandem time-of-flight instrument, to demonstrate the power and unique advantages of HRMSI and reveal how this new tool would benefit molecular imaging applications in neuroscience.



Traditionally, perceptual decision making is studied in trained animals and carefully controlled tasks. Here, we sought to elucidate the stimulus features and their combination underlying a naturalistic behavior--female decision making during acoustic courtship in grasshoppers. Using behavioral data, we developed a model in which stimulus features were extracted by physiologically plausible models of sensory neurons from the time-varying stimulus. This sensory evidence was integrated over the stimulus duration and combined to predict the behavior. We show that decisions were determined by the interaction of an excitatory and a suppressive stimulus feature. The observed increase of behavioral response with stimulus intensity was the result of an increase of the excitatory feature's gain that was not controlled by an equivalent increase of the suppressive feature. Differences in how these two features were combined could explain interindividual variability. In addition, the mapping between the two stimulus features and different parameters of the song led us to re-evaluate the cues underlying acoustic communication. Our framework provided a rich and plausible explanation of behavior in terms of two stimulus cues that were extracted by models of sensory neurons and combined through excitatory-inhibitory interactions. We thus were able to link single neuron's feature selectivity and network computations with decision making in a natural task. This data-driven approach has the potential to advance our understanding of decision making in other systems and can inform the search for the neural correlates of behavior.
It is often assumed that decision making involves neural competition, accumulation of evidence &quot;scores&quot; over time, and commitment to a particular alternative once its scores reach a critical decision threshold first. So far, however, neither the first-to-threshold rule nor the nature of competition (feedforward or feedback inhibition) has been revealed by experiments. Here, we presented two simultaneously flashed targets that reversed their intensity difference during each presentation and instructed human subjects to make a saccade toward the brightest target. All subjects preferentially chose the target that was brightest during the first stimulus phase. Unless this first phase lasted only 40 ms, this primacy effect persisted even if the second, reversed-intensity phase lasted longer. This effect did not result from premature commitment to the initially dominant target, because a strong target imbalance in the opposite direction later drove nearly all responses toward that location. Moreover, there was a nonmonotonic relation between target imbalance and primacy: increasing the target imbalance beyond 40 cd/m(2) caused an attenuation of primacy. These are the hallmarks of hysteresis, predicted by models in which target representations compete through strong feedback. Reaction times were independent of the choice probability. This dissociation suggests that target selection and movement initiation are distinct phenomena.
Glutamate-gated ion channels embedded within the neuronal membrane are the primary mediators of fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the CNS. The ion channel of these glutamate receptors contains a pore-lining transmembrane M3 helix surrounded by peripheral M1 and M4 helices. In the NMDA receptor subtype, opening of the ion channel pore, mediated by displacement of the M3 helices away from the central pore axis, occurs in a highly concerted fashion, but the associated temporal movements of the peripheral helices are unknown. To address the gating dynamics of the peripheral helices, we constrained the relative movements of the linkers that connect these helices to the ligand-binding domain using engineered cross-links, either within (intra-GluN1 or GluN2A) or between subunits. Constraining the peripheral linkers in any manner dramatically curtailed channel opening, highlighting the requirement for rearrangements of these peripheral structural elements for efficient gating to occur. However, the magnitude of this gating effect depended on the specific subunit being constrained, with the most dramatic effects occurring when the constraint was between subunits. Based on kinetic and thermodynamic analysis, our results suggest an asynchrony in the displacement of the peripheral linkers during the conformational and energetic changes leading to pore opening. Initially there are large-scale rearrangements occurring between the four subunits. Subsequently, rearrangements occur within individual subunits, mainly GluN2A, leading up to or in concert with pore opening. Thus, the conformational changes induced by agonist binding in NMDA receptors converge asynchronously to permit pore opening.
Susceptibility and progression of brain injury in the newborn is closely associated with an exacerbated innate immune response, but the underlying mechanisms are often unclear. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are important innate immune sensors that may influence the vulnerability of the developing brain. In the current study, we provide novel data to show that activation of the viral innate immune receptor TLR-3 sensitizes the neonatal brain to subsequent hypoxic-ischemic (HI) damage. Poly inosinic:poly cytidylic acid (Poly I:C), a synthetic ligand for TLR-3, was administered to neonatal mice 14 h before cerebral HI. Activation of TLR-3 before HI increased infarct volume from 3.0  0.5 to 15.4  2.1 mm and augmented loss of myelin basic protein from 13.4  6.0 to 70.6  5.3%. The sensitizing effect of Poly I:C was specific for the TLR-3 pathway because mice deficient in the TLR-3 adaptor protein Toll/IL-1R domain-containing adaptor molecule-1 (TRIF) did not develop larger brain damage. The increased vulnerability was associated with a TRIF-dependent heightened inflammatory response, including proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and the apoptosis-associated mediator Fas, whereas there was a decrease in reparative M2-like CD11b microglia and phosphorylation of Akt. Because TLR-3 is activated via double-stranded RNA during most viral infections, the present study provides evidence that viral infections during pregnancy or in the neonate could have great impact on subsequent HI brain injury.
NG2 cells are equipped with transmitter receptors and receive direct synaptic input from glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons. The functional impact of these neuron-glia synapses is still unclear. Here, we combined functional and molecular techniques to analyze properties of GABA(A) receptors in NG2 cells of the juvenile mouse hippocampus. GABA activated slowly desensitizing responses in NG2 cells, which were mimicked by muscimol and inhibited by bicuculline. To elucidate the subunit composition of the receptors we tested its pharmacological properties. Coapplication of pentobarbital, benzodiazepines, and zolpidem all significantly increased the GABA-evoked responses. The presence of small tonic currents indicated the presence of extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors. To further analyze the subunit expression, single cell transcript analysis was performed subsequent to functional characterization of NG2 cells. The subunits 1, 2, 3, 1, and 2 were most abundantly expressed, matching properties resulting from pharmacological characterization. Importantly, lack of the 2-subunit conferred a high Zn sensitivity to the GABA(A) receptors of NG2 cells. Judging from the zolpidem sensitivity, postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors in NG2 cells contain the 2-subunit, in contrast to extrasynaptic receptors, which were not modulated by zolpidem. To determine the effect of GABA(A) receptor activation on membrane potential, perforated patch recordings were obtained from NG2 cells. In the current-clamp mode, GABA depolarized the cells to approximately -30 mV, indicating a higher intracellular Cl concentration (50 mM) than previously reported. GABA-induced depolarization in NG2 cells might trigger Ca influx through voltage-activated Ca channels.
In the isolated CNS, different modulatory inputs can enable one motor network to generate multiple output patterns. Thus far, however, few studies have established whether different modulatory inputs also enable a defined network to drive distinct muscle and movement patterns in vivo, much as they enable these distinctions in behavioral studies. This possibility is not a foregone conclusion, because additional influences present in vivo (e.g., sensory feedback, hormonal modulation) could alter the motor patterns. Additionally, rhythmic neuronal activity can be transformed into sustained muscle contractions, particularly in systems with slow muscle dynamics, as in the crab (Cancer borealis) stomatogastric system used here. We assessed whether two different versions of the biphasic (protraction, retraction) gastric mill (chewing) rhythm, triggered in the isolated stomatogastric system by the modulatory ventral cardiac neurons (VCNs) and postoesophageal commissure (POC) neurons, drive different muscle and movement patterns. One distinction between these rhythms is that the lateral gastric (LG) protractor motor neuron generates tonic bursts during the VCN rhythm, whereas its POC-rhythm bursts are divided into fast, rhythmic burstlets. Intracellular muscle fiber recordings and tension measurements show that the LG-innervated muscles retain the distinct VCN-LG and POC-LG neuron burst structures. Moreover, endoscope video recordings in vivo, during VCN-triggered and POC-triggered chewing, show that the lateral teeth protraction movements exhibit the same, distinct protraction patterns generated by LG in the isolated nervous system. Thus, the multifunctional nature of an identified motor network in the isolated CNS can be preserved in vivo, where it drives different muscle activity and movement patterns.
Enhanced motivation to take drugs is a central characteristic of addiction, yet the neural underpinning of this maladaptive behavior is still largely unknown. Here, we report a D1-like dopamine receptor (DRD1)-mediated long-term potentiation of GABAA-IPSCs (D1-LTPGABA) in the oval bed nucleus of the stria terminalis that was positively correlated with motivation to self-administer cocaine in rats. Likewise, in vivo intra-oval bed nucleus of the stria terminalis DRD1 pharmacological blockade reduced lever pressing for cocaine more effectively in rats showing enhanced motivation toward cocaine. D1-LTPGABA resulted from enhanced function and expression of G-protein-independent DRD1 coupled to c-Src tyrosine kinases and required local release of neurotensin. There was no D1-LTPGABA in rats that self-administered sucrose, in those with limited cocaine self-administration experience, or in those that received cocaine passively (yoked). Therefore, our study reveals a novel neurophysiological mechanism contributing to individual motivation to self-administer cocaine, a critical psychobiological element of compulsive drug use and addiction.
Stem cell repair shows substantial translational potential for neurological injury, but the mechanisms of action remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether transplanted stem cells could induce comprehensive functional remyelination. Subventricular zone (SVZ)-derived adult neural precursor cells (aNPCs) were injected bilaterally into major cerebral white matter tracts of myelin-deficient shiverer mice on postnatal day (P) 0, P7, and P21. Tripotential NPCs, when transplanted in vivo, integrated anatomically and functionally into local white matter and preferentially became Olig2+, Myelin Associated Glycoprotein-positive, Myelin Basic Protein-positive oligodendrocytes, rather than Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein-positive astrocytes or Neurofiliment 200-positive neurons. Processes interacted with axons and transmission electron microscopy showed multilamellar axonal ensheathment. Nodal architecture was restored and by quantifying these anatomical parameters a computer model was generated that accurately predicted action potential velocity, determined by ex vivo slice recordings. Although there was no obvious phenotypic improvement in transplanted shi/shis, myelinated axons exhibited faster conduction, lower activation threshold, less refractoriness, and improved response to high-frequency stimulation than dysmyelinated counterparts. Furthermore, they showed improved resilience to ischemic insult, a promising finding in the context of perinatal brain injury. This study describes, for the first time mechanistically, the functional characteristics and anatomical integration of nonimmortalized donor SVZ-derived murine aNPCs in the dysmyelinated brain at key developmental time points.
We examine the mechanisms by which the human auditory cortex processes the frequency content of natural sounds. Through mathematical modeling of ultra-high field (7 T) functional magnetic resonance imaging responses to natural sounds, we derive frequency-tuning curves of cortical neuronal populations. With a data-driven analysis, we divide the auditory cortex into five spatially distributed clusters, each characterized by a spectral tuning profile. Beyond neuronal populations with simple single-peaked spectral tuning (grouped into two clusters), we observe that 60% of auditory populations are sensitive to multiple frequency bands. Specifically, we observe sensitivity to multiple frequency bands (1) at exactly one octave distance from each other, (2) at multiple harmonically related frequency intervals, and (3) with no apparent relationship to each other. We propose that beyond the well known cortical tonotopic organization, multipeaked spectral tuning amplifies selected combinations of frequency bands. Such selective amplification might serve to detect behaviorally relevant and complex sound features, aid in segregating auditory scenes, and explain prominent perceptual phenomena such as octave invariance.
Amygdala excitatory synaptic strengthening is thought to contribute to both conditioned fear and anxiety. Thus, one basis for behavioral flexibility could allow these pathways to be weakened and corresponding emotion to be attenuated. However, synaptic depression within the context of amygdala-dependent behavior remains poorly understood. Previous work identified lateral amygdala (LA) calcium-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs) as a key target for synaptic removal in long-term depression (LTD) and persistent fear attenuation. Here we demonstrate that LA neurons express two equally potent forms of LTD with contrasting requirements for protein kinase and phosphatase activity and differential impact on CP-AMPAR trafficking. Selective removal of CP-AMPARs from synapses is contingent on group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR1) and PKC signaling, in contrast to an alternate LTD pathway that nonselectively removes AMPARs and requires calcineurin (PP2b). Intriguingly, the balance between these forms of LTD is shifted by posttraining activation of -adrenergic receptors in fear conditioned mice, resulting in selective augmentation of mGluR-dependent depression. These results highlight the complexity of core mechanisms in LTD and suggest that norepinephrine exposure mediates a form of synaptic metaplasticity that recalibrates fear memory processing.
Both humans and rodents can learn to associate specific actions with their outcomes, but with repeated performance or exposure to pathological stimuli, such as drugs of abuse, behaviors assume stimulus-elicited, or &quot;habitual,&quot; qualities. Psychostimulants remodel dorsal striatal neurons, critical determinants of decision-making strategies, but cytoskeletal mechanisms associated with drug-induced habit formation are largely unknown. We first show that cocaine can bias decision-making strategies toward stimulus-response habits by interfering with learning about the predictive relationship between a response and its outcome. In the dorsomedial, but not ventral, striatum, cocaine decreases PSD95 expression and phosphorylation of cortactin, a cytoskeletal regulator that interacts with, and is phophorylated by, the Abl2 (Arg) kinase. Based on this pattern, we inhibited Abl-family kinase signaling in the dorsomedial striatum, impairing new response-outcome learning. Consistent with evidence that the dorsomedial striatum promotes response-outcome decision-making while the dorsolateral compartment promotes stimulus-response habits, inhibition of Abl-family kinases in the dorsolateral striatum reinstates goal sensitivity in over-trained &quot;habitual&quot; mice. These findings provide a structural mechanism by which even acute exposure to drugs of abuse can reorganize behavioral response strategies and promote outcome-insensitive stimulus-response habits.
Despite long-standing evidence that the specific intracellular domains of AMPA-type glutamate receptor (AMPAR) subunits are critical for trafficking, it has recently been demonstrated that there is no absolute requirement for any AMPAR subunit for the receptor insertion underlying LTP. It is unclear whether this holds true to other forms of plasticity. Homeostatic synaptic plasticity (HSP) is an important form of negative feedback that provides stability to neuronal networks, and results at least in part from the insertion of AMPARs into glutamatergic synapses following chronic reductions in neuronal activity. Similar to LTP, the GluA1 subunit has been suggested to be the requisite subunit for HSP-induced AMPAR insertion and acute treatment with signaling molecules that underlie some forms of HSP results in the preferential incorporation of GluA2-lacking receptors. However, knockdown experiments have instead implicated a requirement for the GluA2 subunit. Here we re-examined the requirement for specific AMPAR subunit during chronic tetrodotoxin-induced HSP using hippocampal cultures derived from AMPAR subunit knock-out mice. We observed HSP in cultures from GluA1/, GluA2/, and GluA2/ GluA3/ mice, and conclude that, as with LTP, there is no subunit requirement for HSP.

It remains unclear whether spontaneous eye movements during visual imagery reflect the mental generation of a visual image (i.e. the arrangement of the component parts of a mental representation). To address this specificity, we recorded eye movements in an imagery task and in a phonological fluency (non-imagery) task, both consisting in naming French towns from long-term memory. Only in the condition of visual imagery the spontaneous eye positions reflected the geographic position of the towns evoked by the subjects. This demonstrates that eye positions closely reflect the mapping of mental images. Advanced analysis of gaze positions using the bi-dimensional regression model confirmed the spatial correlation of gaze and towns' locations in every single individual in the visual imagery task and in none of the individuals when no imagery accompanied memory retrieval. In addition, the evolution of the bi-dimensional regression's coefficient of determination revealed, in each individual, a process of generating several iterative series of a limited number of towns mapped with the same spatial distortion, despite different individual order of towns' evocation and different individual mappings. Such consistency across subjects revealed by gaze (the mind's eye) gives empirical support to theories postulating that visual imagery, like visual sampling, is an iterative fragmented processing.
CDK5RAP2 is a centrosomal protein known to be involved in the regulation of the -tubulin ring complex and thus the organization of microtubule arrays. However, the mechanism by which CDK5RAP2 is itself recruited to centrosomes is poorly understood. We report here that CDK5RAP2 displays highly dynamic attachment to centrosomes in a microtubule-dependent manner. CDK5RAP2 associates with the retrograde transporter dynein-dynactin and contains a sequence motif that binds to dynein light chain 8. Significantly, disruption of cellular dynein-dynactin function reduces the centrosomal level of CDK5RAP2. These results reveal a key role of the dynein-dynactin complex in the dynamic recruitment of CDK5RAP2 to centrosomes.
Presenilins (PSs) are the catalytic core of -secretase complex. However, the mechanism of FAD-associated PS mutations in AD pathogenesis still remains elusive. Here we review the general biology and mechanism of -secretase and focus on the catalytic components - presenilins and their biological functions and contributions to the AD pathogenesis. The functions of presenilins are divided into -secretase dependent and -secretase independent ones. The -secretase dependent functions of presenilins are exemplified by the sequential cleavages in the processing of APP and Notch; the -secretase independent functions of presenilins include stabilizing -catenin in Wnt signaling pathway, regulating calcium homeostasis and their interaction with synaptic transmission.
Evidence has been mounting for an involvement of the prion protein (PrP) in a molecular pathway assumed to play a critical role in the etiology of Alzheimer disease. A currently popular model sees oligomeric amyloid  (oA) peptides bind directly to PrP to emanate a signal that causes activation of the cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase Fyn, an essential player in a cascade of events that ultimately leads to NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity and hyper-phosphorylation of tau. The model does not reveal, however, how extracellular binding of oA to PrP is communicated across the plasma membrane barrier to affect activation of Fyn. A scenario whereby PrP may adapt a transmembrane topology to affect Fyn activation in the absence of additional partners is currently not supported by evidence. A survey of known candidate PrP interactors leads to a small number of molecules that are known to acquire a transmembrane topology and understood to contribute to Fyn activation. Because multiple signaling pathways converge onto Fyn, a realistic model needs to take into account a reality of Fyn acting as a hub that integrates signals from multiple inhibitory and activating effectors. To clarify the role of PrP in oA-dependent excitotoxicity, future studies may need to incorporate experimental designs that can probe the contributions of Fyn modulator pathways and rely on analogous readouts, rather than threshold effects, known to underlie excitotoxic signaling.


Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) is an incretine hormone that controls consummatory behavior and glucose homeostasis. It is released in response to nutrient ingestion from the intestine and production in the brain has also been identified. Given that GLP-1 receptors are expressed in reward areas, such as the nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area, and that common mechanisms regulate food and drug-induced reward we hypothesize that GLP-1 receptors are involved in reward regulation. Herein the effect of the GLP-1 receptor agonist Exendin-4 (Ex4), on amphetamine- and cocaine-induced activation of the mesolimbic dopamine system was investigated in mice. In a series of experiments we show that treatment with Ex4, at a dose with no effect per se, reduce amphetamine- as well as cocaine-induced locomotor stimulation, accumbal dopamine release as well as conditioned place preference in mice. Collectively these data propose a role for GLP-1 receptors in regulating drug reward. Moreover, the GLP-1 signaling system may be involved in the development of drug dependence since the rewarding effects of addictive drugs involves interferences with the mesolimbic dopamine system. Given that GLP-1 analogues, such as exenatide and liraglutide, are clinically available for treatment of type II diabetes, we propose that these should be elucidated as treatments of drug dependence.
We have shown previously that neurofilaments and vimentin filaments expressed in nonneuronal cell lines can lengthen by joining ends in a process known as &quot;end-to-end annealing.&quot; To test if this also occurs for neurofilaments in neurons, we transfected cultured rat cortical neurons with fluorescent neurofilament fusion proteins and then used photoconversion or photoactivation strategies to create distinct populations of red and green fluorescent filaments. Within several hours we observed the appearance of chimeric filaments consisting of alternating red and green segments, which is indicative of end-to-end annealing of red and green filaments. However, the appearance of these chimeric filaments was accompanied by a gradual fragmentation of the red and green filament segments, which is indicative of severing. Over time we observed a progressive increase in the number of red-green junctions along the filaments accompanied by a progressive decrease in the average length of the alternating red and green fluorescent segments that comprised those filaments, suggesting a dynamic cycle of severing and end-to-end-annealing. Time-lapse imaging of the axonal transport of chimeric filaments demonstrated that the red and green segments moved together, confirming that they were indeed part of the same filament. Moreover, in several instances, we also were able to capture annealing and severing events live in time-lapse movies. We propose that the length of intermediate filaments in cells is regulated by the opposing actions of severing and end-to-end annealing, and we speculate that this regulatory mechanism may influence neurofilament transport within axons.
Pyrethroid insecticides are widely used as one of the most effective control measures in the global fight against agricultural arthropod pests and mosquito-borne diseases, including malaria and dengue. They exert toxic effects by altering the function of voltage-gated sodium channels, which are essential for proper electrical signaling in the nervous system. A major threat to the sustained use of pyrethroids for vector control is the emergence of mosquito resistance to pyrethroids worldwide. Here, we report the successful expression of a sodium channel, AaNav1-1, from Aedes aegypti in Xenopus oocytes, and the functional examination of nine sodium channel mutations that are associated with pyrethroid resistance in various Ae. aegypti and Anopheles gambiae populations around the world. Our analysis shows that five of the nine mutations reduce AaNav1-1 sensitivity to pyrethroids. Computer modeling and further mutational analysis revealed a surprising finding: Although two of the five confirmed mutations map to a previously proposed pyrethroid-receptor site in the house fly sodium channel, the other three mutations are mapped to a second receptor site. Discovery of this second putative receptor site provides a dual-receptor paradigm that could explain much of the molecular mechanisms of pyrethroid action and resistance as well as the high selectivity of pyrethroids on insect vs. mammalian sodium channels. Results from this study could impact future prediction and monitoring of pyrethroid resistance in mosquitoes and other arthropod pests and disease vectors.
Correlated spontaneous activity in the developing nervous system is robust to perturbations in the circuits that generate it, suggesting that mechanisms exist to ensure its maintenance. We examine this phenomenon in the developing retina, where blockade of cholinergic circuits that mediate retinal waves during the first postnatal week leads to the generation of &quot;recovered&quot; waves through a distinct, gap junction-mediated circuit. Unlike cholinergic waves, these recovered waves were modulated by dopaminergic and glutamatergic signaling, and required the presence of the gap junction protein connexin 36. Moreover, in contrast to cholinergic waves, recovered waves were stimulated by ambient light via activation of melanopsin-expressing intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells. The involvement of intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells in this reconfiguration of wave-generating circuits offers an avenue of retinal circuit plasticity during development that was previously unknown.
Although the response properties of most neurons are, to a large extent, determined by the presynaptic inputs that they receive, comprehensive functional characterization of the presynaptic inputs of a single neuron remains elusive. Toward this goal, we introduce a dual-color calcium imaging approach that simultaneously monitors the responses of a single postsynaptic neuron together with its presynaptic axon terminal inputs in vivo. As a model system, we applied the strategy to the feed-forward connections from the projection neurons (PNs) to the Kenyon cells (KCs) in the mushroom body of Drosophila and functionally mapped essentially all PN inputs for some of the KCs. We found that the output of single KCs could be well predicted by a linear summation of the PN input signals, indicating that excitatory PN inputs play the major role in generating odor-selective responses in KCs. When odors failed to activate KC output, local calcium transients restricted to individual postsynaptic sites could be observed in the KC dendrites. The response amplitudes of the local transients often correlated linearly with the presynaptic response amplitudes, allowing direct assay of the strength of single synaptic sites. Furthermore, we found a scaling relationship between the total number of PN terminals that a single KC received and the average synaptic strength of these PN-KC synapses. Our strategy provides a unique perspective on the process of information transmission and integration in a model neural circuit and may be broadly applicable for the study of the origin of neuronal response properties.
How developing axons in the corpus callosum (CC) achieve their homotopic projection to the contralateral cortex remains unclear. We found that axonal position within the CC plays a critical role in this projection. Labeling of nearby callosal axons in mice showed that callosal axons were segregated in an orderly fashion, with those from more medial cerebral cortex located more dorsally and subsequently projecting to more medial contralateral cortical regions. The normal axonal order within the CC was grossly disturbed when semaphorin3A/neuropilin-1 signaling was disrupted. However, the order in which axons were positioned within the CC still determined their contralateral projection, causing a severe disruption of the homotopic contralateral projection that persisted at postnatal day 30, when the normal developmental refinement of contralateral projections is completed in wild-type (WT) mice. Thus, the orderly positioning of axons within the CC is a primary determinant of how homotopic interhemispheric projections form in the contralateral cortex.

Cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels are critical for sensory transduction in retinal photoreceptors and olfactory receptor cells; their activity is modulated by phosphoinositides (PIPn) such as phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) and phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP3). An achromatopsia-associated mutation in cone photoreceptor CNGA3, L633P, is located in a carboxyl (COOH)-terminal leucine zipper domain shown previously to be important for channel assembly and PIPn regulation. We determined the functional consequences of this mutation using electrophysiological recordings of patches excised from cells expressing wild-type and mutant CNG channel subunits. CNGA3-L633P subunits formed functional channels with or without CNGB3, producing an increase in apparent cGMP affinity. Surprisingly, L633P dramatically potentiated PIPn inhibition of apparent cGMP affinity for these channels. The impact of L633P on PIPn sensitivity depended on an intact amino (NH2) terminal PIPn regulation module. These observations led us to hypothesize that L633P enhances PIPn inhibition by altering the coupling between NH2- and COOH-terminal regions of CNGA3. A recombinant COOH-terminal fragment partially restored normal PIPn sensitivity to channels with COOH-terminal truncation, but L633P prevented this effect. Furthermore, coimmunoprecipitation of channel fragments, and thermodynamic linkage analysis, also provided evidence for NH2-COOH interactions. Finally, tandem dimers of CNGA3 subunits that specify the arrangement of subunits containing L633P and other mutations indicated that the putative interdomain interaction occurs between channel subunits (intersubunit) rather than exclusively within the same subunit (intrasubunit). Collectively, these studies support a model in which intersubunit interactions control the sensitivity of cone CNG channels to regulation by phosphoinositides. Aberrant channel regulation may contribute to disease progression in patients with the L633P mutation.
It is becoming increasingly apparent that cAMP signals within the pulmonary endothelium are highly compartmentalized, and this compartmentalization is critical to maintaining endothelial barrier integrity. Studies demonstrate that the exogenous soluble bacterial toxin, ExoY, and heterologous expression of the forskolin-stimulated soluble mammalian adenylyl cyclase (AC) chimera, sACI/II, elevate cytosolic cAMP and disrupt the pulmonary microvascular endothelial barrier. The barrier-disruptive effects of cytosolic cAMP generated by exogenous soluble ACs are in contrast to the barrier-protective effects of subplasma membrane cAMP generated by transmembrane AC, which strengthens endothelial barrier integrity. Endogenous soluble AC isoform 10 (AC10 or commonly known as sAC) lacks transmembrane domains and localizes within the cytosolic compartment. AC10 is uniquely activated by bicarbonate to generate cytosolic cAMP, yet its role in regulation of endothelial barrier integrity has not been addressed. Here we demonstrate that, within the pulmonary circulation, AC10 is expressed in pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (PMVECs) and pulmonary artery endothelial cells (PAECs), yet expression in PAECs is lower. Furthermore, pulmonary endothelial cells selectively express bicarbonate cotransporters. While extracellular bicarbonate generates a phosphodiesterase 4-sensitive cAMP pool in PMVECs, no such cAMP response is detected in PAECs. Finally, addition of extracellular bicarbonate decreases resistance across the PMVEC monolayer and increases the filtration coefficient in the isolated perfused lung above osmolality controls. Collectively, these findings suggest that PMVECs have a bicarbonate-sensitive cytosolic cAMP pool that disrupts endothelial barrier integrity. These studies could provide an alternative mechanism for the controversial effects of bicarbonate correction of acidosis of acute respiratory distress syndrome patients.




Dopaminergic (DA) neurons of the ventral midbrain (VM) play vital roles in the regulation of voluntary movement, emotion and reward. They are divided into the A8, A9 and A10 subgroups. The development of the A9 group of DA neurons is an area of intense investigation to aid the generation of these neurons from stem cell sources for cell transplantation approaches to Parkinson's disease (PD). This review discusses the molecular processes that are involved in the identity, specification, maturation, target innervation and survival of VM DA neurons during development. The complex molecular interactions of a number of genetic pathways are outlined, as well as recent advances in the mechanisms that regulate subset identity within the VM DA neuronal pool. A thorough understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in the development of VM DA neurons will greatly facilitate the use of cell replacement therapy for the treatment of PD.
Cell-type-specific transcriptional profiling often requires the isolation of specific cell types from complex tissues. We have developed &quot;TaDa,&quot; a technique that enables cell-specific profiling without cell isolation. TaDa permits genome-wide profiling of DNA- or chromatin-binding proteins without cell sorting, fixation, or affinity purification. The method is simple, sensitive, highly reproducible, and transferable to any model system. We show that TaDa can be used to identify transcribed genes in a cell-type-specific manner with considerable temporal precision, enabling the identification of differential gene expression between neuroblasts and the neuroepithelial cells from which they derive. We profile the genome-wide binding of RNA polymerase II in these adjacent, clonally related stem cells within intact Drosophila brains. Our data reveal expression of specific metabolic genes in neuroepithelial cells, but not in neuroblasts, and highlight gene regulatory networks that may pattern neural stem cell fates.
Mutations in GFPT1 underlie a congenital myasthenic syndrome (CMS) characterized by a limb-girdle pattern of muscle weakness. Glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate transaminase 1 (GFPT1) is a key rate-limiting enzyme in the hexosamine biosynthetic pathway providing building blocks for the glycosylation of proteins and lipids. It is expressed ubiquitously and it is not readily apparent why mutations in this gene should cause a syndrome with symptoms restricted to muscle and, in particular, to the neuromuscular junction. Data from a muscle biopsy obtained from a patient with GFPT1 mutations indicated that there were reduced endplate acetylcholine receptors. We, therefore, further investigated the relationship between identified mutations in GFPT1 and expression of the muscle acetylcholine receptor. Cultured myotubes derived from two patients with GFPT1 mutations showed a significant reduction in cell-surface AChR expression (Pt1 P &lt; 0.0001; Pt2 P = 0.0097). Inhibition of GFPT1 enzymatic activity or siRNA silencing of GFPT1 expression both resulted in reduced AChR cell-surface expression. Western blot and gene-silencing experiments indicate this is due to reduced steady-state levels of AChR , , , but not  subunits rather than altered transcription of AChR-subunit RNA. Uridine diphospho-N-acetylglucosamine, a product of the hexosamine synthetic pathway, acts as a substrate at an early stage in the N-linked glycosylation pathway. Similarity between CMS due to GFPT1 mutations and CMS due to DPAGT1 mutations would suggest that reduced endplate AChR due to defective N-linked glycosylation is a primary disease mechanism in this disorder.
The extracellular accumulation of -amyloid peptide is a key trigger in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In humans, amyloid deposition precedes the appearance of intracellular inclusion pathology formed by cytosolic proteins such as Tau, -synuclein and TDP-43. These secondary pathologies have not been observed in mice that model Alzheimer-type amyloidosis by expressing mutant amyloid precursor protein, with or without mutant presenilin 1. The lack of secondary pathology in these models has made it difficult to establish how amyloid deposition initiates the cascade of events that leads to secondary intracellular pathology that characterizes human AD. In transgenic mice that model Alzheimer-type amyloidosis, we sought to determine whether there is evidence of altered cytosolic protein folding by assessing whether amyloid deposition causes normally soluble proteins to misfold. Using a method that involved detergent extraction and sedimentation coupled with proteomic approaches, we identified numerous cytosolic proteins that show specific losses in solubility as amyloid accumulates. The proteins identified included glycolytic enzymes and members of the 14-3-3 chaperone family. A substantial accumulation of lysine 48-linked polyubiquitin was also detected. Overall, the data demonstrate that the accumulation of amyloid by some manner causes the loss of solubility intracellular cytosolic proteins.



Sleep is restorative, whereas reduced sleep leads to negative health outcomes, such as increased susceptibility to disease. Sleep deprivation tends to attenuate inflammatory responses triggered by infection or exposure to endotoxin, such as bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Previous studies have demonstrated that Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus), photoperiodic rodents, attenuate LPS-induced fever, sickness behavior and upstream pro-inflammatory gene expression when adapted to short day lengths. Here, we tested whether manipulation of photoperiod alters the suppressive effects of sleep deprivation upon cytokine gene expression after LPS challenge. Male Siberian hamsters were adapted to long (16 h:8 h light:dark) or short (8 h:16 h light:dark) photoperiods for &gt;10 weeks, and were deprived of sleep for 24 h using the multiple platform method or remained in their home cage. Hamsters received an intraperitoneal injection of LPS or saline (control) 18 h after starting the protocol, and were killed 6 h later. LPS increased liver and hypothalamic interleukin-1 (IL-1) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF) gene expression compared with vehicle. Among LPS-challenged hamsters, sleep deprivation reduced IL-1 mRNA levels in liver and hypothalamus, but not TNF. IL-1 attenuation was independent of circulating baseline cortisol, which did not increase after sleep deprivation. Conversely, photoperiod altered baseline cortisol, but not pro-inflammatory gene expression in sleep-deprived hamsters. These results suggest that neither photoperiod nor glucocorticoids influence the suppressive effect of sleep deprivation upon LPS-induced inflammation.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a debilitating disease of the central nervous system. Its etiology is still an unanswered enigma; its symptoms are varied and unpredictable; and there is no cure for it. Genetics has been introduced as a contributing factor to MS. Not only may MS stem from nuclear gene variations/mutations, but also it may arise from mitochondrial gene variations/mutations. The association of mitochondrial DNA variations/mutations with the pathogenesis of MS has, so far, been analyzed by several studies. This paper reviews the literature with regard to MS and corresponding mitochondrial DNA variations.
Fatigue is debilitating in multiple sclerosis (MS) and may have multiple causes. Recent investigations into objectively measurable correlates of fatigue have used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to examine a range of neurophysiological measures of neural excitability that may be altered in patients with MS. This qualitative review was conducted to test the hypothesis that changes in neural excitability are a contributing factor in MS-related fatigue. A search of the English language literature led to the compilation and synthesis of original research papers in which various aspects of neural excitability and neural transmission were measured using TMS in patients with MS. The resulting papers were classified into three categories of study relevant to fatigue: abnormalities in excitability and their correlation with self-reported fatigue; effects of exercise-induced fatigue on neural excitability; and effects of fatigue medications on neural excitability. Evidence of an association between fatigue and intracortical inhibition is both limited and conflicting, and no evidence suggests associations of fatigue with corticomotor excitability or neuronal conduction. Pharmacologically-induced changes in fatigue were found to correlate with changes in intracortical excitability. No conclusions could be drawn regarding neural excitability and exercise-induced fatigue, due to variability in study populations, outcome measures, and exercise protocols across different studies. Suggestions for future studies in this area are proposed with a view to identifying potentially modifiable factors contributing to fatigue in MS.

Recently, there has been an increase in the analysis of animal vocalizations in behavioral neuroscience as a social cue or indicator of neurological integrity. Despite the multitude of researchers examining vocalizations in a variety of species, no inexpensive, tunable devices currently exist to calibrate the amplification applied to such vocalizations before data are collected. Many commercially available recording systems have analog adjustments for gain, but such methods are notoriously unreliable and highly variable. Without a consistent level of gain, the amplitudes of recorded acoustic signals cannot be reliably compared. Here, we describe an apparatus designed to fulfill this need, which we have labeled the Calibration Unit for Recording Transducers (CURT). To maximize application to various fields, its emitted frequency and amplitude are tunable to output frequencies in both human-sonic (20 Hz-20 kHz) and human-ultrasonic ranges (20 Hz-100 kHz). Additionally, it is a portable (weighing approximately 180 g), customizable, stand-alone unit, and fits a variety of microphone connector types. The CURT is also relatively low cost to build (under 250.00 USD), thereby making such a device available to as many researchers as possible in animal behavior and neuroscience.
The relationship between learning and sleep is multifaceted; learning influences subsequent sleep characteristics, which may in turn influence subsequent memory. Studies in humans indicate that sleep may not only prevent degradation of acquired memories, but even enhance performance without further practice. In a rodent instrumental learning task, individual differences occur in how fast rats learn to associate lever pressing with food reward. Rats habitually sleep between learning sessions, and may differ in this respect. The current study assessed if the instrumental leaning paradigm could serve as a model to study sleep-dependent memory enhancement. Male Wistar rats performed 2 sessions of instrumental learning per day for 1-3 days. Electroencephalography was recorded both before and after the sessions. Sleep deprivation (3 h) was applied between the first and second session in a subgroup of rats. Measurements comprised the number of lever presses in each session, slow wave sleep (SWS) duration, Rapid Eye Movement Sleep (REMS) duration and sleep spindles. Baseline sleep parameters were similar for fast and slow learning rats. Task-exposure increased REMS-duration. The increase in REMS-duration was observed specifically after sessions in which learning occurred, but not after a later session. Sleep deprivation during the 3h period between the initial two sessions interfered with performance enhancement, but did not prevent this in all rats. Our considered movement control protocol induced partial sleep deprivation and also interfered with performance enhancement. The classic instrumental learning task provides a practical model for animal studies on sleep-dependent memory enhancement.
Functional MRI in awake rats involves acclimatization to restraint to minimize motion. We designed a study to examine the effects of an acclimatization protocol (5 days of restraint, 60 min per day) on the emission of 22-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations and performance in a forced swim test (FST). Our results showed that USV calls are reduced significantly by days 3, 4 and 5 of acclimatization. Although the rats showed less climbing activity (and more immobility) in FST on day 5 compared to the 1st day of restraint acclimatization, the difference was not detected once the animals were given a 2-week hiatus. Overall, we showed that animals adapt to the restraint over a five-day period; however, restraint may introduce confounding behavioral outcomes that may hinder the interpretation of results derived from awake rat imaging. The present data warrants further testing of the effects of MRI restraint on behavior.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) often occurs in conjunction with additional trauma, resulting in secondary complications, such as hypotension as a result of blood loss. This study investigated the combined effects of penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI) and hemorrhagic shock (HS) on physiological parameters, including acute changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), brain tissue oxygen tension (P(bt)O), and cortical spreading depolarizations (CSDs). All recordings were initiated before injury (PBBI/HS/both) and maintained for 2.5h. Results showed that PBBI alone and combined PBBI and HS produced a sustained impairment of ipsilateral rCBF that decreased by 70% from baseline (p&lt;0.05). Significant and sustained reductions in P(bt)O (50% baseline; p&lt;0.05) were also observed in the injured hemisphere of the animals subjected to both PBBI and HS (PBBI+HS). In contrast, PBBI alone produced smaller, more transient reductions in P(bt)O levels. The lower limit of cerebral autoregulation was significantly higher in the PBBI+HS group (p&lt;0.05, compared to HS alone). Critically, combined injury resulted in twice the number of spontaneous CSDs as in PBBI alone (p&lt;0.05). It also lowered the propagation speed of CSD and the threshold of CSD occurrence [induced CSD at higher mean arterial pressure (MAP)]. However, rCBF and P(bt)O were not responsive to the depolarizations. Our data suggest that PBBI together with HS causes persistent impairment of CBF and brain tissue oxygen tension, increasing the probability of CSDs that likely contribute to secondary neuropathology and compromise neurological recovery.
Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) may cause diffuse damage to the brain, especially to the frontal areas, that may lead to persistent symptoms. We studied participants with past mTBI by means of navigated transcranial magnetic stimulation (nTMS) combined with electroencephalography (EEG). Eleven symptomatic and 8 recovered participants with a history of single mTBI and 9 healthy controls participated. Average time from injury to testing was 5 years. The participants did not have abnormalities or signs of injury on brain magnetic resonance imaging, and they did not use any centrally acting medication. Left primary motor cortex (M1) and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) were stimulated with nTMS and evoked potentials measured from the corresponding areas of both hemispheres. Delayed ipsilateral P30 and contralateral N45 peak latencies to left DLPFC nTMS were found in the symptomatic group, along with higher DLPFC N100 amplitudes compared with the control or recovered group. The recovered group had shorter P200 latencies in left DLPFC nTMS compared with the other groups. Both mTBI groups had higher motor thresholds compared with the control group. In left M1 nTMS, the mTBI groups showed less P30 amplitude increase, and the symptomatic group showed longer P60 interhemispheric latency difference with higher stimulation intensities. The results suggest altered brain reactivity and connectivity in mTBI. Some of the observed differences may be related to compensatory mechanisms of recovery. nTMS-EEG is a potentially useful tool for studying the effects of mTBI.
During muscle fatigue, firing of small-diameter muscle afferents can decrease voluntary activation of the fatigued muscle. However, these afferents may have a more widespread effect on other muscles in the exercising limb. We examined if the firing of fatigue-sensitive afferents from elbow extensor muscles in the same arm reduces torque production and voluntary activation of elbow flexors. In nine subjects we examined voluntary activation of elbow flexors by measuring changes in superimposed twitches evoked by transcranial magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex during brief (2-3 s) maximal voluntary contractions (MVC). Inflation of a blood pressure cuff following a 2-min sustained MVC blocked blood flow to the fatigued muscle and maintained firing of small-diameter afferents. After a fatiguing elbow flexion contraction, maximal flexion torque was lower (26.0  4.4% versus 67.9  5.2% of initial maximal torque; means  s.d.; P &lt; 0.001) and superimposed twitches were larger (4.1  1.1% versus 1.8  0.2% ongoing MVC, P = 0.01) with than without ischaemia. After a fatiguing elbow extensor contraction, maximal flexion torque was also reduced (82.2  4.9% versus 91.4  2.3% of initial maximal torque; P = 0.007), superimposed twitches were larger (2.7  0.7% versus 1.3  0.2% ongoing MVC; P = 0.02) and voluntary activation lower (81.6  8.2% versus 95.5  6.9%; P = 0.04) with than without ischaemia. After a fatiguing contraction, voluntary drive to the fatigued muscles is reduced with continued input from small-diameter muscle afferents. Furthermore, fatigue of the elbow extensor muscles decreases voluntary drive to unfatigued elbow flexors of the same arm. Therefore, firing of small-diameter muscle afferents from one muscle can affect voluntary activation and hence torque generation of another muscle in the same limb.
The first two areas of the primate visual cortex (V1, V2) provide a paradigmatic example of hierarchical computation in the brain. However, neither the functional properties of V2 nor the interactions between the two areas are well understood. One key aspect is that the statistics of the inputs received by V2 depend on the nonlinear response properties of V1. Here, we focused on divisive normalization, a canonical nonlinear computation that is observed in many neural areas and modalities. We simulated V1 responses with (and without) different forms of surround normalization derived from statistical models of natural scenes, including canonical normalization and a statistically optimal extension that accounted for image nonhomogeneities. The statistics of the V1 population responses differed markedly across models. We then addressed how V2 receptive fields pool the responses of V1 model units with different tuning. We assumed this is achieved by learning without supervision a linear representation that removes correlations, which could be accomplished with principal component analysis. This approach revealed V2-like feature selectivity when we used the optimal normalization and, to a lesser extent, the canonical one but not in the absence of both. We compared the resulting two-stage models on two perceptual tasks; while models encompassing V1 surround normalization performed better at object recognition, only statistically optimal normalization provided systematic advantages in a task more closely matched to midlevel vision, namely figure/ground judgment. Our results suggest that experiments probing midlevel areas might benefit from using stimuli designed to engage the computations that characterize V1 optimality.
Both visual and haptic information add to the perception of surface texture. While prior studies have reported crossmodal interactions of both sensory modalities at the behavioral level, neuroimaging studies primarily investigated texture perception in separate visual and haptic paradigms. These experimental designs, however, only allowed to identify overlap in both sensory processing streams but no interaction of visual and haptic texture processing. By varying texture characteristics in a bimodal task, the current study investigated how these crossmodal interactions are reflected at the cortical level. We used fMRI to compare cortical activation in response to matching versus non-matching visual-haptic texture information. We expected that passive simultaneous presentation of matching visual-haptic input would be sufficient to induce BOLD responses graded with varying texture characteristics. Since no cognitive evaluation of the stimuli was required, we expected to find changes primarily at a rather early processing stage. Our results confirmed our assumptions by showing crossmodal interactions of visual-haptic texture information in early somatosensory and visual cortex. However, the nature of the crossmodal effects was slightly different in both sensory cortices. In early visual cortex, matching visual-haptic information increased the average activation level and induced parametric BOLD signal variations with varying texture characteristics. In early somatosensory cortex only the latter was true. These results challenge the notion that visual and haptic texture information is processed independently and indicate a crossmodal interaction of sensory information already at an early cortical processing stage.
Connectivity and network analysis in neuroscience has been applied to multiple spatial scales, but the links between these different scales have rarely been investigated. In tumor-related epilepsy, altered network topology is related to behavior, but the molecular basis of these observations is unknown. We elucidate the associations between microscopic features of brain tumors, local network topology, and functional patient status. We hypothesize that expression of proteins related to tumor-related epilepsy is directly correlated with network characteristics of the tumor area. Glioma patients underwent magnetoencephalography, and functional network topology of the tumor area was used to predict tissue protein expression patterns of tumor tissue collected during neurosurgery. Protein expression and network topology were interdependent; in particular between-module connectivity was selectively associated with two epilepsy-related proteins. Total number of seizures was related to both the role of the tumor area in the functional network and to protein expression. Importantly, classification of protein expression was predicted by between-module connectivity with up to 100% accuracy. Thus, network topology may serve as an intermediate level between molecular features of tumor tissue and symptomatology in brain tumor patients, and can potentially be used as a non-invasive marker for microscopic tissue characteristics.
Resting state functional connectivity MRI (rs-fcMRI) is a popular technique used to gauge the functional relatedness between regions in the brain for typical and special populations. Most of the work to date determines this relationship by using Pearson's correlation on BOLD fMRI timeseries. However, it has been recognized that there are at least two key limitations to this method. First, it is not possible to resolve the direct and indirect connections/influences. Second, the direction of information flow between the regions cannot be differentiated. In the current paper, we follow-up on recent work by Smith et al. (2011), and apply PC algorithm to both simulated data and empirical data to determine whether these two factors can be discerned with group average, as opposed to single subject, functional connectivity data. When applied on simulated individual subjects, the algorithm performs well determining indirect and direct connection but fails in determining directionality. However, when applied at group level, PC algorithm gives strong results for both indirect and direct connections and the direction of information flow. Applying the algorithm on empirical data, using a diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) structural connectivity matrix as the baseline, the PC algorithm outperformed the direct correlations. We conclude that, under certain conditions, the PC algorithm leads to an improved estimate of brain network structure compared to the traditional connectivity analysis based on correlations.
Sleep, in particular REM sleep, has been shown to improve the consolidation of emotional memories. Here, we investigated the role of sleep and sleep deprivation on the consolidation of fear memories and underlying neuronal mechanisms. We employed a Pavlovian fear conditioning paradigm either followed by a night of polysomnographically monitored sleep, or wakefulness in forty healthy participants. Recall of learned fear was better after sleep, as indicated by stronger explicitly perceived anxiety and autonomous nervous responses. These effects were positively correlated with the preceding time spent in REM sleep and paralleled by activation of the basolateral amygdala. These findings suggest REM sleep-associated consolidation of fear memory in the human amygdala. In view of the critical participation of fear learning mechanisms in the etiology of anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder, deprivation of REM sleep after exposure to distressing events is an interesting target for further investigation.
We previously observed that mental manipulation of the pitch level or temporal organization of melodies results in functional activation in the human intraparietal sulcus (IPS), a region also associated with visuospatial transformation and numerical calculation. Two outstanding questions about these musical transformations are whether pitch and time depend on separate or common processing in IPS, and whether IPS recruitment in melodic tasks varies depending upon the degree of transformation required (as it does in mental rotation). In the present study we sought to answer these questions by applying functional magnetic resonance imaging while musicians performed closely matched mental transposition (pitch transformation) and melody reversal (temporal transformation) tasks. A voxel-wise conjunction analysis showed that in individual subjects, both tasks activated overlapping regions in bilateral IPS, suggesting that a common neural substrate subserves both types of mental transformation. Varying the magnitude of mental pitch transposition resulted in variation of IPS BOLD signal in correlation with the musical key-distance of the transposition, but not with the pitch distance, indicating that the cognitive metric relevant for this type of operation is an abstract one, well described by music-theoretic concepts. These findings support a general role for the IPS in systematically transforming auditory stimulus representations in a nonspatial context.
The genetic and neural basis of working memory (WM) has been extensively studied. Many dopamine (DA) related genes, including the NTSR1 gene (a DA modulator gene), have been reported to be associated with WM performance. The NTSR1 protein is predominantly expressed in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus, the latter of which is closely involved in WM processing based on both lesion and fMRI studies. Thus far, however, no study has examined the joint effects of NTSR1 gene polymorphism and hippocampal morphology on WM performance. Participants of the current study were 330 healthy Chinese college students. WM performance was measured with a 2-back WM paradigm. Structural MRI data were acquired and then analyzed using an automated procedure with atlas-based FreeSurfer segmentation software (v 4.5.0) package. Linear regression analyses were conducted with a NTSR1 C/T polymorphism which was previously reported to be associated with WM (rs4334545), hippocampal volume, and their interaction as predictors of WM performance, with gender and intracranial volume (ICV) as covariates. Results showed a significant interaction between NTSR1 genotype and hippocampal volume (p&lt;.05 for both the left and right hippocampi). Further analysis showed that the correlation between hippocampal volume and WM scores was significant for carriers of the NTSR1 T-allele (p&lt;.05 for both hippocampi), but not for CC homozygotes. These results indicate that the association between hippocampal structure and WM performance was modulated by variation in the NTSR1 gene, and suggest that further studies of brain-behavior associations should take genetic background information into account.
A specific positron emission tomography (PET) radiotracer for the glycine transporter type 1 (GlyT1) would constitute an imaging biomarker to investigate the distribution of GlyT1 in normal individuals and those with neuropsychiatric disorders. In addition it could demonstrate the ability of a novel drug to reach its target in the brain and enable receptor occupancy studies, thus facilitating drug development. In this article we describe the evaluation in non-human primates of two candidate PET radiotracers ([(11)C]RO5013852 and [(11)C]RO5013853) previously characterized in the rat. Both radiotracers showed acceptable uptake in the baboon brain and heterogeneous distribution consistent with that reported for GlyT1. In vivo blockade studies with two specific glycine reuptake inhibitors (GRIs), RO5013853 and bitopertin (RG1678, reduced uptake of both tracers to homogenous levels across brain regions and demonstrated specificity of the signal. [(11)C]RO5013853 showed a larger specific signal and slightly higher brain uptake and was therefore selected for further characterization. Quantitative compartmental analysis of PET data showed that the 2-tissue compartment model with 5 parameters was the most appropriate to describe the kinetics of [(11)C]RO5013853. Two additional methods were used: a) the Logan graphical analysis using plasma input and, b) a linear parametric imaging approach with the 2-tissue compartmental model. These produced VT estimates of comparable magnitude, namely, pons, thalamus and cerebellum&gt;caudate, putamen and cortical regions. High resolution autoradiography with tritiated RO5013853 was used to confirm the binding pattern observed by PET. In vivo metabolism studies in the baboon demonstrated the formation of a single, radiolabeled metabolite more polar than the parent compound. Finally, [(11)C]RO5013853 was used to quantify the degree of cerebral GlyT1 occupancy observed in the baboon following oral administration of bitopertin, a selective GRI presently in Phase III clinical trial. Plasma concentrations of approximately 150-300 ng/mL were estimated to produce 50% GlyT1 occupancy in the thalamus, the cerebellum and the pons. [(11)C]RO5013853 is a promising radiotracer for in vivo imaging of the GlyT1. It can be easily radiolabeled, exhibits moderate metabolism, displays a good specific signal, and is suitable for receptor occupancy studies of therapeutic compounds that target the GlyT1. The successful characterization of [(11)C]RO5013853 in healthy volunteers is presented in this NeuroImage issue (Wong et al., 2013).
For the past decade, the detection and quantification of interactions within and between physiological networks has become a priority-in-common between the fields of biomedicine and computer science. Prominent examples are the interaction analysis of brain networks and of the cardiovascular-respiratory system. The aim of the study is to show how and to what extent results from time-variant partial directed coherence analysis are influenced by some basic estimator and data parameters. The impacts of the Kalman filter settings, the order of the autoregressive (AR) model, signal-to-noise ratios, filter procedures and volume conduction were investigated. These systematic investigations are based on data derived from simulated connectivity networks and were performed using a Kalman filter approach for the estimation of the time-variant multivariate AR model. Additionally, the influence of electrooculogram artefact rejection on the significance and dynamics of interactions in 29 channel electroencephalography recordings, derived from a photic driving experiment, is demonstrated. For artefact rejection, independent component analysis was used. The study provides rules to correctly apply particular methods that will aid users to achieve more reliable interpretations of the results.
In the analysis of neuroscience data, the identification of task-related causal relationships between various areas of the brain gives insights about the network of physiological pathways that are active during the task. One increasingly used approach to identify causal connectivity uses the concept of Granger causality that exploits predictability of activity in one region by past activity in other regions of the brain. Owing to the complexity of the data, selecting components for the analysis of causality as a preprocessing step has to be performed. This includes predetermined-and often arbitrary-exclusion of information. Therefore, the system is confounded by latent sources. In this paper, the effect of latent confounders is demonstrated, and paths of influence among three components are studied. While methods for analysing Granger causality are commonly based on linear vector autoregressive models, the effects of latent confounders are expected to be present also in nonlinear systems. Therefore, all analyses are also performed for a simulated nonlinear system and discussed with regard to applications in neuroscience.




Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) are the chief glial population of the mammalian olfactory nervous system, residing in the olfactory mucosa and at the surface of the olfactory bulb. We investigated the neurochemical features of OECs in a variety of mammalian species (including adult hamsters, rabbits, monkeys, and mice, as well as fetal pigs) using three biomarkers: -smooth muscle actin (SMA), S100, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Mucosal and bulbar OECs from all five mammalian species express S100. Both mucosal and bulbar OECs of monkeys express SMA, yet only bulbar OECs of hamsters and only mucosal OECs of rabbits express SMA as well. Mucosal OECs, but not bulbar OECs, also express GFAP in hamsters and monkeys; mice, by comparison, have only a sparse population of OECs expressing GFAP. Though SMA immunostaining is not detected in OECs of adult mice, GFAP-expressing mucosal OECs isolated from adult mice do coexpress SMA in vitro. Moreover, mucosal OECs from adult mutant mice lacking SMA expression display perturbed cellular morphology (i.e., fewer cytoplasmic processes extending among the hundreds of olfactory axons in the olfactory nerve fascicles and nuclei having degenerative features). In sum, these findings highlight the efficacy of SMA and S100 as biomarkers of OECs from a variety of mammalian species. These observations provide definitive evidence that mammalian OECs express the structural protein SMA (at various levels of detection), which appears to play a pivotal role in their ensheathment of olfactory axons.
Genetic studies have clearly shown that primary headaches (migraine, tension-type headache and cluster headache) are multifactorial disorders characterized by a complex interaction between different genes and environmental factors. Genetic association studies have highlighted a potential role in the etiopathogenesis of these disorders for several genes related to vascular, neuronal and neuroendocrine functions. A potential role as a therapeutic target is now emerging for some of these genes. The main purpose of this review is to describe new advances in our knowledge regarding the role of MTHFR, KCNK18, TRPV1, TRPV3 and HCRTR genes in primary headache disorders. Involvement of these genes in primary headaches, as well as their potential role in the therapy of these disorders, will be discussed.
This letter describes the synthesis, structure-activity relationships, and in vivo evaluation of a new series of 2-phenylquinoxaline (PQ) derivatives for imaging -amyloid (A) plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In experiments in vitro, the affinity of the derivatives for A aggregates varied, with K i values of 0.895 to 1180 nM. In brain sections from AD patients, derivatives with a K i of less than 111 nM intensely labeled A plaques, while those with values over 242 nM showed no marked labeling. In biodistribution experiments using normal mice, the derivatives showed good uptake into (4.69-7.59 %ID/g at 2 or 10 min postinjection) and subsequent washout from (1.48-3.08 %ID/g at 60 min postinjection) the brain. In addition, [(18)F]PQ-6 labeled A plaques in vivo in APP transgenic mice, while it showed nonspecific binding in the white matter. Further structural optimization based on [(18)F]PQ-6 may lead to more useful PET probes for imaging A plaques.


We recently established that the EGF-R (epidermal growth factor receptor) (EGF-R) is an essential regulator of the reactive expansion of SVZ (subventricular zone) NPs (neural precursors) that occurs during recovery from hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. The purpose of the current studies was to identify the conditions and the transcription factor (s) responsible for inducing the EGF-R. Here, we show that the increase in EGF-R expression and the more rapid division of the NPs can be recapitulated in invitro by exposing SVZ NPs to hypoxia and hypoglycemia simultaneously, but not separately. The EGF-R promoter has binding sites for multiple transcription factors that includes the zinc finger transcription factor, Egr-1. We show that Egr-1 expression increases in NPs, but not astrocytes, following hypoxia and hypoglycemia where it accumulates in the nucleus. To determine whether Egr-1 is necessary for EGF-R expression, we used SiRNAs (small interfering RNA) specific for Egr-1 to decrease Egr-1 expression. Knocking-down Egr-1 decreased basal levels of EGF-R and it abolished the stress-induced increase in EGF-R expression. By contrast, HIF-1 accumulation did not contribute to EGF-R expression and FGF-2 only modestly induced EGF-R. These studies establish a new role for Egr-1in regulating the expression of the mitogenic EGF-R. They also provide new information into mechanisms that promote NP expansion and provide insights into strategies for amplifying the numbers of stem cells for CNS (central nervous system) regeneration.
BACE1 is the sole secretase for generating -amyloid (A) invivo and is being actively pursued as a drug target for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Transmembrane BACE1 exerts its biological activity by cleaving its membrane-bound cellular substrates. Here, we reveal that BACE1 directly regulates the level of membrane-anchored full-length Jagged1 (Jag1), a signaling molecule important for the control of neurogenesis and astrogenesis, via interaction with its cognate Notch receptor. We show that shedding of Jag1 is reduced in BACE1 null mice and upregulated Jag1 enhances Notch signaling via cell-cell juxtacrine interactions. Additional biochemical assays confirmed that overexpression of BACE1 enhanced cleavage of Jag1. Consequently, BACE1 null mice exhibit a significant increase in astrogenesis with a corresponding decrease in neurogenesis in their hippocampi during early development. Hence, BACE1 appears to function as a signaling protease that controls the balance of neurogenesis and astrogenesis via the Jag1-Notch pathway.


Although androgen resistance has been characterized in men with a normal chromosome complement and mutations in the androgen-receptor gene, a mutation in the gene encoding estrogen receptor  (ESR1) was previously described only in one man and not, to our knowledge, in a woman. We now describe an 18-year-old woman without breast development and with markedly elevated serum levels of estrogens and bilateral multicystic ovaries. She was found to have a homozygous loss-of-function ESR1 mutation in a completely conserved residue that interferes with estrogen signaling. Her clinical presentation was similar to that in the mouse orthologue knockout. This case shows that disruption of ESR1 causes profound estrogen resistance in women. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health.).

Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) is an important angiogenic marker over-expressed in gliomas. With the use of molecular magnetic resonance imaging (mMRI) differing levels of VEGFR2 can be characterized in vivo with in rodent gliomas varying in angiogenesis. VEGFR2 levels were assessed by intravenous administration of an anti-VEGFR2 probe (anti-VEGFR2-albumin-Gd (gadolinium)-DTPA (diethylene triamine penta acetic acid)-biotin) into C6 or RG2 glioma-bearing rats, and visualized with mMRI. A non-specific IgG was coupled to the albumin-Gd-DTPA-biotin construct as a contrast agent molecular weight control. VEGFR2 levels are heterogeneous in different regions of C6 gliomas, whereas VEGFR2 was more homogenous or evenly distributed in RG2 gliomas. RG2 gliomas have less VEGFR2 within tumor periphery and peri-necrotic (p&lt;0.05) regions, but more VEGFR2 within tumor interior regions (p&lt;0.01), compared to C6 gliomas. mMRI results were confirmed with fluorescence staining and mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) quantification of the anti-VEGFR2 probe in excised glioma and brain tissues, as well as detection of VEGFR2 in C6 and RG2 gliomas and corresponding contalateral brain tissues. Ex vivo VEGFR2 levels were found to be significantly higher in C6 gliomas compared to RG2 tumors (p&lt;0.001), which corresponded with in vivo detection using the VEGFR2 probe. Immunohistochemistry staining for HIF-1 (hypoxia inducible factor 1), which is associated with angiogenesis, indicated higher levels in RG2 (p&lt;0.01) compared to C6 gliomas. The data suggests that C6 gliomas have angiogenesis which is associated more with large blood vessels in tumor periphery and peri-necrotic regions, and less microvascular angiogenesis within the tumor interior, compared to RG2 gliomas.






The Journal of Neuroscience has received a report describing an investigation by the Karolinska Institutet, which found substantial data misrepresentation in the article &quot;The Existence of FGFR1-5-HT1A Receptor Heterocomplexes in Midbrain 5-HT Neurons of the Rat: Relevance for Neuroplasticity&quot; by Dasiel O. Borroto-Escuela, Wilber Romero-Fernandez, Mileidys Prez-Alea, Manuel Narvaez, Alexander O. Tarakanov, Giuseppa Mud , Luigi F. Agnati, Francisco Ciruela, Natale Belluardo, and Kjell Fuxe, which appeared on pages 6295-6303 of the May 2, 2012 issue. Because the results cannot be considered reliable, the editors of The Journal are retracting the paper.
Recent neuroscience advances suggest that when interacting with our environment, along with previous experience, we use contextual cues and regularities to form predictions that guide our perceptions and actions. The goal of such active &quot;predictive sensing&quot; is to selectively enhance the processing and representation of behaviorally relevant information in an efficient manner. Since a hallmark of schizophrenia is impaired information selection, we tested whether this deficiency stems from dysfunctional predictive sensing by measuring the degree to which neuronal activity predicts relevant events. In healthy subjects, we established that these mechanisms are engaged in an effort-dependent manner and that, based on a correspondence between human scalp and intracranial nonhuman primate recordings, their main role is a predictive suppression of excitability in task-irrelevant regions. In contrast, schizophrenia patients displayed a reduced alignment of neuronal activity to attended stimuli, which correlated with their behavioral performance deficits and clinical symptoms. These results support the relevance of predictive sensing for normal and aberrant brain function, and highlight the importance of neuronal mechanisms that mold internal ongoing neuronal activity to model key features of the external environment.
Mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in 20% of familial cases (fALS). Mitochondria are one of the targets of mutant SOD1 (mutSOD1) toxicity. We previously demonstrated that at the mitochondria, mutSOD1 forms a toxic complex with Bcl-2, which is then converted into a toxic protein via a structural rearrangement that exposes its toxic BH3 domain (Pedrini et al., 2010). Here we now show that formation of this toxic complex with Bcl-2 is the primary event in mutSOD1-induced mitochondrial dysfunction, inhibiting mitochondrial permeability to ADP and inducing mitochondrial hyperpolarization. In mutSOD1-G93A cells and mice, the newly exposed BH3 domain in Bcl-2 alters the normal interaction between Bcl-2 and VDAC1 thus reducing permeability of the outer mitochondrial membrane. In motor neuronal cells, the mutSOD1/Bcl-2 complex causes mitochondrial hyperpolarization leading to cell loss. Small SOD1-like therapeutic peptides that specifically block formation of the mutSOD1/Bcl-2 complex, recover both aspects of mitochondrial dysfunction: they prevent mitochondrial hyperpolarization and cell loss as well as restore ADP permeability in mitochondria of symptomatic mutSOD1-G93A mice.
Hypoxia-ischemia is a common cause of neurological impairments in newborns, but little is known about how neuroinflammation contributes to the long-term outcome after a perinatal brain injury. In this study, we investigated the role of the fractalkine receptor chemokine CX3C motif receptor 1 (CX3CR1) and of toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling after a neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Mice deficient in the TLR adaptor proteins Toll/interleukin-1 receptor-domain-containing adaptor protein inducing interferon  (TRIF) or myeloid differentiation factor-88 (MyD88) and CX3CR1 knock-out (KO) mice were subjected to hypoxia-ischemia at postnatal day 3. In situ hybridization was used to evaluate the expression of TLRs during brain development and after hypoxic-ischemic insults. Behavioral deficits, hippocampal damage, reactive microgliosis, and subplate injury were compared among the groups. Although MyD88 KO mice exhibited no differences from wild-type animals in long-term structural and functional outcomes, TRIF KO mice presented a worse outcome, as evidenced by increased hippocampal CA3 atrophy in males and by the development of learning and motor deficits in females. CX3CR1-deficient female mice showed a marked increase in brain damage and long-lasting learning deficits, whereas CX3CR1 KO male animals did not exhibit more brain injury than wild-type mice. These data reveal a novel, gender-specific protective role of TRIF and CX3CR1 signaling in a mouse model of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. These findings suggest that future studies seeking immunomodulatory therapies for preterm infants should consider gender as a critical variable and should be cautious not to abrogate the protective role of neuroinflammation.
Experiences can alter functional properties of neurons in primary sensory neocortex but it is poorly understood how stimulus-reward associations contribute to these changes. Using in vivo two-photon calcium imaging in mouse primary visual cortex (V1), we show that association of a directional visual stimulus with reward results in broadened orientation tuning and sharpened direction tuning in a stimulus-selective subpopulation of V1 neurons. Neurons with preferred orientations similar, but not identical to, the CS+ selectively increased their tuning curve bandwidth and thereby exhibited an increased response amplitude at the CS+ orientation. The increase in response amplitude was observed for a small range of orientations around the CS+ orientation. A nonuniform spatial distribution of reward effects across the cortical surface was observed, as the spatial distance between pairs of CS+ tuned neurons was reduced compared with pairs of CS- tuned neurons and pairs of control directions or orientations. These data show that, in primary visual cortex, formation of a stimulus-reward association results in selective alterations in stimulus-specific assemblies rather than population-wide effects.
In brain, properly balanced synaptic excitation and inhibition is critically important for network stability and efficient information processing. Here, we show that retinoic acid (RA), a synaptic signaling molecule whose synthesis is activated by reduced neural activity, induces rapid internalization of synaptic GABAA receptors in mouse hippocampal neurons, leading to significant reduction of inhibitory synaptic transmission. Similar to its action at excitatory synapses, action of RA at inhibitory synapses requires protein translation and is mediated by a nontranscriptional function of the RA-receptor RAR. Different from RA action at excitatory synapses, however, RA at inhibitory synapses causes a loss instead of the gain of a synaptic protein (i.e., GABAARs). Moreover, the removal of GABAARs from the synapses and the reduction of synaptic inhibition do not require the execution of RA's action at excitatory synapses (i.e., downscaling of synaptic inhibition is intact when upscaling of synaptic excitation is blocked). Thus, the action of RA at inhibitory and excitatory synapses diverges significantly after the step of RAR-mediated protein synthesis, and the regulations of GABAAR and AMPAR trafficking are independent processes. When both excitatory and inhibitory synapses are examined together in the same neuron, the synaptic excitation/inhibition ratio is significantly enhanced by RA. Importantly, RA-mediated downscaling of synaptic inhibition is completely absent in Fmr1 knock-out neurons. Thus, RA acts as a central organizer for coordinated homeostatic plasticity in both excitatory and inhibitory synapses, and impairment of this overall process alters the excitatory/inhibitory balance of a circuit and likely represents a major feature of fragile X-syndrome.
Noninvasive neuromodulatory techniques such as transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) are attracting increasing interest as potential therapies for a wide range of neurological and psychiatric conditions. When targeted to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), anodal, facilitatory tDCS has been shown to improve symptoms in a range of domains including working memory, mood, and pain perception (Boggio et al., 2008a; Dockery et al., 2009; Kalu et al., 2012). However, the mechanisms underlying these promising behavioral effects are not well understood. Here, we investigated brain perfusion changes, as assessed using whole-brain arterial spin labeling (ASL), during tDCS applied to the left DLPFC in healthy humans. We demonstrated increased perfusion in regions closely anatomically connected to the DLPFC during anodal tDCS in conjunction with a decreased functional coupling between the left DLPFC and the thalami bilaterally. Despite highly similar effects on cortical excitability during and after stimulation (Nitsche and Paulus, 2000, 2001), cortical perfusion changes were markedly different during these two time periods, with widespread decreases in cortical perfusion being demonstrated after both anodal and cathodal tDCS compared to the period during stimulation. These findings may at least partially explain the different effects on behavior in these time periods described previously in the motor system (Stagg et al., 2011). In addition, the data presented here provide mechanistic explanations for the behavioral effects of anodal tDCS applied to the left DLPFC in terms of modulating functional connectivity between the DLPFC and thalami, as has been hypothesized previously (Lorenz et al., 2003).
The role of parallel fibers (PFs) in cerebellar physiology remains controversial. Early studies inspired the &quot;beam&quot; hypothesis whereby granule cell (GC) activation results in PF-driven, postsynaptic excitation of beams of Purkinje cells (PCs). However, the &quot;radial&quot; hypothesis postulates that the ascending limb of the GC axon provides the dominant input to PCs and generates patch-like responses. Using optical imaging and single-cell recordings in the mouse cerebellar cortex in vivo, this study reexamines the beam versus radial controversy. Electrical stimulation of mossy fibers (MFs) as well as microinjection of NMDA in the granular layer generates beam-like responses with a centrally located patch-like response. Remarkably, ipsilateral forepaw stimulation evokes a beam-like response in Crus I. Discrete molecular layer lesions demonstrate that PFs contribute to the peripherally generated responses in Crus I. In contrast, vibrissal stimulation induces patch-like activation of Crus II and GABAA antagonists fail to convert this patch-like activity into a beam-like response, implying that molecular layer inhibition does not prevent beam-like responses. However, blocking excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) generates beam-like responses in Crus II. These beam-like responses are suppressed by focal inhibition of MF-GC synaptic transmission. Using EAAT4 reporter transgenic mice, we show that peripherally evoked patch-like responses in Crus II are aligned between parasagittal bands of EAAT4. This is the first study to demonstrate beam-like responses in the cerebellar cortex to peripheral, MF, and GC stimulation in vivo. Furthermore, the spatial pattern of the responses depends on extracellular glutamate and its local regulation by EAATs.
In the adult mammalian hippocampus, newborn dentate granule cells are continuously integrated into the existing circuitry and contribute to specific brain functions. Little is known about the axonal development of these newborn neurons in the adult brain due to technological challenges that have prohibited large-scale reconstruction of long, thin, and complex axonal processes within the mature nervous system. Here, using a new serial end-block imaging (SEBI) technique, we seamlessly reconstructed axonal and dendritic processes of intact individual retrovirus-labeled newborn granule cells at different developmental stages in the young adult mouse hippocampus. We found that adult-born dentate granule cells exhibit tortuous, yet highly stereotyped, axonal projections to CA3 hippocampal subregions. Primary axonal projections of cohorts of new neurons born around the same time organize into laminar patterns with staggered terminations that stack along the septo-temporal hippocampal axis. Analysis of individual newborn neuron development further defined an initial phase of rapid axonal and dendritic growth within 21 d after newborn neuron birth, followed by minimal growth of primary axonal and whole dendritic processes through the last time point examined at 77 d. Our results suggest that axonal development and targeting is a highly orchestrated, precise process in the adult brain. These findings demonstrate a striking regenerative capacity of the mature CNS to support long-distance growth and guidance of neuronal axons. Our SEBI approach can be broadly applied for analysis of intact, complex neuronal projections in limitless tissue volume.



The understanding of nature is a continuous process that requires the transference of current knowledge to future generations. In this NeuroView, we address the critical issue of training of future scientists, an essential aspect of scientific progress. As an example of the impact training programs can have on shaping future scientists, we focus on the experience of the Grass Laboratory, which provides early career investigators the opportunity to embark on independent research experiences. This uniquely designed program has contributed enormously to fostering the development of neuroscientists in the past 60 years and has left a recognizable mark on 20(th) and 21(st) century neuroscience research.
A report by Payzan-LeNestour etal. (2013) in this issue of Neuron shows that the human locus coeruleus, a brain stem nucleus containing cell bodies of noradrenergic neurons, dynamically tracks the level of uncertainty about knowledge of the environment while making decisions.
Hohl etal. (2013) found that fluctuations in neuronal responses in the middle temporal area (MT) are correlated with variability in smooth pursuit eye movements. The pattern of neuron-behavior correlations constrains models of how sensory neurons guide behavior and establishes pursuit as an attractive model system for studying how sensory neurons guide behavior.
Recognizing when the world changes is fundamental for normal learning. In this issue of Neuron, Bradfield etal. (2013) show that cholinergic interneurons in dorsomedial striatum are critical to the process whereby new states of the world are appropriately registered and retrieved during associative learning.
Active force generation by outer hair cells (OHCs) underlies amplification and frequency tuning in the mammalian cochlea but whether such a process exists in nonmammals is unclear. Here, we demonstrate that hair cells of the chicken auditory papilla possess an electromechanical force generator in addition to active hair bundle motion due to mechanotransducer channel gating. The properties of the force generator, its voltage dependence and susceptibility to salicylate, as well as an associated chloride-sensitive nonlinear capacitance, suggest involvement of the chicken homolog of prestin, the OHC motor protein. The presence of chicken prestin in the hair cell lateral membrane was confirmed by immunolabeling studies. The hair bundle and prestin motors together create sufficient force to produce fast lateral displacements of the tectorial membrane. Our results imply that the first use of prestin as a motor protein occurred early in amniote evolution and was not a mammalian invention as is usually supposed.
Although several brain regions show significant specialization, higher functions such as cross-modal information integration, abstract reasoning and conscious awareness are viewed as emerging from interactions across distributed functional networks. Analytical approaches capable of capturing the properties of such networks can therefore enhance our ability to make inferences from functional MRI, electroencephalography and magnetoencephalography data. Graph theory is a branch of mathematics that focuses on the formal modelling of networks and offers a wide range of theoretical tools to quantify specific features of network architecture (topology) that can provide information complementing the anatomical localization of areas responding to given stimuli or tasks (topography). Explicit modelling of the architecture of axonal connections and interactions among areas can furthermore reveal peculiar topological properties that are conserved across diverse biological networks, and highly sensitive to disease states. The field is evolving rapidly, partly fuelled by computational developments that enable the study of connectivity at fine anatomical detail and the simultaneous interactions among multiple regions. Recent publications in this area have shown that graph-based modelling can enhance our ability to draw causal inferences from functional MRI experiments, and support the early detection of disconnection and the modelling of pathology spread in neurodegenerative disease, particularly Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, neurophysiological studies have shown that network topology has a profound link to epileptogenesis and that connectivity indices derived from graph models aid in modelling the onset and spread of seizures. Graph-based analyses may therefore significantly help understand the bases of a range of neurological conditions. This review is designed to provide an overview of graph-based analyses of brain connectivity and their relevance to disease aimed principally at general neuroscientists and clinicians.

Previous studies have suggested that the small heat shock protein, HspB1, has a direct influence on the dynamics of cytoskeletal elements, in particular, filamentous actin (F-actin) polymerization. In this study we have assessed the influence of HspB1 phosphorylation on its interaction(s) with F-actin. We first determined the distribution of endogenous non-phosphorylated HspB1, phosphorylated HspB1 and F-actin in neuroendocrine PC12 cells by immunocytochemistry and confocal microscopy. We then investigated a potential direct interaction between HspB1 with F-actin by precipitating F-actin directly with biotinylated phalloidin followed by Western analyses; the reverse immunoprecipitation of HspB1 was also carried out. The phosphorylation influence of HspB1 in this interaction was investigated by using pharmacologic inhibition of p38 MAPK. In control cells, HspB1 interacts with F-actin as a predominantly non-phosphorylated protein, but subsequent to stress there is a redistribution of HspB1 to the cytoskeletal fraction and a significantly increased association of pHspB1 with F-actin. Our data demonstrate HspB1 is found in a complex with F-actin both in phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated forms, with an increased association of pHspB1 with F-actin after heat stress. Overall, our study combines both cellular and biochemical approaches to show cellular localization and direct demonstration of an interaction between endogenous HspB1 and F-actin using methodolgy that specifically isolates F-actin.


Superficial siderosis is caused by recurrent haemorrhage in the subarachnoid space leading to haemosiderin deposition. It typically causes the triad of ataxia, deafness and myelopathy. We report a patient who developed superficial siderosis following neurosurgery for syringomyelia and who had an improvement in his hearing and mobility following treatment with a new iron chelation therapy that can penetrate the blood-brain barrier. It provides an intriguing insight into a therapy that could potentially modify the course of this rare neurodegenerative disorder. Further studies are required to assess the clinical efficacy of deferiprone in superficial siderosis.


Motor-skill learning can be accompanied by both increases and decreases in brain activity. Increases may indicate neural recruitment, while decreases may imply that a region became unimportant or developed a more efficient representation of the skill. These overlapping mechanisms make interpreting learning-related changes of spatially averaged activity difficult. Here we show that motor-skill acquisition is associated with the emergence of highly distinguishable activity patterns for trained movement sequences, in the absence of average activity increases. During functional magnetic resonance imaging, participants produced either four trained or four untrained finger sequences. Using multivariate pattern analysis, both untrained and trained sequences could be discriminated in primary and secondary motor areas. However, trained sequences were classified more reliably, especially in the supplementary motor area. Our results indicate skill learning leads to the development of specialized neuronal circuits, which allow the execution of fast and accurate sequential movements without average increases in brain activity. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.00801.001.

Mortality in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) is significantly increased compared with the general population. Many questions concerning survival in MS are still unanswered due to the difficulty of comparing information collected at different times and in different geographic areas. The increasing incidence of MS, the improvement in care of the chronically disabled, and different methodologies may explain the lack of coherence among studies' results. Reported times to death from birth and from disease onset/diagnosis are highly variable. Patients older at onset or with primary progressive course have shorter survival; however, data on sex and mortality are contradictory. Changes in sex ratio in MS over time represent one possible explanation. MS is the main cause of death in 50% of patients and the incidence of deaths not due to MS varies among countries. Particularly, suicide is substantially increased in patients with MS, and, despite its varying incidence, mainly due to &quot;cultural bias,&quot; it should be considered an MS-related cause of death. Recent results of the long-term follow-up study of interferon--1b demonstrated a significant reduction of mortality among treated patients. Notwithstanding its long latency, mortality is therefore an unambiguously valid long-term outcome in randomized controlled trials. It usefully combines the net impact of treatment efficacy on longevity and adverse events, which may reduce it.

Prolyl oligopeptidase (EC 3.4.21.26, PREP) is a serine protease that hydrolyzes proline-containing peptides shorter than 30-mer but it has also nonhydrolytic functions. PREP has been shown to accelerate aggregation of wild-type -synuclein (-syn) under cell-free conditions, and PREP inhibitors can block this aggregation both in vitro and in vivo. -syn is the main component of Lewy bodies in Parkinson's disease (PD) and Lewy body dementia. To clarify the possible interaction of PREP with other markers of neurodegenerative diseases, we studied colocalizations of PREP and (1) -syn, (2) -amyloid, (3) tau protein and (4) astroglial and microglial cells in human post-mortem brain samples from PD, Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and in healthy control brain samples. In the substantia nigra of PD brains, an intense colocalization with PREP and -syn was evident. PREP colocalized also with -amyloid plaques in AD brains and with tau protein in AD and in healthy brains. PREP was also found in astroglial cells in PD, AD and control brains, but not in the microglia. Our findings are the first ones to demonstrate colocalization of PREP and pathological proteins in the human brain and support the view that, at least in spatial terms, PREP could be associated with pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases.
Relay cells of dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) receive a Class 1 glutamatergic input from the retina and a Class 2 input from cortical layer 6. Among the properties of Class 2 synapses is the ability to activate metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), and mGluR activation is known to affect thalamocortical transmission via regulating retinogeniculate and thalamocortical synapses. Using brain slices, we studied the effects of Group I (dihydroxyphenylglycine) and Group II ((2S,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine) mGluR agonists on retinogeniculate synapses. We showed that both agonists inhibit retinogeniculate excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) through presynaptic mechanisms, and their effects are additive and independent. We also found high-frequency stimulation of the layer 6 corticothalamic input produced a similar suppression of retinogeniculate EPSCs, suggesting layer 6 projection to LGN as a plausible source of activating these presynaptic mGluRs.
The hematopoietic growth factor, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), has become one of the few growth factors approved for clinical use. It has therapeutic potential for numerous neurodegenerative diseases; however, at present the cellular effects of G-CSF on the central nervous system remain unclear and in need of investigation. In the present study, we used spinal cord ischemia, a neurodegenerative model, to examine the effects of intrathecal (i.t.) G-CSF on glial cell (microglia and astrocyte) activation and neuroprotective factor expression, including glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) protein expression. Our results indicate that i.t. G-CSF could enhance ischemia-induced microglial activation and inhibit ischemia-induced astrocyte activation. Both GDNF and VEGF-A are upregulated after injury, and i.t. G-CSF could enhance GDNF and VEGF-A expressions after injury. Interestingly, our results indicate that performing i.t. G-CSF alone on normal animals could have the effect of microglial and astrocyte activation and enhanced GDNF and VEGF-A expressions. Furthermore, through laser scanning confocal microscopy, we found that astrocytes may contribute to the majority of GDNF and VEGF-A expressions of G-CSF after spinal cord ischemia. Overall, this G-CSF-induced upregulation suggests that activation of endogenous neuroprotective mechanisms could resist neurodegenerative insults. These observations demonstrate the cellular mechanism of i.t. G-CSF after spinal cord ischemia and confirm the neuroprotective effect of G-CSF after spinal cord ischemia injury.
We tested the hypothesis that impaired force steadiness early after stroke is associated with changes in frequency composition of the force signal during constant-force task. The power spectra and the relationship between power spectra and force variability during isometric knee extension (10%, 20%, 30%, and 50% of peak torque for 10s) were studied in the paretic and non-paretic legs of 34 stroke patients (6414years, 8-25days post-injury) and the dominant leg of 20 controls (6210years). Power spectrum analysis of the force signal included the median frequency, peak power frequency, relative peak power, and relative power in 0-3, 4-6, and 8-12Hz bands. Force variability, quantified by coefficient of variation (CV), was increased in patients at 3 of the 4 contraction levels (P0.001). Median frequency across all force levels was decreased and the relative peak power was increased in the paretic and non-paretic legs compared to controls (P0.001). The relative power was increased in 0-3Hz band and decreased in both 4-6 and 8-12Hz bands in the paretic leg only (P0.001). Progressively stronger contractions brought about a significant decrease in relative power in the 0-3Hz band and increase in 8-12Hz band in controls but not in stroke subjects. The hypothesis was confirmed by significant non-linear correlations between CV and each relative spectral power found in the paretic leg at most contraction levels (0.22R(2)0.72, P0.0004) and in the non-paretic leg at 10% only (0.35R(2)0.52, P0.0002), but not in controls. Fugl-Meyer lower extremity motor and sensory scores were not related to the frequency measures in stroke subjects (P&gt;0.05). Limited modulation of frequency spectra and the emergence of non-linear relation between power spectra and force variability suggest that less broadband force output may account in part for impaired force steadiness in paretic and non-paretic legs early after stroke.
Glutathione (GSH) and N-acetylcysteine (NAC) are thiol-containing antioxidants, and also act through a direct reaction with free radicals. Transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) is the principal transduction channel serving as a polymodal detector. Despite the importance of oxidative stress in pain sensitivity, its role in TRPV1 modulation is poorly understood. NAC may also have a regulator role on TRPV1 channel activity in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neuron. Therefore, we tested the effects of GSH and NAC on TRPV1 channel current, Ca(2+) influx, oxidative stress and caspase activity in the DRG of mice. DRG neurons were freshly isolated from mice and the neurons were incubated for 6 and 24h with buthionine sulfoximine (BSO). Pretreatment of cultured DRG neurons with NAC, results in a protection against oxidative damages. This neuroprotection is associated with the attenuation of a Ca(2+) influx triggered by oxidative agents such as H2O2, 5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid) and GSH depletion via BSO. Here, we demonstrate the contribution of cytosolic factors (related to thiol group depletion) on the activation of TRPV1 channels in this mechanism. TRPV1 channels are activated by various agents including capsaicin (CAP), the pungent component of hot chili peppers, and are blocked by capsazepine. An oxidative environment also increased CAP-evoked TRPV1 currents in the neurons. When NAC and GSH were included in the patch pipette as well as extracellularly in the chamber, TRPV1 channels were not activated by CAP and H2O2. TRPV1 inhibitors, 2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate and N-(p-amylcinnamoyl)anthranilic acid strongly reduced BSO-induced oxidative toxicity and Ca(2+) influx, in a manner similar to pretreatment with NAC and GSH. Caspase-3 and -9 activities of all groups were not changed by the agonists or antagonists. In conclusion, in our experimental model, TRPV1 channels are involved in the oxidative stress-induced neuronal death, and negative modulation of this channel activity by GSH and NAC pretreatment may account for their neuroprotective activity against oxidative stress.
Glucocorticoid hormones exert crucial effects on the brain in relation to physiology, endocrine regulation, mood and cognition. Their two receptor types, glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors (GR and MR), are members of the nuclear receptor superfamily and act in large measure as transcription factors. The outcome of MR/GR action on the genome depends on interaction with members from different protein families, which are of crucial importance for cross-talk with other neuronal and hormonal signals that impinge on the glucocorticoid sensitive circuitry. Relevant interacting proteins include other transcription factors that may either tether the receptor to the DNA, or that bind in the vicinity of GR and MR to tune the transcriptional response. In addition, transcriptional coregulator proteins constitute the actual signal transduction pathway to the transcription machinery. We review the current evidence for involvement of individual coregulators in GR-dependent effects on stress responses, and learning and memory. We discuss the use of in vitro and in silico tools to predict those coregulators that are of importance for particular brain processes. Finally, we discuss the potential of selective receptor modulators that may only allow a subset of all interactions, thus allowing more selective targeting of glucocorticoid-dependent processes in the brain.
Processing of visual information in the brain seems to proceed from initial fast but coarse to subsequent detailed processing. Such coarse-to-fine changes appear also in the response of single neurons in the visual pathway. In the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN), there is a dynamic change in the receptive field (RF) properties of neurons during visual stimulation. During a stimulus flash centered on the RF, the width of the RF-center, presumably related to spatial resolution, changes rapidly from large to small in an initial transient response component. In a subsequent sustained component, the RF-center width is rather stable apart from an initial slight widening. Several brainstem nuclei modulate the geniculocortical transmission in a state-dependent manner. Thus, modulatory input from cholinergic neurons in the peribrachial brainstem region (PBR) enhances the geniculocortical transmission during arousal. We studied whether such input also influences the dynamic RF-changes during visual stimulation. We compared dynamic changes of RF-center width of dLGN neurons during brief stimulus presentation in a control condition, with changes during combined presentation of the visual stimulus and electrical PBR-stimulation. The major finding was that PBR-stimulation gave an advancement of the dynamic change of the RF-center width such that the different response components occurred earlier. Consistent with previous studies, we also found that PBR-stimulation increased the gain of firing rate during the sustained response component. However, this increase of gain was particularly strong in the transition from the transient to the sustained component at the time when the center width was minimal. The results suggest that increased modulatory PBR-input not only increase the gain of the geniculocortical transmission, but also contributes to faster dynamics of transmission. We discuss implications for possible effects on visual spatial resolution.
Recent results suggest significant cross-correlation between the spike trains of the suprageniculate nucleus (SG) of the posterior thalamus and the caudate nucleus (CN) during visual stimulation. In the present study visually evoked local field potentials (LFPs) were recorded simultaneously in the CN and the SG in order to investigate the coupling between these structures at a population level. The effect of static and dynamic visual stimulation was analyzed in 55 SG-CN LFP pairs in the frequency range 5-57Hz. Statistical analysis revealed significant correlation of the relative powers of each investigated frequency band (5-8Hz, 8-12Hz, 12-35Hz and 35-57Hz) during both static and dynamic visual stimulation. The temporal evolution of cross-correlation showed that in the majority of the cases the SG was activated first, and in approximately one third of the cases, the CN was activated earlier. These observations suggest a bidirectional information flow. The most interesting finding of this study is that different frequency bands exhibited significant cross-correlation in a stimulation paradigm-dependent manner. That is, static stimulation usually increased the cross-correlation of the higher frequency components (12-57Hz) of the LFP, while dynamic stimulation induced changes in the lowest frequency band (5-8Hz). This suggests a parallel processing of dynamic and static visual information in the SG and the CN. To our knowledge we are the first to provide evidence on the co-oscillation and synchronization of the CN and the SG at a population level upon visual stimulation, which suggests a significant cooperation between these structures in visual information processing.
A state of low dopaminergic activity has been implicated in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The clinical symptoms of ADHD include inattention, impulsivity and hyperactivity, as well as impaired learning; dopaminergic modulation of the functions in the hippocampus is important to both learning and memory. To determine dopamine receptor (DR) density in a well-established animal model for ADHD, we quantified the dopamine D5 receptors in the hippocampus in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. We used immunofluorescence microscopy and immunogold electron microscopy to quantify the dopamine D5 receptor density on CA1 pyramidal cell somas and dendrites and dendritic spines in the stratum radiatum and stratum oriens. The density of the dopamine D5 receptors was significantly lower in the cytoplasm of pyramidal cell somas in the spontaneously hypertensive rat compared to the control, indicating a reduced reservoir for insertion of receptors into the plasma membrane. DRs are important for long-term potentiation and long-term depression, hence the deficit may contribute to the learning difficulties in individuals with the diagnosis of ADHD.
Zebrafish has emerged as an important vertebrate animal model for the study of human diseases and for developmental studies in mammals. Since there are few studies of the tachykinin 1 gene (TAC1), precursor of substance P (SP), in relation to embryonic development, we aimed to study the expression of SP transcript (mRNA) and determine the influence of cocaine and opioid receptors on the expression of this neuropeptide. In order to analyse the spatial and temporal SP mRNA expression in zebrafish, we cloned - based on human TAC1 sequence - the sequence that originates SP. Phylogenetic analyses of the precursor of SP, revealed an alignment in the fish cluster, with a clear distinction from other species (amphibians, birds and mammals). Real time PCR (qPCR) results showed that SP mRNA was expressed in several stages of embryonic development, where it increased progressively from gastrula-8hpf (hour post-fertilisation) to the end of the embryogenesis-72hpf. SP mRNA was expressed mainly in the spinal cord in embryos at 20-30hpf, whereas at 36, 42 and 48hpf embryos SP mRNA was expressed mainly in the CNS telencephalon, diencephalon, hypothalamus, rhombomeres, epiphysis and in peripheral areas (heart and somites). Exposure of embryos to 1.5M cocaine altered the SP mRNA expression at 24 (increasing) and 48hpf (decreasing). We also report that knockdown of -opioid receptor induced an increase of SP mRNA expression while the knockdown of the two delta opioid receptors did not produce changes in SP mRNA expression. In conclusion, SP mRNA in zebrafish is expressed during embryonic development in the CNS and peripherally, suggesting that SP would play a critical role during embryogenesis. Furthermore, cocaine exposure and the knockdown of -opioid receptor affect the SP mRNA expression. These observations can be important in the pain and addiction field where SP is involved.
We have investigated the effect of IMM-H004 (7-hydroxy-5-methoxy-4-methyl-3-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)-2H-chromen-2-one), a coumarin derivative, on the amyloid beta (A)-induced neurotoxicity in primary culture cortical neurons and pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. Our results showed that treatment with IMM-H004 markedly reduced the number of apoptotic cells after exposure to A25-35 or A1-42, determined by MTT, TUNEL staining and Flow cytometry. Further study indicated that IMM-H004 significantly inhibited A-induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis by reversing A-induced mitochondrial dysfunction, including MMP (mitochondrial membrane potential) decrease, reactive oxygen species production, and mitochondrial release of cytochrome c. IMM-H004 can regulate the interaction between Bax and Bcl-2, decreased levels of p53 and active caspase-3 protein induced by A25-35. Furthermore, IMM-H004 also reduced translocation of AIF (apoptosis-inducing factor) induced by A25-35. These results demonstrated that IMM-H004 was capable of protecting neuronal cells from A-induced degeneration through a mitochondrial-dependent apoptotic pathway. The results of this study lend further credence to the notion that IMM-H004 is a 'multipotent therapeutic agrent' that reduces toxic levels of brain A, and holds the potential to protect neuronal mitochondrial function in Alzheimer's disease.

Glycine acts as a neuromodulator to regions rich in glutamatergic synapses, such as the forebrain. However, recent evidences for synaptic release of glycine in hippocampal cultured neurons and synaptosomes argue for the existence of functional glycinergic synapses in the hippocampus. It is well established that GABA and glycine act in concert at inhibitory synapses, while the existence of synapses which utilize both glutamate and glycine is less common. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the distribution of glycine and its role in hippocampal neurotransmission. Using immunohistochemistry, we demonstrate that vesicular glycine is preferentially stored in glutamatergic, rather than GABAergic presynaptic terminals. Using the sniffer patch technique, we found that glycine could be released upon presynaptic activity. Furthermore, using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we show for the first time the presence of a postsynaptic strychnine-sensitive chloride current in response to presynaptic stimulation. The small amplitude of this current is likely due to the paucity of postsynaptic glycine receptors rather than a low level of glycine release. Taken together, our results suggest that glycine is stored in glutamatergic presynaptic terminals. It is likely that the major role of glycine that is released from presynaptic terminals is to modulate N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor function but may also play a role in decreasing neuronal excitability by opposing glutamatergic neurotransmission in pathological states such as epilepsy or ischemia.
The biochemical properties and subcellular localization of prolyl endopeptidase (PREP) in brain are well characterized and its implications in the realization of cognitive processes and in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders are a matter of intensive investigation. In contrast, very little is known about its homolog, the PREP-like protein (PREPL). In order to obtain initial hints about the involvement of PREPL in physiological processes, a differential proteomic screen was performed with human skin fibroblasts from controls and patients with PREPL deficiency (hypotonia-cystinuria syndrome). The majority of affected proteins represented cytoskeletal proteins, including caldesmon, tropomyosin 3 chain, lamin A, -actin, -actin, vimentin and zyxin. Therefore, the analysis of PREPL subcellular localization by confocal laser scanning and electron microscopy in mouse neurons was focused on the cytoskeleton. The co-localization of PREPL with cytoskeletal marker proteins such as -actin and microtubulin-associated protein-2 was observed, in addition to the presence of PREPL within Golgi apparatus and growth cones. In the mouse brain, PREPL is neuronally expressed and highly abundant in neocortex, substantia nigra and locus coeruleus. This mirrors to some extent the distribution pattern of PREP and points toward redundant functions of both proteins. In the human neocortex, PREPL immunostaining was found in the cytoplasm and in neuropil, in particular of layer V pyramidal neurons. This staining was reduced in the neocortex of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Moreover, in AD brains, PREPL immunoreactivity was observed in the nucleus and in varicose neuritic processes. Our data indicate physiological functions of PREPL associated with the cytoskeleton, which may be affected under conditions of cytoskeletal degeneration.
Previous studies have shown that newly encoded memories are more resistant to retroactive interference when participants are allowed to sleep after learning the original material, suggesting a sleep-related strengthening of memories. In the present study, we investigated delayed, long-term effects of sleep vs. sleep deprivation (SD) on the first post-training night on memory consolidation and resistance to interference. On day 1, participants learned a list of unrelated word pairs (AB), either in the morning or in the evening, then spent the post-training night in a sleep or sleep deprivation condition, in a within-subject paradigm. On day 4, at the same time of day, they learned a novel list of word pairs (AC) in which 50% of the word pairs stemmed with the same word than in the AB list, resulting in retroactive interference. Participants had then to recall items from the AB list upon presentation of the &quot;A&quot; stem. Recall was marginally improved in the evening, as compared to the morning learning group. Most importantly, retroactive interference effects were found in the sleep evening group only, contrary to the hypothesis that sleep exerts a protective role against intrusion by novel but similar learning. We tentatively suggest that these results can be explained in the framework of the memory reconsolidation theory, stating that exposure to similar information sets back consolidated items in a labile form again sensitive to retroactive interference. In this context, sleep might not protect against interference but would promote an update of existing episodic memories while preventing saturation of the memory network due to the accumulation of dual traces.
Pathological and imaging data indicate that amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a multisystem disease involving several cerebral cortical areas. Advanced quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques enable to explore in vivo the volume and microstructure of the cerebral cortex in ALS. We studied with a combined voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and magnetization transfer (MT) imaging approach the capability of MRI to identify the cortical areas affected by neurodegeneration in ALS patients. Eighteen ALS patients and 18 age-matched healthy controls were examined on a 1.5T scanner using a high-resolution 3D T1 weighted spoiled gradient recalled sequence with and without MT saturation pulse. A voxel-based analysis (VBA) was adopted in order to automatically compute the regional atrophy and MT ratio (MTr) changes of the entire cerebral cortex. By using a multimodal image analysis MTr was adjusted for local gray matter (GM) atrophy to investigate if MTr changes can be independent of atrophy of the cerebral cortex. VBA revealed several clusters of combined GM atrophy and MTr decrease in motor-related areas and extra-motor frontotemporal cortex. The multimodal image analysis identified areas of isolated MTr decrease in premotor and extra-motor frontotemporal areas. VBM and MTr are capable to detect the distribution of neurodegenerative alterations in the cortical GM of ALS patients, supporting the hypothesis of a multi-systemic involvement in ALS. MT imaging changes exist beyond volume loss in frontotemporal cortices.

The degree of correspondence between objective performance and subjective beliefs varies widely across individuals. Here we demonstrate that functional brain network connectivity measured before exposure to a perceptual decision task covaries with individual objective (type-I performance) and subjective (type-II performance) accuracy. Increases in connectivity with type-II performance were observed in networks measured while participants directed attention inward (focus on respiration), but not in networks measured during states of neutral (resting state) or exogenous attention. Measures of type-I performance were less sensitive to the subjects' specific attentional states from which the networks were derived. These results suggest the existence of functional brain networks indexing objective performance and accuracy of subjective beliefs distinctively expressed in a set of stable mental states.
Class V myosins (MyoV), the most studied unconventional myosins, recognize numerous cargos mainly via the motor's globular tail domain (GTD). Little is known regarding how MyoV-GTD recognizes such a diverse array of cargos specifically. Here, we solved the crystal structures of MyoVa-GTD in its apo-form and in complex with two distinct cargos, melanophilin and Rab interacting lysosomal protein-like 2. The apo-MyoVa-GTD structure indicates that most mutations found in patients with Griscelli syndrome, microvillus inclusion disease, or cancers or in &quot;dilute&quot; rodents likely impair the folding of GTD. The MyoVa-GTD/cargo complex structure reveals two distinct cargo-binding surfaces, one primarily via charge-charge interaction and the other mainly via hydrophobic interactions. Structural and biochemical analysis reveal the specific cargo-binding specificities of various isoforms of mammalian MyoV as well as very different cargo recognition mechanisms of MyoV between yeast and higher eukaryotes. The MyoVa-GTD structures resolved here provide a framework for future functional studies of vertebrate class V myosins.
Neural networks in the spinal cord known as central pattern generators produce the sequential activation of muscles needed for locomotion. The overall locomotor network architectures in limbed vertebrates have been much debated, and no consensus exists as to how they are structured. Here, we use optogenetics to dissect the excitatory and inhibitory neuronal populations and probe the organization of the mammalian central pattern generator. We find that locomotor-like rhythmic bursting can be induced unilaterally or independently in flexor or extensor networks. Furthermore, we show that individual flexor motor neuron pools can be recruited into bursting without any activity in other nearby flexor motor neuron pools. Our experiments differentiate among several proposed models for rhythm generation in the vertebrates and show that the basic structure underlying the locomotor network has a distributed organization with many intrinsically rhythmogenic modules.
Muscarinic signaling affects attention, action selection, learning, and memory through multiple signaling cascades, which act at different timescales and which alter ion channels in cell type-specific manners. The effects of muscarinic signaling differ between cortical layers and between brain areas. Muscarinic signaling adds flexibility to the processing mode of neuronal networks, thereby supporting processing according to task demands. This review outlines possible scenarios to describe how it contributes to cellular mechanisms of attention and how it affects channeling of information in different neuronal circuits.
Songbirds, long of interest to basic neuroscience, have great potential as a model system for translational neuroscience. Songbirds learn their complex vocal behavior in a manner that exemplifies general processes of perceptual and motor skill learning and, more specifically, resembles human speech learning. Song is subserved by circuitry that is specialized for vocal learning and production but that has strong similarities to mammalian brain pathways. The combination of highly quantifiable behavior and discrete neural substrates facilitates understanding links between brain and behavior, both in normal states and in disease. Here we highlight (a) behavioral and mechanistic parallels between birdsong and aspects of speech and social communication, including insights into mirror neurons, the function of auditory feedback, and genes underlying social communication disorders, and (b) contributions of songbirds to understanding cortical-basal ganglia circuit function and dysfunction, including the possibility of harnessing adult neurogenesis for brain repair.
Sensory hair cells are exquisitely sensitive vertebrate mechanoreceptors that mediate the senses of hearing and balance. Understanding the factors that regulate the development of these cells is important, not only to increase our understanding of ear development and its functional physiology but also to shed light on how these cells may be replaced therapeutically. In this review, we describe the signals and molecular mechanisms that initiate hair cell development in vertebrates, with particular emphasis on the transcription factor Atoh1, which is both necessary and sufficient for hair cell development. We then discuss recent findings on how microRNAs may modulate the formation and maturation of hair cells. Last, we review recent work on how hair cells are regenerated in many vertebrate groups and the factors that conspire to prevent this regeneration in mammals.
Most excitatory inputs in the CNS contact dendritic spines, avoiding dendritic shafts, so spines must play a key role for neurons. Recent data suggest that, in addition to enhancing connectivity and isolating synaptic biochemistry, spines can behave as electrical compartments independent from their parent dendrites. It is becoming clear that, although spines experience voltages similar to those of dendrites during action potentials (APs), spines must sustain higher depolarizations than do dendritic shafts during excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). Synaptic potentials are likely amplified at the spine head and then reduced as they invade the dendrite through the spine neck. These electrical changes, probably due to a combination of passive and active mechanisms, may prevent the saturation of dendrites by the joint activation of many inputs, influence dendritic integration, and contribute to rapid synaptic plasticity. The electrical properties of spines could enable neural circuits to harness a high connectivity, implementing a &quot;synaptic democracy,&quot; where each input can be individually integrated, tallied, and modified in order to generate emergent functional states.
Animal models have been widely used to gain insight into the mechanisms underlying the acute and long-term effects of alcohol exposure. The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster encounters ethanol in its natural habitat and possesses many adaptations that allow it to survive and thrive in ethanol-rich environments. Several assays to study ethanol-related behaviors in flies, ranging from acute intoxication to self-administration and reward, have been developed in the past 20 years. These assays have provided the basis for studying the physiological and behavioral effects of ethanol and for identifying genes mediating these effects. In this review we describe the ecological relationship between flies and ethanol, the effects of ethanol on fly development and behavior, the use of flies as a model for alcohol addiction, and the interaction between ethanol and social behavior. We discuss these advances in the context of their utility to help decipher the mechanisms underlying the diverse effects of ethanol, including those that mediate ethanol dependence and addiction in humans.
Sleep is known to support memory consolidation. Here we review evidence for an active system consolidation occurring during sleep. At the beginning of this process is sleep's ability to preserve episodic experiences preferentially encoded in hippocampal networks. Repeated neuronal reactivation of these representations during slow-wave sleep transforms episodic representations into long-term memories, redistributes them toward extrahippocampal networks, and qualitatively changes them to decontextualized schema-like representations. Electroencephalographic (EEG) oscillations regulate the underlying communication: Hippocampal sharp-wave ripples coalescing with thalamic spindles mediate the bottom-up transfer of reactivated memory information to extrahippocampal regions. Neocortical slow oscillations exert a supraordinate top-down control to synchronize hippocampal reactivations of specific memories to their excitable up-phase, thus allowing plastic changes in extrahippocampal regions. We propose that reactivations during sleep are a general mechanism underlying the abstraction of temporally stable invariants from a flow of input that is solely structured in time, thus representing a basic mechanism of memory formation.

Social network analyses and experimental studies of social learning have each become important domains of animal behavior research in recent years yet have remained largely separate. Here we bring them together, providing the first demonstration of how social networks may shape the diffusion of socially learned foraging techniques. One technique for opening an artificial fruit was seeded in the dominant male of a group of squirrel monkeys and an alternative technique in the dominant male of a second group. We show that the two techniques spread preferentially in the groups in which they were initially seeded and that this process was influenced by monkeys' association patterns. Eigenvector centrality predicted both the speed with which an individual would first succeed in opening the artificial fruit and the probability that they would acquire the cultural variant seeded in their group. These findings demonstrate a positive role of social networks in determining how a new foraging technique diffuses through a population.
A key tool in neuroscience is the ability to transiently inactivate specific neurons on timescales of milliseconds to minutes. In Drosophila, there are two available techniques for accomplishing this (shibire(ts) and halorhodopsin [1-3]), but both have shortcomings [4-9]. Here we describe a complementary technique using a native histamine-gated chloride channel (Ort). Ort is the receptor at the first synapse in the visual system. It forms large-conductance homomeric channels that desensitize only modestly in response to ligand [10]. Many regions of the CNS are devoid of histaminergic neurons [11, 12], raising the possibility that Ort could be used to artificially inactivate specific neurons in these regions. To test this idea, we performed in vivo whole-cell recordings from antennal lobe neurons misexpressing Ort. In these neurons, histamine produced a rapid and reversible drop in input resistance, clamping the membrane potential below spike threshold and virtually abolishing spontaneous and odor-evoked activity. Every neuron type in this brain region could be inactivated in this manner. Neurons that did not misexpress Ort showed negligible responses to histamine. Ort also performed favorably in comparison to the available alternative effector transgenes. Thus, Ort misexpression is a useful tool for probing functional connectivity among Drosophila neurons.
Growing evidence has shown that proNGF-p75NTR-sortilin signaling might be a crucial factor in neurodegeneration, but it remains unclear if it may function in nigral neurons under aging and disease. The purpose of this study is to examine and quantify proNGF and sortilin expression in the substantia nigra and dynamic changes of aging in lactacystin and 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) rat models of Parkinson's disease using immunofluorescence, electronic microscopy, western blot and FLIVO staining methods. The expression of proNGF and sortilin was abundantly and selectively identified in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-containing dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra. These proNGF/TH, sortilin/TH-positive neurons were densely distributed in the ventral tier, while they were less distributed in the dorsal tier, where calbindin-D28K-containing neurons were numerously located. A correlated decrease of proNGF, sortilin and TH was also detected during animal aging process. While increase of proNGF, sortilin and cleaved (active) caspase-3 expression was found in the lactacystin model, dynamic proNGF and sortilin changes along with dopamine neuronal loss were demonstrated in the substantia nigra of both the lactacystin and 6-OHDA models. This study has thus revealed the presence of the proNGF-sortilin signaling complex in nigral dopamine neurons and its response to aging, lactacystin and 6-OHDA insults, suggesting that it might contribute to neuronal apoptosis or neurodegeneration during pathogenesis and disease progression of Parkinson's disease; the underlying mechanism and key signaling pathways involved warrant further investigation.
The goal of multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA) in BOLD imaging is to determine whether patterns of activation across multiple voxels change with experimental conditions. MVPA is a powerful technique, its use is rapidly growing, but it poses serious statistical challenges. For instance, it is well-known that the slow nature of the BOLD response can lead to greatly exaggerated performance estimates. Methods are available to avoid this overestimation, and we present those here in tutorial fashion. We go on to show that, even with these methods, standard tests of significance such as Students' T and the binomial tests are invalid in typical MRI experiments. Only a carefully constructed permutation test correctly assesses statistical significance. Furthermore, our simulations show that performance estimates increase with both temporal as well as spatial signal correlations among multiple voxels. This dependence implies that a comparison of MVPA performance between areas, between subjects, or even between BOLD signals that have been preprocessed in different ways needs great care.






Precise regulation of neurite growth and differentiation determines accurate formation of synaptic connections, whose disruptions are frequently associated with neurological disorders. Dedicator of cytokinesis 4 (Dock4), an atypical guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Rac1, is found to be associated with neuropsychiatric diseases, including autism and schizophrenia. Nonetheless, the neuronal function of Dock4 is only beginning to be understood. Using mouse neuroblastoma (Neuro-2a) cells as a model, this study identifies that Dock4 is critical for neurite differentiation and extension. This regulation is through activation of Rac1 and modulation of the dynamics of actin-enriched protrusions on the neurites. In cultured hippocampal neurons, Dock4 regulates the establishment of the axon-dendrite polarity and the arborization of dendrites, two critical processes during neural differentiation. Importantly, a microdeletion Dock4 mutant linked to autism and dyslexia that lacks the GEF domain leads to defective neurite outgrowth and neuronal polarization. Further analysis reveals that the SH3 domain-mediated interaction of Dock4 is required for its activity toward neurite differentiation, whereas its proline-rich C terminus is not essential for this regulation. Together, our findings reveal an important role of Dock4 for neurite differentiation during early neuronal development.
Protein palmitoylation, a common post-translational lipid modification, plays an important role in protein trafficking and functions. Recently developed palmitoyl-proteomic methods identified many novel substrates. However, the whole picture of palmitoyl substrates has not been clarified. Here, we performed global in silico screening using the CSS-Palm 2.0 program, free software for prediction of palmitoylation sites, and selected 17 candidates as novel palmitoyl substrates. Of the 17 candidates, 10 proteins, including 6 synaptic proteins (Syd-1, transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP) -2, TARP -8, cornichon-2, Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, and neurochondrin (Ncdn)/norbin), one focal adhesion protein (zyxin), two ion channels (TRPM8 and TRPC1), and one G-protein-coupled receptor (orexin 2 receptor), were palmitoylated. Using the DHHC palmitoylating enzyme library, we found that all tested substrates were palmitoylated by the Golgi-localized DHHC3/7 subfamily. Ncdn, a regulator for neurite outgrowth and synaptic plasticity, was robustly palmitoylated by the DHHC1/10 (zDHHC1/11; z1/11) subfamily, whose substrate has not yet been reported. As predicted by CSS-Palm 2.0, Cys-3 and Cys-4 are the palmitoylation sites for Ncdn. Ncdn was specifically localized in somato-dendritic regions, not in the axon of rat cultured neurons. Stimulated emission depletion microscopy revealed that Ncdn was localized to Rab5-positive early endosomes in a palmitoylation-dependent manner, where DHHC1/10 (z1/11) were also distributed. Knockdown of DHHC1, -3, or -10 (z11) resulted in the loss of Ncdn from Rab5-positive endosomes. Thus, through in silico screening, we demonstrate that Ncdn and the DHHC1/10 (z1/11) and DHHC3/7 subfamilies are novel palmitoyl substrate-enzyme pairs and that Ncdn palmitoylation plays an essential role in its specific endosomal targeting.
Clinical and experimental evidence indicates that acupuncture may be a safe alternative or complement in the treatment of endocrine and reproductive function in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). This review describes potential etiological factors of PCOS with the aim to support potential mechanism of action of acupuncture to relieve PCOS related symptoms. The theory that increased sympathetic activity contributes to the development and maintenance of PCOS is presented, and that the effects of acupuncture are, at least in part, mediated by modulation of sympathetic outflow. While there are no relevant randomized controlled studies on the use of acupuncture to treat metabolic abnormalities in women with PCOS, a number of experimental studies indicate that acupuncture may improve metabolic dysfunction. For each aspect of PCOS, it is important to pursue new treatment strategies that have fewer negative side effects than drug treatments, as women with PCOS often require prolonged treatment.
