We employed morphological and electrophysiological methods in order to elucidate mechanisms which are responsible for communication between cellular oscillators in the cultured rat suprachiasmatic nucleus, the site of the endogenous biological clock that regulates circadian rhythms in mammals. When a gap junction-permeable dye, Lucifer Yellow, was injected into single neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus culture, the dye was transferred to neighboring cells in a gap junction blocker-sensitive manner. Optical imaging of neural activity evoked by electrical stimulation in the culture revealed that the spread of depolarization was inhibited by gap junction blockers but not by a blocker of voltage-dependent Na(+) channels. Depolarization propagation was inhibited by muscimol, a GABA(A) receptor agonist, in a dose-dependent manner and the inhibition was reversed by bicuculline, a GABA(A) receptor antagonist. Furthermore, muscimol inhibited dye-transfer between neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus culture in a dose-dependent fashion.These independent lines of evidence suggest that the gap junction communication is involved in interneuronal communication in the suprachiasmatic nucleus slice culture and that the coupling state between neurons is not static but dynamically regulated via GABA(A) receptor systems.
We applied a microdialysis technique for the measurement of hypothalamic thromboxane B2, a stable metabolite of thromboxane A2, in urethane-anesthetized rats. Perfusion with N-methyl-D-aspartate (1.5 and 2.5mM) of the paraventricular nucleus by microdialysis probe concentration-dependently elevated the levels of thromboxane B2 in this region and plasma levels of catecholamines. The elevation of adrenaline was much more marked than that of noradrenaline. Pretreatment with dizocilpine maleate (0.1 mM), a non-competitive antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, of the paraventricular nucleus by microdialysis probe attenuated the N-methyl-D-aspartate (1.5 mM)-induced elevations of both thromboxane B2 and plasma catecholamines. Intracerebroventricular administration of furegrelate (250 microg/animal), a thromboxane A2 synthase inhibitor, also abolished the responses evoked by N-methyl-D-aspartate. These results indicate that N-methyl-D-aspartate applied into the paraventricular nucleus produces thromboxane A2 in this region and elevates plasma levels of catecholamines, especially adrenaline. Thromboxane A2 produced in this hypothalamic nucleus is probably involved in the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced central adrenomedullary outflow.
Ataxia telangiectasia in humans results from homozygous loss-of-function mutations in ATM. Neurological deterioration is the major cause of death in ataxia telangiectasia patients: in the cerebellum, mainly Purkinje cells are affected. We have generated Atm-deficient mice which display neurological abnormalities by several tests of motor function consistent with an abnormality of cerebellar function, but without histological evidence of neuronal degeneration. Here we performed a more detailed morphological analysis and an electrophysiological study on Purkinje cells from Atm-deficient mice of different ages. We found no histological or immunohistochemical abnormalities. Electrophysiology revealed no abnormalities in resting membrane potential, input resistance or anomalous rectification. In contrast, there was a significant decrease in the duration of calcium and sodium firing. The calcium deficit became significant between six to eight and 12-20 weeks of age, and appeared to be progressive. By voltage-clamp recording, we found that the firing deficits were due to a significant decrease in calcium currents, while inactivating potassium currents seem unaffected. In other mutant mice, calcium current deficits have been shown to be related to cell death.Our experiments suggest that the electrophysiological defects displayed by Atm-deficient mice are early predegenerative lesions and may be a precursor of Purkinje cell degeneration displayed by ataxia telangiectasia patients.
Using slices of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, it has been shown that, in the presence of excitatory and inhibitory amino acid antagonists, brief periods of hypoxia (3-4 min of 95% N(2)/5% CO(2)) induce in thalamocortical neurons an increase in instantaneous input conductance (G(N)) accompanied by an inward shift in baseline holding current (I(BH)). These effects have been suggested to be mediated, at least in part, by a positive shift in the voltage-dependence of the hyperpolarization-activated, mixed Na(+)/K(+) current (I(h)) and a change in its activation kinetics which transforms it into an almost instantaneously activated current. In this study, using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique, the contribution of an increased Ca(2+)-dependent transmitter release to the hypoxic response of thalamocortical neurons was further investigated using (i) blockers of calcineurin, a Ca(2+)/calmodulin-activated phosphatase that selectively regulates Ca(2+)-dependent release, and (ii) antagonists of neurotransmitters that are known to modulate I(h). Thalamocortical neurons (n = 23) recorded with electrodes filled with calcineurin autoinhibitory fragment (30-250 microM), a membrane impermeable blocker of calcinuerin, showed no difference either in resting, or in the hypoxia-induced changes in, G(N), I(BH) and I(h), when compared to thalamocortical cells patched with electrodes that did not contain calcineurin autoinhibitory fragment. In contrast, in 18 of these neurons recorded with calcineurin autoinhibitory fragment-filled electrodes, bath application either of cyclosporin-A (20 microM) or tacrolimus (50-100 microM), two membrane permeable blockers of calcineurin, abolished the effects of hypoxia on G(N), I(BH), and I(h). Separate application of noradrenaline, serotonin, histamine and nitric oxide antagonists produced only a small depression of the hypoxic response, while concomitant bath application of these antagonists decreased the hypoxia-induced changes in G(N) and I(BH) by 55 and 42%, respectively (n = 12). Concomitant bath application of 8-bromo-adenosine-3'5'-cyclicmonophosphate and 8-bromo-guanosine-3'5'-cyclicmonophosphate (both 1mM), which are known to mediate the action of these transmitters on I(h), increased G(N) (40%), decreased I(h) time-constant of activation (30%) and significantly occluded (50%) the hypoxia-induced effect on G(N) and I(BH). Thalamocortical neurons (n = 6) patched with electrodes filled with 8-bromo-adenosine-3'5'-cyclicmonophosphate and 8-bromo-guanosine-3'5'-cyclicmonophosphate (both 1 mM) showed a larger G(N) than the one recorded with the standard internal solution, and a significant depression of the hypoxia-induced changes in G(N) and I(BH). These results indicate that during acute thalamic hypoxia an increased release of noradrenaline, serotonin, histamine and nitric oxide is responsible for transforming I(h) into an instantaneously activating current via cyclic AMP- and cyclic GMP-mediated mechanisms.
Microelectrode-guided stereotactic operations performed in 29 parkinsonian patients allowed the recording of 86 cells located in the globus pallidus and 563 in thalamic nuclei. In the globus pallidus, the average firing rate was significantly higher in the internal (91+/-52 Hz) than in the external (60+/-21 Hz) subdivision. This difference was further accentuated when the average firing rate in the external subdivision was compared with that of the internal part of the internal subdivision (114+/-30 Hz). A rhythmic modulation in globus pallidus activities was observed in 19.7% of the cells, and this only during rest tremor episodes. In these cases, modulation frequency of unit activities was not statistically different from the rest tremor frequency (average: 4.6+/-0.5 vs 4. 4+/-0.4 Hz, respectively). In the medial thalamus, four types of unit activities could be defined. A sporadic type was mainly found in the parvocellular division of the mediodorsal nucleus (96.8% of the cells recorded) and in the centre median-parafascicular complex (74.2%). Two other types of activities characterized by random or rhythmic bursts fulfilling the extracellular criteria of low-threshold calcium spike bursts were concentrated in the central lateral nucleus (62.3%) and the paralamellar division of the mediodorsal nucleus (34.1%). These activities could be recorded independently of the presence of a rest tremor. When a tremor episode occurred, the rhythmic low-threshold calcium spike bursts had an interburst frequency similar to rest tremor frequency, although they were not synchronized with it. The fourth type, the so-called tremor locked, was also characterized by rhythmic bursts which, however, did not display low-threshold calcium spike burst properties. These bursts occurred only when a rest tremor was present and was in-phase with the electromyographic bursts. All tremor-locked cells were located in the centre median-parafascicular complex. In the lateral thalamus, cells exhibiting random or rhythmic low-threshold calcium spike bursts were found preponderantly in the ventral anterior nucleus (53.4%) and in the ventral lateral anterior nucleus (52.7%). Tremor-locked units were confined to the ventral division of the ventral lateral posterior nucleus (35.4%). None of the random or rhythmic low-threshold calcium spike bursting units responded to somatosensory stimuli or voluntary movements, either in the medial or in the lateral thalamus. The presence of low-threshold calcium spike bursts at the thalamic level, together with the paucity (8%) of responses to voluntary movements compared to what is found in normal non-human primates, demonstrate a pathological state of inhibition due to the overactivity of the internal subdivision of the globus pallidus units. Activities of the thalamic cells producing low-threshold calcium spike bursts are not synchronized with each other or with the tremor. However, this does not exclude a causal role of these activities in the generation of tremor. Indeed, it has been demonstrated that even random electrical stimulations of the rolandic cortex in parkinsonian patients induce tremor episodes, probably due to the triggering of rhythmic, low-threshold calcium spike-dependent, thalamocortical activities. Similarly, low-threshold calcium spike bursts could be at the origin of rigidity and dystonia through an activation of the supplementary motor area and of akinesia when reaching the pre-supplementary motor area. We conclude that the intrinsic oscillatory properties of individual neurons, combined with the dynamic properties of the thalamocortical circuitry, are responsible for the three cardinal parkinsonian symptoms.
In the present study, a novel GluR2 receptor-specific immunotoxin was produced. The immunotoxin was produced by conjugation of molecules of trichosanthin, a ribosome inactivating protein, with goat anti-mouse immunoglobulin molecules. The secondary antibody was then combined with a commercially available GluR2 specific primary antibody to form an immunotoxin. The immunotoxins were unilaterally injected either into the neostriatum or into the lateral ventricle of rats. After one week, ipsilateral turning movements were observed after apomorphine treatments in those animals injected by the striatal route. In perfuse-fixed sections of the neostriatum, immunoreactivity for GluR2 was found to decrease in the striatal-lesioned animals. Most of the GluR2-immunoreactive perikarya in the neostriatum, the presumed medium spiny neurons, were depleted. In addition, immunoreactivity for GluR2/3, GluR5/6/7 and NMDAR1 was found to decrease to a different extent in the lesioned neostriatum. The number of GluR1-immunoreactive perikarya in the neostriatum, a group of striatal interneurons, was not affected by the GluR2 lesion. Ventricular administration of the GluR2 immunotoxin however, was found to be less potent. These results demonstrate for the first time that an indirect immunotoxin is useful for immunolesioning. A difference in potency was also observed in different routes of administration. The depletion of GluR2-containing medium spiny neurons in the neostriatum may upset the balance of the output systems of the basal ganglia and has a profound effect in movement control of the animals.
Prepulse inhibition of the startle reflex is an operational measure of sensorimotor gating that is impaired in schizophrenia patients and dopamine agonist-treated rats. Previous reports demonstrated an enhanced sensitivity to the prepulse inhibition-disruptive effects of the D(1)/D(2) agonist apomorphine in adult rats four weeks after cytotoxic lesions of the hippocampus, but left unanswered several important questions regarding the nature of this apparent lesion-induced dopamine supersensitivity. Because of the potential importance of this model to current theories of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, studies now assessed specific features of this effect of hippocampus lesions on prepulse inhibition in rats. The enhanced prepulse inhibition-disruptive effects of apomorphine in ventral hippocampus-lesioned rats were unaffected by startle pulse intensity, suggesting an independence of this lesion effect from potential ceiling effects of elevated startle magnitude. These lesion effects were observed four weeks post-lesion, but not two weeks post-lesion, suggesting a delayed development of this phenomenon. No enhancement of apomorphine sensitivity was observed in rats four weeks after lesions restricted to the dorsal hippocampus; in contrast, these lesions significantly increased &quot;no-drug&quot; levels of prepulse inhibition. Ventral hippocampus-lesioned rats exhibited a significant reduction in prepulse inhibition after subthreshold doses of either the selective D(2)-family agonist quinpirole or the partial D(1) agonist SKF 38393, suggesting that activation of either receptor family is adequate for the expression of this effect of ventral hippocampus lesions. This may be an important paradigm for understanding the contribution of ventral hippocampus dysfunction to the neurobiology of impaired sensorimotor gating in neuropsychiatric populations.
The present study was designed to investigate the morphology of spiny neurons in the human entorhinal cortex. Coronal entorhinal slices (n = 67; 200 microm thick) were obtained from autopsies of three subjects. Spiny neurons (n = 132) filled with Lucifer Yellow were analysed in different subfields and layers of the entorhinal cortex. Based on the shape of the somata and primary dendritic trees, spiny neurons were divided into four morphological categories; (i) classical pyramidal, (ii) stellate, (iii) modified stellate, and (iv) horizontal tripolar cells. The morphology of filled neurons varied more in different layers than in the different subfields of the entorhinal cortex. In layer II, the majority (81%) of spiny neurons had stellate or modified stellate morphology, but in the rostromedial subfields (olfactory subfield and rostral subfield) there were also horizontal tripolar neurons. Dendritic branches of layer II neurons extended to layer I (94%) and to layer III (83%). Unlike in layer II, most (74%) of the filled neurons in layers III, V and VI were classical pyramidal cells. The majority of pyramidal cells in the superficial portion of layer III had dendrites that extended up to layer II, occupying the space between the neuronal clusters. Some dendrites reached down to the deep portion of layer III. Apical dendrites of layer V and VI pyramidal cells traveled up to the deep portion of layer III.Our data indicate that the morphology of spiny neurons in different layers of the human entorhinal cortex is variable. Vertical extension of dendritic branches to adjacent layers supports the idea that inputs terminating in a specific lamina influence target cells located in various entorhinal layers. There appears to be more overlap in the dendritic fields between superficial layers II and III than between the superficial (II/III) and deep (V/VI) layers, thus supporting the idea of segregation of information flow targeted to the superficial or deep layers in the human entorhinal cortex.
Developmental change of GABA(A)ergic inhibitory postsynaptic current in rat hippocampal CA3 region was examined using patch-clamp recording method. Spontaneous and evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents were recorded from acute hippocampal slices of neonates (postnatal days 2-4) and adults (days 18-38). Decay kinetics of the spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current was slower in neonates than in adults. Application of 500 nM zolpidem increased decay time-constants of the inhibitory postsynaptic currents in both groups with a stronger effect on adults. Zinc (50 microM) inhibited the neonatal inhibitory postsynaptic currents but the inhibition was weaker in adults. Modification of the GABA(A)ergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents by furosemide (0.6 mM) or diazepam (100 nM) did not cause marked differences between the neonate and adult groups. These results demonstrate that GABA(A)ergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents in hippocampal CA3 pyramidal cells change developmentally and indicate that different receptor isoforms are functionally expressed between neonates and adults.
The aged dog brain accumulates beta-amyloid in the form of diffuse senile plaques, which provides a potentially useful in vivo model system for studying the events surrounding the deposition of beta-amyloid. We used postembedding immunocytochemistry at the electron microscopic level to determine the subcellular distribution of beta-amyloid 1-40 and beta-amyloid 1-42 peptides in the prefrontal and parietal cortex of behaviorally characterized dogs ranging in age from one to 17 years. Immunogold particles signaling beta-amyloid 1-42 occurred over intracellular and extracellular fibrils that were approximately 8 nm in width. Intracellular beta-amyloid 1-42 fibrils were found in close proximity to glial fibrillary acidic protein fibers within astrocytes, but only in cells with signs of plasma membrane disruption. Neuronal labeling of beta-amyloid 1-42 appears to be associated with the plasma membrane. Membrane-bound beta-amyloid 1-42 occurs in the form of fine fibrils that are embedded in the dendritic membrane and appear to project into the extracellular space as determined by quantitative analysis of the immunogold particle distribution. Bundles of beta-amyloid 1-42 were also closely associated and/or integrated with degenerating myelin sheaths of axons. In one dog that was impaired on several cognitive tasks, extensive beta-amyloid 1-42 deposition was associated with microvacuolar changes and vascular pathology. The present findings suggest that beta-amyloid 1-42 may be generated at the dendritic plasma membrane as well as in intracellular compartments. The close association between beta-amyloid 1-42 and destroyed myelin suggests one possible new mechanism by which beta-amyloid 1-42 induces neurodegeneration.
Neuropeptide Y reduced spontaneous and stimulation-evoked epileptiform discharges in rat frontal cortex slices perfused with a magnesium-free solution and with the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin. To investigate the mechanism of that action, effects of neuropeptide Y on intrinsic membrane properties and synaptic responses of layer II/III cortical neurons were studied using intracellular recording. Neuropeptide Y (1 microM) had no detectable effect on the membrane properties of neurons. The evoked synaptic potentials were attenuated by neuropeptide Y. Moreover, the pharmacologically isolated excitatory postsynaptic potentials, mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, were reversibly depressed by neuropeptide Y. The most pronounced inhibitory effect of neuropeptide Y was observed on late polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials. To assess a putative postsynaptic action of neuropeptide Y, N-methyl-D-aspartate was locally applied in the presence of tetrodotoxin. The N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked depolarizations were unaffected by neuropeptide Y, which suggests that the depression of excitatory postsynaptic potentials was due to an action at sites presynaptic to the recorded neurons. These data show that neuropeptide Y attenuates epileptiform discharges and the glutamate receptor-mediated synaptic transmission in the rat frontal cortex. The above results indicate that neuropeptide Y may regulate neuronal excitability within the cortex, and that neuropeptide Y receptors are potential targets for an anticonvulsant therapy.
Neuronal conductance was studied in anesthetized cats during cortically generated spike-wave seizures arising from slow sleep oscillation. Single and dual intracellular recordings from neocortical neurons were used. The changes were similar whether the seizures occurred spontaneously, or were evoked by electrical stimulation or induced by bicuculline. In all seizures, the conductance increased from the very onset of the seizure and returned to control values only at the end of the postictal depression. Simultaneous intracellular recordings from two neurons showed that the neuron leading the other neuron displayed the largest increase in membrane conductance. The changes in neuronal conductance during the two phases of the slow sleep oscillation, i.e. highest during depolarizations and lowest during hyperpolarizations, were similar to those occurring during the &quot;spike&quot; and &quot;wave&quot; components of seizures. (1) Maximal conductance was found during the paroxysmal depolarizing shift corresponding to the electroencephalogram &quot;spike&quot; (median: 252 nS; range: 90 to more than 400 nS). It was highest at the onset of the depolarized plateau and decreased thereafter. (2) During the hyperpolarization corresponding to the electroencephalogram &quot;wave&quot;, the conductance was significantly lower (median: 71 nS; range: 41 to 140 nS). (3) The conductance was elevated during the fast runs (median: 230 nS; range: 92 to 350 nS) which occurred in two-thirds of the seizures. (4) The conductance values during postictal depression were situated between those measured during the seizure hyperpolarizations and during sleep hyperpolarizations. The conductance decreased exponentially back to the values of the slow sleep oscillation over the total duration of the postictal depression. The data suggest that the major mechanism underlying the &quot;wave&quot;-related hyperpolarizing component of spike-wave seizures relies mainly not on active inhibition, but on a mixture of disfacilitation and potassium currents.
This Commentary compares the connections of the dopaminergic system with the striatum in rats and primates with respect to two levels of striatal organization: a tripartite functional (motor, associative and limbic) subdivision and a compartmental (patch/striosome-matrix) subdivision. The topography of other basal ganglia projections to the dopaminergic system with respect to their tripartite functional subdivision is also reviewed. This examination indicates that, in rats and primates, the following observations can be made. (1) The limbic striatum reciprocates its dopaminergic input and in addition innervates most of the dopaminergic neurons projecting to the associative and motor striatum, whereas the motor and associative striatum reciprocate only part of their dopaminergic input. Therefore, the connections of the three striatal subregions with the dopaminergic system are asymmetrical, but the direction of asymmetry differs between the limbic versus the motor and associative striatum. (2) The limbic striatum provides the main striatal input to dopamine cell bodies and proximal dendrites, with some contribution from a subset of neurons in the associative and motor striatum (patch neurons in rats; an unspecified group of neurons in primates), while striatal input to the ventrally extending dopamine dendrites arises mainly from a subset of neurons in the associative and motor striatum (matrix neurons in rats; an unspecified group of neurons in primates). (3) Projections from functionally corresponding subdivisions of the striatum, pallidum and subthalamic nucleus to the dopaminergic system overlap, but the specific targets (dopamine cells, dopamine dendrites, GABA cells) of these projections differ. Major differences include the following. (1) In rats, neurons projecting to the motor and associative striatum reside in distinct regions, while in primates they are arranged in interdigitating clusters. (2) In rats, the terminal fields of projections arising from the motor and associative striatum are largely segregated, while in primates they are not. (3) In rats, patch- and matrix-projecting dopamine cells are organized in spatially, morphologically, histochemically and hodologically distinct ventral and dorsal tiers, while in primates there is no (bi)division of the dopaminergic system that results in two areas which have all the characteristics of the two tiers in rats. Based on the anatomical data and known dopamine cell physiology, we forward an hypothesis regarding the influence of the basal ganglia on dopamine cell activity which captures at least part of the complex interplay taking place within the substantia nigra between projections arising from the different basal ganglia nuclei. Finally, we incorporate the striatal connections with the dopaminergic system into an open-interconnected scheme of basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuitry.


Neurotrophins, acting through tyrosine kinase family genes, are essential for neuronal differentiation. The expression of tyrosine kinase family genes is prognostic in neuroblastoma, and neurotrophins reduce proliferation and induce differentiation, indicating that neuroblastomas are regulated by neurotrophins. We tested the effects of nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor on Na(+) and Ca(2+) currents, using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique, in human neuroblastoma NB69 cells. Control cells exhibited a slow tetrodotoxin-resistant (IC(50)=98 nM) Na(+) current and a high-voltage-activated Ca(2+) current. Exposure to nerve growth factor (50 ng/ml) and/or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (5 ng/ml) produced the expression of a fast tetrodotoxin-sensitive (IC(50)=10 nM) Na(+) current after day 3, and suppressed the slow tetrodotoxin-resistant variety. The same type of high-voltage-activated Ca(2+) current was expressed in control and treated cells. The treatment increased the surface density of both Na(+) and Ca(2+) currents with time after plating, from 17 pA/pF at days 3-5 and 1-5 to 34 and 30 pA/pF after days 6-10, respectively. Therefore, both nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, acting through different receptors of the tyrosine kinase family and also possibly the tumor necrosis factor receptor-II, were able to regulate differentiation and the expression of Na(+) and Ca(2+) channels, partially reproducing the modifications induced by diffusible astroglial factors. We show that neurotrophins induced differentiation to a neuronal phenotype and modified the expression of Na(+) and Ca(2+) currents, partially reproducing the effects of diffusible astroglial factors.
Lipocortin-1 immunocytochemistry was used to study the various cell forms of microglia that appear during organotypic hippocampal tissue culture, as well as in the in vitro toxic hypoxia model. Antibodies against lipocortin-1 identified activated and phagocytic cells that were abundant in a slice after the plating of a culture: cells of the intermediate form at the later time-points of culturing, resting ramified microglia beginning from the seventh day of culturing, as well as activated and phagocytic cells that appeared in the slice after experimental toxic hypoxia induced by potassium cyanide treatment. Lipocortin-1-positive microglia cell forms corresponded well to the description of the microglia in vivo, and the morphology of microglia corresponded to the circumstances under which these cells were observed in slice cultures. Electron microscopic studies have demonstrated, for the first time, that microglia in organotypic slice culture preserve morphological features typical of different microglial forms in vivo, as well as specific contacts and interactions with the other neural tissue elements. After experimental toxic hypoxia, rapid changes in microglial ultrastructure and localization were observed, reminiscent of in vivo models of ischaemia. In conclusion, observations of microglial morphology and behaviour allow us to suggest that microglia in the organotypic culture preserve their essential characteristic features and properties, thus providing an important model system for studying the structure and function of these cells.
Glucocorticoids are known to influence the ability of cells to undergo apoptosis, directly inducing apoptosis in thymocytes while inhibiting it in hepatoma and carcinoma cells. Dexamethasone, a synthetic glucocorticoid, is reported to induce partial resistance to certain anticancer drugs in glioma cell lines. In the present study, the effect of dexamethasone on apoptosis of glioma and astrocytoma cell lines was investigated. Exposure of D384 human astrocytoma and C6 rat glioma cells to staurosporine induced apoptosis as judged by the formation of condensed nuclei and caspase activation. Pre-treatment of cells with dexamethasone caused a reduction in staurosporine-induced apoptosis. In addition, dexamethasone also conferred protection against the induction of apoptosis by anticancer agents including camptothecin and etoposide. The protective effect of dexamethasone was dose and time dependent, with maximal protection obtained with concentrations equal to or greater than 100 nM and a pre-incubation period of at least 24h. The earliest significant inhibition was seen with a pre-incubation period of 8h. Co-treatment with the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU38486 abolished the effect of dexamethasone, indicating that the protection due to dexamethasone is mediated via this receptor. Dexamethasone was found to induce a time-dependent up-regulation of Bcl-x(L) protein expression. However, the ability of cytochrome c/dATP to activate the caspase cascade in cytosolic extracts of D384 cells was unaffected by prior exposure of the cells to dexamethasone (1 microM) for 48 h. In conclusion, dexamethasone inhibits the induction of apoptosis in astrocytoma cells, probably via an up-regulation of Bcl-x(L), which could prevent cytochrome c release from mitochondria and subsequent caspase activation. Since glucocorticoids are often used in the treatment of gliomas to relieve cerebral oedema, the inhibition of apoptosis by these compounds could potentially interfere with the efficacy of chemotherapeutic drugs.
Capsaicin is an important tool for investigation of thin afferent fibres, but its acute effects on subtypes of vagal afferent endings are unknown. In the gastrointestinal tract, these subtypes are: muscle endings (thought to be purely tension sensitive), mucosal endings (sensitive to stroking and chemical stimuli) and endings in the oesophagus with both properties. Acute capsaicin sensitivity was investigated in ferrets using in vivo and in vitro methods. Single-fibre activity was recorded from 63 vagal afferents: 12 Adelta-fibres, 15 C-fibres and 36 unclassified fibres with endings in the oesophagus (n=42), stomach (n=19) and duodenum (n=2). Responses to capsaicin occurred independently of motility changes and were therefore due to direct activation of the receptor ending. In the oesophagus in vivo, two of 10 tension receptors and one of one mucosal receptor responded to intraluminal application of 3.25 mM capsaicin. In the stomach and duodenum, five of 14 tension receptors and two of four mucosal receptors responded to close-systemic (32-164 nmol) capsaicin. In an in vitro gastro-oesophageal preparation, three of five tension, four of 21 mucosal and two of eight tension/mucosal receptors responded to topical application of 1mM capsaicin. Occurrence of responses was therefore unrelated to location of endings and isolation of tissue. Responsiveness was also unrelated to conduction velocity. Capsaicin caused desensitization of responses to further capsaicin application in 37% of afferents. It additionally caused cross-desensitization to mechanical stimuli, which was also seen in afferents that did not respond directly to capsaicin. In conclusion, capsaicin acutely activates all subtypes of gut vagal afferents in vivo and in vitro, although responsiveness is restricted to 30% of fibres and follows no specific pattern. Acute desensitization may be induced with or without a response.
The purpose of this study was to determine the role of the axodendritic tree in the generation of bursting pacemaker activity in the identified Helix RPa1 neuron, which is homologous to the Aplysia R15 cell, and propagation of action potentials along the axons. In doing so, I used recording of RPa1 neuron electrical activity after cutting off the right or left parietovisceral connections, the two-electrode voltage-clamp technique, registration of electrical activity of visceral nerve containing RPa1 axon branches, isolation of the RPa1 neuron and puff application of oxytocin on it. Cutting of the right (but not left) parietovisceral connection in all cases (more than 15 preparations) evoked complete disappearance of bursting pacemaker activity in the RPa1 neuron and hyperpolarization of its membrane potential up to -65 to -67 mV. Such silent state of the RPa1 neuron was maintained after its complete isolation from the ganglion. The described cutting did not result in a change of bursting activity of the pacemaker neuron V7 located in the visceral ganglion, although isolation of the V7 neuron also eliminated its own activity. Puff application of oxytocin (10 microM in a micropipette) on to the RPa1 neuron both after cutting the right parietovisceral connection or isolation of the neuron from the ganglion resulted in all cases (more than 10 cells) in transient depolarization with development of beating, oscillatory or bursting activity. Voltage clamping of RPa1 soma in the intact ganglion at a level close to zero membrane current sometimes, and, as a rule, at a more depolarized level, revealed bursting-like oscillations of membrane current, reflecting electrical bursting activity in the unclamped remote region of a neuron, most likely in the dendritic tree. Voltage clamping of RPa1 soma possessing bursting activity reveals bursting-like oscillation of membrane current and prevents propagation of corresponding axon action potentials in the visceral nerve. Controversially, clamping of RPa1 soma possessing beating activity exhibits a beating-like oscillation of membrane current and does not prevent propagation of corresponding action potentials in the nerve. Within the framework of the developed hypothesis that persistent bursting pacemaker activity of the RPa1 neuron is due to a constant activation of its peptidergic synaptic inputs [Kononenko N. I. (1993) Comp. Biochem. Physiol. 106A, 135-147], the experimental results were interpreted in the manner that these synapses and, correspondingly, the locus of electrical bursting activity generation, are localized on the dendritic tree of the RPa1 neuron mainly or possibly exclusively in the visceral ganglion. It is hypothesized that bursting and beating neuronal activities are due to functioning of different loci of the dendritic tree, regarding their electrical relations with axon branches.
Although brain cell viability depends largely on cerebral circulation, mechanisms of blood flow control, such as autoregulation, or of the pathogenesis of functionally impaired blood supply to brain regions, such as in cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage, have not been clearly defined. Our recent studies support the hypothesis that nitric oxide, released from nitrergic nerves, plays a crucial role as a neurotransmitter in vasodilating cerebral arteries from primate and subprimate mammals. In the present study, we demonstrated, by using arterial angiography, that electrical stimulation of the pterygopalatine ganglion produced vasodilatation of ipsilateral cerebral arteries of anesthetized Japanese monkeys. The response was abolished by intravenous injections of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine, a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor. Denervation of the ganglion elicited cerebral vasoconstriction, indicating that vasodilator nerves from the vasomotor center were tonically active. Stimulation of the greater petrosal nerve, upstream of the pterygopalatine ganglion, also elicited cerebral vasodilatation, which was abolished by treatment with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor and with hexamethonium, indicating that the nerve is in connection via synapses with the nitrergic nerve innervating cerebral arteries. Endogenous nitric oxide released from the nerve may contribute to the maintenance of blood flow in major cerebral arteries necessary to supply blood to the different brain regions. Without this influence, cerebral arteries might be constricted to the extent that blood flow is impeded. This is the first direct evidence indicating an important role of nitric oxide liberated by pre- and postganglionic nerve stimulation in the control of cerebral arterial tone in primates.
The post-traumatic change of the voltage-dependent Mg(2+) block of N-methyl-D-aspartate response was investigated using nystatin perforated patch recording mode under the voltage-clamp condition. Motor neurons of the dorsal motor nucleus of vagus nerve were freshly dissociated from rat brain at 2h to 10 days after receiving axonal crush injuries in vivo at the neck. The reduction of voltage-dependent Mg(2+) block of N-methyl-D-aspartate response became evident at more than 12h after the injury, sustained for at least five days and recovered within 10 days. Other characteristics examined such as reversal potentials, the Hill coefficient and EC(50) of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced current were not affected by axonal injury. The Mg(2+) block of N-methyl-D-aspartate response was not affected at all by local application of colchicine onto the vagal axon in in vivo condition, suggesting that axonal injury, but not the blockade of the axonal flow, is responsible for the change of the sensitivity of N-methyl-D-aspartate response to extracellular Mg(2+). In addition, the reduction of Mg(2+) block by the nerve injury persisted regardless of the presence of protein kinase C modulators, such as 10(-6)M chelerythrine and 10(-7)M calphostin C. Therefore alteration of protein kinase C activity after axonal injury is not responsible for the maintenance of the reduced Mg(2+) block. These findings suggest that injured neurons acquire immature characteristics of plasticity with respect to the sensitivity of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors to extracellular Mg(2+) or a long-term increase in the susceptibility to Ca(2+) excitotoxicity.
The relationship between the cloned kappa opioid receptor, dynorphin, and the neurohypophysial hormones vasopressin and oxytocin was analysed in the guinea-pig hypothalamic magnocellular neurosecretory neurons. This analysis was performed in order to understand better which population of neuroendocrine neurons in the guinea-pig is modulated by kappa opioid receptors and its endogenous ligand dynorphin. Extensive co-localization was observed between kappa opioid receptor immunoreactivity and preprodynorphin immunoreactivity in neuronal cell bodies in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei. Cells positive for either the kappa opioid receptor or both the kappa opioid receptor and preprodynorphin were restricted to the vasopressin expressing neuronal population and not found in the oxytocin expressing neuronal population. The kappa opioid receptor and dynorphin were examined in the posterior pituitary and both were found to be extensively distributed. Staining for the kappa opioid receptor and dynorphin B co-localized in posterior pituitary. In addition, immunogold electron microscopy confirmed that kappa opioid receptor and dynorphin B immunoreactivity were found in the same nerve terminals. Ultrastructural analysis also revealed that kappa opioid receptor immunoreactivity was associated with both nerve terminals and pituicytes. Within nerve terminals, kappa opioid receptor immunoreactivity was often associated with large secretory vesicles and rarely associated with the plasma membrane. Our data suggest that the cloned kappa opioid receptor may directly modulate the release of vasopressin but not oxytocin in guinea-pig hypothalamic magnocellular neurosecretory neurons and posterior pituitary. Furthermore, we propose that this receptor is an autoreceptor in this system because our results demonstrate a high degree of co-localization between kappa opioid receptor and dynorphin peptide immunoreactivity in magnocellular nerve terminals.
Membrane potential of ventral respiratory group neurons as well as inspiratory-related cranial (hypoglossal) and spinal (C(1)-Th(4)) nerve activities were analysed in brainstem-spinal cord preparations from neonatal rats. Block of Cl(-)-mediated inhibition with bicuculline (plus strychnine) affected neither rhythmic depolarizations nor spike discharge in 23 of 30 ventral respiratory group cells. In the other seven neurons, block of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials evoked pronounced depolarizations and spike discharge that was synchronous with seizure-like spinal nerve activity. Respiratory hypoglossal nerve activity persisted after transection at the spinomedullary junction, whereas spinal rhythm was blocked. After transection, the moderate bicuculline-evoked seizure-like perturbation of hypoglossal nerve activity was abolished and rhythmic ventral respiratory group neuron activity was not disturbed, whereas epileptiform discharge persisted in spinal nerves. The seizure-like nerve activity and depolarization of the minor subpopulation of perturbed ventral respiratory group neurons were reversed by either adenosine or the A(1) adenosine receptor agonist 2-chloro-N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine. The A(2) receptor agonist CGS 21860 had no effect. In control preparations, inspiratory nerve activity and membrane potential fluctuations (29 of 35 cells) were not changed by adenosine, 2-chloro-N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine or CGS 21860. In the other six cells, adenosine evoked a hyperpolarization (&lt;10 mV) with no major change in input resistance. The anticonvulsant effects of adenosine and 2-chloro-N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine were antagonized by the A(1) adenosine receptor blocker 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine. After pre-incubation with 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine, bicuculline also evoked seizure-like discharge in the hypoglossal nerve. The results indicate that seizure-like spinal motor output of the respiratory network upon block of Cl(-)-mediated inhibition is caused by disinhibition of spinal neuronal networks with afferent connections to the ventral respiratory group. Presynaptic A(1) adenosine receptors exert an anticonvulsant action on the disinhibited spinal motor network, but have no depressing effect per se on the isolated medullary respiratory network.
The relationship between exogenous or endogenous nitric oxide and c-fos, an immediate-early gene which can further activate the production of other substances in the central nervous system, was investigated in this study. We found that Fos expression is increased after intradermal capsaicin injection, which also leads to endogenous nitric oxide release in the spinal cord. The increased Fos expression is distributed in neurons of the superficial layers and lamina V of the dorsal horn on the side ipsilateral to the injection. The increased Fos expression is blocked by N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, but not by its inactive isomer N(G)-nitro-D-arginine methyl ester. Fos expression was also increased following the perfusion of 3-morpholino-sydnonimine, a nitric oxide donor, into the dorsal horn through a microdialysis fiber. The increased Fos was distributed within 400 microm from the edge of the microdialysis fiber. Although Fos expression was increased with 3-morpholino-sydnonimine perfusion compared to that seen with artificial cerebrospinal fluid perfusion, there was still some Fos immunostaining in the control sections. Following perfusion of artificial cerebrospinal fluid in the spinal cord of rats pretreated with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, it was found that Fos staining was reduced significantly compared to the control sections from animals without N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester pretreatment. These results suggest that nitric oxide helps mediate Fos expression induced by an intradermal capsaicin injection. We conclude that both endogenous and exogenous nitric oxide induce Fos expression. Involvement of nitric oxide in the development of central sensitization may affect nociceptive processing by increasing Fos expression. Since many other substances which are related to pain mechanisms can be induced by Fos, it is suggested that nitric oxide may regulate production of these substances through activation of Fos. Nitric oxide is not only involved in the development of central sensitization, but is also involved in the activation of control mechanisms affecting nociception.
The distribution of glutamate and neuronal nitric oxide synthase in the rat nucleus tractus solitarii was investigated by double fluorescent immunohistochemistry combined with confocal laser scanning microscopy. Cells and fibers that exhibited neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity alone, glutamate immunoreactivity alone or both immunolabels were present in all subnuclei of the nucleus tractus solitarii, but staining intensities differed between the subnuclei. The percentages of double-labeled glutamate-immunoreactive cells also differed between the subnuclei. The central subnucleus contained the highest percentage of double-labeled glutamate-immunoreactive cells and the medial subnucleus contained the lowest. The percentages of double-labeled neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons likewise differed between the subnuclei. The central subnucleus contained the highest percentage of double-labeled neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons and the commissural subnucleus contained the lowest. Because of our interest in cardiovascular regulation, the anatomical relationship between glutamate-immunoreactive and neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive fibers in the dorsolateral and commissural subnuclei was further examined at higher magnification. Close appositions were observed between neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive and glutamate-immunoreactive fibers, between double-labeled and glutamate-immunoreactive fibers, and between neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive and double-labeled fibers. We recognized that a single visual perspective might cause labeled fibers that pass in close proximity to appear to make contact. Therefore, we constructed three-dimensional images from serial optical sections obtained from the dorsolateral and commissural subnuclei by means of a confocal scanning microscope. Rotation of the three-dimensional images caused some fibers that had seemed to be in close apposition to other structures to separate from those structures. In contrast, some glutamate-immunoreactive and some neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive fibers remained in close apposition regardless of the angle at which they were viewed. This study supports there being an anatomical link between glutamatergic and nitroxidergic systems in the nucleus tractus solitarii. Recognized physiological interactions between the two systems could occur through such a link.
The rostral Wulst of birds, like the somatosensory cortex of mammals, receives somatosensory information from the thalamus and projects to the brainstem and spinal cord via a pyramidal-like tract. Using anterograde and retrograde tract-tracers, we show here, in adult zebra finches, that the rostral Wulst also projects directly to the cerebellar cortex and deep nuclei. In the cortex, the cerebrocerebellar fibers resemble neither mossy nor climbing fibers, but more closely resemble the multilayer fibers shown to originate from the hypothalamus in mammals. We also show that a sparse projection to the cerebellum from the mammalian neocortex, originally thought to be lost during early development, is present in the adult rat. Although the functional implications of these results are obscure, they suggest a revision of the concept of the &quot;cerebrocerebellar system&quot;, which is generally considered to involve a pontine relay.
The spatial patterns of activation in the rat cerebellar cortex evoked by ipsilateral face stimulation were mapped using optical imaging based on the pH sensitive dye, Neutral Red. The aims of the study were to characterize the optical responses evoked by peripheral stimulation and test the hypothesis that the resultant parasagittal banding is due to climbing fiber activation. In the anesthetized rat Crus I and II of the cerebellar cortex were stained with Neutral Red. Epi-fluorescent changes produced by a train of stimuli (5-10s and 4-20 Hz) to the ipsilateral face were monitored in time using a fast, high resolution charge-coupled device camera. The patterns of activation were quantified using a two-dimensional fast Fourier transform analysis that removed signals with high spatial frequencies and minimized the contribution of horizontal structural elements (i.e. blood vessels). The dominant spatial pattern of activation evoked by face stimulation was that of parasagittal bands. The bands were highly frequency-dependent and were elicited most strongly by stimulus frequencies in the range of 6-8 Hz. There was a large fall-off in the response for frequencies above and below. The optical signal evoked by face stimulation built up over a period of 10s and then gradually decayed. Within a folium the individual parasagittal bands exhibited some frequency and temporal specificity. Stimulation of the contralateral inferior olive also resulted in the activation of parasagittal bands with characteristics similar to the bands evoked by face stimulation, including a preferred stimulus frequency which peaked at 10 Hz. Injection of lidocaine into the contralateral inferior olive blocked the parasagittal bands evoked by ipsilateral face stimulation, while control injections of saline had no effect. The results confirm that a parasagittal banding pattern is a dominant feature of the functional architecture of the cerebellar cortex. The parasagittal banding pattern observed with Neutral Red is due primarily to the activation of climbing fiber afferents. The frequency tuning of the responses, with the preference for peripheral stimuli of 6-8 Hz, is in agreement with previous findings that the inferior olive is inherently rhythmic. These observations support the hypothesis that inferior olivary neurons are dynamically coupled into groups that activate parasagittal bands of Purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex. The frequency tuning also supports the hypothesis that the climbing fiber system is involved with timing. Activation of this afferent system may require stimuli with appropriate frequency content and stimuli synchronized to the rhythmicity of the inferior olive.
Past studies have shown that inhibiting energy metabolism with malonate in mesencephalic cultures damages neurons by mechanisms involving N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and free radicals. Overstimulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors is known to produce free radicals. This study was, therefore, carried out to determine if N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation triggered by energy impairment was a significant contributor to the oxidative stress generated during energy inhibition. Exposure of mesencephalic cultures to malonate for the minimal time required to produce toxicity, i.e. 6h, resulted in an increase in the efflux of both oxidized and reduced glutathione, and a decrease in tissue levels of reduced glutathione. In contrast, exposure to 1mM glutamate for 1h caused an increased efflux of reduced glutathione, but no changes in intra- or extracellular oxidized glutathione or intracellular reduced glutathione. Blocking N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors with MK-801 (0.5 microM) during malonate exposure did not modify malonate-induced alterations in glutathione status or free radical generation as monitored by dihydrochlorofluorescein diacetate and dihydrorhodamine 123 fluorescence. In contrast, the increase in dihydrorhodamine fluorescence caused by glutamate was completely blocked by MK-801. Reduction of tissue glutathione with a 24h pretreatment with 10 microM buthionine sulfoxamine, as shown previously, greatly potentiated malonate-induced toxicity to dopamine and GABA neurons, but had no potentiating effect on toxicity due to glutamate. The findings indicate that although oxidative stress mediates damage due either to energy deprivation or excitotoxicity, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor over-stimulation does not contribute significantly to the oxidative stress that is incurred during malonate exposure.
The effects of muscarine and nicotine on evoked and spontaneous release of GABA were studied using intracellular and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from rat midbrain dopamine neurons in an in vitro slice preparation. Muscarine (30 microM) reversibly depressed the pharmacologically isolated inhibitory postsynaptic potential evoked by local electrical stimulation. The maximal inhibition of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential amplitude was 39.6+/-5%. This depressant effect of muscarine was blocked by the M3/M1 receptor antagonist 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methiodide (100 nM), but was slightly affected by the M1/M3 receptor antagonist pirenzepine (1 microM). In addition, muscarine decreased the frequency of the miniature synaptic currents without any effect on their amplitude. Moreover, muscarine did not change the GABA-induced hyperpolarization, indicating that its effect on the inhibitory postsynaptic potential is mediated by presynaptic receptors. On the contrary, the cholinergic agonist nicotine did not change the frequency or the amplitude of the spontaneous glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic currents. Our data indicate that a prevalent activation of presynaptic M3 muscarinic receptors inhibits the GABA-mediated synaptic events, while the activation of nicotinic receptors does not affect the release of glutamate and GABA on midbrain dopamine neurons.
We investigated whether the nucleus basalis lesion induced by quisqualic acid was associated with a more severe impairment of spatial navigation in a water maze, a greater reduction in frontal choline acetyltransferase activity and decrease in the number of choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons in the nucleus basalis in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice than in control mice. We also studied the effect of ageing on water maze spatial navigation and cortical choline acetyltransferase activity in 16-month-old control and apolipoprotein E-deficient mice. We found that the lesion decreased choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons in the nucleus basalis and frontal choline acetyltransferase activity equally in control and apolipoprotein E-deficient mice. The nucleus basalis lesion had no effect on the initial acquisition in the water maze in control and apolipoprotein E-deficient mice after 25 or 106 days of recovery. However, the nucleus basalis lesion impaired the reversal learning in the water maze similarly in both strains after 25 days of recovery, but had no effect after 106 days of recovery. Finally, water maze spatial navigation and cortical choline acetyltransferase activity were similar in old control and apolipoprotein E-deficient mice. These results suggest that young and old apolipoprotein E-deficient mice do not have impairments in cholinergic activity or spatial navigation. Furthermore, apolipoprotein E deficiency does not increase the sensitivity to cholinergic and spatial navigation deficits induced by lesioning of the nucleus basalis with an excitatory amino acid and does not slow down the behavioral recovery.
This study examined whether cholinergic and monoaminergic dysfunctions in the brain could be related to spatial learning capabilities in 26-month-old, as compared to three-month-old, Long-Evans female rats. Performances were evaluated in the water maze task and used to constitute subgroups with a cluster analysis statistical procedure. In the first experiment (histological approach), the first cluster contained young rats and aged unimpaired rats, the second one aged rats with moderate impairment and the third one aged rats with severe impairment. Aged rats showed a reduced number of choline acetyltransferase- and p75(NTR)-positive neurons in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis, and choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons in the striatum. In the second experiment (neurochemical approach), the three clusters comprised young rats, aged rats with moderate impairment and aged rats with severe impairment. Alterations related to aging consisted of reduced concentration of acetylcholine, norepinephrine and serotonin in the striatum, serotonin in the occipital cortex, dopamine and norepinephrine in the dorsal hippocampus, and norepinephrine in the ventral hippocampus. In the first experiment, there were significant correlations between water maze performance and the number of; (i) choline acetyltransferase- and p75(NTR)-positive neurons in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis; (ii) choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons in the striatum and; (iii) p75(NTR)-positive neurons in the medial septum. In the second experiment, water maze performance was correlated with the concentration of; (i) acetylcholine and serotonin in the striatum; (ii) serotonin and norepinephrine in the dorsal hippocampus; (iii) norepinephrine in the frontoparietal cortex and; (iv) with other functional markers such as the 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid/serotonin ratio in the striatum, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine ratio in the dorsal hippocampus, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid/serotonin and homovanillic acid/dopamine ratios in the frontoparietal cortex, and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine ratio in the occipital cortex. The results indicate that cognitive deficits related to aging might involve concomitant alterations of various neurochemical systems in several brain regions such as the striatum, the hippocampus or the cortex. It also seems that these alterations occur in a complex way which, in addition to the loss of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain, affects dopaminergic, noradrenergic and serotonergic processes.
The Ca(2+)-calmodulin stimulated AC1 and Ca(2+)-insensitive AC2 are major isoforms of adenylyl cyclase, playing an important role in synaptic plasticity in the mammalian brain. We studied the pattern of expression of AC1 and AC2 genes in the hippocampus of C57BL/6 mice. We found that there were differences in their patterns of distribution in the dentate gyrus. AC1 messenger RNA was detected both in the dentate granule cell bodies and the corresponding molecular field whereas AC2 messenger RNA was preferentially distributed in the dentate granule cell layer, suggesting that AC1 and AC2 messenger RNA are differentially regulated in the dentate gyrus. In order to examine the regulation of AC1 and AC2 expression in response to synaptic deafferentation and reinnervation, the distribution patterns of the two AC messenger RNA in the hippocampal fields and the parietal cortex were analysed 2, 5, 9 and 30 days following an unilateral entorhinal cortex lesion. Interestingly, we found significantly reduced levels of AC1 hybridization signal following the lesion whereas the level of AC2 messenger RNA remained unaffected in all lesioned groups. The changes in AC1 messenger RNA were transient, with a maximal reduction at five days postlesion, and were restricted to the granule cell bodies and stratum moleculare of the deafferented dentate gyrus. No significant change in AC1 messenger RNA levels was detected in other hippocampal fields nor for any other postlesion times studied. These findings suggest that, at least in the dentate gyrus, messenger RNA for AC1 and AC2 might be differentially compartmentalized in cell bodies and dendritic fields. The activity-dependent regulation of AC1 messenger RNA levels by afferent synapses may provide an elegant mechanism for achieving a selective local regulation of AC1 protein, close to its site of action.
The best understood form of long-term potentiation in hippocampal CA1 neurons is induced by activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex and subsequent activation of the intracellular second messenger systems. In addition to this intracellular mechanism, long-term potentiation can also be induced by an extracellular mechanism involving phosphorylation by ATP-ecto-protein kinase. In the present study, we hypothesize that a putative blocking molecule of the formation of long-term potentiation exists on the synaptic membrane, and examine whether ecto-protein kinases play a role in the block of long-term potentiation by phosphorylating the ecto-domains of this molecule in CA1 neurons of guinea-pig hippocampal slices. Long-term potentiation was induced by theta burst stimulation whether or not the test input was delivered to the CA1 neurons following burst stimulation. However, 5 microM K-252b, an ecto-protein kinase inhibitor, only blocked the induction of long-term potentiation when the test input was delivered during a 30-min period following burst stimulation. The results suggest that the process of formation of long-term potentiation continues independently of test synaptic input, while the block of long-term potentiation results from a combination of an interruption of the ATP-ecto-protein kinase-dependent processes and continued test synaptic input after burst stimulation. This block of long-term potentiation, which should be released by activation of ATP-ecto-protein kinase, is suggested to act as a &quot;safety catch&quot; for synaptic plasticity in hippocampal CA1 neurons.
Ceramide, a sphingomyelin-derived second messenger, mediates cellular signals of cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha that are rapidly produced in the brain in response to vigorous neuronal activity and tissue injury. Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, the present study examined whether ceramide modulated excitatory postsynaptic currents mediated by ionotropic glutamate receptors in CA1 pyramidal neurons of rat hippocampal slices. Application of N-acetyl-D-sphingosine, a synthetic cell-permeable ceramide analog, promptly produced a slight increase of excitatory postsynaptic current amplitude lasting for about 3 min. However, this transient enhancement was followed by a profoundly delayed-onset, sustained depression of synaptic excitatory postsynaptic currents in a concentration-dependent fashion (1-30 microM). This ceramide-induced sustained depression was not associated with changes in paired-pulse facilitation, a phenomenon resulting from an alteration of presynaptic transmitter release. Dihydro-N-acetyl-D-erythro-sphingosine (10 microM), an inactive analog of N-acetyl-D-sphingosine, did not affect synaptic excitatory postsynaptic currents, indicating the specificity of N-acetyl-D-sphingosine's action. The induction of ceramide-induced sustained depression was primarily dependent on the activation of postsynaptic protein phosphatases, being considerably blocked by loading 30 nM okadaic acid (a potent inhibitor of protein phosphatases 1 and 2A) into neurons. In addition, following a stable establishment of ceramide-induced sustained depression, a protocol for inducing long-term depression caused no additional decreases in excitatory postsynaptic current amplitude, and vice versa. The study suggests that ceramide induces a long-term depressed modulation on synaptic transmission mediated by ionotropic glutamate receptors in the hippocampus, possibly through the activation of postsynaptic protein phosphatases 1 and 2A. In addition, ceramide-induced sustained depression seems to share some common mechanisms with long-term depression, such as the cascades of events resulting from the activation of protein phosphatases. Collectively, the long-term depressed modulation of ceramide on ionotropic glutamate receptor-mediated functions may be particularly important in various physiological and/or pathological conditions, in which the ceramide signaling pathway is activated in the mammalian brain.
Axon terminal nucleotide P2 receptors mediating an inhibition of transmitter release have, so far, been detected in various sympathetically innervated tissues,(8,27) and on central noradrenergic,(14,26) glutamatergic(15) and serotonergic neurons. (28) We have now investigated the effect of ATP and related nucleotides on the release of endogenous dopamine from slices of rat neostriatum using fast cyclic voltammetry. Mutual interactions between the two neurotransmitters have been observed previously: ATP and related nucleotides induce a release of dopamine in PC12 pheochromocytoma cells, a frequently used model for sympathetic neurons;(10,22) they also increase the dopamine concentration in rat brain measured by in vivo microdialysis(16,32) and stimulate the uptake of dopamine by rat striatal synaptosomes.(3) Dopamine, in contrast, facilitates activation of ligand-gated cation channels (i. e. P2X(2) receptors) by ATP.(11,20) Here, we show that ATP and two of its analogues decrease the electrically evoked release of endogenous dopamine in rat neostriatum. The inhibitory effect of ATP is blocked by the P2 receptor antagonists suramin, reactive blue 2 and cibacron blue 3GA. Suramin, in addition, partly prevents the attenuation of dopamine release evoked by a single stimulus that follows a brief train of high-frequency pulses.These findings suggest the existence of release-inhibiting P2 receptors on dopaminergic nerve terminals and indicate that dopaminergic transmission in rat neostriatum might be modulated by an endogenous P2 receptor ligand, presumably ATP.
The roles of the ionic currents in the firing of potential bursts elicited by d-amphetamine in central snail neurons were studied in the identified RP4 neuron of the African snail, Achatina fulica Ferussac, using the two-electrode voltage-clamp method. Oscillations of membrane potential bursts were elicited by d-amphetamine. The action potential bursts elicited by d-amphetamine decreased following intracellular injection of either EDTA or magnesium, or extracellular application of lanthanum. Voltage-clamped studies revealed that d-amphetamine decreased the fast Na(+), Ca(2+) and transient outward K(+) currents of the RP4 neuron. It also decreased the steady-state K(+) current and elicited a negative slope resistance in the steady-state I-V curve between -50 and -10 mV. The amplitude of negative slope resistance was decreased if either Na(+)-free saline or Co(2+)-substituted Ca(2+)-free saline was perfused. d-Amphetamine did not increase the amplitude of the slowly inactivating Ca(2+) current or the persistent Na(+) currents of RP4 neuron. Tetraethylammonium, a blocker of the delayed outward K(+) current, elicited action potential bursts and negative slope resistance in the RP4 neuron, while 4-aminopyridine, an inhibitor of transient outward K(+) current (I(A)), did not. These results demonstrate that the delayed outward K(+) current and the negative slope resistance in steady-state I-V curve elicited by d-amphetamine may be responsible for the action potential bursts in central snail neurons elicited by d-amphetamine.
The slit genes have recently been found to encode proteins with a conserved chemorepulsive activity for axons in invertebrates and vertebrates. We have determined the expression pattern of a slit gene in Xenopus embryos. In the neural tube, slit is expressed at the ventral and dorsal midlines, and the motor neurons. slit is also expressed in a changing pattern in the retina. The full-length Xenopus Slit protein is secreted extracellularly, whereas its receptor Roundabout can not be secreted. Using a myc-tagged secreted Slit protein, we confirmed the binding of Slit to Roundabout expressed on the cell surface. These results confirm Slit-Roundabout interactions and the biochemical properties of Slit and Roundabout proteins, and further support the idea that Slit may guide axon projections in multiple regions of the embryo.
To determine the contribution of neural elements to micturition, we evaluated, in intact rats, the cystometrogram, pelvic afferent nervous activity, pelvic efferent nervous activity and external urethral sphincter-electromyogram activity in the normal and acute partial bladder outlet obstruction states. In the normal state, in response to saline filling, mechanoreceptor-dependent pelvic afferent nervous activity gradually activated and finally triggered a voiding reflex, including four phases of detrusor contractions. Phase 1 was characterized by an initial rising intravesical pressure, Phase 2 was characterized by a series of high-frequency oscillations in intravesical pressure, Phase 3 contraction was characterized by a rebound intravesical pressure and Phase 4 contraction was characterized by a rapid fall in intravesical pressure. In the acute partial bladder outlet obstruction state, Phase 1 contraction rose and high-frequency oscillations fell in Phase 2. This voiding dysfunction is ascribed to the bursting extraurethral sphincter activity being converted to tonic extraurethral sphincter activity. In summary, the suppressed high-frequency oscillations in Phase 2 of the detrusor muscle contraction could be detrimental to efficient voidings in the acute partial bladder outlet obstructed rat.
The functional properties of skin mechanoreceptors were examined in the hind foot of normal rats in comparison with animals subjected to dorsal rhizotomy. Evoked nerve impulses were recorded from afferent nerve fibres of the tibial nerve. The decentralized mechanoreceptors displayed evidence of autonomous functioning, but with several abnormalities as compared to normal animals. There was a decreased sensitivity to mechanical stimulation and a lower adaptive capacity as a consequence of rhizotomy. The underlying mechanism is suggested to be a loss of central trophic support because of the interrupted link between the central nervous system and the sensory ganglion cell periphery. The findings indicate that mechanical receptors continue functioning under conditions when sensory impulses flow cannot reach postsynaptic target neurons in the central nervous system, but stop at the level of the primary sensory neuron.
Nerve fibres and mast cells are often described in close morphological and functional interactions in various organs such as the dura mater. The respective roles of mast cell activation and sympathetic impairment in cluster headache and migraine attacks have been repeatedly suggested. We have thus investigated the long-term effects of sympathectomy on mast cell morphology and content in the rat dura mater. Fifteen to 60 days after either sham, unilateral or bilateral superior cervical ganglionectomy, dura were removed for either histochemical or biochemical analysis. In the first case, they were fixed and mast cell heparin was stained by fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated avidin. Microscopic examination was followed by digital acquisitions using a tomographic process to assess mast cell density in the whole depth of the dura mater. Unilateral ganglionectomy induced a progressive and significant increase in mast cell density 15-60 days post-surgery in contralateral hemi-dura and 30 days post-surgery in ipsilateral hemi-dura. This increase was significant in both dura 60 days after bilateral ganglionectomy. Following perfusion with saline, we also examined the content of histamine and serotonin, pre-formed amines stored in mast cell granules. Biochemical analysis of dura serotonin and histamine content using high-pressure liquid chromatography and radioenzymatic assays, respectively, revealed under all conditions a serotonin tissue concentration lower than that of histamine. After sham ganglionectomy, the dura serotonin content increased from 15 to 60 days post-surgery, whereas the histamine content remained stable over the same period. After unilateral ganglionectomy, the histamine content increased progressively and significantly 30-60 days post-surgery in both hemi-dura, whereas the serotonin content became significantly different from that of sham only 60 days post-surgery in the ipsilateral dura. After bilateral ganglionectomy, the histamine level significantly increased in both hemi-dura 15-60 days post-surgery, whereas the serotonin level had significantly increased at 60 days post-surgery. These results clearly demonstrate, for the first time, a long-term trophic effect of sympathetic nerve degeneration on mast cells in the dura mater. Since mast cell activation has been described previously on the painful side of cluster headache patients during attack periods, we propose that the sympathetic impairment reported in these patients could be prominent, directly or indirectly inducing mast cell hyperplasia and changes in amine contents in the tissue concerned.
The distribution of glial cells (microglia and astrocytes) in different regions of normal adult rat brain was studied using immunohistochemical techniques and computer analysis. Lipocortin 1, phosphotyrosine, and lectin GSA B(4), were used for identification of microglia, while S100beta and glial fibrillary acidic protein identified astrocytes. Bioquant computerized image analysis was used to quantify and map the immunostained cells in sections from adult rat brain. If lipocortin 1 was used as a marker, more microglial cells were detected than with phosphotyrosine or lectin. The lipocortin 1-positive microglial population was most numerous (on average, 130+/-5 cells/mm(2) of the brain section area) in neostriatum, and least (51+/-4 cells/mm(2)) in cerebellum and medulla oblongata. In general, the density of lipocortin 1 microglia was higher in the forebrain, and lower in the midbrain, and the least in the brainstem and cerebellum. The number of S100beta astrocytes was two to three times larger than the number of microglial cells, and approximately two times greater than glial fibrillary acidic protein cells. A high density of astrocytes was found in the hypothalamus and hippocampus (more than 260 cells/mm(2)); they were more numerous in the white matter than in the gray matter. Fewer astrocytes were observed in the cerebral cortex, neostriatum, midbrain, medulla oblongata and cerebellum (less than 200 cells/mm(2)). Thus lipocortin 1 and S100beta were shown to be the most specific and reliable markers for microglia and astrocytes, respectively. The regional population differences demonstrated for lipocortin 1 microglia and S100beta astrocytes presumably reflect structural and functional specializations of the certain brain regions.
We have reported previously that axonal degeneration in specific brain regions occurs in rats infected with the parasite Trypanosoma brucei. These degenerative changes occur in spatiotemporal association with over-expression of pro-inflammatory cytokine messenger RNAs in the brain. To test how aspirin-like anti-inflammatory drugs might alter the disease process, we fed trypanosome-infected rats with 200mg/kg of sodium salicylate (the first metabolite of aspirin) daily in their drinking water. Sodium salicylate treatment in uninfected rats did not cause any neural damage. However, sodium salicylate treatment greatly exacerbated neurodegeneration in trypanosome-infected rats, resulting in extensive terminal and neuronal cell body degeneration in the cortex, hippocampus, striatum, thalamus, and anterior olfactory nucleus. The exaggerated neurodegeneration, which occurred in late stages of infection, was temporally and somewhat spatially associated with a late-appearing enhancement of messenger RNA expression of interleukin-1beta, interleukin-1beta converting enzyme, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and inhibitory factor kappaBalpha in the brain parenchyma. Restricted areas showed elevations in messenger RNA expression of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist, interleukin-6, inducible nitric oxide synthase, interferon-gamma, and inducible cyclooxygenase. The association suggests that increased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the brain may be an underlying mechanism for neural damage induced by the chronic sodium salicylate treatment. Furthermore, the results reveal a serious complication in using aspirin-like drugs for the treatment of trypanosome infection.
The agonist-stimulated guanosine 5'-(gamma-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate binding assay was used to anatomically localize receptor-activated G-proteins by autoradiography in post mortem human brain. The optimal conditions for guanosine 5'-(gamma-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate binding to human brain sections were established in post mortem samples of the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, basal ganglia, brainstem and cerebellar cortex. An excess of GDP (2mM) was required to decrease basal activity and obtain effective stimulation by specific agonists. guanosine 5'-(gamma-[(35)S]Thio)triphosphate binding was increased after stimulation with specific agonists of different G-protein-coupled receptors. They include cannabinoid (WIN55212-2), mu-opioid ([D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4), Gly(5)-ol]enkephalin), serotonin-1A [(+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin] and serotonin-1B/1D (sumatriptan), cholinergic muscarinic receptors (carbachol) and alpha(2)-adrenoceptors (UK14304). Such stimulation reached 1458%, 440%, 188%, 219%, 61% and 339%, respectively, over the basal levels. In tissue sections, the use of the above-mentioned agonists (10(-4)M) showed patterns of anatomical distribution similar to those already described by receptor autoradiography, with high densities over the hippocampus (serotonin-1A receptors), cortex (alpha(2)-adrenoceptors) and striatum (mu-opioid receptors). The highest binding levels were reached with the cannabinoid receptor agonist in most of the analysed brain regions. Carbachol produced only moderate stimulation of those same regions. The blockage of agonist-stimulated guanosine 5'-(gamma-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate binding by selective antagonists verified that the effect was receptor mediated. This technique provides a method to identify modifications of the receptor-mediated activation of G-proteins in post mortem human brain with anatomical resolution. It also provides valuable information on the level of drug efficacy in the human species.
Calcium is an important mediator of programmed cell death induced by transient cerebral ischemia, and calcium-binding proteins have been implicated in calcium-regulated signal transduction. Apoptosis-linked gene 2 is a calcium-binding protein required for cell death induced by different apoptotic stimuli. By Western blot analysis, we found that apoptosis-linked gene 2 protein was expressed in normal brains, and that expression increased in ischemic brains after 20 or 90 min of transient focal cerebral ischemia. Immunocytochemistry showed increased apoptosis-linked gene 2 protein expression in frontal cortex, a region where neurons underwent ischemic stress but still survived, after 20 or 90 min of focal cerebral ischemia. Apoptosis-linked gene 2 protein was also up-regulated in the ischemic border-zone of parietal cortex 24h after 20 min of focal ischemia, and was remarkably over-expressed in the caudate-putamen and parietal cortex, (where cells are destined to die) 24h after 90 min of ischemia. The expression pattern of apoptosis-linked gene 2 protein was similar to that of deoxyribonucleic acid damage detected by Klenow labeling assay. Our results suggest that apoptosis-linked gene 2 may be involved in the regulation of cell death after transient focal cerebral ischemia.
In the present study, we investigated whether neurons adjacent to an ischemic lesion acquire tolerance against subsequent ischemia or not. We initially used unilateral hemispheric ischemia for 3 min in gerbils to produce an ischemic lesion confined to the unilateral CA1 sector, and the presence of tolerance was examined in the adjacent CA3 sector through transient global ischemia by occlusion of both common carotid arteries. Attenuation of neuronal damage was clearly observed in neurons in the CA3 sector adjacent to the ischemic lesion in the CA1 sector. The phenomenon lasted for up to two weeks after the initial hemispheric ischemia, but was no longer present two months later. Reactive astrocytes as identified by the presence of glial fibrillary acidic protein were visible in the CA3 hippocampus four days and two weeks after hemispheric ischemia, but they were scarce two months later. Expression of heat shock protein 72 in the CA3 neurons was observed four days after hemispheric ischemia, but the reaction returned to the control level two weeks later. In conclusion, the present study showed that tolerance in the neurons adjacent to an ischemic lesion could be sustained at least for two weeks, and raised the possibility that reactive astrocytes might contribute to the extended tolerance in neurons.
The expression of a large panel of selected genes hypothesized to play a central role in post-traumatic cell death was shown to be differentially altered in response to a precisely controlled, mechanical injury applied to an organotypic slice culture of the rat brain. Within 48 h of injury, the expression of nerve growth factor messenger RNA was significantly increased whereas the levels of bcl-2, alpha-subunit of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, cAMP response element binding protein, 65,000 mol. wt isoform of glutamate decarboxylase, 1beta isoform of protein kinase C, and ubiquitin messenger RNA were significantly decreased. Because the expression levels of a number of other messenger RNAs such as the neuron-specific amyloid precursor protein, beta(2) microglobulin, bax, bcl(xl), brain-derived neurotrophic factor, cyclooxygenase-2, interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, receptor tyrosine kinase A, and receptor tyrosine kinase B were unaffected, these selective changes may represent components of an active and directed response of the brain initiated by mechanical trauma. Interpretation of these co-ordinated alterations suggests that mechanical injury to the central nervous system may lead to disruption of calcium homeostasis resulting in altered gene expression, an impairment of intracellular cascades responsible for trophic factor signaling, and initiation of apoptosis via multiple pathways. An understanding of these transcriptional changes may contribute to the development of novel therapeutic strategies to enhance beneficial and blunt detrimental, endogenous, post-injury response mechanisms.
Visinin-like protein-3 is a member of the family of intracellular neuronal calcium sensors belonging to the superfamily of EF-hand proteins. Members of this family are involved in the calcium-dependent regulation of signal transduction cascades. To gain insights into the characteristics of visinin-like protein-3, we have generated specific antibodies against visinin-like protein-3 and determined the developmental and tissue distribution of the protein and its exact cellular and subcellular localization. Expression of visinin-like protein-3 protein appeared late in development mainly in the cerebellum. It is strongly expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells. The protein expression results were further confirmed by in situ hybridization and compared with hippocalcin messenger RNA localization. Native cerebellar visinin-like protein-3 was shown to bind calcium and to associate in a calcium-dependent manner with membrane fractions during subcellular fractionation. Recombinant wild-type visinin-like protein-3 was shown to be N-terminally myristoylated in transfected cells. The membrane association was strongly reduced for the non-myristoylated mutant of visinin-like protein-3 in transfected cells. These results suggest that visinin-like protein-3, which is mainly expressed in Purkinje cells in vivo, shows a calcium-dependent association with cell membranes which is mediated by a calcium-myristoyl switch.
The present study deals with qualitative and quantitative investigations in the superior colliculus of the rat. Tracer studies were correlated with Nissl staining to calculate the quantitative ratio between projection neurons and interneurons in the upper three layers of the superior colliculus. In order to reveal the projections from the superior colliculus, the first group of rats received injections of the tracer FluoroGold into the nucleus lateralis posterior thalami, the lateral geniculate body, the nucleus parabigeminalis, and the predorsal bundle. Commissural connections between the superior colliculus were traced in a second group of animals, which received Biocytin and FluoroGold injections in the upper layers of the right superior colliculus and small deposits of the carbocyanine tracer DiI in the deeper layers of the left superior colliculus. Additionally, double-labelling with FluoroGold tracing and the histochemical detection of NADPH-diaphorase activity was carried out to distinguish between projection neurons and interneurons. These experiments showed that 66% of the neurons within the superficial layers of the superior colliculus were represented by ascending projection neurons, whereas only 2-3% could be identified as descending neurons. Ascending neurons were scattered throughout the three laminae and descending neurons were localized in a cluster-like pattern. Approximately 2-3% of the neurons in the superficial layers were found to be commissural and interlayer neurons which were represented by an identical cell type, since both transcommissural and interlayer processes were originated from their somata. The somata of these commissural-interlayer neurons were all located in the mediorostral part of the superior colliculus and contained NADPH-diaphorase activity. The axon terminals of the interlayer-commissural neurons formed net-like structures which surrounded neuronal somata within the ipsilateral deep layers and within the contralateral upper layers of the superior colliculus, respectively.
The autotomy performed by rats after unilateral section of the dorsal roots corresponding to the brachial plexus was frequently attributed to an abnormal painful sensation felt in the peripheral deafferented area. We studied the values of potassium (K(+)) extracellular concentration ([K(+)](e)) in thalamic nuclei of somatic projection in this animal model of deafferentation pain. Potassium concentrations were measured with microelectrodes sensitive to K(+) (K(+)-ISM). When such microelectrodes are gradually inserted into the thalamus, a sudden transient increase of K(+) concentration appears after each step lasting for about 30s. This is followed by a stabilization of K(+) values, which is present for several hours. We measured this stable concentration of K(+) (resting [K(+)](e)) for 3-5 min in different nuclei of the somatic projection to the lateral thalamus of controls and deafferented groups of adult rats under Equithesin anaesthesia. The following thalamic nuclei were explored: the ventral posterior medial and lateral (VPM and VPL) and the adjacent posterior oral (PO) as well as the lateral dorsal (LD) and posterior (LP) and ventral anterolateral (VAL). In the control group (12 rats), the mean values of resting [K(+)](e) expressed in mmol/l in these nuclei were between 3.26 and 3.62. All these values of the K(+) concentration were significantly higher than those in the cerebrospinal fluid for P&lt;0.001. In the deafferented group (21 rats), a significant increase of the resting [K(+)](e) concentration was found in three nuclei only (VPL, VPM, PO) of the thalamus contralateral to the root section, when compared to the corresponding nuclei in the controls. No changes were observed in the other contralateral nuclei and in all nuclei of the thalamus ipsilateral to the deafferentation. The most statistically significant changes in mean values were found in five deafferented animals, which had recently performed autotomy. Localised variations of resting [K(+)](e) observed in each of VPL, VPM and PO nuclei were also demonstrated by curves traced for each control and deafferented animal. The greatest changes in resting [K(+)](e) were observed in the three nuclei mentioned above, where the value of [K(+)](e) attained 6 to 7 mmol/l in deafferented animals. The maximum amplitude peaks of resting [K(+)](e) were found in animals which had recently exhibited autotomy. These enhanced resting values of [K(+)](e) apparently reflect increased activity in the somatic lateral thalamus of deafferented animals. Their possible role in pain and autotomy are discussed.
A rabbit polyclonal antiserum, raised against a C-terminal oligopeptide of the mouse kappa opioid receptor, was used to localize the cellular distribution of kappa receptors in the dorsal and ventral striatum of rats with light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry. Prominent, diffuse kappa receptor immunoreactivity was present in the nucleus accumbens, particularly in the shell, ventral caudate-putamen and olfactory tubercle. The density of receptor immunoreactivity decreased in more dorsal areas of the caudate-putamen. In contrast, neuronal cell bodies stained clearly in the dorsal endopiriform nucleus, claustrum and layer VI of the adjacent cerebral cortex. Observations at the electron microscopic level in the dorsomedial shell of the nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen revealed that the kappa receptor immunoreactivity was predominantly located in axons, often associated with synaptic vesicles, remote from the terminal or preterminal area. The few terminals which were labeled made slightly more asymmetrical than symmetrical contacts and the percentage of asymmetrical contacts observed was greater in the caudate than in the accumbens. A small number of postsynaptic spines was labeled; most of them were contacted by asymmetrical terminals. No labeling was observed in dendritic shafts.Thus, the predominant localization of kappa receptor immunoreactivity in axons is consistent with its role as a major inhibitor of glutamate and dopamine release in the dorsal and ventral striatum.
Amphetamine-induced psychosis is most often associated with a high-dose multiple binge pattern of stimulant abuse. To simulate these conditions in rats, we used an escalating dose/binge administration paradigm. Animals were pretreated with escalating doses of amphetamine (1.0-8.0mg/kg) over four days, then exposed to nine daily binges (8.0mg/kg every 2h; four injections/day). Other animals received either multiple injections of saline, saline followed by acute amphetamine (8.0mg/kg) or single daily injections of amphetamine (8.0mg/kg) in parallel with the escalating dose/binge treatment. One hour after the last injection, all animals were decapitated and regional brain activation patterns were assessed using in situ hybridization with antisense probes for zif268. Acute amphetamine resulted in a significant elevation of zif268 messenger RNA in both the nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum. However, whereas after single daily amphetamine treatment this index was no longer elevated above control levels in the dorsal striatum, multiple binge exposures were required for the nucleus accumbens to return to baseline. Agranular insular cortex and medial olfactory tubercle zif268 messenger RNA expression was also markedly increased after acute amphetamine treatment but, unlike the nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum, this increase was not significantly attenuated by either single daily injection or multiple binge treatment. Zif268 messenger RNA expression in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala also remained elevated above baseline after binge treatment. The possible relationships of these changes in zif268 messenger RNA regional expression patterns to the development of psychosis in high-dose stimulant abusers are discussed.
We have recently shown that dopaminergic responses to an attractive or an aversive stimulus were respectively increased and decreased in the core part of the nucleus accumbens and the ventromedial dorsal striatum. By contrast, increases in dopaminergic responses were obtained in the shell part of the nucleus accumbens with stimuli of both affective values. In addition, the involvement of the basolateral amygdala in affective processes has been reported by several authors. Anatomo-functional relationships between the basolateral amygdala and striatal structures have also been described. Thus, in the present work we studied the regulation by the basolateral amygdala of affective dopaminergic responses in the two parts of the nucleus accumbens (core and shell) and the ventromedial dorsal striatum. More precisely, variations in extracellular levels of dopamine induced by an attractive or an aversive olfactory stimulus were studied using in vivo voltammetry in freely moving rats. Changes in dopamine levels in the three left striatal regions were measured after functional blockade of the ipsilateral basolateral amygdala with tetrodotoxin. Changes in place attraction or aversion toward the stimulus were studied in parallel to dopamine variations. The results obtained suggest a specific regulation of affective dopaminergic responses in the two parts of the nucleus accumbens by the basolateral amygdala and a lack of influence of the basolateral amygdala on the ventromedial dorsal striatum. The results suggest that attraction or aversion toward a stimulus are correlated with dopamine variations in the core of the nucleus accumbens and that the basolateral amygdala controls affective behavioural responses. These data may provide new insights into the pathophysiology of schizophrenic psychoses.
Certain aspects of schizophrenia and Parkinson's disease suggest that glutamate might have an inhibitory effect on dopamine release. Several studies have reported that the excitatory actions of ionotropic glutamate agonists on extracellular dopamine levels in striatum are resistant to tetrodotoxin, which suggests that glutamate excites an impulse-independent mechanism of dopamine release. We tested the hypothesis that an inhibitory action of glutamate on dopamine terminals in the striatum specifically involves an impulse-dependent mechanism of dopamine release. We used voltammetry to monitor electrically-evoked dopamine release in striatal slices, which is completely tetrodotoxin- and Ca(2+)-sensitive and so provides a model of impulse-dependent dopamine release. Agonists of the ionotropic glutamate receptors significantly decreased the amplitude of the response, while antagonists significantly increased the amplitude of the response, by as much as approximately 60% in the case of kynurenic acid. These results support the hypothesis that ionotropic glutamate receptors can inhibit impulse-dependent dopamine release by a mechanism that acts locally within the striatum. This finding contrasts with previous reports that glutamate can excite impulse-independent dopamine release. This extends earlier findings that glutamate may both excite and inhibit subcortical dopamine systems by suggesting that the excitatory and inhibitory actions of striatal ionotropic glutamate receptors are specifically associated with impulse-independent and impulse-dependent dopamine release, respectively.
The finding that endogenous tetrahydroisoquinolines may be involved in the etiology of Parkinson's disease suggests that their administration may cause changes resembling those observed in parkinsonian brain. We tested, using a high-performance liquid chromatography method, how single and chronic administration of 1,2, 3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline and salsolinol affects dopamine and serotonin metabolism in the neurons of extrapyramidal and mesolimbic dopaminergic systems. We report that chronic administration of tetrahydroisoquinoline and salsolinol causes a decrease in a dopamine metabolism: the effect of tetrahydroisoquinoline was limited to the striatum, while salsolinol caused also a dramatic decline of dopamine level in the substantia nigra. The effect of both compounds on serotonin metabolism was small or absent. The tetrahydroisoquinolines produced no changes in the nucleus accumbens. The results indicate that tetrahydroisoquinoline and salsolinol specifically affect the nigrostriatal dopamine system, but only when administered chronically, and thus are compatible with the view that endogenous tetrahydroisoquinolines may participate in pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
Although the long-term neurobiological and behavioral effects of nigrostriatal lesions are well characterized, the events occurring soon after injury are not. These acute events can provide insight into the mechanisms underlying long-term adaptations to nigrostriatal lesions. The present experiments examined the basal ganglia immediate-early gene response to infusions of the catecholamine neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine into the nigrostriatal pathway in rats. Following 6-hydroxydopamine infusions into the medial forebrain bundle in awake, behaving rats, there was a rapid and transient induction of striatal c-fos and zif/268 messenger RNAs. Both immediate-early genes were maximally induced by 45min post-infusion, and returned to control levels by 1.5h (c-fos) or 3h (zif/268) post-infusion. Double-labeling experiments revealed that striatal c-fos expression occurred preferentially in preproenkephalin-expressing neurons. 6-Hydroxydopamine-induced c-fos messenger RNA was also observed in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and entopeduncular nucleus, but not the globus pallidus, 45 min after medial forebrain bundle 6-hydroxydopamine infusions. Finally, the role of ionotropic striatal glutamate receptors in nigrostriatal injury-induced striatal c-fos was examined by combining medial forebrain bundle 6-hydroxydopamine infusions with intrastriatal glutamate antagonist infusions. Both the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid, and the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione, blocked striatal induction of c-fos messenger RNA following 6-hydroxydopamine infusions into the medial forebrain bundle. These results provide evidence of rapidly developing, glutamate-dependent molecular responses in the basal ganglia which may contribute to some of the well-described long-term adaptations of this system to nigrostriatal injury.
Estrogen is thought to enhance cognitive functions by modulating the production of acetylcholine in basal forebrain neurons; a system that projects to the cerebral cortex and hippocampus and plays a central role in learning and memory. To elucidate the mechanism of estrogen action in the cholinergic system, we utilized a combined in vivo autoradiography/immunocytochemistry technique to evaluate the distribution of estrogen binding sites in cholinergic neurons of the rat basal forebrain. The results of these studies revealed that a portion of the cholinergic neurons in the medial septum (41%), vertical (32%) and horizontal (29%) limbs of the diagonal band and in the substantia innominata/nucleus basalis (4%) contained estrogen receptors. Through the use of a double-label in situ hybridization/immunocytochemistry technique we have shown that estrogen receptor-alpha is the predominant estrogen receptor in the cholinergic neurons, with only a few cells containing estrogen receptor-beta. The results of these studies provide evidence that biologically active estrogen receptors are present in the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons of the adult rat brain, with estrogen receptor-alpha being the predominant receptor subtype. The demonstration that cholinergic neurons contain estrogen receptors is consistent with the possibility that estrogen directly modulates the activity of cholinergic neurons in rats and may provide insight as to how estrogen improves cognitive functions in women.
Strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors are ligand-gated anion channels widely expressed in spinal cord and brainstem. Recent functional studies demonstrating glycine-induced release of [(3)H]acetylcholine in rat caudatoputamen suggested the existence of excitatory glycine receptors in that region. Since the expression of glycine receptors in the caudatoputamen had not been reported earlier, we studied the glycine receptor-like immunoreactivity in this structure using a monoclonal antibody (mAb4a) recognizing an epitope common to all of the ligand-binding alpha-subunit variants of the glycine receptor. [Becker et al. (1993) Brain Res. 11, 327-333; Nicola et al. (1992) Neurosci. Lett. 138, 173-178]. Immunohistochemistry with mAb4a disclosed a specific staining of sparsely distributed large neurons in rat caudatoputamen, displaying an immunoreactive signal of lower intensity than that observed in motoneurons in spinal cord. Fluorescent dual labelling demonstrated that glycine receptor-like immunoreactivity co-localizes with choline acetyltransferase-like immunoreactivity in rat caudatoputamen. All neurons with glycine receptor-like immunoreactivity in the caudatoputamen studied were immunoreactive with choline acetyltransferase, and represented a subpopulation of cholinergic neurons (approximately 90% of the somata with choline acetyltransferase-like immunoreactivity). These results suggest that strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors are present on cholinergic interneurons in rat caudatoputamen, supporting the hypothesis that glycine receptors inducing striatal release of [(3)H]acetylcholine may be localized to cholinergic neurons.
Previous studies have revealed a small number of hippocampal interneurons immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase, the acetylcholine-synthesizing enzyme. It remained an open question, however, whether these neurons represented a subgroup of inhibitory GABAergic neurons co-localizing acetylcholine. In this study, we have combined immunocytochemistry for choline acetyltransferase and in situ hybridization for glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA, the GABA-synthesizing enzyme. None of the choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons in the various layers of the hippocampus proper and fascia dentata were found to co-localize glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA. The lack of an in situ hybridization signal in these neurons is unlikely to result from the combination of the two labeling techniques. When combining in situ hybridization for glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA with immunostaining for parvalbumin, a calcium-binding protein expressed by many GABAergic hippocampal interneurons, numerous double-labeled cells were observed. These data provide neurochemical evidence for the existence of non-GABAergic, supposedly cholinergic non-principal cells in the hippocampus.
The distribution, size, dendritic morphology and synaptic connections of calbindin-, calretinin- and substance P receptor-positive interneurons and pathways have been examined in control and epileptic human dentate gyrus. In the epileptic dentate gyrus, calbindin-containing interneurons are preserved, but their dendrites become elongated and spiny, and several cell bodies appear hypertrophic. The relative laminar distribution of calretinin-containing cells did not change, but their number was considerably reduced. The calretinin-positive axonal bundle at the top of the granule cell layer originating from the supramammillary nucleus expanded, forming a dense network in the entire width of the stratum moleculare. Substance P receptor-immunopositive cells were partially lost in epileptic samples, and in addition, the laminar distribution and dendritic morphology of the surviving cells differed considerably from the controls. In the control human dentate gyrus, the majority of substance P receptor-positive cells can be seen in the hilus, while most are present in the stratum moleculare in the epileptic tissue. Their synaptic input is also changed. The extent of individual pathological abnormalities correlates with each other in most cases. Our data suggest, that although a large proportion of inhibitory interneurons are preserved in the epileptic human dentate gyrus, their distribution, morphology and synaptic connections differ from controls. These functional alterations of inhibitory circuits in the dentate gyrus are likely to be compensatory changes with a role to balance the enhanced excitatory input in the region.
In order to determine if a specific response is induced after spinal cord injury, we performed a kinetic search for IgG antibodies against various spinal cord antigenic preparations in a rat contusion model. Even though spinal cord injured animals showed two reactive bands, these could be originated by the reaction of natural antibodies, since they were also observed before lesion. Thus, these antibodies would not be of relevance in the pathogenic events of spinal cord injury in this rat model. Our findings do not demonstrate the existence of a specific IgG response against spinal cord constituents after injury.
One of the main principles in neuroscience is that in vertebrate motoneurons and certain interneurons the decision to initiate an action potential is made at the initial segment of the axon, the axon hillock [Kandel E. R. and Schwartz J. H. (1991) In Principles of Neural Science (eds Kandel E. R., Schwartz J. H. and Jessell T. M. ), pp. 166-167. Elsevier, New York]. The situation in invertebrate motoneurons is different. The axon has many arborizations near its soma, in the nearby neuropil, and many branches in the target region. The action potentials are generated in the region of the axon in the neuropil and in some cases the trigger zone can be found more than 1mm apart from the soma [Tauc C. (1962) Aplysia. J. gen. Physiol. 45, 1077-1097]. Thus, it is obvious that, in a neuron, the removal of the trigger zone would cease the spiking activity in the axon. The purpose of this work is to demonstrate that, in snails, there are axons of certain neurons, like neuron B2, which are able to maintain their firing activity after the removal of their cell body and the so-called trigger zone.

Centrally administered thyrotropin-releasing hormone produces a number of physiological and behavioral changes, e.g., a general antidepressant effect, increasing body temperature, and elevated blood pressure. However, the specific brain sites of action responsible for the centrally activating property of thyrotropin-releasing hormone have not been precisely determined. Using chloral hydrate-anesthetized adult Sprague-Dawley rats, we compared the distribution of Fos-like immunoreactivity after intracerebroventricular administration of thyrotropin-releasing hormone with the results after intracerebroventricular injection of vehicle alone. Some rats were paralysed and artificially ventilated to avoid possible Fos expression secondarily induced by autonomic (e.g., respiratory) disturbances. In thyrotropin-releasing hormone administered rats, selective Fos-like immunoreactivity was observed in V/VI layers of the pre- and infralimbic areas of the medial prefrontal cortex, the ventral midline thalamus, and the nucleus of the solitary tract as well as in the adjacent reticular formation. Fos-like immunoreactivity was significantly reduced in most areas of the cerebral cortex (II/III layers), the shell of the nucleus accumbens, the medial amygdaloid nucleus, parts of the hypothalamus, and the periaqueductal gray. These data suggest that various behavioral and autonomic responses induced by centrally administered thyrotropin-releasing hormone might be produced through the complex neural circuitry comprising the above structures, which are presumed to be implicated in limbic and/or autonomic functions.
To further explore the contribution of caspase-1/interleukin-1beta-convening enzyme in the consequences of hypoxia in developing brain neurons, its temporal expression profile was analysed by immunohistochemistry and western blotting in cultured neurons from the embryonic rat forebrain subjected to a hypoxic stress (95% N2/5% CO2 for 6 h), and proteolytic activity of caspase-1 was monitored as a function of time by measuring the degradation of a selective colorimetric substrate (N-acetyl-Tyr-Val-Ala-Asp-p-nitroanilide). In addition, the influence of pre- and posthypoxic treatments by caspase-1 inhibitors (N-acetyl-Tyr-Val-Ala-Asp-aldehyde and N-acetyl-Tyr-Val-Ala-Asp-chloromethylketone) was tested on cell outcome. Hypoxia led to delayed apoptotic neuronal death, with an elevation of the expression of both pro-caspase-1 and caspase-1 active cleavage product (ICE p20) for up to 96 h after cell reoxygenation. As reflected by cleavage of the specific substrate, caspase-1 activity progressively increased between 24 h and 96 h posthypoxia, and was blocked by inhibitors in a dose-dependent fashion. The inhibitory compounds, including when given 24 h after hypoxia, prevented neuronal death, reduced apoptosis hallmarks and also increased the number of mitotic neurons, suggesting they might promote neurogenesis. Similar observations were made when neurons were exposed to a sublethal hypoxia (i.e. 3 h). These data emphasize the participation of caspase-1 in neuronal injury consecutive to oxygen deprivation, and provide new insight into the possible cellular mechanisms by which caspase inhibitors may protect developing brain neurons.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors are a heterogeneous family of G-protein-coupled receptors that are linked to multiple second messenger systems to regulate neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission. To elucidate the physiological role of these receptors in human central nervous system function and dysfunction at the receptor protein level requires the use of selective antibodies to determine the phenotype of cells expressing particular receptor subtypes. To this end the present study has examined the regional and cellular localization of the metabotropic glutamate type 2 receptor protein in selected human brain regions. After epitope prediction, antibodies have been generated against a short synthetic peptide corresponding to amino acid residues located in the putative intracellular carboxy-terminus and subsequently applied to an immunohistochemical investigation. Antibodies specifically detected the type 2 receptor in transfected mammalian cells and also recognized a major band of 98,000 mol. wt in western blots of human brain tissue membranes. At the light microscope level immunohistochemical studies have demonstrated that type 2-like immunoreactivity was widely distributed in the human brain, being characterized by the presence of a strong immunoreaction in multiple cortical regions, and in structures comprising the basal ganglia, to include the caudate nucleus, putamen, globus pallidus, substantia nigra and subthalamic nucleus. In the hippocampal formation, immunoreactivity was predominant in selective cell layers of both the dentate gyrus and cornu ammonis, the subicular complex and entorhinal cortex. In the thalamus, multiple subnuclei showed reaction product. In the cerebellar cortex, immunoreactivity was expressed in a number of cell layers and cell types. Furthermore, using double immunofluorescence we confirmed that the type 2 receptor is a product of normal resting astrocytes in the cerebral cortex in particular. This antibody provides a new immunological tool with the potential to evaluate the distribution of human metabotropic glutamate receptor 2 protein in other brain regions and in human central nervous system diseases.
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the activation of muscarinic receptors is a preliminary step to the endogenous release of nitric oxide modulating nicotinic transmission within the prevertebral ganglia. This work has been performed in vitro in isolated rabbit coeliac ganglion. The electrical activity of the ganglionic neurons was recorded using intracellular recording techniques. When a train of pulses of supramaximal intensity was applied to the splanchnic nerves, gradual depression of fast nicotinic transmission occurred: the pulses do not systematically elicit action potentials, but very often elicit excitatory postsynaptic potentials only. The use of pharmacological agents that interfere with the nitric oxide pathway such as L-arginine (precursor of nitric oxide) or 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide (nitric oxide scavenger) demonstrated that nitric oxide modulates this depression phenomenon by facilitating or inhibiting the nicotinic transmission of the ganglionic neurons. A nitric oxide donor (diethylamine/nitric oxide complex) induced an inhibition of the nicotinic synaptic transmission. In the presence of the muscarinic receptors antagonist atropine, L-arginine and 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide failed to modify the nicotinic transmission of the ganglionic neurons but diethylamine/nitric oxide complex was still able to inhibit it. These results demonstrate that in the coeliac ganglion, the activation of muscarinic cholinergic receptors is a prerequisite for the activation of neuronal nitric oxide synthase in preganglionic fibres. The nitric oxide released then exerts a facilitation or an inhibition of the nicotinic transmission of the ganglionic neurons. Atropine triggered a facilitation of the nicotinic transmission when superfused alone and an inhibition when superfused in the presence of 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide. These results confirm that muscarinic receptors activate the nitric oxide pathway modulating the nicotinic transmission of the prevertebral neurons. Our results also demonstrate that when the nitric oxide pathway is blocked, activation of muscarinic receptors leads to facilitation of the nicotinic transmission. Our study brings new insights concerning the modulation by nitric oxide and by muscarinic receptors of the synaptic transmission within the prevertebral ganglia.
Little is known about the nature of the calcium channels controlling neurotransmitter release from preganglionic parasympathetic nerve fibres. In the present study, the effects of selective calcium channel antagonists and amiloride were investigated on ganglionic neurotransmission. Conventional intracellular recording and focal extracellular recording techniques were used in rat submandibular and pelvic ganglia, respectively. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials and excitatory postsynaptic currents preceded by nerve terminal impulses were recorded as a measure of acetylcholine release from parasympathetic and sympathetic preganglionic fibres following nerve stimulation. The calcium channel antagonists omega-conotoxin GVIA (N type), nifedipine and nimodipine (L type), omega-conotoxin MVIIC and omega-agatoxin IVA (P/Q type), and Ni2+ (R type) had no functional inhibitory effects on synaptic transmission in both submandibular and pelvic ganglia. The potassium-sparing diuretic, amiloride, and its analogue, dimethyl amiloride, produced a reversible and concentration-dependent inhibition of excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude in the rat submandibular ganglion. The amplitude and frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials and the sensitivity of the postsynaptic membrane to acetylcholine were unaffected by amiloride. In the rat pelvic ganglion, amiloride produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of excitatory postsynaptic currents without causing any detectable effects on the amplitude or configuration of the nerve terminal impulse. These results indicate that neurotransmitter release from preganglionic parasympathetic and sympathetic nerve terminals is resistant to inhibition by specific calcium channel antagonists of N-, L-, P/Q- and R-type calcium channels. Amiloride acts presynaptically to inhibit evoked transmitter release, but does not prevent action potential propagation in the nerve terminals, suggesting that amiloride may block the pharmacologically distinct calcium channel type(s) on rat preganglionic nerve terminals.
Partial sciatic nerve injury, a model of neuropathic pain, elicits a variety of neurochemical, electrophysiological and neuroanatomical changes in primary sensory neurons. We have used the technique of messenger RNA differential display to identify genes with altered expression in these neurons which may contribute to the development of aberrant sensation following such peripheral nerve damage. This approach identified 14 distinct complementary DNA clones, representing transcripts with increased ipsilateral expression in L4/5 dorsal root ganglia, two weeks after unilateral partial ligation of the rat sciatic nerve. Both Zucker diabetic fatty rats and their lean counterparts were used in this study but none of the transcripts identified showed an induction that was confined to one of the two groups. The majority of the clones did not show significant sequence similarity to previously reported genes and therefore may represent novel messenger RNA sequences or, alternatively, unknown regions of partially characterised messenger RNAs. Two of the clones represented transcripts for the known proteins muscle LIM protein and acidic epididymal glycoprotein, neither of which had previously been associated with expression in the nervous system. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis and in situ hybridization confirmed that the messenger RNA expression of both muscle LIM protein and acidic epididymal glycoprotein was induced in an ipsilateral-specific manner. Their localisations, examined with in situ hybridization in L5 dorsal root ganglia, were limited in each case to a sub-population of neuronal profiles. Those neuronal profiles that demonstrated muscle LIM protein hybridization were distributed across the profile size range, whereas the distribution of acidic epididymal glycoprotein-positive profiles appeared to be skewed towards smaller profiles. The induction of muscle LIM protein and acidic epididymal glycoprotein in dorsal root ganglia may play an important functional role in the adaptive response of primary sensory neurons following partial sciatic nerve injury.
Axons of motoneurons to tibialis anterior and extensor digitorum longus muscles of adult rats were induced to sprout by injecting botulinum toxin into them, by partial denervation or by a combination of the two procedures. Ten weeks later, the number of motoneurons innervating the control and operated tibialis anterior and extensor digitorum longus muscles was established by retrograde labelling with horseradish peroxidase. In the same preparations, the motoneurons were also stained with a Nissl stain (gallocyanin) to reveal motoneurons in the sciatic pool. Examination of the spinal cords from animals treated with botulinum toxin showed that the number of retrogradely labelled cells and those stained with gallocyanin in the ventral horn on the treated compared to the control side was unchanged. In rats that had their L4 spinal nerve sectioned on one side, the number of retrogradely labelled cells on the operated side was 48+/-3% (n = 5) of that present in the control unoperated ventral horn. Thus, just over half the innervation was removed by cutting the L4 spinal nerve. Counts made from gallocyanin-stained sections showed that 94+/-4% (n = 5) of motoneurons were present in the ventral horn on the operated side. Thus, section of the L4 spinal nerve did not lead to any death of motoneurons. In rats that had their muscles injected with botulinum toxin three weeks prior to partial denervation, the number of retrogradely labelled cells was reduced from 48+/-3% (n = 5) to 35+/-4% (n = 5). Moreover, only 67+/-5% (n = 5) of motoneurons stained with gallocyanin, suggesting that a proportion of motoneurons died after this combined procedure. This result was supported by experiments in which motor unit numbers in extensor digitorum longus muscles were determined by measurements of stepwise increments of force in response to stimulation of the motor nerve with increasing stimulus intensity. In partially denervated extensor digitorum longus muscles, 16.6+/-0.7 (n = 5) motor units could be identified, and in animals treated with botulinum toxin prior to partial denervation only 13.3+/-0.9 (n = 3) motor units were present. Taken together, these results show that treatment with botulinum toxin followed by partial denervation causes motoneuron death in adult rats.
We have proposed that neurotrophins, in addition to their trophic actions, act as neuromodulators in the adult central nervous system. As a first step to test this hypothesis, we examined in the adult rat slice preparation whether nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3 are capable of altering the excitability of neurons of the mesencencephalic trigeminal nucleus. In contrast to vehicle pressure microapplication, which did not evoke changes in the electrophysiological properties of these neurons, neurotrophin application produced a significant increase in amplitude of the membrane potential oscillatory activity that is observed in these cells and a significant decrease in their threshold current. The latency of these effects ranged from 2 to 80 s and the duration ranged from 2 to 11 min. Neurotrophin-3 induced a decrease in input resistance and resting membrane potential in 58% of the cells; nerve growth factor induced a decrease in input resistance and resting membrane potential in 35% of the neurons. The spike configuration and action potential afterhyperpolarization potential remained unchanged following neurotrophin application. Tetrodotoxin blocked the membrane potential oscillatory activity of trigeminal mesencephalic neurons. Neurotrophin-induced effects were not blocked by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor K-252a, whereas IgG-192, an antibody directed to the neurotrophin low-affinity receptor, enhanced excitability, as did neurotrophins. These results demonstrate that neurotrophins are capable of producing a rapid increase in the excitability of trigeminal mesencephalic neurons and suggest that their effects may be mediated by low-affinity neurotrophin receptors.
The relation between serotonin release and electrical activity was examined in the nucleus raphe magnus of rats anesthetized with pentobarbital. Serotonin levels were monitored through a carbon-fiber microelectrode by fast cyclic voltammetry (usually at 1 Hz). Single-cell firing was recorded through the same microelectrode, except during the voltammetry waveform and associated electrical artifact (totaling about 30 ms). Multi-barrel micropipettes incorporating the voltammetry electrode were used for iontophoresis of drugs. Cells were inhibited, excited or unaffected by noxious mechanical skin stimulation. These were respectively designated as off(M) cells, on(M) cells and neutral(M) cells, M denoting mechanical. During 3 min of pinching, serotonin slowly rose near seven of 14 on(M) cells and 26 of 46 off(M) cells; it fell near two off(M) cells; it was unchanged near all other cells, including six neutral(M) cells. On a finer spatiotemporal scale, near four of seven on(M) cells, 10 of 14 off(M) cells and 0 of four neutral(M) cells, average serotonin levels fell significantly within +/- 100 ms of spontaneous spikes. Lower serotonin may have caused the higher spike probability; the converse is theoretically unlikely, since delays between release and detection are estimated to exceed 100 ms. Increased serotonin and decreased firing were always seen following iontophoresis or intravenous injection (1 mg/kg) of the serotonin re-uptake inhibitor clomipramine (n = 7). Iontophoresis of +/- propranolol, whose serotonergic actions include antagonism and partial agonism at 5-HT1 receptors, also increased serotonin and decreased firing (n=4). Methiothepin (intravenous, 1 mg/kg), whose serotonergic actions include 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 antagonism, typically raised serotonin levels (four of five cells) and always blocked inhibition by clomipramine (n = 3). Iontophoresis of glutamate always lowered serotonin and increased firing (n = 4). Since serotonin levels and firing were usually inversely correlated, except near on(M) cells during pinch, we propose that serotonin is released from terminals of incoming nociceptive afferents. Prior neuroanatomical knowledge favors a midbrain origin for these afferents, while some of the drug findings suggest that their terminals possess inhibitory serotonergic autoreceptors, possibly of 5-HT1b subtype. The released serotonin could contribute to the inhibition of off(M) cells and excitation of on(M) cells by noxious stimulation, since inhibitory 5-HT1a receptors and excitatory 5-HT2 receptors, respectively, have previously been shown to dominate their serotonergic responses.
We showed recently that conditioned fear to context induces Fos expression in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray [Neuroscience (1997) 78, 165-177]. Neurons in this region are thought to play an important role in the expression of freezing during conditioned fear. To test the possibility that this activation comes directly from the amygdala, we looked at changes in Fos expression after a unilateral blockade of the ventral amygdalofugal pathway with lidocaine. The pathway contains fibres originating from the central nucleus of the amygdala that project directly and mainly ipsilaterally to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. Conditioned fear was evoked by re-exposing rats to the same box in which they had previously received electric footshocks. The test re-exposure was preceded by a unilateral microinjection of lidocaine (2%, 0.5-1 microl; n = 20) or saline (n = 14). Lidocaine was also tested in non-conditioned animals (n = 13). The results show that, when lidocaine was microinjected in the medial part of the central nucleus of the amygdala or along the ventral amygdalofugal pathway of conditioned rats, fear-induced Fos expression in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray was reduced on the side ipsilateral to the injection (up to 37% reduction in comparison to the contralateral side). Ipsilateral reductions were also observed with saline, but they were weaker (maximum of 27% reduction). Fos expression remained low on both sides in the non-fear-conditioned animals injected with lidocaine. Finally, although freezing was only partly reduced in the conditioned animals unilaterally injected with lidocaine, it was significantly correlated to the ipsilateral reduction in Fos expression. This study provides direct evidence that the projection from the central nucleus of the amygdala to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray is activated during fear and that it contributes to the Fos response of the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray.
The present studies investigated sexual dimorphisms in dopamine release and uptake using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry in anesthetized rats and in brain slices. Electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle of anesthetized rats at high frequency (60 Hz) elicited significantly more extracellular dopamine in the caudate nucleus of females than males. This sex difference was apparent over a range of current intensities applied to the stimulating electrode. Local electrical stimulation of brain slices in vitro verified in vivo results as more extracellular dopamine was elicited by single and 10 pulse stimulations in the caudate nucleus of females. Kinetic analysis of in vivo and in vitro dopamine overflow data indicated that dopamine release (the concentration of dopamine released per stimulus pulse) and the maximal velocity of dopamine uptake are greater in female rats, but the affinity of the transporter for dopamine was the same in males and females. None of these three parameters varied across the female estrous cycle. Linear regression analysis of dopamine release versus maximal uptake velocity data indicated a significant association of release and uptake sites in each sex and regression lines for males and females virtually overlapped. One explanation for these results is greater dopamine neuron terminal density in female caudate nucleus. These sexual dimorphisms in dopaminergic neurotransmission provide a novel, plausible mechanism to explain robust sex differences in behavioral responses of rats to psychostimulant drugs and may have implications for human neurological disorders and drug abuse.
The effects of acute and chronic administration of 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline, an endogenous substance suspected of producing parkinsonism in humans, on the muscle tone and metabolism of dopamine in the striatum, and on the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in the substantia nigra were investigated in rats. Muscle tone was examined using a combined mechanomyographic and electromyographic method which measured simultaneously the muscle resistance of the rat's hind foot to passive extension and flexion in the ankle joint and electromyographic activity of the antagonistic muscles of that joint: gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior. 1,2,3,4-Tetrahydroisoquinoline administered at doses of 50 and 100 mg/kg intraperitoneally for 19 days increased muscle resistance 1 h after the first injection (acute treatment), 1 h after the last injection (chronic treatment) and three days after compound withdrawal. Rigidity observed on the third day of 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline withdrawal was accompanied by an increased tonic (resting) electromyographic activity of the gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior muscles. At the same time, a significant reduction in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons in the substantia nigra and a decrease in the dopamine level in the striatum were also found. A declining number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons in the whole substantia nigra showed a significant negative correlation with the enhanced muscle resistance, as well as with the tonic electromyographic activity recorded at rest, i.e. before the start of movements, from the gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior muscles. Our results suggest that 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline may be one of the endogenous substances involved in the progress of Parkinson's disease.
The aim of the study was to determine the role of dopamine on the GABAergic input to striatal projection neurons. Accordingly, the effect of the activation of dopamine D2-like receptors on GABA-mediated depolarizing postsynaptic potentials evoked in striatal slices by local stimulation was studied. Conventional intracellular recording techniques were used to record the synaptic responses. The experiments were done in the presence of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (20 microM) and (+)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (40 microM) to block the participation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate/kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the synaptic response. The GABAergic nature of the response was assessed by its potentiation by pentobarbital (50 microM) and by its elimination by bicuculline or picrotoxin. At 100 nM, a concentration already maximal, dopamine inhibited by 55% the GABAergic synaptic response. The inhibitory effect was totally blocked by the selective antagonist of D2-like receptors, sulpiride (100 nM). The dopamine inhibition was observed only in one-third of the studied neurons and was concentration dependent (IC50 = 14 nM). The inhibition was not associated with changes in the input resistance or any other membrane property. In addition, dopamine (50 nM) reduced the frequency but not the amplitude of spontaneous, bicuculline-sensitive depolarizing postsynaptic potentials. The D2-like receptor agonist quinpirole also dose-dependently (IC50 = 10 nM) inhibited the GABAergic synaptic response. As with dopamine, the inhibition did not change the membrane properties of the studied neurons. In addition, the quinpirole induced inhibition of the GABA response was accompanied by increased paired-pulse facilitation. The results indicate that D2-like receptors located on intrinsic GABAergic terminals in the rat striatum exert an inhibitory control of the GABAergic input to striatal projection neurons. The dopaminergic effect would be translated in facilitation of the firing of the neurons upon the arrival of the cortical input.
Detailed analysis of a novel transgenic model of basal ganglia disease has been undertaken. In this model the expression of an attenuated form of the diphtheria toxin gene was tightly controlled by D1 dopamine receptor regulatory domains. The behavioral and both direct toxin-mediated and transneuronal effects observed in pups in the first postnatal week have been described. Although younger pups are bradykinetic, older pups have a hyperkinetic syndrome with gait abnormality, postural instability and myoclonic jerks typical of human basal ganglia diseases such as Huntington's disease. As expected, striatal D1 dopamine receptor, dynorphin and substance P transcripts were not detected by in situ hybridization but there was a 27% increase in striatal D2 dopamine receptor messenger RNA and a 65% increase in enkephalin messenger RNA expression. Receptor autoradiographic studies confirmed the lack of D1-class binding in the mutant striatum and in contrast to young pups, a substantial increase in striatal D2-class binding. Autoradiographic quantitation also showed a 30% increase in striatal dopamine transporter binding. In addition to the changes described in the striatopallidal and nigrostriatal pathways, up-regulated dynorphin and substance P messenger RNA expression was also seen in the cortex. The capacity of the developing brain for neurochemical adaptation following injury is dramatic. The results show that primary loss of D1 dopamine receptor-positive striatonigral pathway neurons is sufficient to generate a hyperkinetic phenotype.
The neurochemical profile was examined at postnatal day 3-4 in mutant mice generated by in vivo Cre mediated activation of an attenuated diphtheria toxin gene inserted into the D1 dopamine receptor gene locus. An earlier study of this model had shown that D1 dopamine receptor, substance P and dynorphin were not expressed in the striatum. Quantitative in situ hybridization analysis showed an increase in D2 dopamine receptor and enkephalin messenger RNA expression. The nigrostriatal pathway in the mutant pups was intact with a normal number of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area in addition to a normal pattern of striatal dopamine transporter and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. Quantitative analysis of striatal dopamine transporter density using [3H]mazindol showed a reduction of 26% suggesting a degree of transneuronal down-regulation. There was also a 49% reduction of striatal GABA receptor binding and a 36% reduction of striatal muscarinic receptor binding in mutant pups. The number of healthy striatal neuropeptide Y-containing interneurons was also substantially down-regulated in the mutant striatum. In contrast, there was an increase in the number of striatal cholinergic interneurons. Down-regulated cortical GABA receptor and muscarinic receptor binding was also observed in addition to subtle morphological changes in the neuropeptide Y-expressing population of cortical neurons. The changes reflect the early cascade of events which follows the ablation of D1 dopamine receptor-positive cells. Although extensive changes in a number of striatal and cortical neurons were demonstrated, only subtle transneuronal effects were seen in the nigrostriatal pathway.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor receptor alpha1 (GFRalpha1, also known as GDNFR-alpha) is a glycolipid-anchored membrane protein of the GFRalpha family, which binds glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor [Jing S. et al. (1996) Cell 85, 1113-1124; Treanor J. J. et al. (1996) Nature 382, 80-83], a survival factor for several populations of central and peripheral neurons, including midbrain dopamine neurons [Lin L. F. et al. (1993) Science 260, 1130-1132], and mediates its ligand-induced cell response via a tyrosine kinase receptor called Ret [Takahashi M. et al. (1988) Oncogene 3, 571-578; Takahashi M. and Cooper G. M. (1987) Molec. Cell Biol. 7, 1378-1385]. In this paper, we show that mice with a null mutation of the GFRalpha1 gene manifest epithelial-mesenchymal interaction deficits in kidney and severe disturbances of intestinal tract development similar to those seen with glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor or Ret null mutations. There is a marked renal dysgenesis or agenesis and the intrinsic enteric nervous system fails completely to develop. We also show that newborn GFRalpha1-deficient mice display no or minimal changes in dorsal root and sympathetic ganglia. This is in contrast to the deficits reported in these neuronal populations in glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and Ret null mutations. Mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area appear intact at the time of birth of the mutated mice. Mice homozygous for the GFRalpha1 null mutation die within 24 h of birth because of uremia. Heterozygous animals, however, live to adulthood. There is a significantly reduced neuroprotective effect of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor in such heterozygous animals, compared with wild-type littermates, after cerebral ischemia. Taken together with previous data on glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and Ret, our results strongly suggest that GFRalpha1 is the essential GFRalpha receptor for signaling in the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-Ret pathway in the kidney and enteric nervous system development, and that GFRalpha2 or GFRalpha3 cannot substitute for the absence of GFRalpha1. Moreover, neuroprotective actions of exogenous glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor also require full GFRalpha1 receptor expression.
The primate rhinal cortex, consisting of areas 36 and 35 of the perirhinal cortex and the entorhinal cortex (area 28), plays a crucial role in perception and memory. We investigated the expression of messenger RNAs for brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3, as well as those for their respective tyrosine kinase receptors, TrkB and TrkC, in the monkey rhinal cortex. Results from in situ hybridization revealed that each of these messenger RNAs was expressed in neurons with distinct laminar and areal patterns of distribution. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA was principally detected in layers V/ VI of area 36, and layers II/III and V of the entorhinal cortex. Some of the messenger RNA-positive cells in the deep layers of the rhinal cortex were confirmed to exhibit a pyramidal cell-like morphology. Neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA expression was confined to layers II/III of the entorhinal cortex. In contrast, trkB and trkC messenger RNAs were expressed rather homogeneously and abundantly throughout the rhinal cortex. The laminar and cellular distributions of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 messenger RNAs indicate the predominant expression of these neurotrophins in projection neurons. These results suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 regulate neuronal connectivities of forward and backward projections from the rhinal cortex and contribute to functional reorganization underlying the formation and maintenance of long-term memory in primates.
The dentate gyrus retains neuronal proliferative potential throughout life. Using immature endothelin B receptor-deficient (sl/sl) rats, a rabbit model of pneumococcal meningitis and autopsy brains from humans who died from pneumococcal meningitis, we explored the role of endothelin B receptors in physiological and pathological neuronal apoptosis in the dentate gyrus. At postnatal days 3-4, the rate of apoptosis in the dentate gyrus was high in all rats, declining to low levels in wild-type rats (+/+) on days 14 and 22, but remaining high in both homozygous (sl/sl) and heterozygous (sl/+) endothelin B receptor-deficient rats. Increased apoptosis was not significantly compensated for by neuronal proliferation. Hippocampal neuronal cultures also exhibited genotype-dependent apoptosis with the highest rate in neurons from homozygous endothelin B receptor-deficient (sl/sl) rats. In rabbit and human pneumococcal meningitis, increased apoptosis in the dentate gyrus was associated with loss of neuronal endothelin B receptor immunoreactivity. In conclusion, endothelin B receptors appear to act as neuronal survival factors in the dentate gyrus in rodents and man, both during postnatal development and under pathological conditions.
Increasing evidence suggests that Angiotensin II, classically known from its many effects regulating salt and water homeostasis, is also involved in brain development and cognitive functions through activation of AT1 Angiotensin II receptors. The recently cloned gerbil AT1 receptor is expressed in brain areas controlling hydro-mineral homeostasis, and particularly highly expressed in limbic areas such as the hippocampal formation. We quantified the gerbil AT1 receptor messenger RNA expression and receptor binding by quantitative in situ hybridization and receptor autoradiography, respectively, in the hippocampal formation and cerebral cortex of gerbils during postnatal development. The receptor messenger RNA and binding were present from birth and showed a gradual and sustained increase through postnatal maturation in the CA1 and CA2 regions of the hippocampus and in the dentate gyrus. Conversely, in the CA3 region, no binding was detected while receptor messenger RNA peaked at 15 days after birth and disappeared in the adult. The highest receptor messenger RNA expression and binding were found in the septomedial portions of the CA1 region and at septal levels of the CA2 region. We detected the highest receptor messenger RNA expression at postnatal day one in the frontolateral pole of the cerebral hemispheres. In these areas, and in the frontoparietal and insular cortex, receptor messenger RNA dramatically decreased during postnatal life. Similarly, we found receptor messenger RNA expression in the cingulate, retrosplenial, perirhinal and infralimbic cortex with higher values during the first two weeks of development and decreased expression in the adult. However, receptor binding in the cerebral cortex, did not decrease during postnatal life. The differential profile of receptor messenger RNA expression and binding in the gerbil cortex and hippocampus during postnatal maturation suggest a role for AT1 receptors in the development and function of the corticohippocampal system.
Glutamate can stimulate increases in intracellular magnesium concentration ([Mg2+]i) and induce neurotoxicity, both independent of Ca2+ changes. Although Mg2+ is essential within the cell, very little is known about how it is regulated, especially in neurons. Therefore we used the fluorescent indicator, magindo-1 and confocal microscopy to examine possible intracellular pools of Mg2+ in cultured neurons that can be dynamically regulated by glutamate. The magindo-1 fluorescence signal was present throughout the cell body and extends into the neuronal processes. The magindo-1 405 nm/490 nm ratio signal was similar in the cytoplasm and nucleus, suggesting that resting [Mg2+]i is uniform across the neuron. The addition of 100 microM glutamate/10 microM glycine in an extracellular Ca2+- and Na+-free buffer stimulated an increase in [Mg2+]i in both the nuclear and cytoplasmic regions of similar magnitude and duration. This glutamate exposure also stimulated a [Mg2+]i increase in neuronal processes which was inhibited by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, MK-801 (10 microM). The glutamate-stimulated [Mg2+]i increase in both the cell body and neuronal processes was dependent on the extracellular Mg2+ concentration. These findings suggest glutamate-stimulated [Mg2+]i changes may not only impact cytoplasmic processes, but also directly trigger nuclear events involved, for example, in neuronal injury.
Current-clamp and single-electrode voltage-clamp recordings were used to study the inward currents activated in the subthreshold membrane potential range of cortical pyramidal neurons. The experiments were done on slices from guinea-pig frontal cortex and all recordings were obtained at a distance of 600-900 microm from the pial surface. In current-clamp recordings and from membrane potentials hyperpolarized to about -70 mV, the depolarization leading to spike firing was partially blocked by 1 microM tetrodotoxin, but not by calcium-free extracellular solution. The calcium-free solution only affected this depolarization when the membrane potential was held at a level more negative than -75 mV. Under voltage-clamp, an inward current was recorded between the resting membrane potential and the level of spike firing. This current was activated at about -60 mV and part of it was blocked by 1 microM tetrodotoxin; the remaining current was blocked by calcium-free extracellular solution. In five neurons both components were recorded and isolated in the same cell. The tetrodotoxin-sensitive component activated at close to -60 mV, was similar to the persistent sodium current (I(Na-p)). The Ca2+-sensitive component activated at close to -60 or -65 mV, was less voltage-dependent than I(Na-p). This component was similar to the low threshold calcium current (I(T)). These results suggest that the subthreshold depolarization which led to spike firing was dependent on I(Na-p) and I(T), I(Na-p) being the most important factor up to resting membrane potentials of -70 or -75 mV. A physiological role of this finding is revealed by the action of dopamine, which (at 10 microM) prevented the firing of action potentials from -60 mV, but not from -80 mV due to the inhibition of I(Na-p) and the lack of effect on I(T).
In the present work we propose a new phylogenetic hypothesis for the role played by cortical and subcortical afferents to the nucleus of the optical tract, the main visual relay station of the horizontal optokinetic reflex in mammals. The hypothesis is supported by anatomical and physiological data obtained in the South American opossum (Didelphis aurita) using the following experimental approaches: (i) single-unit recordings in the nucleus of the optic tract and simultaneous electrical stimulation of the contralateral nucleus of the optic tract; (ii) single-unit recordings in the nucleus of the optic tract and simultaneous electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral striate cortex; (iii) injection of cholera toxin subunit B into the striate cortex and subsequent immunohistochemical reaction to reveal the presence of the marker in the thalamus and mesencephalon; and (iv) single-unit recordings in the nucleus of the optic tract both before and after ablation of the ipsilateral visual cortex. The main results are: (i) there is a strong inhibitory reciprocal effect upon the nucleus of the optic tract following stimulation of its contralateral counterpart; (ii) electrophysiological and anatomical data imply that the visual cortex does not project directly to the nucleus of the optic tract. Rather, cortical terminals seem to target the nearby anterior and posterior pretectal nuclei and orthodromic latencies in the nucleus of the optic tract following stimulation of the visual cortex were twice as large as in the superior colicullus; and (iii) ablation of the entire visual cortex did not have any effect upon binocularity of cells in the nucleus of the optic tract. These results strengthen the model proposed here for the role of the interactions between the nuclei of the optic tract under optokinetic stimulation. The hypothesis in the present work is that the cortical influences upon the nucleus of the optical tract, in addition to the subcortical ones, appeared only recently in phylogenesis. In more primitive mammals, such as the opossum, subcortical interactions are thought to play a relatively important role. With the emergence of retinal specializations, such as the fovea, one might suppose that there followed the appearance of new ocular movements, such as the smooth pursuit and certain types of saccades, that came to join the pre-existent optokinetic reflex.
Basal forebrain corticopetal neurons participate in the mediation of arousal, specific attentional functions and rapid eye movement sleep-associated dreaming. Recent studies on the afferent regulation of basal forebrain neurons by telencephalic and brainstem inputs have provided the basis for hypotheses which, collectively, propose that the involvement of basal forebrain corticopetal projections in arousal, attention and dreaming can be dissociated on the basis of their regulation via major afferent projections. While the processing underlying sustained, selective and divided attention performance depends on the integrity of the telencephalic afferent regulation of basal forebrain corticopetal neurons, arousal-induced attentional processing (i.e. stimulus detection, selection and processing as a result of a novel, highly salient, aversive or incentive stimuli) is mediated via the ability of brainstem ascending noradrenergic projections to the basal forebrain to activate or &quot;recruit&quot; these telencephalic afferent circuits of the basal forebrain. In rapid eye movement sleep, both the basal forebrain and thalamic cortiocopetal projections are stimulated by cholinergic afferents originating mainly from the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmenta in the brainstem. Rapid eye movement sleep-associated dreaming is described as a form of hyperattentional processing, mediated by increased activity of cortical cholinergic inputs and their cortical interactions with activated thalamic efferents. In this context, long-standing speculations about the similarities between dreaming and psychotic cognition are substantiated by describing the role of an over(re)active cortical cholinergic input system in either condition. Finally, while determination of the afferent regulation of basal forebrain corticopetal neurons in different behavioral/cognitive states assists in defining the general cognitive functions of cortical acetylcholine, this research requires a specification of the precise anatomical organization of basal forebrain afferents and their interactions in the basal forebrain. Furthermore, the present hypotheses remain incomplete because of the paucity of data concerning the regulation and role of basal forebrain non-cholinergic, particularly GABAergic, efferents.
The release of chemical transmitter from nerve terminals is critically dependent on a transient increase in intracellular Ca2+. The increase in Ca2+ may be due to influx of Ca2+ from the extracellular fluid or release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores such as mitochondria. Whether Ca2+ utilized in transmitter release is liberated from organelles other than mitochondria is uncertain. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum is known to release Ca2+, e.g., on activation by inositol trisphosphate or cyclic adenosine diphosphate-ribose, so the possibility exists that Ca2+ from this source may be involved in the events leading to exocytosis. We examined this hypothesis by testing whether inositol trisphosphate and cyclic adenosine diphosphate-ribose modified transmitter release. We used liposomes to deliver these agents into the cytoplasmic compartment and binomial analysis to determine their effects on the quantal components of transmitter release. Administration of inositol trisphosphate (10(-4)M) caused a rapid, 25% increase in the number of quanta released. This was due to an increase in the number of functional release sites, as the other quantal parameters were unaffected. The effect was reversed with 40 min of wash. Virtually identical results were obtained with cyclic adenosine diphosphate-ribose (10(-4)M). Inositol trisphosphate caused a 10% increase in quantal size, whereas cyclic adenosine diphosphate-ribose had no effect. The results suggest that quantal transmitter release can be increased by Ca2+ released from smooth endoplasmic reticulum upon stimulation by inositol trisphosphate or cyclic adenosine diphosphate-ribose. This may involve priming of synaptic vesicles at the release sites or mobilization of vesicles to the active zone. Inositol trisphosphate may have an additional action to increase the content of transmitter within the vesicles. These findings raise the possibility of a role of endogenous inositol phosphate and smooth endoplasmic reticulum in the regulation of cytoplasmic Ca2+ and transmitter release.
It is well known that neuronal differentiation is strongly dependent on the intracellular level of free calcium ions ([Ca2+]i). In the present study the morphological and intracellular free calcium concentration changes were compared on PC12 pheochromocytoma cells cultured in control conditions and in a medium with high KCl level. Culturing PC12 cells in a medium with 20-30 mM KCl deprived of nerve growth factor supported cell proliferation and rapid growth of small neurite-like processes. However, their lengths did not increase with prolongation of the time of culturing. During culturing with 40 mM KCl the growth of these processes became blocked; the cells stopped proliferating and showed signs of degeneration. Measurements of [Ca2+]i level during the first days of PC12 cells culturing in a hyperpotassium medium indicate that such changes in this level could be an important factor in the induction of the observed morphological alterations; however, other effects induced by membrane depolarization may also be responsible for them.
Consolidation of a labile memory which would not normally be stored can be achieved by intracerebral administration of noradrenaline. In a series of experiments using discriminated, one trial passive avoidance learning with the day-old chick, the effect of noradrenaline has been shown to be due to actions at different subtypes of adrenoceptors. The effect of noradrenaline is dose-dependent, with a moderate dose producing memory consolidation. However, higher doses of noradrenaline (0.3-10 nmol/hemisphere) prevent consolidation, an effect not seen with isoprenaline suggesting that these doses stimulate alpha-adrenoceptors. The promotion of memory consolidation by noradrenaline or isoprenaline at low doses was attributable to beta3-adrenoceptors and at medium doses to beta2-adrenoceptors. At higher doses of noradrenaline, there was alpha1-adrenoceptor-mediated inhibition of memory consolidation. Consolidation can also be achieved by administration of either beta2- or beta3-adrenoceptor agonists at specific times after training. Although these two adrenoceptors both promoted memory consolidation, there was a differential action on the stages of memory formation. The dose-response curve to the beta3- and the beta2-agonists was shifted by the appropriate antagonist but not by the antagonist at the other beta-adrenoceptor. Although beta1-adrenoceptors are present in chick brain, they do not seem to have a role in memory formation. These results explain why noradrenaline, acting at different adrenoceptors, can have different effects on memory formation with memory being either consolidated or inhibited depending on the dose. The findings also demonstrate a role in memory formation for beta3-adrenoceptors found in the brain. Agonists acting specifically at beta2- or beta3-adrenoceptors may be of value in diseases involving cognitive impairment.
A mutant mouse with cerebellar cortical atrophy, staggerer, was examined in tests of motor activity and co-ordination as well as in regional brain metabolism as assessed by cytochrome oxidase activity. Compared with non-ataxic controls, staggerer mutants had inferior performances in the open field, the wooden beam, the wooden edge, and the rotorod tests. An increase in cytochrome oxidase activity in the deep cerebellar nuclei and in some cerebellar efferent regions, such as the lateral vestibular nucleus, the parvicellular red nucleus, and the ventral tegmental area, was found in staggerer mutant mice. Abnormally high cytochrome oxidase activity in the interpositus and the dentate nuclei was linearly correlated with poor performance on the wooden beam and on the rotorod. High cytochrome oxidase activity in the lateral vestibular nucleus was also associated with poor performance on the wooden beam. Moreover, high cytochrome oxidase activity in the fastigial nucleus was associated with poor performance on the wooden beam but with high motor activity in the open field. These results indicate that a lack of innervation of Purkinje cells to the deep cerebellar nuclei is in part the cause of motor co-ordination deficits in staggerer mutant mice.
TRAAK is the sole member of the emerging class of 2P domain K+ channels to be exclusively expressed in neuronal cells. TRAAK produces baseline K+ currents which are strongly stimulated by arachidonic acid and by mechanical stretch, and which are insensitive to the classical K+ channel blockers tetraethylammonium, Ba2+, and Cs+. This report describes the immunolocalization of TRAAK in brain, spinal cord, and retina of the adult mouse. The most striking finding is the widespread distribution of the TRAAK immunoreactivity, with a prominent staining of the cerebellar cortex, neocortex, hippocampus, dentate gyrus, subiculum, the dorsal hippocampal commissure, thalamus, caudate-putamen, olfactory bulb, and several nuclei in the brainstem. Virtually all neurons express TRAAK, and the highest immunoreactivity was seen in soma, and to a lesser degree in axons and/or dendrites in most areas in brain and spinal cord. In the retina, the TRAAK protein is concentrated to the soma of ganglion cells and to the dendrites of all other neurons. Taken together, these results show a wide distribution of TRAAK, a mechanosensitive and arachidonic acid-stimulated neuron-specific baseline K+ channel, in brain, spinal cord and retina.
Polyclonal antibodies were raised against a synthetic hexadecapeptide corresponding to the portion of the second intracytoplasmic loop of the short form of the mouse 5-hydroxytryptamine-3A receptor subunit (5-HT3A-S), which differs from the long form (5-HT3A-L) by the removal of six amino acids. Antibodies were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay as soon as two months after the first injection to rabbits of the peptide coupled to keyhole limpet hemocyanin. Immunoblot detection of fusion proteins comprising glutathione-S-transferase and the second intracellular loop of 5-HT3A-S or 5-HT3A-L, and immunoprecipitation of cloned receptors showed that antibodies exhibited some selectivity for the short variant. Affinity chromatography allowed the purification of selective anti-5-HT3A-S antibodies which yielded a strong positive labeling of plasma membrane, reticulum and Golgi apparatus of COS-7 cells expressing murine 5-HT3A-S. In contrast, COS-7 cells expressing similar levels of 5-HT3A-L exhibited only a very weak labeling. Selectivity was also observed on immunoblots of cloned receptors transiently expressed in COS-7 cells, or stably expressed in CHO cells, both systems showing an immunolabeled component at 53,000-54,000 mol. wt. Immunoautoradiographic labeling of central nervous system sections showed that 5-HT3A-S-like immunoreactivity was found mostly within the nucleus of the solitary tract, the nucleus of the spinal tract of the trigeminal nerve, and the dorsal horn of the the spinal cord in the rat. After unilateral ablation of the nodose ganglion, 5-HT3A-S-like immunoreactivity decreased markedly in the ipsilateral part of the nucleus of the solitary tract, as expected of the presynaptic localization of 5-HT3 receptors. Finally, immunohistochemistry at the light and electron microscope levels revealed that 5-HT3A-S-like immunoreactivity was associated essentially with terminals and axonal profiles. All these results demonstrate that the immunolabeling exhibited by these antibodies is consistent with a specific and partially selective recognition of the short isoform of the 5-HT3A subunit. Because the pattern of immunoautoradiographic labeling matches the distribution previously established with selective radioligands, it can be inferred that these antibodies probably recognized the same fully assembled form of the 5-HT3A-S receptor subunit.
To date, two structurally related RNA-editing enzymes with adenosine deaminase activity have been identified in mammalian tissue: ADAR1 and ADAR2 [Bass B. I. et al. (1997) RNA 3, 947-949]. In rodents, ADAR2 undergoes alternative RNA splicing, giving rise to two splice variants that differ by the presence or absence of a 10-amino-acid insert in the carboxy-terminal catalytic domain. However, the physiological significance of the splicing and its regional and developmental regulation are as yet unknown. The present study examined spatial and temporal patterns of ADAR2 gene transcripts within specific neuronal populations of rat brain. The two rodent ADAR2 isoforms were expressed at comparable levels at all ages examined. rADAR2 messenger RNA expression was first detectable in the thalamic nuclei formation at embryonic day E19. The rADAR2b insert and rADAR2a splice probes produced images similar to that of the rADAR2 pan probe. At birth, rADAR2a messenger RNA splice variants were abundantly expressed in the thalamic nuclei. No signal for any probe was detectable in other brain regions, including neocortex, hippocampus, striatum and cerebellum at this stage of development. During the first week of postnatal life, rADAR2 messenger RNA expression (detected with the pan probe) increased gradually in several brain regions, with low expression detected at postnatal day P7 in the olfactory bulb, inferior colliculus, and within the pyramidal and granule cell layers of the hippocampus. Hybridization patterns of the rADAR2a variant probe reached peak expression at about the second week of life, while peak expression of the rADAR2b probe was reached at about the third week of life. At the end of the first week of life (P7), expression of both splice variants was strongest in the thalamic nuclei. By P14, rADAR2 messenger RNA expression was more consolidated in the deeper structures, including the thalamic nuclei and the granule cell layer of the cerebellum. By P21, maximal levels of rADARb expression were observed in the thalamic nuclei, inferior colliculus, cerebellum and pontine nuclei. In the adult, rADAR2 messenger RNA expression was of highest intensity in the thalamic nuclei, with high levels of expression in the olfactory bulb, inferior colliculus, cerebellum and pontine nuclei. At the level of the hippocampus, positive labelling was restricted to the CA3 region of the Ammon's horn and the dentate gyrus, with weak signals in the CA1 subfield. rADAR2 pan expression was at near background levels throughout the neocortex and caudate putamen. In summary, our study shows that ADAR2 messenger RNA expression is regulated in a cell-specific manner throughout development. At early ages, ADAR2 messenger RNA is expressed only within (and restricted to) the thalamic nuclei. By the third postnatal week, expression of the editase enzyme is more widely distributed throughout the olfactory bulb, CA3 and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, thalamus, inferior colliculus and the molecular cell layer of the cerebellum. ADAR2 is thought to act at specific nucleotide positions in primary transcripts encoding glutamate receptor subunits, thereby altering gating and ionic permeability properties of AMPA- and kainate-activated channels. ADAR2 also acts at pre-messenger RNA encoding the serotonin 5HT-2C receptor to alter G-protein coupling. Thus, RNA editing may be an important mechanism for fine-tuning of the physiological and pharmacological properties of transmitter receptors of the central nervous system.
Expression of gap junction proteins and cell-cell communication was studied in the human neural-glial cell line, SVG, as a first step in defining whether the SVG cells could be used as a model system to study the role of gap junctions in neuronal precursor cells. SVG cells were found to express connexin43 protein that co-migrated with WB-F344 rat liver connexin43 and that reacted with connexin43-specific antibodies on Western blots. However, fluorescence recovery after photobleaching analysis of 5,6-carboxyfluorescein-loaded cells failed to show significant dye coupling. Agents that stimulate the adenylyl cyclase/cAMP pathway were used to induce gap junctional intercellular communication in the SVG cultures. A 24-48 h treatment of SVG cells with 5 microM forskolin or 5 microM forskolin + 200 microM 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine increased the percentage of dye-coupled cells from 5-65%, using the fluorescent recovery after photobleaching method. The increase in dye coupling induced by forskolin or forskolin + 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine was inhibited by octanol, which is known to block gap junction-mediated cell communication. Western blot analysis of total protein extracts revealed the appearance of a higher molecular weight connexin43 protein band after treatment of SVG cells with forskolin or forskolin + 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, that was not observed in vehicle-treated controls. Alkaline phosphatase treatment of total protein extracts from forskolin or forskolin + 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine-treated cells reduced the higher molecular weight band to approximately 41,000 the same as observed in the control extracts. The alkaline phosphatase treatment demonstrates that the higher molecular weight band was due to a phosphorylation event stimulated by forskolin or the forskolin + 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine combination. In addition, treatment of the SVG cells with the forskolin or forskolin + 3-isobutyl-l-methylxanthine stimulated outgrowth of neurite-like processes from the cell body which immunostained positive for the connexin43 protein as well as protein markers for neurons and oligodendrocytes. We hypothesize that the SVG cells may represent a neuronal progenitor cell population that has the ability to differentiate when exposed to the appropriate signals.
Middle cerebral artery occlusion may result in increased activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate- or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA)-type receptors by glutamate and lead to neuronal cell death. To characterize molecular events that precede cell death following transient focal ischemia, in situ hybridization histochemistry was used to measure levels of glutamate receptor subunit 1 (GluR1), GluR2, GluR3, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 (NR1) and preproenkephalin messenger RNAs in adult rats at various recirculation times (1.5, 3 and 24 h) following a 90-min period of middle cerebral artery occlusion. At 1.5 and 3 h recirculation, autoradiography showed pronounced but differential decreases in AMPA, NR1 and preproenkephalin messenger RNA expression throughout the infarcted ipsilateral striatum. Non-uniform patterns of in situ hybridization grains emerged such that many striatal neurons were depleted of AMPA and preproenkephalin messenger RNAs, while others retained control levels. In cortical regions destined to undergo infarction, GluR2 and NR1 messenger RNAs were preferentially reduced relative to the contralateral side (to 75+/-8.5% and 66+/-4.5%, respectively); GluR1, GluR3 and preproenkephalin messenger RNAs were unaltered. At 24 h recirculation, depletion of striatal and cortical messenger RNAs became less selective. GluR3 and preproenkephalin messenger RNAs were up-regulated in ipsilateral spared regions of the striatum, and GluR1 and GluR2 messenger RNAs increased bilaterally in the cingulate cortex and in selective nuclei of the amygdala. Histological cell death or neurodegeneration was not detected in areas of reduced glutamate and preproenkephalin messenger RNA expression in either the ipsilateral striatum or cortex before 24 h. These findings suggest that complex and long-lasting decreases in messenger RNA expression occur prior to significant cell loss in regions destined to undergo infarction. Increased formation of Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptor assemblies may occur in &quot;unspared&quot; and &quot;spared&quot; regions via different mechanisms and contribute to alterations in post-ischemic synaptic activity. The possibility arises that there may be altered relationships between glutamatergic and enkephalin synapses, since the dorsolateral striatum, where preproenkephalin messenger RNA expression is acutely reduced, receives innervation by the affected ipsilateral cortical region.
Severe perinatal asphyxia can lead to injury and dysfunction of the basal ganglia. Post insult administration of insulin-like growth factor-1 is neuroprotective, particularly in the striatum. Insulin-like growth factor-1 is also known to be a neuromodulator of several types of striatal neurons. The striatum comprises various phenotypic neurons with a complex neurochemical anatomy and physiology. In the present study, we examined the specificity of neuronal rescue with insulin-like growth factor-1 on different striatal neurons. Bilateral brain injury was induced in near term fetal sheep by 30 min of reversible carotid artery occlusion. A single dose of 3 microg of insulin-like growth factor-1 was infused over 1 h into the lateral ventricle 90 min following ischemia. The histological and immunohistochemical outcome were examined after 4 days recovery using paraffin tissue preparations. Insulin-like growth factor-1 treatment (n = 11) significantly reduced the percentage of neuronal loss in the striatum compared with the vehicle treated group (n = 10, 28.3+/-5.1% vs 55.5+/-17.3%, P &lt; 0.005). Immunohistochemical studies showed that ischemia resulted in a significant loss of calbindin-28kd, choline acetyltransferase, parvalbumin, glutamate acid decarboxylase, neuronal nitric oxide synthase and neuropeptide Y immunopositive neurons, compared with sham controls. Insulin-like growth factor-1 markedly prevented the loss of calbindin-28kd (n = 7, P &lt; 0.05), choline acetyltransferase (n = 7, P &lt; 0.05), neuropeptide Y (n = 7, P &lt; 0.05), neuronal nitric oxide synthase (n = 8, P &lt; 0.05) and glutamate acid decarboxylase (n = 9, P &lt; 0.05) immunopositive neurons, but failed to protect parvalbumin (n = 6) immunopositive neurons. The present study indicates that the therapeutic effect of insulin-like growth factor-1 in the basal ganglia is selectively associated with cholinergic and some phenotypic GABAergic neurons. These data suggest a potential role for insulin-like growth factor-1 in preventing cerebral palsy due to perinatal asphyxia.
The expression of inducible and constitutive heme oxygenase and biliverdin reductase was studied in normal and cultured peripheral ganglia from adult rats, using immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization. Dramatic changes were induced by one to two days' culturing of dorsal root ganglia, nodose ganglia, otic ganglia, sphenopalatine ganglia and superior cervical ganglia. An up-regulation of inducible heme oxygenase was found in satellite cells of the cultured nodose ganglia, dorsal root ganglia, sphenopalatine ganglia and otic ganglia, whereas only a few satellite cells in the superior cervical ganglia responded with an increase in inducible heme oxygenase immunoreactivity. In the superior cervical ganglia inducible heme oxygenase also appeared in a subpopulation of macrophages. During culturing, expression of inducible heme oxygenase immunoreactivity also increased in axons and in nerve cell bodies. In situ hybridization corroborated the immunocytochemical findings, revealing a strong up-regulation of inducible heme oxygenase messenger RNA in satellite cells, and less pronounced up-regulation in nerve cell bodies. Constitutive heme oxygenase immunoreactivity was found in most neurons in all of the ganglia studied. No significant changes in constitutive heme oxygenase immunoreactivity could be observed in cultured ganglia. Biliverdin reductase immunoreactivity was barely detectable in any of the normal ganglia; however, after culturing it appeared in axons, single nerve cell bodies and nerve cell nuclei. The results show that inducible heme oxygenase is up-regulated in peripheral ganglia after axonal injury, and suggest a role for carbon monoxide in cellular signaling and a requirement for the antioxidant (bilirubin) during the regeneration process.
Recent pharmacological evidence has implicated substance P and neurokinin A, natural ligands for neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-2 receptors, respectively, as neurotransmitters in brain neuronal circuits activated upon noxious stimulation. The expression of the inducible transcription factor, c-Fos, was used to identify areas in the brain activated by a noxious stimulus (the subcutaneous injection of formalin), and to investigate the effects of intracerebroventricular administration of selective, nonpeptide antagonists for neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-2 tachykinin receptors on the neural activity in these areas and on the behavioural response to formalin-induced pain. Formalin (5%, 50 microl), injected subcutaneously through a chronically implanted catheter in the region of the lower hindlimb, increased c-Fos expression in a number of brain areas related to nociceptive transmission or the integration of stress responses. Grooming behaviour, licking and biting directed to the injected site, was the most frequent behavioural response. Intracerebroventricular pretreatment of rats with either RP 67580 (500 pmol), the active enantiomer of a neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, or with SR 48968 (500 pmol), the active enantiomer of a neurokinin-2 receptor antagonist, reduced the formalin-induced c-Fos staining in the prefrontal cortex, dorsomedial and ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus, the locus coeruleus and the periaqueductal gray. The neurokinin-1, but not the neurokinin-2, receptor antagonist attenuated the formalin-induced activation of c-Fos in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Simultaneous intracerebroventricular pretreatment with both neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-2 receptor antagonists did not produce any additional inhibitory effect on the post-formalin c-Fos expression. None of the tachykinin receptor antagonists had an effect on the formalin-induced c-Fos expression in the septohypothalamic nucleus, medial thalamus, parabrachial nucleus and central amygdaloid nucleus, indicating that neurotransmitters other than neurokinins are most probably responsible for the activation of these areas in response to noxious stimulation. While both tachykinin receptor antagonists reduced the grooming behaviour to formalin, the neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist was clearly more effective than the neurokinin-2 receptor antagonist. Intracerebroventricular pretreatment of rats with the inactive enantiomers of the tachykinin receptor antagonists, RP 68651 and SR 48965, was without effect. Our results show that (i) the modified formalin test elicited an intense grooming behaviour and expression of c-Fos in numerous forebrain and brainstem areas, (ii) both tachykinin receptor antagonists were able to attenuate the behavioural response to pain and to reduce the formalin-induced c-Fos expression in some, but not all, brain areas, and (iii) the neurokinin-1 antagonist, RP 67580, was more effective in inhibiting the behavioural response to formalin and the pain-induced activation of c-Fos than the antagonist for neurokinin-2 receptors, SR 48968, indicating that neurokinin-1 receptors are preferentially activated in neurokinin-containing pathways responding to noxious stimuli. Our results demonstrate that blockade of brain tachykinin receptors, especially of the neurokinin-1 receptor, reduces the behavioural response to pain and the pain-induced c-Fos activation in distinct brain areas which are intimately linked with nociceptive neurotransmission and the initiation and integration of central stress responses. Together with the previous findings of the inhibition of hypertensive and tachycardic responses to pain, the present data indicate that tachykinin receptor antagonists can effectively inhibit the generation of an integrated cardiovascular and behavioural response pattern to noxious stimuli.
Results of investigations with vertebrates have implicated neuroactive steroids and in particular 5alpha-reduced metabolites of progesterone such as 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP/3A5P and originally allopregnanolone) in the rapid modulation of diverse functions including that of nociceptive sensitivity. These effects have been indicated to involve modulation of GABA receptors. Results of recent phylogenetic studies have revealed the presence of GABA receptors in invertebrates that may also be subject to modulation by steroids and neuroactive steroids. The present study examined the effects of the neuroactive steroid, 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one, as well as progesterone on aversive thermal (nociceptive) responses in a mollusc, the land snail, Cepaea nemoralis. 3alpha-Hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one had significant dose-related (0.01-1.0 microg) antinociceptive effects in Cepaea increasing the latency of response to a 40 degrees C surface, with maximum effects being evident 15-30 min after administration. These effects of 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one were stereospecific, with the stereoisomer 3beta-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3B5P) failing to affect nociceptive responses. Progesterone also had significant dose-related (0.10-10 microg) antinociceptive effects that, however, were delayed in onset and relatively prolonged (60-120 min), suggestive of the formation of active metabolites. The presence of endogenous progesterone (12.36+/-0.17 ng/g tissue) was ascertained by a radioimmunoassay further supporting a functional role for steroids in Cepaea. The antinociceptive effects of 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one and progesterone were blocked by the GABA antagonists, bicuculline and picrotoxin, while being relatively insensitive to opioid and N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists. These results suggest an early evolutionary development and phylogenetic continuity of neuroactive steroid and GABA involvement in the mediation of nociception.
A line of mice was recently created in which the gabrb3 gene, which encodes the beta3 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor, was inactivated by gene-targeting. The existence of mice with a significantly reduced population of GABA(A) receptors in the CNS enabled an investigation of the role of GABA and GABA(A) receptors in nociception. The present study examined the sensory thresholds of these mice, as well as the antinociceptive effects of subcutaneously or intrathecally administered GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor agonists. Homozygous null (beta3-/-) mice displayed enhanced responsiveness to low-intensity thermal stimuli in the tail-flick and hot-plate test compared to C57BL/6J and 129/SvJ progenitor strain mice, and their wild-type (beta3+/+) and heterozygous (beta3+/-) littermates. The beta3-/- mice also exhibited enhanced responsiveness to innocuous tactile stimuli compared to C57BL/6J, 129/SvJ and to their beta3+/+ littermates as assessed by von Frey filaments. The presence of thermal hyperalgesia and tactile allodynia in beta3-/- mice is consistent with a loss of inhibition mediated by presynaptic and postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors in the spinal cord. As expected, subcutaneous administration of the GABA(A) receptor agonist 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo-(5,4-c)pyridin-3-ol did not produce antinociception in beta3-/- mice, whereas it produced a dose-dependent increase in hot-plate latency in C57BL/6J, 129/SvJ, beta3+/+ and beta3+/- mice. However, the antinociceptive effect of the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen in the tail-flick and hot-plate tests was also reduced in beta3-/- mice compared to the progenitor strains, beta3+/+ or beta3+/- mice after either subcutaneous or intrathecal administration. This finding was unexpected and suggests that a reduction in GABA(A) receptors can affect the production of antinociception by other analgesic drugs as well.
The cyclobutylglycine (+/-)-2-amino-2-(3-cis and trans-carboxycyclobutyl-3-(9-thioxanthyl)propionic acid) (LY393053) has been identified as a functionally potent metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist. It is most potent on the two group I metabotropic glutamate receptors, 1alpha and 5alpha, with IC50 values of 1.0+/-0.4 microM and 1.6+/-1.4 microM, respectively. In this study, LY393053 has also been evaluated electrophysiologically on native group I metabotropic glutamate receptors in an in vitro spinal cord preparation as well as behaviourally, in a mouse model of visceral pain. LY393053 dose-dependently antagonised group I agonist, (RS)-3, 5-dihydroxyphenylglycine, or a broad-spectrum agonist (1S,3R)-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid-induced depolarisation of spinal motoneurons. The apparent Kd values were estimated to be 0.3 microM against (RS)-3, 5-dihydroxyphenylglycine-induced depolarisation and 0.5 microM against (1S,3R)-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid-induced depolarisation, respectively. On the other hand, the dorsal root-ventral root potential elicited at 8 x threshold was depressed by LY393053 with IC50 values of 9.0+/-0.7 microM and 12.7+/-1.7 microM on monosynaptic and polysynaptic responses, respectively. When investigated using the mouse acetic acid writhing test, LY393053 showed significant analgesic effects at doses of 1-10 mg/kg intraperitoneally. An ED50 value of 6.0 mg/kg was obtained in this test. By revealing a potent effect of LY393053 in antagonising the native group I metabotropic receptor-mediated responses in the spinal cord in rodents, and an antinociceptive efficacy in a mouse visceral pain model, these results, therefore, provide additional evidence in support of the analgesic potential of metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists.
Intrathecal strychnine (glycine antagonist) or bicuculline (GABA(A) antagonist) yields a touch-evoked agitation that is blocked by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonism. We examined the effects of intrathecal strychnine and bicuculline on touch-evoked agitation and the spinal release of amino acids. Fifty-two Sprague-Dawley rats were prepared under halothane anesthesia with a lumbar intrathecal catheter and a loop dialysis catheter. Four days after implantation, rats were randomized to receive an intrathecal injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (3 microg), strychnine (3 microg) or bicuculline (10 microg), or a combination of N-methyl-D-aspartate with bicuculline or strychnine. The agitation produced by brief light tactile stroking of the flank (tactile allodynia), and the spontaneous spinal release of glutamate, taurine and serine was measured. Intrathecal N-methyl-D-aspartate, strychnine and bicuculline produced similar touch-evoked allodynia. Intrathecal bicuculline and N-methyl-D-aspartate alone evoked a transient spinal release of glutamate and taurine, but not serine, in the 0- 10 min sample, while strychnine did not affect spinal transmitter release at any time. As GABA(A) but not glycine receptor inhibition at equi-allodynic doses increases glutamate release, while the allodynia of both is blocked by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonism, we hypothesize that GABA(A) sites regulate presynaptic glutamate release, while glycine regulates the excitability of neurons postsynaptic to glutamatergic terminals.
Neurons synthesizing thyrotropin-releasing hormone, substance P and serotonin in the medullary caudal raphe nuclei project to the dorsal vagal complex and play a role in the central vagal regulation of gastric function. Neurons in the parapyramidal region in the ventral medulla share similar biochemical coding and projections as those in the caudal raphe nuclei. The role of the parapyramidal region in the autonomic regulation of gastric acid secretion was investigated in urethane-anesthetized rats. Unilateral microinjection of kainate into the parapyramidal region at 10, 15 and 20 ng induced a dose-related stimulation of gastric acid secretion (net increases: 22.2+/-11.2, 40.5+/-8.5 and 89.8+/-19.4 micromol/60 min, respectively), while injection of vehicle had no effect (net change: -0.1+/-1.4 micromol/60 min). Time-course studies showed a nine-fold peak increase over basal at 30 min after parapyramidal injection of kainate (20 ng) and acid secretion returned to basal level at 70 min. Microinjections of kainate (15-20 ng) outside the parapyramidal region or into the parapyramidal region in vagotomized rats had no effect. Exposure to cold (4 degrees C) for 2 h, which is known to induce vagally mediated gastric secretory and motor responses through medullary thyrotropin-releasing hormone pathways, increased the number of Fos-positive cells in the caudal, middle and rostral parts of the parapyramidal region to 4.3+/-0.4, 9.4+/-0.9 and 18.4+/-1.6/section, respectively, compared with 0.1+/-0. 1, 0.1+/-0.0 and 0.7+/-0.6/section, respectively, in rats maintained at room temperature. Most of the Fos-labeled cells co-expressed pro-thyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA signal and/or were serotonin immunoreactive. These data show that chemical activation of neurons in the parapyramidal region results in a vagal-dependent stimulation of gastric acid secretion and that acute cold exposure activates parapyramidal neurons containing pro-thyrotropin-releasing hormone and/or serotonin, suggesting a potential role of the parapyramidal region, in addition to the caudal raphe nuclei, as medullary sites involved in the vagal regulation of gastric function.
Intracellular recordings were made from 21 cells in the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter in coronal midbrain slices. In the majority (n = 20) bath application of 5-hydroxytryptamine (30 or 150 mM) evoked either hyperpolarizing (n = 11) or depolarizing (n = 9) responses. Reconstructions of 11 neurons in the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter after filling with biocytin revealed a population of output neurons whose axons followed a dorsolateral trajectory towards the perimeter of the ipsilateral periaqueductal gray matter. In seven cells, the axon could be followed into the adjacent mesencephalic reticular formation. At the light microscopic level, immunostaining for 5-hydroxytryptamine revealed immunoreactive processes throughout the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter but no labelled somata or dendrites. Close associations (i.e. no discernible gap) were observed between serotonergic profiles and the somata and dendrites of biocytin-filled cells. At the ultrastructural level, serial sections through 21 appositions on to biocytin-filled dendrites in three slices revealed 19 true appositions (i.e. having closely parallel plasma membranes with no intervening glial cell profiles) with the biocytin-filled dendrite. Only four of the appositions (21%) showed evidence of synaptic specializations which included aggregations of synaptic vesicles, and some thickening of the apposing membrane. The dense reaction product in the biocytin-filled cells precluded identification of the ultrastructure of postsynaptic elements. However, examination of contacts between 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive profiles and unlabelled elements in material taken from the contralateral side of the periaqueductal gray matter (i.e. no biocytin present) or in material taken from perfusion-fixed whole brain, in which ultrastructural preservation was superior compared with slices, revealed a similar incidence (21% and 23%, respectively) of synaptic specializations. The data indicate that serotonergic transmission on to output neurons in the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray matter is largely mediated by non-junctional contacts, suggesting that the actions of 5-hydroxytryptamine on these cells are mediated predominantly by volume rather than wiring transmission.
The immunophilin ligand FK506 (Tacrolimus) is used for prevention of graft rejection following organ transplantation. FK506 is a high-affinity ligand for FK506-binding proteins, an immunophilin subgroup of peptidyl-prolyl-cis/trans-rotamases abundant in the mammalian brain. Here, we demonstrate that FK506 is a potent survival factor that prevents neuronal cell death following axotomy of central intrinsic neurons. Administration of FK506 (2 mg/kg, s.c., per day for two days pre-axotomy and for up to eight days post-axotomy) effectively delayed and reduced the death of axotomized neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta following transection of the medial forebrain bundle. In saline-treated controls, 75%, 89% and 92% of nigral neurons died after 25, 50 and 60 days post-axotomy, respectively. In contrast, application of FK506 resulted in survival of 46%, 44% and 28% of the axotomized nigral neurons, and the majority of these surviving neurons showed continuous expression of tyrosine hydroxylase, the pacemaker enzyme for dopamine synthesis. Moreover, FK506 significantly reduced the expression of the inducible transcription factor c-Jun and its N-terminal phosphorylation and prevented the axotomy-induced suppression of the constitutive transcription factor ATF-2 in neurons of the substantia nigra and mammillary body. The latter is also axotomized by the coincident transection of the mammillothalamic tract, but the mammillary neurons survive the axotomy. In contradistinction to FK506, the non-immunosuppressive FK506-binding protein ligand GPI-1046 (25 or 12.5 mg/kg, applied once or twice per day for two days pre-axotomy and for eight days post-axotomy) was completely ineffective for all these parameters investigated. Finally, FK506, but not GPI-1046, impressively accelerated the recovery from surgery. Our data provide the first evidence that FK506 acts as a neuroprotective molecule that rescues axotomized otherwise degenerating central intrinsic neurons in the adult mammalian brain by mechanisms that interfere with the transcriptional program of the axotomy-induced cell body response, such as activating transcription factor-2 suppression and c-Jun expression and phosphorylation.
It is demonstrated that not all voltage-gated calcium channel types expressed in neostriatal projection neurons (L, N, P, Q and R) contribute equally to the activation of calcium-dependent potassium currents. Previous work made clear that different calcium channel types contribute with a similar amount of current to whole-cell calcium current in neostriatal neurons. It has also been shown that spiny neurons possess both &quot;big&quot; and &quot;small&quot; types of calcium-dependent potassium currents and that activation of such currents relies on calcium entry through voltage-gated calcium channels. In the present work it was investigated whether all calcium channel types equally activate calcium-dependent potassium currents. Thus, the action of organic calcium channel antagonists was investigated on the calcium-activated outward current. Transient potassium currents were reduced by 4-aminopyridine and sodium currents were blocked by tetrodotoxin. It was found that neither 30 nM omega-Agatoxin-TK, a blocker of P-type channels, nor 200 nM calciseptine or 5 microM nitrendipine, blockers of L-type channels, were able to significantly reduce the outward current. In contrast, 400 nM omega-Agatoxin-TK, which at this concentration is able to block Q-type channels, and 1 microM omega-Conotoxin GVIA, a blocker of N-type channels, both reduced outward current by about 50%. These antagonists given together, or 500 nM omega-Conotoxin MVIIC, a blocker of N- and P/Q-type channels, reduced outward current by 70%. In addition, the N- and P/Q-type channel blockers preferentially reduce the afterhyperpolarization recorded intracellularly. The results show that calcium-dependent potassium channels in neostriatal neurons are preferentially activated by calcium entry through N- and Q-type channels in these conditions.
Status epilepticus is a major medical emergency that results in significant alteration of neuronal function. Status epilepticus involves seizure activity recurring frequently enough to induce a sustained alteration in brain function. This study was initiated to investigate how status epilepticus affects the activity of calcium and calmodulin-dependent kinase II in the brain. Calcium and calmodulin-dependent kinase II is a neuronally enriched signal transducing system involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter synthesis and release, cytoskeletal function, gene transcription, neurotransmitter receptor function and neuronal excitability. Therefore, alteration of this signal transduction system would have significant physiological effects. Status epilepticus was induced in rats by pilocarpine injection, allowed to progress for 60 min and terminated by repeated diazepam injections. Animals were killed at specific time-points and examined for calcium and calmodulin-dependent kinase II activity. Calcium and calmodulin-dependent kinase II activity was significantly reduced in cerebral cortex and hippocampal homogenates obtained from status epilepticus rats when compared with control animals. Once established, the status epilepticus-induced inhibition of calcium and calmodulin-dependent kinase II activity was observed at all time-points tested following the termination of seizure activity. However, calcium and calmodulin-dependent kinase II activity was not significantly decreased in thalamus and cerebellar homogenates. In addition, status epilepticus-induced inhibition of calcium and calmodulin-dependent kinase II activity was dependent upon activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamatergic receptors. Thus, status epilepticus induced a significant inhibition of calcium and calmodulin-dependent kinase II activity that involves N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. The data support the hypothesis that inhibition of calcium and calmodulin-dependent kinase II activity may be involved in the alteration of neuronal function following status epilepticus.
The deposition of beta amyloid is a critical event in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. This peptide is a metabolite of the amyloid precursor protein. Recent research suggests that there is a correlation between plasma insulin and glucose concentrations and memory performance in Alzheimer's disease sufferers. Additionally, in vitro evidence suggests that both insulin and glucose may affect the metabolism of amyloid precursor protein and therefore the production of beta amyloid--however, to our knowledge no in vivo data have yet been published. We investigated the effect of elevated plasma levels of glucose and insulin on the plasma concentration of amyloid precursor protein in non-Alzheimer's disease subjects. As would be expected following ingestion of a glucose drink, blood insulin and glucose levels significantly increased. Interestingly, however, plasma amyloid precursor protein concentration decreased. Whilst no correlation was observed between insulin or glucose levels and plasma amyloid precursor protein concentration, the decrease in plasma amyloid precursor protein concentration was affected by the apolipoprotein E genotype of the subject. Possession of an epsilon4 allele resulted in a reduced decrease in plasma amyloid precursor protein in response to glucose ingestion when compared to non-epsilon4 subjects. We conclude that glucose ingestion, and the subsequent elevation of plasma levels of glucose and insulin leads to a decrease in plasma amyloid precursor protein concentration. Further studies are required to determine the clinical significance of these physiological changes in plasma amyloid precursor protein and the implications for Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis.
For 11 AD cases and four normal elderly controls, post mortem volumes of the hippocampal subdivisions were calculated by using magnetic resonance imaging and histological sections. After at least six weeks of fixation in formalin, brains were examined on a 1.5-T Philips Gyroscan imager producing T1-weighted coronal images with a 3-mm slice thickness. Brains were then processed and embedded in paraffin. Serial coronal sections, 3 mm apart and stained with Cresyl Violet, were used for the planimetry and unbiased estimation of the total numbers of neurons in the hippocampal subdivisions. For all 15 cases, magnetic resonance imaging- and histology-based measurements were performed along the whole rostrocaudal extent of the hippocampal formation and included three subvolumes: (i) the hippocampus (CA1-CA4 and the dentate gyrus); (ii) hippocampus/subiculum; and (iii) hippocampus/parahippocampal gyrus. After controlling for shrinkage, strong correlations were found between magnetic resonance imaging and histological measurements for the hippocampus (r = 0.97, P &lt; 0.001), hippocampus/subiculum (r = 0.95, P &lt; 0.001) and hippocampus/parahippocampal gyrus (r = 0.89, P &lt; 0.001). We also calculated the total number of neurons in the hippocampus and hippocampus/subiculum subvolumes. Strong correlations between the magnetic resonance imaging subvolumes and neuronal counts were found for the hippocampus (r = 0.90, P &lt; 0.001) and the hippocampus/subiculum subvolume (r = 0.84, P &lt; 0.001). We conclude that very accurate volumetric measurements of the whole hippocampal formation can be obtained by using a magnetic resonance imaging protocol. Moreover, the strong correlations between magnetic resonance imaging-based hippocampal volumes and neuronal numbers suggest the anatomical validity of magnetic resonance imaging volume measurements.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor contributes profoundly to modulate activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in adult brain areas such as the hippocampus, but the mechanisms underlying this important role still remain unclear. Recently, we have shown that two serine/threonine kinases, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase-2 and casein kinase-2, are capable of mediating brain-derived neurotrophic factor responses in adult rat hippocampus. In the present study, using hippocampal slices from adult rat, we show that phospholipase C-regulated calcium signals couple the brain-derived neurotrophic factor receptor to two distinct pathways: a pathway in which calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase-2 stimulates a signalling module involving the p38 subfamily of mitogen-activated protein kinases and its downstream target, usually named mitogen-activated protein kinase-activated protein kinase-2; and a pathway in which the extracellular signal-regulated kinase subfamily of mitogen-activated protein kinases activates casein kinase-2. Our results suggest that: (i) extracellular signal-regulated kinase is activated by B-Raf in response to a calcium-sensitive adenylate cyclase; and (ii) extracellular signal-regulated kinase activates casein kinase-2 via a protein phosphatase(s) that may be of the PP1 and/or PP2A type. Interestingly, we also show that neurotrophin-induced activation of the two signalling cascades promotes a sustained activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase-activated protein kinase-2 and casein kinase-2 in slices. Considering the ability of these two kinases to be persistently activated, and that most of the protein kinases which lie in these pathways are believed to be important for multiple events underlying neuronal plasticity, it is suggested that the mechanisms described here might contribute both to rapid synaptic changes through local effects and to long-lasting synaptic responses through new gene transcription in the hippocampus.
Neuronal activity in the rat orbital cortex during discrimination of various odors [five volatile organic compounds (acetophenone, isoamyl acetate, cyclohexanone, p-cymene and 1,8-cineole), and food- and cosmetic-related odorants (black pepper, cheese, rose and perfume)] and other conditioned sensory stimuli (tones, light and air puff) was recorded and compared with behavioral responses to the same odors (black pepper, cheese, rose and perfume). In a neurophysiological study, the rats were trained to lick a spout that protruded close to its mouth to obtain sucrose or intracranial self-stimulation reward after presentation of conditioned stimuli. Of 150 orbital cortex neurons recorded during the task, 65 responded to one or more types of sensory stimuli. Of these, 73.8% (48/65) responded during presentation of an odor. Although the mean breadth of responsiveness (entropy) of the olfactory neurons based on the responses to five volatile organic compounds and air (control) was rather high (0.795), these stimuli were well discriminated in an odor space resulting from multidimensional scaling using Pearson's correlation coefficients between the stimuli. In a behavioral study, a rat was housed in an equilateral octagonal cage, with free access to food and choice among eight levers, four of which elicited only water (no odor, controls), and four of which elicited both water and one of four odors (black pepper, cheese, rose or perfume). Lever presses for each odor and control were counted. Distributions of these five stimuli (four odors and air) in an odor space derived from the multidimensional scaling using Pearson's correlation coefficients based on behavioral responses were very similar to those based on neuronal responses to the same five stimuli. Furthermore, Pearson's correlation coefficients between the same five stimuli based on the neuronal responses and those based on behavioral responses were significantly correlated. The results demonstrated a pivotal role of the rat orbital cortex in olfactory sensory processing and suggest that the orbital cortex is important in the manifestation of various motivated behaviors of the animals, including odor-guided motivational behaviors (odor preference).
The partial reinforcement extinction effect refers to the increase in resistance to extinction of an operant response acquired under partial reinforcement relative to that acquired under continuous reinforcement. Prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response refers to the reduction in startle reactivity towards an intense acoustic pulse stimulus when it is shortly preceded by a weak prepulse stimulus. These two behavioural phenomena appear to be related to different forms of attentional processes. While the prepulse inhibition effect reflects an inherent early attentional gating mechanism, the partial reinforcement extinction effect is believed to involve the development of acquired inattention, i.e. the latter requires the animals to learn about what to and what not to attend. Impairments in prepulse inhibition and the partial reinforcement extinction effect have been independently linked to the neuropsychology of attentional dysfunctions seen in schizophrenia. The proposed neural substrates underlying these behaviourial phenomena also appear to overlap considerably: both focus on the nucleus accumbens and emphasize the functional importance of its limbic afferents, including that originating from the medial prefrontal cortex, on accumbal output/activity. The present study demonstrated that cytotoxic medial prefrontal cortex lesions which typically damaged the prelimbic, the infralimbic and the dorsal anterior cingulate areas could lead to the abolition of the partial reinforcement extinction effect and the attenuation of prepulse inhibition. The lesions also resulted in a transient elevation of spontaneous locomotor activity. In contrast, the same lesions spared performance in a spontaneous object recognition memory test, in which the lesioned animals displayed normal preference for a novel object when the novel object was presented in conjunction with a familiar object seen 10 min earlier within an open field arena. The present results lend support to the hypothesis that medial prefrontal cortex dysfunction might be related to some forms of attentional abnormality central to the symptomatology of schizophrenia. Relevance of the present findings in relation to the neural substrates underlying the partial reinforcement extinction effect and prepulse inhibition is further discussed.
This work aimed to study whether the sensorimotor cerebral cortex spreads down its rhythmic patterns of activity to the dorsal column nuclei. Extracellular and intracellular recordings were obtained from the cuneate nucleus of chloralose-anesthetized cats. From a total of 140 neurons tested (106 cuneolemniscal), 72 showed spontaneous rhythmic activity within the slow (&lt; 1 Hz), delta (1-4 Hz), spindle (5-15 Hz) and higher frequencies, with seven cells having the delta rhythm coupled to slow oscillations. The spindle activity recorded in the cuneate was tightly coupled to the thalamo-cortico-thalamic spindle rhythmicity. Bilateral or contralateral removal of the frontoparietal cortex abolished the cuneate slow and spindle oscillations. Oscillatory paroxysmal activity generated by fast electrical stimulation (50-100 Hz/1-2 s) of the sensorimotor cortex induced burst firing synchronized with the paroxysmal cortical &quot;spike&quot; on all the non-lemniscal neurons, and inhibitory responses also coincident with the cortical paroxysmal &quot;spike&quot; in the majority (71%) of the cuneolemniscal cells. The remaining lemniscal-projecting neurons showed bursting activity (11%) or sequences of excitation-inhibition (18%) also time-locked to the cortical paroxysmal &quot;spike&quot;. Additionally, the cerebral cortex induced coherent oscillatory activity between thalamic ventroposterolateral and cuneate neurons. Electrolytic lesion of the pyramidal tract abolished the cortically induced effects on the contralateral cuneate nucleus, as well as on the ipsilateral medial lemniscus. The results demonstrate that the sensorimotor cortex imposes its rhythmic patterns on the cuneate nucleus through the pyramidal tract, and that the corticocuneate network can generate normal and abnormal patterns of synchronized activity, such as delta waves, spindles and spike-and-wave complexes. The cuneate neurons, however, are able to generate oscillatory activity above 1 Hz in the absence of cortical input, which implies that the cerebral cortex probably imposes its rhythmicity on the cuneate by matching the intrinsic preferred oscillatory frequency of cuneate neurons.
Intravenous muscimol administration increases the activity of dopaminergic neurons of the A10 cell group, located in the ventral tegmental area. Evidence suggests that this increase in activity is produced by disinhibition following the inhibition of GABAergic (&quot;non-dopaminergic&quot;) cells in the ventral tegmental area. We hypothesized that the activation of A10 cells by muscimol is likely to be at least partly caused by the action of excitatory afferents. To verify this, A10 cells were isolated from ipsilateral afferent sources which utilise excitatory amino acids (which play an important role in the activity of these neurons), using hemisections at the level of the subthalamic nucleus (or just anterior to the subthalamic nucleus), electrolytic lesions of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, or a combination of both. Following hemisections, and hemisections combined with lesions of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, muscimol inhibited rather than excited A10 dopaminergic neurons. The pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus itself appeared to make little intrinsic contribution to muscimol-induced excitation, although the results suggested that part of the excitation which originates in the forebrain may be conducted to A10 cells via the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. The source of the effective forebrain excitation was investigated using electrolytic lesions of documented sources of excitatory amino acidergic afferents to the ventral tegmental area: the medial prefrontal cortex, certain nuclei of the amygdalar complex and the lateral habenular nucleus. In the medial prefrontal cortex-lesioned group, muscimol again produced inhibition, an effect qualitatively and quantitatively similar to that in the hemisected groups. Habenular lesions blocked muscimol-induced excitation without producing inhibition, whilst amygdalar lesions produced no significant change in the effects of muscimol. The results suggest that under normal circumstances, an active excitation counteracts and exceeds the direct inhibitory effects of muscimol on the activity of A10 dopaminergic neurons. Furthermore, this activation appears to be produced by the action of excitatory (probably excitatory amino acidergic) afferents arising from the medial prefrontal cortex, and possibly the lateral habenular nucleus. Insofar as the excitation of A10 dopaminergic neurons, which is produced by certain drugs of abuse, and which may play a crucial role in their sustained use, has its basis in excitation following disinhibition, this excitation may provide a novel target for therapeutic intervention in addiction.
The P/Q type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels are involved in membrane excitability and Ca2+-dependent neurotransmitter release within the CNS. Mutations in the CacnalA gene encoding the alpha1A subunit of the P/Q type Ca2+ channel have recently been reported in tottering mice and a more severely affected allele, leaner. Here we show using in vivo cortical microdialysis that evoked increases of extracellular glutamate levels are markedly attenuated in both mutants upon KCl-induced depolarization compared with wild-type mice. Tottering and leaner mice also show a 10-fold resistance to cortical spreading depression induced by cortical electrical stimulation or KCl application to the pial surface. A slower transcortical propagation speed and failure to sustain regenerative spread of the depolarizing wave were more pronounced in leaner neocortex. Both signaling defects appeared unrelated to the developmental history of repeated cortical spike-wave discharges, since neither were observed in the stargazer mouse, a Ca2+ channel gamma2 subunit mutant with a similar seizure phenotype. These data demonstrate two cortical excitability defects revealed by prolonged depolarization in cerebral networks expressing mutant P/Q type Ca2+ channels, and are the first to identify a gene linked to a spreading depression phenotype.
Cerebral hemispherectomy, a last resort treatment for childhood epilepsy, is a standard procedure which dramatically illustrates the resilience of the brain to extensive damage. If this operation, also mimicking long-term, extensive unilateral capsular stroke, is performed in postnatal cats of up to 60 days of age, there is a remarkable recovery/sparing of neurological functions that is not seen when the lesion occurs during late fetal life or in adulthood. A long-term effect at all ages is loss of neurons in bilateral brain areas remote from the resection site. This is pronounced in adult cats and shows intriguing, paradoxical features in fetal animals, but is substantially attenuated in neonatal cats. Similarly, large-scale reinnervation of subcortical sites (sprouting) by neurons of the remaining, intact hemisphere is prominent in young cats, but not in fetal or adult animals. These and other restorative processes (described herein) in young postnatal animals are matched by relatively higher rates of local cerebral glucose utilization, supporting the notion that they underlie the improved behavioral outcome. Thus, during a critical, defined stage of maturation, presumably common to higher mammals including humans, the brain entirely remodels itself in response to extensive but focal injury. Perhaps the molecular environment allowing for rescue of neurons and enhanced reinnervation at a specific developmental stage could be recreated in subjects with brain lesions at less favorable ages, thereby helping to restore circuitry and spare neurons. However, replacement via transplantation of neurons eliminated by the damage appears to be crucial in attempts to further preserve cells located remotely but yet destined to die or decrease in size. This article presents abundant evidence to show that there is a surprisingly comprehensive long-term morphological remodeling of the entire brain after extensive unilateral damage and that this occurs preferentially during a discrete period of early life. Additional evidence strongly suggests that the remodeling underlies the outstanding behavioral and functional recovery/sparing following early cerebral hemispherectomy. We argue that this period of reduced brain vulnerability to injury also exists in other higher mammals, including man, and suggest ways to enhance restorative processes after stroke/hemispherectomy occurring at other ages.
Glutathione (gamma-glutamylcysteinylglycine) is a neuromodulator at glutamate receptors, but may also act as a neurotransmitter at sites of its own. The Na+-independent binding of [3H]glutathione to pig cortical synaptic membranes was characterized here using glycine, cysteine analogs, dipeptides and glutathione derivatives, and ligands selective for known glutamate receptors. L-Glutamate, pyroglutamate, quinolinate, (S)-5-fluorowillardiine and 6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo[f]quinoxaline-2,3-dione were weak inhibitors at concentrations of 0.5 or 1 mM. D-Glutamate, L- and D-aspartate, glutamine, quisqualate, kynurenate, other N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor ligands and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor ligands failed to displace [3H]glutathione. Except for weak inhibition by D-serine (0.5 mM), glycine and other ligands of the glycine co-activatory site in the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors had no displacing effect. Similarly, metabotropic glutamate group I, II and III receptor agonists and antagonists and compounds acting at the glutamate uptake sites were generally inactive. Glutathione, oxidized glutathione, S-nitrosoglutathione, gamma-L-glutamylcysteine, cysteinylglycine, cysteine, cysteamine and cystamine were the most potent displacers (IC50 values in the micromolar range), followed by dithiothreitol, glutathione sulfonate and the S-alkyl derivatives of glutathione (S-methyl-, -ethyl-, -propyl-, -butyl- and -pentylglutathione). L-Homocysteinate and aminomethanesulfonate exhibited a moderate efficacy. Thiokynurenate, a cysteine analog and an antagonist at the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor glycine co-activatory site, was a potent activator of glutathione binding. At 1 mM, some dipeptides also slightly activated the binding, gamma-L-glutamylleucine and gamma-L-glutamyl-GABA being the most effective. The specific binding sites for glutathione in brain synaptic membranes are not identical to any known excitatory amino acid receptor. The cysteinyl moiety is crucial in the binding of glutathione. The oxidation or alkylation of the cysteine thiol group reduces the binding affinity. The strong activation by thiokynurenate may indicate that the glutathione receptor protein contains a modulatory site to which co-agonists may bind and allosterically activate glutathione binding. The novel population of specific binding sites of glutathione gives rise to the possibility that they may have profound effects on synaptic functions in the mammalian central nervous system. The glutathione binding sites may be an important, and for the most part unrecognized, component in signal transduction in the brain.
In the present study, we used co-culture of astrocytes from one species with neurons from a different species to examine neuritic outgrowth. We include a focus on human cells. Three types of neuron were used, including rat hippocampal dentate granule cells, rat hypothalamic neurons and human cortical neurons. To visualize neuronal processes, neurons were either immunostained with GABA antiserum or transfected with the jellyfish green fluorescent protein gene. The entire axonal and dendritic fields of single neurons could be quantitatively analysed based on their strong green fluorescent protein label. Astrocytes were obtained from rat hippocampus or hypothalamus, chicken cortex, normal human cortex, human cortex lesion, and from the sclerotic human hippocampus after surgery for intractable temporal lobe epilepsy. In the absence of astrocytes, isolated neurons died within three to four days. In contrast, neurons from both rat and human brains survived and extended dendrites and axons on rat, chicken and human astrocytes or in their conditioned medium. Astrocytes from interspecies cultures were not only capable of enhancing the survival of neuron co-cultures, but neuronal neurite extension in some cases was even greater on heterospecific astrocytes than on homospecific astrocytes. To support the hypothesis that synaptogenesis of rat hippocampal neurons was accelerated by a substrate of human astrocytes, we used a functional assay based on time-lapse confocal laser or digital imaging of calcium responses to transmitter release; synaptic responses were found earlier when rat neurons were grown on rat or human astrocytes than in the absence of these astrocytes. These data indicate that rodent glial cells enhance human neurite extension, and that rat neurite outgrowth can be used as a type of bioassay for the neurite promoting capacity of different derivations of human glia.
Mutations in the presenilin-1 (PS1) and presenilin-2 (PS2) genes account for the majority of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease cases. Recent studies suggest that presenilin gene mutations predispose cells to apoptosis by mechanisms involving altered calcium homeostasis and oxidative damage. In the present study, we determined whether PS1 mutations also sensitize cells to hyperosmotic stress-induced apoptosis. For this, we established SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell lines stably transfected with wild-type PS1 or either the PS1 exon 9 deletion (deltaE9) or PS1 L250S mutants. Cultured cells were exposed to an overnight (17 h) serum deprivation, followed by a 30 min treatment with either 20 mM glucose, 10 nM insulin-like growth factor-1 or 20 mM glucose + 10 nM insulin-like growth factor-1. Cells were then cultured for a further 3, 6 or 24 h and stained for apoptotic condensed nuclei using propidium iodide. Confirmation that cells were undergoing an active apoptotic process was achieved by labelling of DNA strand breaks using the terminal dUTP nick end labelling (TUNEL) technique. We also determined cell viability using 3-(4,5-dimethyl-thiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) reduction. Propidium iodide staining revealed that all cell lines and controls showed an increased number of apoptotic cells appearing with condensed nuclei at 24 h compared with 6 h and 3 h. High glucose-induced hyperosmotic stress resulted in significantly more apoptotic cells in the PS1 deltaE9 and PS1 L250S mutation cell lines at 24 h, compared with the wild-type PS1 lines (P &lt; 0.001, ANOVA for both comparisons). Mean values (+/-S.D.) for the percentage number of apoptotic cells at 24 h following high glucose treatment were 16.1 +/- 3.5%, 26.7 +/- 5.5% and 31.0 +/- 5.7% for the wild-type PS1, PS1 deltaE9 and PS1 L250S lines, respectively. The pro-apoptotic effects of high glucose treatment were reversed by 10 nM insulin-like growth factor-1, although to a lesser extent in the mutation cell lines (5.8 +/- 2.4%, 15.2 +/- 7.3% and 13.2 +/- 2.0% for the wild-type PS1, PS1 deltaE9 (P &lt; 0.01 for comparison with wild-type PS1) and PS1 L250S (P &lt; 0.01 for comparison with wild-type PS1) transfected lines, respectively. TUNEL labelling of cells at 24 h following treatment gave essentially the same results pattern as obtained using propidium iodide. The percentage number of apoptotic cells with DNA strand breaks (means +/- S.D.) following high glucose treatment was 15.4 +/- 2.6% for the wild-type PS1, 26.8 +/- 3.2% for the PS1 deltaE9 (P &lt; 0.001 for comparison with wild-type PS1) and 29.7 +/- 6.1% for the PS1 L250S transfected lines (P &lt; 0.001 for comparison with wild-type PS1). The PS1 deltaE9 and PS1 L250S transfected lines also showed a higher number of apoptotic cells with DNA strand breaks at 24 h following high glucose plus insulin-like growth factor-1 treatment (11.4 +/- 2.0% and 14.3 +/- 2.8%, respectively), compared with values for the wild-type PS1 lines (8.5 +/- 2.4%). These differences were significant (P &lt; 0.01) for the comparison of wild-type PS1 and PS1 L250S, but not PS1 deltaE9 lines. The mutation-related increases in number of apoptotic cells at 24 h following high glucose treatment were not accompanied by significant differences in cell viability at this time-point. Our results indicate that PS1 mutations predispose to hyperosmotic stress-induced apoptosis and that the anti-apoptotic effects of insulin-like growth factor-1 are compromised by these mutations. Perturbations of insulin-like growth factor-1 signalling may be involved in PS1 mutation-related apoptotic neuronal cell death in Alzheimer's disease.
Parasynaptic communication, also termed volume transmission, has been suggested as an important means to mediate information transfer within the central nervous system. The purpose of the present study was to visualize by autoradiography the available channels for fluid movement within the extracellular space following injection of the inert extracellular marker [14C]inulin into the lateral ventricle or cisterna magna. Bolus injections of 5 microl of 1 microCi of [14C]inulin were made in awake rats via chronically implanted cannulae. After survival times ranging from 5 min to 4 h, brains were processed for in vivo autoradiography. At 5 min the tracer distributed throughout the ventricles, subarachnoid spaces and cisterns &quot;downstream&quot; of the injection sites. Penetration into the brain from these sites was complex with preferential entry along the ventral side of the brain, especially into the hypothalamus and brainstem. By 4 h virtually the entire brain was labeled irrespective of the site of tracer application. Sustained tracer entry from subarachnoid spaces suggests that some areas act as depots to trap circulating material. This mechanism may contribute to the pattern of deep penetration at later time-points. The spatial and temporal characteristics of fluid movement throughout the brain are instructive in the interpretation of many experimental procedures involving injection of molecules into the cerebrospinal fluid.
The involvement of brain oxytocin in the attenuated responsiveness of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis and the oxytocin systems to external stressors found in pregnant and lactating rats has been studied, including both neuroendocrine and behavioural aspects. Intracerebroventricular infusion of an oxytocin receptor antagonist (0.75 microg/5 microl), but not of vehicle, elevated basal corticotropin and corticosterone secretion into blood of virgin female, but not of late pregnant or lactating rats. Oxytocin antagonist treatment further elevated the stress-induced (exposure to the elevated plus-maze or forced swimming) secretion of both corticotropin and corticosterone, but only in virgin and not in pregnant or lactating rats. Thus, corticotropin and corticosterone plasma concentrations remained attenuated in antagonist-treated pregnant and lactating animals. In contrast, infusion of the oxytocin antagonist significantly elevated the stress-induced secretion of oxytocin into blood in pregnant and lactating, but not in virgin, animals, indicating an autoinhibitory influence of intracerebral oxytocin on neurohypophysial oxytocin secretion induced by non-reproduction-related stimuli. Treatment with oxytocin antagonist 10 min prior to behavioural testing on the elevated plus-maze significantly reduced the anxiety-related behaviour in both pregnant and lactating rats, without exerting similar effects in virgin female rats. The results demonstrate a tonic inhibitory effect of endogenous oxytocin on corticotropin and, consequently, corticosterone secretion in virgin female rats, an effect which is absent in the peripartum period. In contrast, an anxiolytic action of endogenous oxytocin was detectable exclusively in pregnant and lactating rats. Therefore, we conclude that the actions of intracerebral oxytocin include independent effects on the responses of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis and oxytocin systems to stressors and the anxiety-related behaviour which are modulated by the reproductive state of the animals.
The aim of this study was to assess the possible mediation of endogenous opioids in the effects of gonadal hormones on the responses to formalin pain. We studied the effects of intracerebroventricular injection of estradiol and/or naloxone on the magnitude and time-course of the formalin-evoked behavioural and hormonal responses of intact and gonadectomized male rats. Animals were gonadectomized or left intact; on days 20 and 21 after surgery, they were intracerebroventricularly injected with 17beta-estradiol (1 microg/5 microl) or saline. On day 22, the animals received naloxone (2.5 microg/5 microl) or saline intracerebroventricularly and then, 15 min later, were subcutaneously injected with formalin (50 microl, 5%) or only pricked with a syringe needle in the dorsal hindpaw. The rats were then introduced to a testing apparatus where the formalin-induced licking, flexing and jerking of the injected limb and the other spontaneous behaviours were recorded for 60 min. At the end of the test, the animals were killed and blood was collected from the trunk. Gonadectomy and naloxone increased flexing duration independently of the other treatments. In gonadectomized rats, estrogen increased licking duration and decreased paw-jerk frequency during the first phase (0-15 min) of the formalin test. During the second phase (16-60 min), licking was increased by estrogen only in intact animals. Treatment with naloxone completely abolished all these modifications. The three measures of activity (rearing, inner and outer crossing) showed that while in sham-treated animals the gonadectomy-induced decrease in activity was completely counteracted by estrogen administration, in formalin-treated animals the gonadectomy-induced decrease was not affected by estrogen. In fact, estrogen appeared to further depress the motor activities in the formalin groups. Naloxone reversed these modifications only for outer crossing frequency, blocking the gonadectomy-induced decrease in sham-treated animals. Corticosterone plasma levels were increased by formalin only in estrogen-treated animals, independently of naloxone. In conclusion, these data indicate an important role of both male gonadal hormones and estrogen in formalin-pain responses, acting through opiate and non-opiate mechanisms.
Segmental and laminar distribution of Fos-like immunoreactive, reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPHd)-exhibiting and double-labeled (Fos-like immunoreactive and NADPHd-exhibiting) neurons was examined in lower lumbar and sacral segments of the dog spinal cord using the model of multiple cauda equina constrictions. NADPHd histochemistry was used as marker of nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons. The appearance and the time-course of Fos-like immunoreactive, NADPHd and double-labeled neurons was studied at 2 h and 8 h postconstriction characterized as the incipient phase of cauda equina syndrome. The occurrence of Fos-like immunoreactive and NADPHd-exhibiting neurons in fully developed cauda equina syndrome was studied at five days postconstriction. An increase in Fos-like immunoreactivity in superficial laminae (I-II) and an enhanced NADPHd staining of lamina VIII neurons were found. A statistically significant increase in Fos-like immunoreactive neurons was found in laminae I-II and VIII-X 8 h postconstriction, and in contrast, a prominent decrease in Fos-like immunoreactive neurons was found in laminae I-II, accompanied by a statistically significant increase in Fos-like immunoreactive neurons in more ventrally located laminae VII-X at five days postconstriction. Quantitative analysis of laminar distribution of constriction-induced NADPHd-exhibiting neurons revealed a considerable increase in these neurons in laminae VIII-IX 8 h postconstriction and a statistically highly significant increase in NADPHd-exhibiting neurons in laminae VII-X five days postconstriction. Concurrently, the number of NADPHd-exhibiting neurons in laminae I-II was greatly reduced. While a low number of double-labeled neurons was found throughout the gray matter of lower lumbar and sacral segments at 2 h postconstriction, a statistically significant number of double-labeled neurons was found in lamina X 8 h and in laminae VII-X five days postconstriction. The course and distribution of anterograde degeneration resulting five days after multiple cauda equina constrictions are compared with segmental and laminar distribution of Fos-like immunoreactive and NADPHd-exhibiting neurons. Prominent involvement of the spinal cord neurons appearing in the lumbosacral segments at the early beginning and in fully developed cauda equina syndrome results in a Fos-like immunoreactivity and strongly enhanced NADPHd staining of some neuronal pools. Under such circumstances, an early cauda equina decompression surgery is advisable aimed at decreasing or preventing the derangement of the neural circuits in the lumbosacral segments.
The aim of the present study was to investigate changes in contralateral nerves associated with peripheral nerve injuries. Transection and subsequent regeneration of the saphenous nerve on one side caused a suppression of the ability of the contralateral saphenous nerve to produce a neurogenic plasma extravasation response. This effect was transient, and was first evident two weeks after injury, reaching its maximum at four weeks, but was no longer detectable at eight weeks. This change was paralleled by a decrease in the content of substance P, a neuropeptide involved in neurogenic plasma extravasation, in the contralateral nerve. The neurotoxin capsaicin was used to deplete the nerve of a subclass of C-fibres, namely the polymodal nociceptor afferents. Pretreatment of the nerve to be lesioned with capsaicin was sufficient to significantly attenuate the changes in the plasma extravasation response and substance P content observed on the contralateral side. The effectiveness of the capsaicin treatment was confirmed by histological examination. These results strongly suggest that changes observed at a site distant from the location of the nerve injury are dependent on the integrity of capsaicin-sensitive C-fibre afferents within the injured nerve. Furthermore, given that the contralateral nerve has commonly been used as the control for an injury conducted on the homologous nerve or muscle on the opposite side of the body, the underlying assumption being that the contralateral nerve remained unchanged, the present findings emphasize the need for separate groups of control animals which have undergone no surgical procedures.
Several lines of evidence have shown a role for the nitric oxide/cyclic guanosine monophosphate signaling pathway in the development of spinal hyperalgesia. However, the roles of effectors for cyclic guanosine monophosphate are not fully understood in the processing of pain in the spinal cord. The present study showed that cyclic guanosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase Ialpha but not Ibeta was localized in the neuronal bodies and processes, and was distributed primarily in the superficial laminae of the spinal cord. Intrathecal administration of a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase Ialpha, Rp-8-[(4-chlorophenyl)thio]-cGMPS triethylamine, produced a significant antinociception demonstrated by the decrease in the number of flinches and shakes in the formalin test. This was accompanied by a marked reduction in formalin-induced c-fos expression in the spinal dorsal horn. Moreover, cyclic guanosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase Ialpha protein expression was dramatically increased in the lumbar spinal cord 96 h after injection of formalin into a hindpaw, which occurred mainly in the superficial laminae on the ipsilateral side of a formalin-injected hindpaw. This up-regulation of cyclic guanosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase Ialpha expression was completely blocked not only by a neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole, and a soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitor, 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one, but also by an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, dizocilpine maleate (MK-801). The present results indicate that noxious stimulation not only initially activates but also later up-regulates cyclic guanosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase Ialpha expression in the superficial laminae via an N-methyl-D-aspartate-nitric oxide-cyclic guanosine monophosphate signaling pathway, suggesting that cyclic guanosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase Ialpha may play an important role in the central mechanism of formalin-induced inflammatory hyperalgesia in the spinal cord.
We have previously found that spinal dorsal horn neurons from streptozotocin-diabetic rats, an animal model for diabetes mellitus, show the prominent changes in the mechanisms responsible for [Ca2+]i regulation. The present study aimed to further characterize the effects of streptozotocin-induced diabetes on neuronal calcium homeostasis. The cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) was measured in Fura-2AM-loaded dorsal horn neurons from acutely isolated spinal cord slices using fluorescence technique. We studied Ca2+ entry through plasmalemmal Ca2+ channels during potassium (50 mM KCl)-induced depolarization. The K+-induced [Ca2+]i elevation was inhibited to a different extent by nickel ions, nifedipine and omega-conotoxin suggesting the co-expression of different subtypes of plasmalemmal voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. The suppression of [Ca2+]i transients by Ni2+ (50 microM) was the same in control and diabetic neurons. On the other hand, inhibition of [Ca2+]i transients by nifedipine (50 microM) and omega-conotoxin (1 microM) was much greater in diabetic neurons compared with normal animals. These data suggest that under diabetic conditions the activity of N- and L- but not T-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels substantially increased in dorsal horn neurons.
In vitro autoradiography and central microinjections of a P1 adenosine A2a receptor antagonist have been employed to investigate a possible role for centrally located adenosine A2a receptors in modulation of the baroreceptor reflex. In vitro autoradiography using [125I]4-(2-[7-amino-2-[2-furyl][3,2,4]triazolol[2,3-a][1,3,5]tr iazin-5-yl-amino]ethyl)phenol ([125I]ZM241385), the high-affinity adenosine A2a receptor antagonist, revealed a heterogeneous distribution of adenosine A2a binding sites within the lower brainstem of the rat. Image analysis showed high levels of binding in rostral regions of both the nucleus tractus solitarius and the ventrolateral medulla. Intermediate levels of binding were observed in the commissural nucleus tractus solitarius and the dorsal vagal motor nucleus, with low levels of binding in caudal regions of the nucleus tractus solitarius and the ventrolateral medulla, and the hypoglossal nucleus. Unilateral microinjections of unlabelled ZM241385 into the nucleus tractus solitarius had no effect on baseline levels of arterial pressure, heart rate and phrenic nerve activity recorded in anaesthetized, artificially ventilated rats. However, microinjections of ZM241385 reduced the bradycardia evoked by stimulation of the ipsilateral aortic nerve. In contrast, ZM241385 had no effect on the depressor response or the reduction in phrenic nerve activity evoked by aortic nerve stimulation. Our results indicate that adenosine A2a binding sites are located in a number of brainstem regions involved in autonomic function, consistent with the idea that adenosine acts as a neuromodulator of a variety of cardiorespiratory reflexes. Specifically, the data support the hypothesis that adenosine A2a receptors located within the nucleus tractus solitarius are activated during baroreceptor stimulation and have an important modulatory role in the pattern of cardiovascular changes associated with this reflex.
In the present study we have used the detection of Fos, the protein product of c-fos, to determine the distribution of neurons in the medulla and hypothalamus that are activated by changes in central blood volume. Experiments were conducted in both barointact and barodenervated conscious rabbits, to determine the contribution of arterial baroreceptors to the pattern of Fos expression evoked by changes in central blood volume, induced either by intravenous infusion of an isotonic modified gelatin solution, or by partial occlusion of the vena cava. These procedures resulted in a significant increase and decrease, respectively, in right atrial pressure over a 60 min period. In control experiments, barointact and barodenervated rabbits were subjected to the identical procedures except that no changes in central blood volume were induced. In comparison with the control observations, central hypervolaemia produced a significant increase in the number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius, area postrema, the caudal, intermediate and rostral parts of the ventrolateral medulla, supraoptic nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, arcuate nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus and median preoptic nucleus. The overall pattern of Fos expression induced by central hypervolaemia did not differ significantly between barointact and barodenervated animals. Similarly, the overall pattern of Fos expression induced by central hypovolaemia did not differ significantly between barointact and barodenervated animals, but did differ significantly from that produced by hypervolaemia. In particular, central hypovolaemia produced a significant increase in Fos expression in the same regions as above, but also in the subfornical organ and organum vasculosum lamina terminalis. In addition, compared with central hypervolaemia, hypovolaemia produced a significantly greater degree of Fos expression in the rostral ventrolateral medulla and supraoptic nucleus. Furthermore, double-labelling for tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity demonstrated that neurons in the ventrolateral medulla that expressed Fos following hypovolaemia were predominantly catecholamine cells, whereas following hypervolaemia they were predominantly non-catecholamine cells. Finally, double-labelling for vasopressin immunoreactivity demonstrated that the number of Fos/vasopressin immunoreactive cells in the supraoptic nucleus was approximately 10 times greater following hypovolaemia compared with hypervolaemia, but there were very few such double-labelled neurons in the paraventricular nucleus in response to either stimulus. The results demonstrate that central hypervolaemia and hypovolaemia each induces reproducible and specific patterns of Fos expression in the medulla and hypothalamus. The degree and pattern of Fos expression was unaffected by arterial baroreceptor denervation, indicating that it is primarily a consequence of inputs from cardiac receptors, together with an increase in the level of circulating hormones such as atrial natriuretic peptide, angiotensin II or vasopressin. Furthermore, the pattern of Fos expression produced by central hypervolaemia and hypovolaemia is distinctly different from that evoked by hypertension and hypotension, respectively [Li and Dampney (1994) Neuroscience 61, 613-634], particularly in hypothalamic regions. These findings therefore indicate that the central pathways activated by changes in blood volume are, at least in part, separate from those activated by changes in arterial pressure.
We previously demonstrated that microinjection of exogenous glycine into the nucleus tractus solitarii of anesthetized rats elicits responses that are qualitatively like those elicited by microinjection of acetylcholine at the same site. The responses to glycine, like those to acetylcholine, are blocked by administration of a muscarinic receptor antagonist and prolonged by administration of an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. Furthermore, glycine leads to release of acetylcholine from the nucleus tractus solitarii and surrounding dorsal vagal complex. An anatomical framework for interactions between glycinergic and cholinergic neurons was established by studies that identified glycine terminals and receptors in the dorsal vagal complex. The current study investigated the relationship between glycine receptors and neuronal elements that were immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase in the dorsal vagal complex. Neurons that were immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase were located in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, hypoglossal nucleus and nucleus ambiguus, and stained cells were also present in medial, intermediate, and ventrolateral subnuclei of the nucleus tractus solitarii. We found that glycine receptors, immunolabeled with an antibody to gephyrin, were present on cholinergic dendrites in the nucleus tractus solitarii. Gephyrin immunoreactivity was also present on dendrites that did not stain for choline acetyltransferase. These data further support the contribution of cholinergic neurons in mediating cardiovascular responses to glycine in the nucleus tractus solitarii.
We investigated the role of overexpression of alpha2C-adrenoceptors in water maze navigation in mice transgenically manipulated to have a threefold overexpression of the alpha2C-adrenoreceptors. Alpha2C-adrenoreceptors overexpressing mice swam more in the peripheral annulus of the pool and did not find the hidden escape platform as well as the wild type control mice. A subtype-nonselective alpha2-adrenoreceptor antagonist, atipamezole (ATI, 1000 microg/kg, s.c.), fully reversed the deficit in platform finding and search strategy in overexpressing mice. Noradrenaline depletion (-95%) induced by N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4) did not impair platform finding of wild type or overexpressing mice. The DSP-4 lesion slightly increased swimming in the peripheral annulus in wild type mice, but not in overexpressing mice. The DSP-4 lesion produced a dissociable effect on the action of atipamezole to improve platform finding and search strategy in overexpressing mice: atipamezole did not alleviate the platform finding deficit in DSP-4 lesioned overexpressing mice, but normalized their abnormal search strategy. These results suggest that the abnormal search pattern and deficit in the accuracy of platform finding are mediated by constitutive activity of overexpressed alpha2C-adrenoreceptors.
To obtain insights into the mechanisms underlying activity-dependent survival of neurons, we surveyed various indices of cellular activity in rat cerebellar granule neurons cultured under conditions advantageous and disadvantageous for survival. Previously, we reported that the turnover of Ca2+ (both influx and efflux) is activated in raised K+-cultures (survival condition), although the cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration is not affected. We also reported that endocytotic activity was high in the high K+-cultures. In the present study, we used the release of FM1-43 dye [N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(4-dibutylamino)styryl)py ridium bromide] to determine the exocytotic capabilities of neurons cultured in normal K+ (death condition), high K+ (survival condition) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor-supplemented (survival condition) media. The FM1-43 releases triggered by K+-induced depolarization and glutamate exposure were significantly higher in the high K+-cultures than in normal K+-cultures. Interestingly, the neurons whose survival was supported by brain-derived neurotrophic factor did not show high exocytotic capability, indicating that the high exocytotic capability is not a mere result of viability. However, the number of synaptic sites per cell (as monitored by synaptophysin immunopositivity) was unaffected by culture conditions. The present results suggest that an enhanced exocytotic activity supported by a strengthened exocytotic capability may underlie the high viability of rat cerebellar granule neurons cultured under depolarizing conditions.
The type of trigeminal ganglion cells that express 5-HT1B receptors has not been well characterized, despite the fact that these receptors are important targets for anti-migraine drugs. We have therefore used combined in situ hybridization and immunofluorescence to examine the expression of 5-HT1B receptor messenger RNA in identified subpopulations of rat trigeminal ganglion cells. 5-HT1B-expressing cells accounted for 15% of all trigeminal ganglion cells, were medium sized, and showed immunoreactivity for either 200,000 mol. wt neurofilament, calcitonin gene-related peptide, or nerve growth factor receptor (trkA). In contrast few 5-HT1B cells showed immunoreactivity for substance P or binding of the lectin Griffonia simplicifolia IB4. Our results are consistent with 5-HT1B receptors acting to control the release of calcitonin gene-related peptide from trigeminal neurons with finely myelinated axons. 5-HT1B receptor agonists may reduce neurogenic vasodilation by activating such receptors. However many nociceptive trigeminal neurons, including the substance P and IB4-binding populations, do not express the 5-HT1B receptor.
The effects in male rats of serotonin depletion (using the neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine) on the cross-sensitization of an acute social stress (defeat by a larger resident male) by previous repeated restraint stress (10 days, 60 min per day) was studied. Previous restraint increased freezing responses during social defeat in sham-operated rats, but this was not observed in those with depleted serotonin (83% or more in different regions of the brain). In contrast, neither heart rate (tachycardia) nor core temperature responses (hyperthermia) were accentuated in previously restrained rats (i.e. neither showed heterotypical sensitization), and neither adapted to repeated restraint (there is a hypothermic core temperature response during restraint). Corticosterone levels, which did adapt, nevertheless did not show accentuated responses to social defeat in previously restrained rats, though samples could only be taken 60 min after defeat. c-fos expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala 60 min after social defeat was increased by previous restraint. No other areas examined in the hypothalamus (e.g., paraventricular nucleus) or brainstem (e.g., solitary nucleus) showed differences related to previous restraint. Serotonin depletion reduced the expression of c-fos in the frontal cortex, lateral preoptic area, medial amygdala, central gray, medial and dorsal raphe, and locus coeruleus after social stress, but this was not altered by previous restraint. These results show that serotonin depletion has selective effects on the cross-sensitization of responses in previously stressed rats to a heterotypical stressor.
The precise role of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) in the regulation of sleep is not fully understood. To further clarify this role for 5-hydroxytryptamine, the 5-hydroxytryptamine precursors L-tryptophan (40 and 80 mg/kg) and L-5-hydroxytryptophan (25-, 50-, 75-, 100 mg/kg) were injected intraperitoneally into freely behaving rats 15 min prior to dark onset, and subsequent effects on sleep-wake activity and cortical brain temperature were determined. L-5-hydroxytryptophan, but not L-tryptophan, induced dose-dependent changes in sleep-wake activity. During the 12-h dark period, non-rapid eye movement sleep was inhibited in post-injection hours 1-2 by the two lowest L-5-hydroxytryptophan doses tested, while the two highest doses induced a delayed increase in non-rapid eye movement sleep in post-injection hours 3-12. These highest doses inhibited non-rapid eye movement sleep during the subsequent 12-h light period. The finding that L-5-hydroxytryptophan, but not L-tryptophan, induced a dose-dependent and long-lasting decrease in cortical brain temperature regardless of whether or not non-rapid eye movement sleep was suppressed or enhanced contributes to a growing list of conditions showing that sleep-wake activity and thermoregulation, although normally tightly coupled, may be dissociated. The initial non-rapid eye movement sleep inhibition observed following low doses of L-5-hydroxytryptophan may be attributable to increased serotonergic activity since 5-hydroxytryptamine may promote wakefulness per se, whereas the delayed non-rapid eye movement sleep enhancement after higher doses may be due to the induction by 5-hydroxytryptamine of sleep-inducing factor(s), as previously hypothesized. The period of non-rapid eye movement sleep inhibition beginning 12 h after administration of L-5-hydroxytryptophan doses that increase non-rapid eye movement sleep is characteristic of physiological manipulations in which non-rapid eye movement sleep is enhanced. The results of the present study suggest that the complex effects of 5-HT on sleep depend on the degree and time course of activation of the serotonergic system such that 5-HT may directly inhibit sleep, yet induce a cascade of physiological processes that enhance subsequent sleep.
Major adaptations after chronic exposure to morphine include an up-regulation of the adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate pathway. Acute opioids, via mu-opioid receptors, disinhibit midbrain serotonergic neurons by suppressing inhibitory GABAergic transmission in the dorsal raphe nucleus and adjacent periaqueductal gray. This study examined whether chronic morphine induces a compensatory increase in GABA inputs to 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons and whether this was associated with an up-regulation of the adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate pathway. The firing rate of serotonergic neurons was reduced in brain slices from morphine-dependent rats, an effect reversed by the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline. The reduction in firing rate was accompanied by an increased frequency of spontaneous GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents, indicating increased GABA tone in the slice. The increase in GABA tone in brain slices from dependent rats was associated with increased induction of inhibitory postsynaptic currents by the adenylyl cyclase activator forskolin, suggesting an up-regulation of the adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate pathway. Indeed, chronic morphine increased levels of adenylyl cyclase VIII (but not of adenylyl cyclase I, III or V) immunoreactivity in the dorsal raphe nucleus area. Two adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-mediated mechanisms for the increase in GABA tone were discerned. The first, which predominated when impulse-flow was blocked by tetrodotoxin, involves protein kinase A since it was sensitive to protein kinase A inhibitors. The second, seen when impulse-flow was intact (i.e. absence of tetrodotoxin), was insensitive to protein kinase A inhibitors but was suppressed by ZD7288, a blocker of hyperpolarizing-activated Ih channels which are directly activated by adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate. We conclude that chronic morphine induces an up-regulation of the adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate pathway in GABAergic inputs to serotonergic cells, resulting in an increase in spontaneous and impulse-flow dependent GABA release. These changes would lead to an increase in GABA tone and subsequently to the reported decrease in serotonergic activity during opiate withdrawal.
Virtually any neurological disorder leads to activation of resident microglia and invasion of blood-borne macrophages, which are accompanied by an increase in number and change in phenotype of astrocytes, a phenomenon generally termed reactive astrocytosis. One of the functions attributed to activation of astrocytes is thought to involve restoration of tissue damage. Hitherto, the role of astrocytes in the inflammatory reaction occurring in Parkinson's disease has not received much attention. In the present study, we examined the inflammatory events in autopsies of the substantia nigra and putamen from Parkinson's disease patients using age-matched autopsies from normal patients as controls. In the substantia nigra, activation of microglia was consistently observed in all Parkinson's disease autopsies as verified from immunohistochemical detection of CR3/43 and ferritin. Activation of resident microglia was not observed in the putamen. No differences were observed between controls and Parkinson's disease autopsies from the substantia nigra and putamen, in terms of distribution, cellular density or cellular morphology of astrocytes stained for glial fibrillary acidic protein or metallothioneins I and II, the latter sharing high affinity for metal ions and known to be induced in reactive astrocytes, possibly to exert anti-oxidative effects. Together, these findings indicate that the inflammatory process in Parkinson's disease is characterized by activation of resident microglia without reactive astrocytosis, suggesting that the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease is an ongoing neurodegenerative process with a minimum of involvement of the surrounding nervous tissue. The absence of reactive astrocytosis in Parkinson's disease contrasts what follows in virtually any other neurological disorder and may indicate that the inflammatory process in Parkinson's disease is a unique phenomenon.
In the present study we describe the excitatory effects of the bioactive peptide neurotensin on the electrical activity of dopamine neurons (simultaneously recorded) in the substantia nigra pars compacta and the ventral tegmental area. The neurotensin fragment (8-13) induced comparable increases in firing rate of the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area dopamine neurons (EC50 values 30 and 45 nM, respectively). The neurotensin receptor antagonist SR142948A antagonized the excitatory effects of neurotensin fragment (8-13) (pA2 values 8.4 and 8.2, respectively). Furthermore, it was found that a low concentration of neurotensin fragment (8-13) (1 nM) attenuated the inhibition of the firing rate by the selective dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole in both neuron types (e.g., the effect of 0.01 microM quinpirole was reduced by approximately 60% in the presence of 1 nM neurotensin fragment [8-13]). Antagonism of this neurotensin fragment (8-13) effect by SR142948A confirms that neurotensin receptors can reduce the effect of dopamine D2 receptors at the single-cell level. These results are discussed in the light of possible roles for neurotensin in neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors are a major class of excitatory amino acid receptors. Eight metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes have been cloned, and are classified into three groups (I, II and III) based on amino acid sequence identity, effector systems and pharmacological profile. Previous results have shown that unilateral stimulation of metabotropic glutamate receptors in the subthalamic nucleus with the non-subtype-selective metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist 1S,3R-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentane dicarboxylate results in contralateral rotation in rats and Fos expression in the subthalamic nucleus. This suggests that metabotropic glutamate receptor stimulation results in altered subthalamic nucleus activity with consequent altered basal ganglia activity on the injected side. We sought to determine the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype(s) involved and the functional neuroanatomy underlying the rotational behavior. Unilateral intrasubthalamic nucleus injection of group II or group III metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists induced contralateral rotation. In addition to producing rotation, group II and group III metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists induce toxicity in the subthalamic nucleus and overlying thalamus. Following group II or group III subthalamic nucleus metabotropic glutamate receptor stimulation, there is Fos-like immunoreactivity in the globus pallidus, subthalamic nucleus, substantia nigra pars reticulata and entopeduncular nucleus, suggesting altered activity in subthalamic nucleus target regions. However, examination of [14C]2-deoxyglucose uptake suggests that the alterations in basal ganglia activity are different following group II versus group III metabotropic glutamate receptor stimulation, suggesting that rotation is occurring via different mechanisms. It appears that stimulation of subthalamic nucleus group II metabotropic glutamate receptors induces rotation by increasing subthalamic nucleus activity. These results suggest that group II metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists may be useful for alleviating subthalamic nucleus overactivity in Parkinson's disease.
Despite widespread use of the primate 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model of Parkinson's disease, there is a paucity of data concerning the relationship between striatal dopaminergic function and behavior over time. This study examines the relationship between markers of dopamine neuron integrity and dopaminergic metabolic activity in striatal subregions with the degree of parkinsonian disability in 32 monkeys treated with MPTP one year earlier. Based on the parkinsonian summary score during the month following MPTP treatment, each monkey was assigned to one of four severity categories. We called these categories &quot;Severe&quot;, &quot;Moderate&quot;, &quot;Mild&quot; and &quot;Asymptomatic&quot;. Monkeys in the Severe category were behaviorally stable, and loss of dopamine concentration was greater than 98% in all subregions of striatum one year after MPTP treatment. This value was not significantly different from the level of depletion, reported previously, at one to two months after MPTP in Severe monkeys, and apparently this loss of striatal dopamine is beyond the level from which effective compensations can occur. The parkinsonian disabilities in monkeys of other severity groups (Moderate, Mild, Asymptomatic) improved significantly over the year, despite having mean dopamine depletion of 75-99% in different subregions of striatum at one to two months after MPTP treatment. At one year after MPTP treatment, the mean dopamine depletions in different subregions of caudate nucleus and putamen had diminished in Asymptomatics (21-81%), Milds (35-96%), and Moderates (86-97%). Dopamine loss in nucleus accumbens was relatively spared compared with most striatal subregions, yet in Severe monkeys the decrease in this region reached 96%. In addition, at one year after MPTP treatment, there was a significant linear relationship between parkinsonian behavioral severity category and dopamine concentration, and homovanillic acid concentration and homovanillic acid/dopamine ratio in the striatum. The re-establishment of dopamine levels and homovanillic acid/dopamine ratios was most pronounced in putamen, ventromedial caudate nucleus and nucleus accumbens. Thus the small difference in striatal dopamine loss that distinguishes monkeys with widely different behavior at one to two months after MPTP increases over time. We suggest that the milder the initial loss, the greater capacity there is for regeneration or sprouting of dopamine terminals, which is reflected in marked increases in dopamine levels and modest elevations of metabolic activity (homovanillic acid/dopamine ratio). With greater initial losses, there is less capacity to increase terminal density, which is reflected later by smaller increases in striatal dopamine levels and more marked increases in metabolic activity. It appears that 5-10% of normal striatal dopamine levels is sufficient for overtly normal motor performance in non-human primates.
Oxidant stress has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. To test the oxidant stress hypothesis of dopaminergic degeneration, age-related changes in the mesostriatal dopamine neuron system were compared between zitter mutant rats which have abnormal metabolism of oxygen species in the brain and Sprague-Dawley rat as a control using the neurochemistry and immunohistochemistry. Dopamine content in the caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle of zitter rats decreased significantly with age, and was lower than that found in corresponding age-matched controls. In the zitter rats, the reduction of dopamine was more prominent in the caudate-putamen than in the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle. A characteristic decline of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers in the caudate-putamen of the zitter rat was also observed. In the dorsolateral caudate-putamen, reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers was observed in the matrix-like area, whereas in the ventromedial caudate-putamen the reduction occurred in the patch-like areas. Degeneration of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers which was characterized by swollen varicosities and clustered fibers was observed in the caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens and preceded loss of normal tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers in the caudate-putamen. Thus, the depletion of dopamine in the terminal areas is related to axonal degeneration. However, there was no degenerative tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers in the olfactory tubercle at any examined age, but reductions of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers and dopamine contents were noted in the olfactory tubercle after four months-of-age. Since the zitter rats have an abnormal oxygen metabolism, the degeneration of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers could result from an accumulation of superoxide species. The present results provide support for the oxidant stress hypothesis of dopaminergic neuronal degeneration and further indicate the region-specific vulnerability of the nigrostriatal dopamine system.
The influence of embryonic mesencephalic, striatal and mesencephalic/striatal co-grafts on amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced rotation behaviour was assessed in a rat model of multiple system atrophy/striatonigral degeneration type using dopamine D1 ([3H]SCH23390) and D2 ([3H]spiperone) receptor and dopamine re-uptake ([3H]mazindol) autoradiography. Male Wistar rats subjected to a sequential unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the medial forebrain bundle followed by a quinolinic acid lesion of the ipsilateral striatum were divided into four treatment groups, receiving either mesencephalic, striatal, mesencephalic/striatal co-grafts or sham grafts. Amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced rotation behaviour was recorded prior to and up to 10 weeks following transplantation. 6-Hydroxydopamine-lesioned animals showed ipsiversive amphetamine-induced and contraversive apomorphine-induced rotation behaviour. Amphetamine-induced rotation rates persisted after the subsequent quinolinic acid lesion, whereas rotation induced by apomorphine was decreased. In 11 of 14 animals receiving mesencephalic or mesencephalic/striatal co-grafts, amphetamine-induced rotation scores were decreased by &gt;50% at the 10-week post-grafting time-point. In contrast, only one of 12 animals receiving non-mesencephalic (striatal or sham) grafts exhibited diminished rotation rates at this time-point. Apomorphine-induced rotation rates were significantly increased following transplantation of mesencephalic, striatal or sham grafts. The largest increase of apomorphine-induced rotation rates approaching post-6-hydroxydopamine levels were observed in animals with striatal grafts. In contrast, in the co-graft group, there was no significant increase of apomorphine-induced rotation compared to the post-quinolinic acid time-point. Morphometric analysis revealed a 63-74% reduction of striatal surface areas across the treatment groups. Striatal [3H]mazindol binding on the lesioned side (excluding the demarcated graft area) revealed a marked loss of dopamine re-uptake sites across all treatment groups, indicating missing graft-induced dopaminergic re-innervation of the host. In eight (73%) of the 11 animals with mesencephalic grafts and reduced amphetamine-induced circling, discrete areas of [3H]mazindol binding (&quot;hot spots&quot;) were observed, indicating graft survival. Dopamine D1 and D2 receptor binding was preserved in the remaining lesioned striatum irrespective of treatment assignment, except for a significant reduction of D2 receptor binding in animals receiving mesencephalic grafts. &quot;Hot spots&quot; of dopamine D1 and D2 receptor binding were observed in 10 (83%) and nine (75%) of 12 animals receiving striatal grafts or co-grafts, consistent with survival of embryonic primordial striatum grafted into a severely denervated and lesioned striatum. Our study confirms that functional improvement may be obtained from embryonic neuronal grafts in a double-lesion rat model of multiple system atrophy/striatonigral degeneration type. Co-grafts appear to be required for reversal of both amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced rotation behaviour in this model. We propose that the partial reversal of amphetamine-induced rotation asymmetry in double-lesioned rats receiving mesencephalic or mesencephalic/striatal co-grafts reflects non-synaptic graft-derived dopamine release. The changes of apomorphine-induced rotation following transplantation are likely to reflect a complex interaction of graft- and host-derived striatal projection pathways and basal ganglia output nuclei. Further studies in a larger number of animals are required to determine whether morphological parameters and behavioural improvement in the neurotransplantation multiple system atrophy rat model correlate.
Tachykinins have been suggested to play a significant role in the mammalian striatum, at least in part by the control of acetylcholine release from cholinergic interneurons. In the present study, we have examined the ability of known tachykinin agonists and antagonists to modulate the activity of these interneurons in mouse striatal slices. Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, the selective neurokinin-1, neurokinin-2 and neurokinin-3 receptor agonists [sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P, [beta-ala8]neurokinin A(4-10) and senktide each produced a dose-dependent depolarization of visually identified cholinergic interneurons that was retained under conditions designed to interrupt synaptic transmission. The nature of these neurons and the expression of multiple tachykinin receptors was confirmed using single-cell reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis. Using in vitro superfusion techniques, the selective neurokinin-1, neurokinin-2 and neurokinin-3 receptor agonists [sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P, [beta-ala8]neurokinin A(4-10) and senktide, respectively, each produced a dose-dependent increase in acetylcholine release, the selectivity of which was confirmed using the neurokinin-1, neurokinin-2 and neurokinin-3 receptor antagonists SR140333, GR94800 and SR142801 (100 nM). U73122 (10 microM), a phospholipase C inhibitor, blocked [sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P- and senktide-induced acetylcholine release, but had no effect on [beta-ala8]neurokinin A(4-10)-induced release. The protein kinase C inhibitors chelerythrine and Ro-31-8220 (both 1 microM) significantly inhibited responses induced by all three agonists. These findings indicate that tachykinins modulate the activity of mouse striatal cholinergic interneurons. Furthermore, neurokinin-2 receptors are shown to perform a role in mouse that has not been identified previously in other species.
Previous findings have indicated that nerve growth factor may play a role in the expression of long-term potentiation in perforant path-granule cell synapses and that nerve growth factor treatment restores the ability of aged rats to sustain long-term potentiation. In this study, we have attempted to analyse the changes which occur in nerve growth factor release and tyrosine receptor kinase phosphorylation following tetanization in tissue prepared from dentate gyrus of young rats, as well as aged rats which did or did not sustain long-term potentiation. We report that KCl-stimulated nerve growth factor release was significantly increased in slices of the dentate gyrus or whole hippocampus, but not in synaptosomes prepared from the dentate gyrus. KCl-induced nerve growth factor release was also significantly enhanced in slices prepared from tetanized, compared with untetanized, tissue obtained from young rats and aged rats which sustained long-term potentiation; this response was absent in tissue prepared from aged rats which failed to sustain long-term potentiation, perhaps due to the enhanced basal nerve growth factor release observed in this tissue. Tetanization increased tyrosine receptor kinase phosphorylation in the dentate gyrus of young rats and aged rats which sustained long-term potentiation. In parallel with the changes in nerve growth factor release, tyrosine receptor kinase phosphorylation was markedly increased in untetanized tissue, which may contribute to the lack of effect in tetanized tissue prepared from aged rats which failed to sustain long-term potentiation. We observed that nerve growth factor concentration and tyrosine receptor kinase expression were decreased in aged, compared with young, rats. The data suggest that deficits in nerve growth factor release and subsequent signalling may contribute to age-related deficits in long-term potentiation.
We investigated the effect of the noradrenergic neurotoxin, N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4) (1 or 3 x 50 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), on hippocampal, cortical and cerebellar noradrenaline levels after recovery of one, five and 11 months in control and apolipoprotein E-deficient mice. Apolipoprotein E-deficient mice had lower hippocampal noradrenaline levels than control mice. DSP-4-lesioned control mice had a more extensive recovery of hippocampal and cortical noradrenaline levels than DSP-4-lesioned apoE-deficient mice after five months' survival. Furthermore, the hippocampal noradrenaline levels after five and 11 months and cortical noradrenaline levels after five months of recovery had slightly recovered in control but not in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice treated with a single dose of DSP-4 compared with mice treated with three doses of DSP-4. These results show that apolipoprotein E-deficient mice have impaired recovery capacity in their locus coeruleus neurons.
Although conventional wisdom suggests that the effectiveness of phenytoin as an anticonvulsant is due to blockade of Na+-channels this is unlikely to be it's sole mechanism of action. In the present paper we examined the effects of phenytoin on evoked and spontaneous transmission at excitatory (glutamate) and inhibitory (GABA) synapses, in the rat entorhinal cortex in vitro. Evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials at glutamate synapses exhibited frequency-dependent enhancement, and phenytoin reduced this enhancement without altering responses evoked at low frequency. In whole-cell patch-clamp recordings the frequency of excitatory postsynaptic currents resulting from the spontaneous release of glutamate was reduced by phenytoin, with no change in amplitude, rise time or decay time. Similar effects were seen on miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents, recorded in the presence of tetrodotoxin. Evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials at GABA synapses displayed a frequency-dependent decrease in amplitude. Phenytoin caused a reduction in this decrement without affecting the responses evoked at low frequency. The frequency of spontaneous GABA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents, recorded in whole-cell patch mode, was increased by phenytoin, and this was accompanied by the appearance of much larger amplitude events. The effect of phenytoin on the frequency of inhibitory postsynaptic currents persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin, but the change in amplitude distribution largely disappeared. These results demonstrate for the first time that phenytoin can cause a simultaneous reduction in synaptic excitation and an increase in inhibition in cortical networks. The shift in balance in favour of inhibition could be a major factor in the anticonvulsant action of phenytoin.
Estrogen is considered to play an important role in neuropsychiatric disorders and the estrogen receptors mediate the action of the hormone. In the present study, the messenger RNA expression pattern of the estrogen receptor alpha subtype was identified in the post mortem human brain. High stringent in situ hybridization histochemistry was performed using a riboprobe specific for the estrogen receptor alpha subtype. The human brain was mainly characterized by abundant estrogen receptor alpha messenger RNA expression in the amygdala and hypothalamus, but labeling (lower) was also found in the extended sublenticular amygdala, cerebral cortex, and hippocampus. In the amygdala, the estrogen receptor alpha messenger RNA was preferentially expressed in medially-localized nuclei suggesting that estrogen regulates distinct human amygdala-mediated functions. The Cynomologous monkey brain was also examined in the present study and a similar distribution of the estrogen receptor alpha messenger RNA signal was observed in the human and monkey brain. However, the primate expression pattern differed in part from the known distribution in the rat. The current results show that estrogen receptor alpha messenger RNA is expressed in discrete areas of the human brain not only related to neuroendocrine function, but also emotion, memory, and cognition, which is consistent with the hypothesized involvement of estrogen in schizophrenia, affective disorders, and Alzheimers disease.
We recently reported the existence of dramatic modifications of the olfactory bulb reactivity following a very simple manipulation of the olfactory input as an exposure to an odorant. The present study aimed at testing the possibility that such effects could depend on the nature of the exposure odour. For this purpose, rats were exposed 20 min per day during six consecutive days to cineole, methyl-amyl ketone, isoamyl acetate or with no odour in the control group. On day 7, rats were anaesthetized and the spontaneous activity of mitral/tufted cells was recorded along with their responses to the familiar odour and to four novel odours. Results revealed that: (i) the firing frequencies were not significantly different in the four groups; (ii) the proportion of excitatory responses was considerably decreased in the exposed groups while the number of non-responses was significantly enhanced; (iii) excitatory responses were decreased not only to the familiar odour but also to four other novel odours; (iv) this lower responsiveness was long lasting at least for isoamyl acetate exposure; and (v) increasing concentration of test odours was not enough to allow mitral/tufted cells to recover control responsiveness. All of these effects have a differential importance according to the exposure odour. In particular, the more powerful an odour is in activating control cells, the more non-specific the decrease in mitral/tufted cell reactivity is. Hypotheses on the underlying mechanisms are advanced.
Acetylcholine can stimulate the release of vasopressin. In organ-cultured hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal systems, acetylcholine enhanced vasopressin release by acting in or near the supraoptic nucleus Extracellular recordings suggested that acetylcholine can increase supraoptic neuron excitability. These effects could be mimicked, in part, by nicotine or blocked by nicotinic antagonists, suggesting that they might be mediated by nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Autoradiography indicated that alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites are present in the supraoptic nucleus; however, neither acetylcholine nor nicotine binding sites could be detected. Thus, the existence, let alone the nature, of nicotinic receptors in the supraoptic nucleus has so far remained elusive. The present work attempts to determine: (i) whether functional nicotinic receptors are present in this nucleus; (ii) whether they are located on neurosecretory magnocellular cells or at presynaptic sites; (iii) what their pharmacological and biophysical properties are; (iv) whether they influence the activity of all or only part of supraoptic neurons. Whole-cell recordings were performed in hypothalamic slices or in acutely dissociated supraoptic neurons and the effect of nicotinic agonists was tested under voltage-clamp conditions. Autoradiography was done in coronal hypothalamic sections, using [3H]epibatidine and [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin as ligands. Our results indicate that supraoptic neurons possess functional nicotinic receptors containing the alpha7 subunit.
The influence of early postnatal socio-emotional deprivation on the development of tyrosine hydroxylase- and 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive fiber innervation in the medial prefrontal cortex was quantitatively investigated in the precocial rodent Octodon degus. Forty-five-days-old degus from two groups were compared: (i) degus which were repeatedly separated from their mothers during the first three postnatal weeks and after weaning reared in complete isolation; and (ii) degus which were reared under normal undisturbed social conditions. The two monoaminergic fiber systems in the four subregions of the medial prefrontal cortex responded differentially to the deprivation. While the infralimbic cortex was the only subregion that displayed an increase in 5-hydroxytryptamine-positive fiber densities (129.2%) but no changes in tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers, the precentral medial (82.2%), anterior cingulate (74.6%) and prelimbic cortex (86.9%) showed significantly reduced tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fiber innervation, but no changes in 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive fiber densities. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive somata in the ventral tegmental area and in the substantia nigra remained unchanged. In cortical areas the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive somata was increased (depending on the medial prefrontal cortex subregion between 241.8% and 398.7%) in deprived animals. This altered balance between the serotonergic and dopaminergic cortical innervation in the different subregions of the medial prefrontal cortex may reflect a counter-regulative anatomical and functional adaptation, which may be triggered by an altered activity of these transmitter systems during the phases of maternal separation and social isolation.
Age-related changes in learning and memory are common in rodents. However, direct comparisons of the effects of aging on learning and memory in both males and females are lacking. The present study examined whether memory deteriorates with increasing age in C57BL/6NIA mice, and whether age-related changes in learning and memory are similar in both sexes. Male and female mice (five, 17 and 25 months of age) were tested in a battery of behavioral tasks including the Morris water maze (spatial and non-spatial reference memory), simple odor discrimination (olfactory reference memory), plus maze (anxiety/exploration), locomotor activity, and basic reflexes. Five-month-old mice learned the water maze and odor discrimination tasks rapidly. Relative to five-month-old mice, 25-month-old mice exhibited impaired spatial and olfactory reference memory, but intact non-spatial reference memory. The spatial reference memory of 17-month-old mice was also impaired, but less so than 25-month mice. Seventeen-month-old mice exhibited intact non-spatial (visual and olfactory) reference memory. Five and 25-month-old mice had similar levels of plus maze exploration and locomotor activity, whereas 17-month-old mice were more active than both groups and were slightly less exploratory than five-month-old mice. Although sex differences were not observed in the five- and 25-month groups, 17-month-old females exhibited more impaired spatial reference memory and increased anxiety relative to 17-month-old males. Estrous cycling in females deteriorated significantly with increased age; all 25-month-old females had ceased cycling and 80% of 17-month-old females displayed either irregular or absent estrous cycling. This study is the first to directly compare age-related mnemonic decline in male and female mice. The results suggest that: (i) aged mice exhibit significant deficits in spatial and olfactory reference memory relative to young mice, whereas middle-aged mice exhibit only a moderate spatial memory deficit and; (ii) spatial reference memory decline begins at an earlier age in females than in males, a finding that may be related to the cessation of estrous cycling.
The carotid body is an arterial chemosensory organ which responds to multiple natural and pharmacological stimuli, including hypoxia and nicotine. Numerous studies have investigated the initial molecular events which activate chemosensory type I cells in the carotid body, but less attention has been focused on later steps in the transduction cascade, which mediate neurotransmitter release from type I cells and excitation of chemoreceptor afferent fibers in the carotid sinus nerve. In the present study, we examined the effects of a highly specific inhibitor of calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II, KN-62, and a calmodulin inhibitor, trifluoperazine, on carotid sinus nerve activity and catecholamine release evoked from rabbit carotid bodies superfused in vitro. KN-62 did not alter sinus nerve activity and catecholamine release evoked by hypoxia, but this agent significantly reduced nerve activity and neurotransmitter release evoked by 100 microM nicotine. Trifluoperazine (10 microM), likewise inhibited activity evoked by nicotine, as well as hypoxia. Basal levels of nerve activity and catecholamine release (established in superfusate equilibrated with 100% O2) were unaffected by all drug treatments. Separate biochemical experiments showed that Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent incorporation of 32P into carotid body particulate proteins is significantly reduced following incubation of intact carotid bodies in nicotine, but not following exposure to hypoxia. Our observations suggest that excitation of the carotid body by diverse stimuli may involve the activation of distinct, stimulus-specific transduction pathways. Furthermore, these data correlate with our previous findings which showed that hypoxia, on the one hand, and nicotine on the other, evoke the preferential release of either dopamine or norepinephrine, respectively, from carotid bodies incubated in vitro.
The functional role of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in the lateral spiriform nucleus was studied in chick brain slices. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of neurons in the lateral spiriform nucleus revealed that carbachol enhanced GABAergic spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents. The duration of the response to carbachol was significantly reduced after blockade of muscarinic receptors with atropine. In the presence of the nicotinic receptor antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine, carbachol produced a delayed but prolonged enhancement of spontaneous GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents that was completely blocked by atropine. Muscarine also enhanced the frequency of spontaneous GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents in a dose-dependent manner, but had no effect on inhibitory postsynaptic current amplitude. While 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-(2-chloroethyl)-piperidine hydrochloride, a M3 antagonist, completely blocked muscarine's effect, telenzepine, a M1 antagonist, and tropicamide, a M4 antagonist, only partially decreased the response to muscarine. Pirenzepine, a M1 antagonist, and methoctramine, a M2 antagonist, potentiated muscarine's enhancement of spontaneous GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents. Muscarine's action was blocked by tetrodotoxin, cadmium chloride and omega-conotoxin GVIA, but was not affected by dihydro-beta-erythroidine, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, naloxone or fluphenazine. These results demonstrate that activation of both muscarinic and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors can enhance GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents in the lateral spiriform nucleus. The muscarinic response has a slower onset but lasts longer than the nicotinic effect. The M3 receptor subtype is predominantly involved in enhancing spontaneous GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents. These M3 receptors must be located some distance from GABA release sites, since activation of voltage-dependent sodium channels, and consequent activation of N-type voltage-dependent calcium channels, is required to trigger enhanced GABA release following activation of muscarinic receptors.
Galanin is a neuropeptide widely expressed in the central nervous system and periphery. In rat, three galanin-binding receptors have been cloned and characterized. We report the qualitative and quantitative distribution of galanin-1, galanin-2, and galanin-3 messenger RNAs in central and peripheral rat tissues by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and solution hybridization/RNase protection assays, respectively. Galanin-1 messenger RNA was detected exclusively in the central and peripheral nervous system with highest expression in hypothalamus, amygdala, spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia. Galanin-2 messenger RNA was highly expressed in hypothalamus, dorsal root ganglia, and kidney with moderate expression in several other tissues. Galanin-3 messenger RNA was widely distributed at low to moderate levels in many central and peripheral tissues. The observed expression of multiple galanin receptors in several tissues including hypothalamus, anterior pituitary and spinal cord supports earlier pharmacological studies suggesting the presence of more than one receptor subtype in these regions. The presence of multiple galanin receptors in these tissues in conjunction with the detection of a single subtype, galanin-2, in tissues such as heart and intestine, illustrates the potential complexity of galanin-associated actions in rat central nervous system and periphery.
Secretoneurin is a 33-amino acid peptide derived from secretogranin II. Secretoneurin immunoreactivity has been localized in the peripheral nervous system where it exerts potent chemotactic activity for monocytes and may play a role in inflammation. Secretoneurin could play a role in this process, although the presence and distribution of secretoneurin-immunoreactive neurons in the female reproductive system has not been documented. Thus, this study was undertaken to examine secretoneurin immunoreactivity in nerves of the rat uterus and uterine cervix. A moderate plexus of secretoneurin-immunoreactive nerve fibers was present in the myometrium and endometrium of the uterus as well as in the smooth muscle and endocervix of the cervix. Many of these fibers were associated with the vasculature as well as the myometrium. Secretoneurin immunoreactivity was present in small- to medium-sized neurons of dorsal root and nodose ganglia. Retrograde tracing with FluoroGold indicated that some of these sensory neurons project axons to the cervix and uterine horns. Secretoneurin-immunoreactive terminal-like structures were associated with neurons in the sacral parasympathetic nucleus of the lumbosacral spinal cord. In addition, some secretoneurin terminals were apposed to pelvic parasympathetic neurons in the paracervical ganglia that projected axons to the uterus and cervix. Double-immunostaining indicated co-existence of calcitonin gene-related peptide or substance P with secretoneurin in some sensory neurons, in some terminals of the pelvic ganglia, as well as nerve fibers in the uterine horn and cervix. Finally, fibers in the uterus and cervix were depleted of secretoneurin by capsaicin treatment. This study indicates that secretoneurin is present in the uterus in C-afferent nerve fibers whose cell bodies are located in sensory ganglia. Some of these fibers contain both secretoneurin and calcitonin gene-related peptide or substance P. These substances have functions in inflammatory reactions. Further, secretoneurin could influence postganglionic parasympathetic &quot;uterine-related&quot; neurons in the pelvic ganglia and preganglionic parasympathetic neurons in the lumbosacral spinal cord.
Until now guinea-pigs have been rarely used to investigate formation and deposition of Alzheimer's disease-associated amyloid beta peptides despite the sequence identity of human and guinea-pig amyloid beta peptides being known, and the overall similarity of human and guinea-pig amyloid precursor protein. We now describe a primary cell culture system of mixed fetal guinea-pig brain cells, which we have applied to characterize endogenous amyloid precursor protein processing and amyloid beta formation. These cell cultures were established at embryonic day 24 of guinea-pigs after comparison of selected stages of guinea-pig ontogenetic development with the known ontogeny of rats, and were characterized by immunocytochemical detection of neuronal and glial marker proteins. Amyloid precursor protein expression, processing and amyloid beta formation increased in parallel with cellular maturation during cultivation and reached a stable phase after approximately 14 days in vitro therefore providing a suitable time for analysis. Aged cultures display strong neuronal amyloid precursor protein immunoreactivity and an altered profile of amyloid precursor protein isoform messenger RNA expression due to glial proliferation as single neurons were shown to retain their typical pattern of amyloid precursor protein expression. We show that amyloid precursor protein in guinea-pig cells is processed by different protease activities which most likely represent alpha- and beta-secretase, leading to the generation of soluble amyloid precursor protein derivatives. Furthermore, endogenous amyloid precursor protein processing leads to production of substantial amounts of amyloid beta-peptides which accumulate in conditioned culture medium. Amyloid beta was readily detectable by western blot analysis and was shown to consist of approximately 80-90% amyloid beta(1-40). We suggest that primary guinea-pig cell cultures provide a valuable tool in amyloid research that resembles amyloid precursor protein processing under physiological concentrations and, therefore, the situation in humans more closely than current rodent models. It should be especially useful in screening experiments for secretase inhibiting compounds.
Dephosphorylation by the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin has been suggested as an important mechanism of Ca2+-dependent inactivation of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. We have tested whether calcineurin plays a role in the inactivation process of two types of high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channels (L and N type) widely expressed in the central nervous system, using the immunosuppressive drug FK506 (tacrolimus), which inhibits calcineurin after binding to intracellular FK506 binding proteins. Inactivation of L- and N-type Ca2+ channels was studied in a rat pituitary tumor cell line (GH3) and chicken dorsal root ganglion neurons, respectively. With the use of antisera directed against the calcineurin subunit B and the 12,000 mol. wt binding protein, we show that both proteins are present in the cytoplasm of GH3 cells and chicken dorsal root ganglion neurons. Ionic currents through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels were investigated in the perforated-patch and whole-cell configurations of the patch-clamp technique. The inactivation of L- as well as N-type Ca2+ currents could be well fitted with a bi-exponential function. Inactivation was largely reduced when Ba2+ substituted for extracellular Ca2+ or when the Ca2+ chelator EGTA was present intracellularly, indicating that both types of Ca2+ currents exhibited Ca2+-dependent inactivation. Extracellular (perforated-patch configuration) or intracellular (whole-cell configuration) application of FK506 to inactivate calcineurin had no effect on the amplitude and time-course of Ca2+ channel current inactivation of either L- or N-type Ca2+ channels. In addition, we found that recovery from inactivation and rundown of N-type Ca2+ channel currents were not affected by FK506. Our results provide direct evidence that the calcium-dependent enzyme calcineurin is not involved in the inactivation process of the two Ca2+ channel types which are important for neuronal functioning, such as gene expression and transmitter release.
The involvement of different types of voltage-dependent calcium channels in nerve-evoked release of neurotransmitter was studied during recovery from neuromuscular paralysis produced by botulinum toxin type A intoxication. For this purpose, a single subcutaneous injection of botulinum toxin (1 IU; DL50) on to the surface of the mouse levator auris longus muscle was performed. The muscles were removed at several time-points after injection (i.e. at one, two, three, four, five, six and 12 weeks). Using electrophysiological techniques, we studied the effect of different types of calcium channel blockers (nitrendipine, omega-conotoxin-GVIA and omega-agatoxin-IVA) on the quantal content of synaptic transmission elicited by nerve stimulation. Morphological analysis using the conventional silver impregnation technique was also made. During the first four weeks after intoxication, sprouts were found at 80% of motor nerve terminals, while at 12 weeks their number was decreased and the nerve terminals were enlarged. The L-type channel blocker nitrendipine (1 microM) inhibited neurotransmitter release by 80% and 30% at two and five weeks, respectively, while no effects were found at later times. The N-type channel blocker omega-conotoxin-GVIA (1 microM) inhibited neurotransmitter release by 50-70% in muscles studied at two to six weeks, respectively, and had no effect 12 weeks after intoxication. The P-type channel blocker omega-agatoxin-IVA (100 nM) strongly reduced nerve-evoked transmitter release (&gt;90%) at all the time-points studied. Identified motor nerve terminals were also sensitive to both nitrendipine and omega-conotoxin-GVIA. This study shows that multiple voltage-dependent calcium channels were coupled to transmitter release during the period of sprouting and consolidation, suggesting that they may be involved in the nerve ending functional recovery process.
The effect of local administration of two adenovirus vectors, one of which expressed CTLA4-immunoglobulin (AdCTLA), which blocks the B7-CD28 co-stimulatory pathway of T cell activation in the inflammatory response to adenovirus vectors was investigated. Mice injected with AdCTLA and an E1-deleted adenovirus vector that encodes the lacZ gene (AdRL) into the brain showed inflammatory cell infiltration from the early phase until day 6 after injection that was not different from that seen in control mice injected with an E1-deleted adenovirus vector containing no transgene (Ad0) and AdRL. After day 6 the inflammation in the control mice increased, peaked by day 15 and then decreased gradually but persisted until day 60. By contrast, in mice treated with AdCTLA and AdRL the inflammation, especially T cell infiltration, was suppressed after day 15. The anti-adenovirus antibody titer increased gradually until day 60 in the Ad0-AdRL control group, and whereas the mice injected with AdCTLA and AdRL showed lower anti-adenovirus antibody titers than the control group mice after day 15. Neutralizing antibody was not detected in either group. Expression of beta-galactosidase, the gene product of AdRL, at the injection site in the striatum and corpus callosum peaked on day 6 and remained until day 60 although it was very low in both groups; beta-galactosidase expression was similar in the two groups in spite of the difference in the degree and extent of the local immune response in the brain. This study demonstrated that the injection of an adenovirus vector expressing CTLA4-immunoglobulin into the brain suppressed not only local cell infiltration in the brain but also reduced the humoral immune response to adenovirus vectors.
Peripheral innervation patterns of proprioceptive afferents from dorsal root ganglia and the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus were assessed in trkC-deficient mice using immunohistochemistry for protein gene product 9.5 and parvalbumin. In trkC knockout mice, spinal proprioceptive afferents were completely absent in the limb skeletal muscles, M. biceps femoris and M. gastrocnemius, as previously reported. In these same animals, however, proprioceptive afferents from mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus innervated masseter muscles and formed primary endings of muscle spindles. Three wild-type mice averaged 35.7 spindle profiles (range: 31-41), six heterozygotes averaged 32.3 spindles (range: 27-41), and four homozygotes averaged 32.8 spindles (range: 26-42). Parvalbumin and Nissl staining of the brain stem showed approximately 50% surviving mesencephalic trigeminal sensory neurons in trkC-deficient mice. TrkC-/- mice (n = 5) had 309.4 +/- 15.9 mesencephalic trigeminal sensory cells versus 616.5 +/- 26.3 the sensory cells in trkC+/+ mice (n = 4). These data indicate that while mesencephalic trigeminal sensory neurons are significantly reduced in number by trkC deletion, they are not completely absent. Furthermore, unlike their spinal counterparts, trigeminal proprioceptive afferents survive and give rise to stretch receptor complexes in masseter muscles of trkC knockout mice. This indicates that spinal and mesencephalic trigeminal proprioceptive afferents have different neurotrophin-supporting system during survival and differentiation. It is likely that one or more other neurotrophin receptors expressed in mesencephalic trigeminal proprioceptive neurons of trkC knockout mice compensate for the lack of normal neurotrophin-3 signaling through trkC.
In order to further investigate the interaction between the octapeptide cholecystokinin and opioid analgesia in the spinal cord we used double-colour immunofluorescence to examine the anatomical distribution of cholecystokinin and mu-opioid receptors in the dorsal horn, as well as the effect of morphine on cholecystokinin- and mu-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivities following peripheral nerve injury and inflammation. Mu-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity was present in 65.6% of cholecystokinin-positive neurons in laminae I and II of rat spinal cord. Conversely, 40.4% of mu-opioid receptor-positive neurons contained cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity. Systemic application of morphine (1, 3 or 10 mg/kg; i.v.) after sciatic nerve section significantly, but reversibly, decreased mu-Opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity in the medial half of lamina II in segment L5 of the ipsilateral dorsal horn, and cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity was also markedly reduced in the same region. These effects were dose- and time-dependent and could be prevented by naloxone preadministration. In contrast, no significant change in the pattern of distribution or intensity of mu-opioid receptor- and cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivities was observed in intact rats or during peripheral inflammation. These results provide a cellular basis for the interaction of mu-opioid receptors and cholecystokinin at the spinal level by showing a high degree of co-existence of these two molecules in local interneurons, and also show that morphine can induce rapid and short lasting effects on mu-opioid receptors after peripheral nerve injury. The results contribute to our understanding of how endogenous cholecystokinin reduces the analgesic effect of morphine.
Electrophysiological recordings were made in vitro from primary afferent neurons with unmyelinated axons (C-neurons) in excised rat dorsal root ganglia. Spike activity triggered in neurons with myelinated axons (A-neurons) by stimulation of the peripheral nerve or the dorsal root produced a transient depolarization in passive neighboring C-neurons that share the same ganglion. About 90% of neurons sampled responded with this &quot;cross-depolarization&quot;. Cross-depolarization was associated with functional excitation as indicated by an increase in firing probability in response to previously subthreshold intracellular test pulses. Furthermore, it yielded a net increase of the input resistance of the affected C-neurons. We suggest that functional coupling among DRG neurons could serve a metabolic role, providing a functionally relevant feedback signal useful for controlling the excitability of nociceptive sensory endings. In addition, the results provide a novel mechanism whereby afferent nociceptors could be stimulated by activity in low-threshold mechanoreceptors, particularly in the event of nerve injury. Hence, the coupling between afferent A- and C-neurons in dorsal root ganglia provides a novel candidate mechanism for neuropathic pain.
Stimulation of the vanilloid (capsaicin) receptor (VR1), currently viewed as a molecular integrator of chemical and physical noxious stimuli, evoked intracellular Ca2+ transients in a capsaicin-sensitive subpopulation of rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. These were comprised of an initial fast rise (seconds) followed by a long-lasting intracellular Ca2+ recovery (tens of minutes). The rate of intracellular Ca2+ recovery was dependent on the magnitude of intracellular Ca2+ transients. Opening of voltage-operated Ca2+ channels in the same neurons by K+ depolarization evoked intracellular Ca2+ elevation of a similar amplitude and rate of rise; however, the recovery of intracellular Ca2+ to the prestimulated level was significantly faster. A mitochondrial uncoupler (10 microM carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrasone) was used to reveal the role of mitochondria in intracellular Ca2+ buffering. Carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrasone-evoked elevation in intracellular Ca2+ was greater in neurons previously stimulated with capsaicin compared with KCl. Neither extracellular Ca2+ nor ATP depletion influenced significantly the carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrasone-sensitive intracellular Ca2+ elevation in neurons loaded with Ca2+ via vanilloid 1 receptor stimulation. The effects of carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrasone suggest that the amount of Ca2+ buffered by mitochondria is greater when extracellular Ca2+ enters the neuron via the vanilloid 1 receptor channel than via voltage-operated Ca2+ channels. The long duration of intracellular Ca2+ decline in neurons stimulated with capsaicin, which depends on the amount of Ca2+ buffered by mitochondria, may reflect a specific mechanism of Ca2+ buffering following activation the pain receptor VR1.
Transection of the spinal cord yields a permanent deficit due to the interruption of descending and ascending tracts which subserve the supraspinal control of spinal cord functions. We have shown previously that transplantation below the level of the section of embryonic monoaminergic neurons can promote the recovery of some segmental functions via a local serotonergic and noradrenergic reinnervation. Moreover, the up-regulation of the corresponding receptors resulting from the section was corrected by the transplants. The aim of the present work was to determine whether such a graft could also influence non-monoaminergic local neurons, the GABAergic interneurons of the spinal cord. Following spinal cord transection, the number of cells which express glutamate decarboxylase (mol. wt 67,000) messenger RNA--a marker of GABA synthesis--increased significantly below the lesion compared with the intact animal. In contrast, in lesioned animals which had been grafted one week later with raphe neuroblasts, this number was close to control level. These post-grafting modifications were further associated with increased GABA immunoreactivity in the host tissue. These data suggest that the graft of embryonic raphe cells which compensates the deficit of serotonin in the distal segment also regulates the expression of the GABAergic phenotype in the host spinal cord. This regulation could be mediated by the re-establishment of a local functional innervation by both serotonin and GABAergic transplanted neurons and/or by trophic factors released from the embryonic cells. It appears then that grafted cells influence the host tissue in a complex manner, through the release and/or regulation of several neurotransmitter systems.
Neuronal programmed cell death is regulated by a neurotrophic supply from targets and afferent inputs. The relative contribution of each component varies according to neuronal type and age. We have previously reported that primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells undergo apoptosis when deprived of depolarising KCl concentrations, suggesting a significant role of afferent inputs in the control of cerebellar granule cells survival. This issue was investigated by setting up various in vivo lesional paradigms in order to obtain partial or total deafferentation of the cerebellar granule layer in adult rats. At different times after surgery, cerebellar sections were subjected to TUNEL staining in order to detect possible DNA damage. One week after unilateral pedunculotomy, few scattered groups of apoptotic granule neurons were observed in the homolateral hemisphere. On the contrary, total deafferentation obtained by a new experimental paradigm based on an &quot;L-cut&quot; lesion induced massive and widespread apoptotic death in the granule layer of the deafferentated area. The time window of DNA fragmentation in granule layer was one to seven days after the &quot;L-cut&quot;. Selective Purkinje cell deafferentation obtained by 3-acetylpyridine injection did not result in TUNEL staining in the cerebellar cortex. The current finding that mossy fiber axotomy induces granule cell apoptotic death points out for the first time the crucial role of afferent inputs in mature granule cell survival. Moreover, the in vivo lesional model described here may prove to be an useful tool for investigating cellular and molecular mechanisms of neuronal death triggered by deafferentation.
We investigated the role of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases in the phosphorylation of cyclic AMP response element binding protein and subsequent induction of c-fos gene elicited by sustained hypertension in neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarii of anesthetized rats. Activation of glutamate receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarii significantly increased the number of neurons that were immunoreactive to phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element binding protein and Fos protein. Microinjection bilaterally into the nucleus tractus solitarii of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase inhibitor, 1-[N,O-bis(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl-N-methyl-L-tyrosyl]-4-phenylpiperazine , appreciably blunted such an increase. This inhibitor also attenuated the augmented immunoreactivity for phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element binding protein or Fos protein in the same nucleus induced by sustained hypertension. These results were comparable to those observed after blockade of either N-methyl-D-aspartate or non-N-methyl-D-aspartate ionotropic glutamate receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarii. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction further indicated that the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase blocker attenuated the expression of Fos protein induced by sustained hypertension in the nucleus tractus solitarii by suppressing the transcription of c-fos messenger RNA. The present results suggest that activation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases may represent an important step in the cascade of intracellular events that leads to phosphorylation of cyclic AMP response element binding protein and subsequent induction of c-fos gene after activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors by baroceptive signals in the nucleus tractus solitarii.
Vagal afferents ascending from the gastrointestinal tract synapse on neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract. Although these neurons constitute a significant proportion of solitary tract cells their firing behaviour and synaptic properties are not documented. Since gastrointestinal tract afferent termination sites overlap with regions mediating cardiorespiratory reflexes the possibility of convergence with afferents mediating cardiovascular and respiratory reflexes was proposed. Here we describe some electrophysiological and morphological properties of solitary tract neurons orthodromically driven from the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerves and assess possible convergent inputs from cardiorespiratory afferents. Whole-cell recordings of solitary tract neurons responding to electrical stimulation of the sub-diaphragmatic vagus nerves (0.1-1 ms; 1-10 V; 2-20 Hz) were made in a working heart-brainstem preparation of rat. Baroreceptors were stimulated by raising pressure in the aorta or carotid sinus, whereas aortic injection of sodium cyanide (0.05% solution 25-50 microl) was used to activate peripheral chemoreceptors. Phrenic nerve activity and heart rate were monitored continuously. Of 88 solitary tract neurons tested, 39 responded with an evoked excitatory synaptic potential following stimulation of the sub-diaphragmatic vagus nerves. Resting membrane potential and input resistance of sub-diaphragmatic vagus nerve driven solitary tract neurons were 53.2 +/- 0.5 mV and 291 +/- 17 Mohms, respectively (mean +/- S.E.M.). Response latencies to sub-diaphragmatic vagus nerve stimulation were divided into two groups: &lt;20 ms (16.0 +/- 2 ms, n = 7; mean +/- S.E.M.) and &gt;20 ms (77.3 +/- 5 ms, n = 32). One additional neuron displayed an evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potential (latency 175 ms). Nineteen neurons showed ongoing activity which consisted of either irregular single action potential firing (0.5-10 Hz; n = 12) or burst discharge (n = 7). Of 33 neurons tested, 17 showed spike frequency adaptation during injection of positive current, whereas 19 of 38 cells displayed rebound excitation following release from hyperpolarized potentials. There was no correlation between these properties and synaptic latencies. Ninety-one per cent of neurons tested displayed synaptic depression following paired pulse stimulation of the sub-diaphragmatic vagus nerve over intervals up to 500 ms. Stimulation of either baroreceptors (n = 31) or chemoreceptors (n = 36) failed to elicit a synaptic response in all sub-diaphragmatic vagus nerve-driven solitary tract neurons. Neurobiotin-labelled solitary tract neurons (n = 10) were from both latency groups and were located medial to the solitary tract at the level of area postrema, -0.3 mm to +1 mm from the obex. One cell was located in commissural subnucleus at midline, seven cells dorsal to the tractus solitarius and three ventral and medial to it. Soma sizes were 23 +/- 9.6 x 14 +/- 4.9 microm (range: 50 x 16 microm to 15 x 7 microm). The number of primary dendrites varied from three to five, secondary from one to eight and tertiary zero to four. Labelled axons were found in seven cells which ramified extensively in the solitary tract nucleus (n = 3) and/or branched extensively in the dorsal vagal motonucleus (n = 3) and/or projected towards the ventrolateral medulla (n = 3). We conclude that solitary tract neurons receiving signals from the sub-diaphragmatic vagus nerves (most likely from gastrointestinal tract structures) appear to be a distinct pool of neurons. There was a heterogeneity in terms of both their ongoing activity and projection targets but despite this, there were three consistent properties. First, sub-diaphragmatic vagus nerve evoked predominantly excitatory synaptic responses in solitary tract neurons; second, neurons exhibited lasting paired pulse depression following activation of sub-diaphragmatic vagus nerves; and third, sub-diaphragmatic vagus nerve-driven solitary tract neurons were
GABAergic neurotransmission involves ionotropic GABA(A) and metabotropic GABA(B) receptor subtypes. Although fast inhibitory transmission through GABA(A) receptors activation is commonly found in the basal ganglia, the functions as well as the cellular and subcellular localization of GABA(B) receptors are still poorly known. Polyclonal antibodies that specifically recognize the GABA(B)R1 receptor subunit were produced and used for immunocytochemical localization of these receptors at the light and electron microscope levels in the monkey basal ganglia. Western blot analysis of monkey brain homogenates revealed that these antibodies reacted specifically with two native proteins corresponding to the size of the two splice variants GABA(B)R1a and GABA(B)R1b. Preadsorption of the purified antiserum with synthetic peptides demonstrated that these antibodies recognize specifically GABA(B)R1 receptors with no cross-reactivity with GABA(B)R2 receptors. Overall, the distribution of GABA(B)R1 immunoreactivity throughout the monkey brain correlates with previous GABA(B) ligand binding studies and in situ hybridization data as well as with recent immunocytochemical studies in rodents. GABA(B)R1-immunoreactive cell bodies were found in all basal ganglia nuclei but the intensity of immunostaining varied among neuronal populations in each nucleus. In the striatum, interneurons were more strongly stained than medium-sized projection neurons while in the substantia nigra, dopaminergic neurons of the pars compacta were much more intensely labeled than GABAergic neurons of the pars reticulata. In the subthalamic nucleus, clear immunonegative neuronal perikarya were intermingled with numerous GABA(B)R1-immunoreactive cells. Moderate GABA(B)R1 immunoreactivity was observed in neuronal perikarya and dendritic processes throughout the external and internal pallidal segments. At the electron microscope level, GABA(B)R1 immunoreactivity was commonly found in neuronal cell bodies and dendrites in every basal ganglia nuclei. Many dendritic spines also displayed GABA(B)R1 immunoreactivity in the striatum. In addition to strong postsynaptic labeling, GABA(B)R1-immunoreactive preterminal axonal segments and axon terminals were frequently encountered throughout the basal ganglia components. The majority of labeled terminals displayed the ultrastructural features of glutamatergic boutons and formed asymmetric synapses. In the striatum, GABA(B)R1-containing boutons resembled terminals of cortical origin, while in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra, subthalamic-like terminals were labeled. Overall, these findings demonstrate that GABA(B) receptors are widely distributed and located to subserve both pre- and postsynaptic roles in controlling synaptic transmission in the primate basal ganglia.
In Parkinson's disease, changes in GABAergic activity occurring downstream of the striatal dopamine loss are accompanied by reciprocal changes in GABA(A) receptor binding, the underlying molecular mechanisms for which are unknown. This study examined whether changes in expression of the genes encoding known GABA(A) receptor subunits (alpha(1-4), beta(1-3), gamma(1-3) and delta) could account for this receptor plasticity using a rodent model of Parkinson's disease with a 6-hydroxydopamine-induced nigrostriatal lesion. Analysis of autoradiograms of the basal ganglia and thalamus revealed changes in expression of only four of the 11 subunits studied. Expression of alpha1 and beta2 subunit genes was altered in a parallel manner following a 6-hydroxydopamine lesion; messenger RNA levels for both were significantly increased in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (11 +/- 4% and 17 +/- 1%, respectively), and significantly reduced in the globus pallidus (18 +/- 3% and 16 +/- 3%, respectively) and parafascicular nucleus (19 +/- 3% and 16 +/- 5%, respectively). Smaller changes in the messenger RNA levels encoding the alpha1 subunit in the lateral amygdala (8 +/- 1% decrease) and the alpha4 and gamma2 subunits in the striatum (10 +/- 2% and 6 +/- 1% increase, respectively) were also observed. No changes in expression were noted for any other subunits in any region studied. Clearly, both region- and subunit-specific regulation of GABA(A) receptor subunit gene expression occurs following a nigrostriatal tract lesion. The changes in expression of the alpha1 and beta2 subunit genes probably contribute to the documented changes in GABA(A) receptor binding following striatal dopamine depletion. Moreover, they provide a molecular basis by which the pathological changes in GABAergic activity in Parkinson's disease may be partially compensated.
The interactions existing between substance P- and dopamine-positive neurons, notably in the basal ganglia, suggest that substance P may have therapeutic use in treatment of Parkinson's disease characterized by impaired dopaminergic transmission. The effects of intracerebroventricularly administered substance P were tested on the levels of dopamine and its metabolites in the striatum, nucleus accumbens and frontal cortex of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. Intracerebroventricular injection of 6-hydroxydopamine decreased the levels of dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid in the brain structures under investigation. Administration of substance P in low dose (0.35 nmol/kg) had no effect on the 6-hydroxydopamine-induced reduction of the dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid contents in the brain. However, treatment with substance P in higher dose (3.5 nmol/kg) increased the concentrations of dopamine and its metabolites in the striatum, nucleus accumbens and frontal cortex relative to saline-treated group. Additionally, 6-hydroxydopamine lesions significantly increased 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine and homovanillic acid/dopamine ratios in the striatum and nucleus accumbens. Substance P (3.5 nmol/kg) partially reversed lesion-induced increases in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine and homovanillic acid/dopamine ratios in the striatum, but did not alter these ratios in nucleus accumbens. To test whether substance P fragmentation is responsible for this phenomenon, substance P(5-11), which is one of the main substance P fragments in rat CNS, was administered in equimolar dose. Substance P(5-11) was found to have no effect on the content of dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid in the striatum and nucleus accumbens. In the frontal cortex, substance P(5-11) produced decreases in dopamine levels and increases in homovanillic acid/dopamine ratio. The results of this study suggest that substance P helps to restore dopamine deficit in the brain in an animal model of Parkinson's disease, with the positive effects being more prominent on the nigrostriatal than on the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system, but substance P(5-11) is not responsible for this effect.
The comparative effects of L-3,4-dihydroxphenylalanine (L-DOPA) on dopamine synthesis, release and behaviour were studied in the reserpine-treated rat. Acute administration of L-DOPA (25-200 mg/kg) dose-dependently inhibited the activity of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) in the substantia nigra and corpus striatum. The antiparkinsonian drugs budipine (10 mg/kg) and amantadine (40 mg/kg) enhanced AADC activity in these regions, and prevented or reversed AADC inhibition by L-DOPA. Dual probe dialysis revealed that low doses of L-DOPA (25-50 mg/kg) dose-dependently stimulated the release of dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in nigra and striatum, whilst high doses of L-DOPA (100-200 mg/kg) completely suppressed the release of dopamine, but not DOPAC. Sulpiride (50 microM) administered via the probes antagonized dopamine release in response to 25 mg/kg L-DOPA, but greatly facilitated release by 200 mg/kg L-DOPA. Dopamine release was blocked by the centrally acting AADC inhibitor NSD 1015, but facilitated by the central AADC activator budipine. In behavioural tests L-DOPA (plus benserazide, 50 mg/kg) only reversed akinesia at 200 mg/kg, and not at 25-100 mg/kg. Pretreatment with either NSD 1015 (100 mg/kg) or budipine (10 mg/kg) markedly potentiated the motor stimulant action of a threshold dose of L-DOPA (100 mg/kg). A combination of NSD 1015 (100 mg/kg) and benserazide (50 mg/kg) potentiated L-DOPA behaviour more effectively than either inhibitor alone. NSD 1015-facilitated L-DOPA behaviour was antagonized by sulpiride (100 mg/kg) and not by SCH 23390 (1 mg/kg), whereas budipine-facilitated L-DOPA behaviour was fully antagonized by SCH 23390 and only partially by sulpiride. These results show that behaviourally active doses of L-DOPA in the reserpinized rat are not accompanied by significant increases in extracellular dopamine and are therefore probably not dopamine mediated. We propose that L-DOPA is capable of directly stimulating dopamine D2 and possibly non-dopamine receptors, thereby inhibiting dopamine efflux presynaptically and promoting motor activation postsynaptically. A stimulant action of L-DOPA on motor behaviour, preferentially mediated by D1 &gt; D2 receptors, suggests that L-DOPA may also be capable of yielding a dopamine-like response in the absence of detectable dopamine release. These findings are incorporated into a new model of L-DOPA's actions in the reserpinized rat, and their possible implications for our understanding of L-DOPA in Parkinson's disease are discussed.
Magnetic resonance imaging and in vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy were used to evaluate the therapeutic effect of lamotrigine and MK-801 on rat brain lesions induced by 3-nitropropionic acid. Systemic administration of 3-nitropropionic acid (15 mg/kg per day) to two-month-old Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 10 for each group) for five consecutive days induced selective striatal and hippocampal lesions and specific behavioral change. Pretreatment with lamotrigine (10 mg/kg or 20 mg/kg per day) or MK-801 (2 mg/kg per day) attenuated the lesions and behavioral change. There were no significant differences in T2 values of the striatum and hippocampus among rats pretreated with MK-801, lamotrigine (20 mg/kg) and sham controls. Significant elevations of succinate/creatine and lactate/creatine ratios and decreases of N-acetylaspartate/creatine and choline/creatine ratios were observed after 3-nitropropionic acid injections (P &lt; 0.001). The changes were nearly prevented after pretreatment with lamotrigine (20 mg/kg). However, the N-acetylaspartate/creatine in rats pretreated with lamotrigine (10 mg/kg) (P &lt; 0.01) and MK-801 (P &lt; 0.05) still showed significant reduction as compared with sham controls. Thus we conclude that both lamotrigine and MK-801 are effective in attenuation of brain lesions induced by 3-nitropropionic acid. A higher dose of lamotrigine provides a better neuroprotective effect than MK-801. With a better therapeutic effect and fewer side effects, lamotrigine is more promising for potential clinical application.
While a great deal is known about stimuli that can induce the release of adenosine from brain tissue, relatively little is known about the regulation of the basal extracellular concentration of adenosine that is present in the absence of stimulation. Under normal conditions, enough adenosine is present to tonically activate a significant portion of the high-affinity adenosine A1 receptors. The present experiments demonstrated that the estimated basal concentration of extracellular adenosine in rat hippocampal slices maintained at 21 degrees C (430 nM) is approximately twice that at 32 degrees C (220 nM). The sensitivity of presynaptic modulatory adenosine A1 receptors was not significantly different at 21 degrees C or at 32 degrees C. Slices maintained at 21 degrees C also showed a reduced ability to inactivate extracellular adenosine, which reflects a reduction in adenosine transport across cell membranes. This effect appears to be primarily due to a reduction in the function of the equilibrative, dipyridamole-sensitive (ei) adenosine transporter; the nitrobenzylthioinosine-sensitive equilibrative transporter (es transporter) appears to be relatively less affected by temperature than is the ei transporter. These experiments demonstrate that extracellular concentrations of adenosine in the brain are sensitive to temperature, and suggest that some of the neurological effects of hypothermia might be mediated via increased concentrations of adenosine in the extracellular space.
The dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation undergoes extensive network remodelling including progenitor cell proliferation, migration as well as apoptotic cell death in response to prolonged excitotoxic insults. Previous studies have shown that such a proliferative cell population may undergo aberrant migration and later persist in ectopically located positions within the molecular cell layer. In this study we have developed an experimental model to characterize the spatiotemporal patterns of such an injury-induced network remodelling. Ouabain (1 microl, 1 mM), a Na+, K+-ATPase blocker, was stereotactically co-injected into the rat dentate gyrus with ethidium bromide (1 microl, 40 microM). The latter is a fluorescent nucleic acid intercalating dye, which was used for labeling cells undergoing early phases of apoptosis or proliferation. Our results revealed that within an hour after the injection, a subpopulation of cells characterized by spindle- or ovoid-shaped somata and bipolar morphology, were intensely labeled with ethidium bromide. These cells were found initially clustered both inside and outside the dentate granule cell layer and later on markedly increased in number as well as spread radially in the next few hours into the dentate molecular layer. The unusual pattern of cell dispersion encountered in our study may represent aberrantly migrating progenitor cells consistent with earlier observations of ectopically-located granule cells in human temporal lobe epilepsy specimens and epilepsy animal models. Alternatively, the described phenomenon may represent dispersion of Cajal-Retzius cells that may be involved in post-lesion network remodelling.
The aim of the present investigation was to compare the antiepileptic efficacy of the specific L-type calcium channel blocker nifedipine in hippocampal and neocortical slice preparations in the Mg2+-free model of epilepsy. The main findings were as follows. (1) In hippocampal slices, in general, nifedipine (20-80 micromol/l) exerted a suppressive effect both on repetition rate and on area under epileptiform field potentials. This effect was clearly dose dependent. In the majority of cases, this suppression was preceded by an increase, which was transient in nature. Only in the lowest concentration (20 micromol/l) used, in normal K+, instead of a depression, a persistent increase occurred. (2) In neocortical slices, in the majority of experiments, nifedipine (20-80 micromol/l) showed a depressive action only on the area under the epileptiform field potentials. The depressive effect of nifedipine on the area was dose dependent, although to a lesser extent than in the hippocampus. In nearly half of the slices this suppression was preceded by a transient increase. By contrast, the repetition rate of epileptiform field potentials increased transiently in about 20% of the slices followed by a decrease. In the remaining 80% of the slices the repetition rate increased persistently. (3) An elevation of the K+ concentration accentuated the depressive actions of nifedipine only in the hippocampus. In contrast to elevated K+, in both the hippocampus and the neocortex, epileptiform field potentials were not suppressed in all experiments in normal K+. (4) The reversibility of the depressive effects of nifedipine was differential in the two tissue types. In the hippocampus, after suppression of epileptiform field potentials they reappeared in the overwhelming majority of slices. In the neocortex, this was the case in only one experiment. These findings may indicate the existence of L-type calcium channels with a differential functional significance for epileptogenesis and/or the existence of different forms of L-type channels in hippocampal and neocortical tissue. As a whole, the differential effects of L-type calcium channel blockade in the hippocampus and neocortex point to differences in the network properties of the two tissue types.
Intrinsic signal optical imaging was used to record the changes in light transmittance evoked by electrical stimulation in slices prepared from sensorimotor cortex of young adult rats. The spatial characteristics of the optical signal evoked by stimulation of layer II/III, IV, V, or VI were clearly different. Layer IV and V stimulation elicited a radially-oriented region of increased light transmittance which was &quot;hourglass&quot; shaped: its tangential extent was greatest in layers II/III and layer V, and least in layer IV. Layer VI stimulation also elicited a radially-oriented signal but the tangential extent of this signal was the same across layers II-VI--that is, it was column-shaped. Upper layer stimulation produced a signal whose tangential extent was much greater in the upper layers than its radial extent to the deeper layers. The spatial form of the stimulus-evoked intrinsic signal was not dependent on the cytoarchitectonic area in which it was elicited. The tangential and radial distribution of the signal evoked by stimulation of different layers appears to reflect the connectivity of cortex, particularly the horizontal connectivity present in layers II/III, V, and VI, and the interlaminar connections that exist between layers II/III and V and from layers VI to IV. The spatial characteristics of the intrinsic signal were independent of the strength of stimulation used. The idea that inhibitory mechanisms restrict the tangential extent of the signal was evaluated in experiments in which the intrinsic signal was recorded before and after the addition of 10 microM bicuculline methiodide. In all slices studied in this way (n = 12), bicuculline methiodide drastically increased the tangential extent of the signal. In 4/12 slices, the tangential spread of the signal was asymmetric with respect to the stimulus site. Asymmetric spread of the signal occurred for both layer V and layer VI stimulation and, in 2/4 of those cases, could be attributed to a cytoarchitectonic border whose presence appeared to restrict the spread of the signal across the border. Although increasing stimulation strength did not change the spatial characteristics of the radially-oriented signal evoked by layer V or VI stimulation, at maximal stimulus intensity the signal evoked from these layers was often accompanied by a band of decreased light transmittance in the most superficial layers (layers I and II). It is concluded that in vitro intrinsic optical signal imaging allows one to image a response attributable to activation of local subsets of cortical connections. In addition, the opposite effects of high-intensity deep layer stimulation on the superficial layers vs layers III-VI of the same column raise the possibility that the most superficial layers may respond differently to repetitive input drive than the rest of the cortical column.
Inside-out patch recordings from rat acutely dissociated cerebral cortical neurons revealed time and voltage-dependent activity of a large-conductance calcium-activated potassium channel. Channel activity inactivated within minutes following a depolarizing voltage step, and was recovered from inactivation by membrane hyperpolarization. Inactivation rate was not influenced by internal calcium or membrane voltage; however, reducing channel activity with intracellular calcium destabilized inactivation. Channel inactivation was abolished by intracellular trypsin treatment, suggesting that an associated inactivating particle was responsible for inactivation. Application of alkaline phosphatase to the internal aspect of the patch membrane increased channel activity and abolished channel inactivation, without affecting its voltage and calcium dependence. Internal application of Mg-ATP, but not Mg-5'-adenylylamidodiphosphate, retarded recovery of channel activity from inactivation, whereas internal application of protein phosphatase-1alpha enhanced recovery from inactivation. The abolition of channel inactivation by alkaline phosphatase was prevented by prior internal tetraethylammonium treatment, indicating that the alkaline phosphatase site is closely associated with the channel pore. These results demonstrate that cortical large-conductance calcium-activated potassium channel inactivation is probably mediated by an endogenous, trypsin-sensitive, inactivation particle. This particle appears to inactivate the open channel and requires a critical phosphate group for stable block. The slow time-course of channel inactivation may have some pathophysiological significance in maintenance of epileptiform activity.
Wistaria floribunda agglutinin and peanut agglutinin were found to bind histochemically to the anterior and posterior regions, respectively, of the vomeronasal nerve and glomerular layers in the rat accessory olfactory bulb. Furthermore, Ricinus communis agglutinin showed strong binding to the anterior region of the vomeronasal nerve and glomerular layers, whereas it bound weakly and/or moderately to the rostral two-thirds of the posterior glomerular layer but not at all to the caudal one-third. This suggests that the posterior region is further divided into two subregions. An electrophysiological mapping study in sagittal slice preparations demonstrated that stimulation given within the anterior vomeronasal nerve layer elicited field potentials within the anterior region of the external plexiform layer, whereas shocks to the rostral two-thirds and the caudal one-third of the posterior vomeronasal nerve layer provoked field responses within the rostral two-thirds and within the caudal one-third of the posterior external plexiform layer, respectively, indicating that the posterior external plexiform layer is also divided into two subregions. Real-time optical imaging showed similar results as above, except that neural activity also spread into mitral cell layers. Furthermore, the most anterior and posterior ends of the neural activity evoked in the rostral two-thirds of the posterior region immediately adjoined the posterior border of that evoked in the anterior region and the anterior border of that evoked in the caudal one-third of the posterior region, respectively. Moreover, the granule cell layer was also found to have similar boundaries. Thus, optical imaging studies demonstrated individual precise boundaries of these subdivisions, which were positioned right beneath those defined by Ricinus communis agglutinin histochemistry. The presence of functional segregation in each layer leads us to conclude that there are at least three different input-output pathways in the rat vomeronasal system.
Topographically localized over-expression of the human Bcl-2 protein in retinal glial Mller cells of a transgenic mice (line 71) leads to early postnatal apoptotic Mller cell death and retinal degeneration. Morphological, immunohistological and confocal laser microscopic examination of transgenic and wild-type retinas were achieved on paraffin retinal sections, postnatally. Apoptosis occurs two to three days earlier in the internal nuclear layer of transgenic retinae, than in wild-type littermates. In parallel there was a progressive disappearance of transgenic Hu-Bcl-2 over-expression, as well as of the Mller cell markers, cellular retinaldehyde-binding protein and glutamine synthetase. This phenomenon led to retinal dysplasia, photoreceptor apoptosis and then retinal degeneration and proliferation of the retinal pigment epithelium. The optic nerve, however, remains intact. Two complementary observations confirm the pro-apoptotic action of Bcl-2 over-expression in Mller cells: (i) in the peri-papillary and peripheral regions where the transgene Bcl-2 is not expressed, cellular retinaldehyde-binding protein or glutamine synthetase immunostaining persist and Mller glia do not die; and (ii) the retina conserves a normal organisation in these two regions in spite of total retinal degeneration elsewhere. We conclude that retinal dysplasia and degeneration are linked to primary Mller cell disruption. Besides its generally accepted anti-apoptotic function, over-expression of Bcl-2 also exerts a pro-apoptotic action, at least in immature Mller glia. One may suppose that Bcl-2 translocation resulting in its over-expression in retinal Mller cells could be a putative mechanism for early retinal degeneration.
Marijuana is known to affect learning and memory in humans, and cannabinoids block long-term potentiation in the hippocampus, a model for the synaptic changes that are believed to underlie memory at the cellular level. We have now examined the physiological properties of the Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in mutant mice in which the CB1 receptor gene has been invalidated and found that these animals exhibit a half-larger long-term potentiation than wild-type controls. Other properties of these synapses, such as paired-pulse facilitation, remained unchanged. This indicates that disrupting CB1 receptor-mediated neurotransmission at the genome level produces mutant mice with an enhanced capacity to strengthen synaptic connections in a brain region crucial for memory formation.
Secreted isoforms of the beta-amyloid precursor protein potently enhance neuronal survival in cell cultures exposed to toxic amyloid beta peptide. Lowering of intracellular calcium levels to offset the increases in intraneuronal calcium caused by amyloid beta peptide is thought to underly this neuroprotection. Because we have shown previously that an amyloid beta peptide-mediated potentiation of calcium channel currents may contribute to this cytosolic calcium overload, the present study examined the effects of a secreted beta-amyloid precursor protein on the calcium channel response to amyloid beta peptide. When compared with untreated cultured rat hippocampal neurons, cells that underwent a 24 h preincubation with beta-amyloid precursor protein 751 displayed decreases in the relative size of the calcium channel response to amyloid beta peptide. A membrane-permeable analog of cyclic GMP, a second messenger believed to be involved in the calcium regulation process mediated by beta-amyloid precursor proteins, also attenuated the modulatory calcium channel response. Co-application of beta-amyloid precursor protein 751 with amyloid beta peptide did not alter calcium channel response to amyloid beta peptide. Taken together, these findings suggest that secreted beta-amyloid precursor proteins can suppress a calcium channel response to amyloid beta peptide that is potentially injurious to the cell, and as such, may define a neuroprotective mechanism that is specific for amyloid beta toxicity.

Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy is caused by microvascular occlusion of the prelaminar or laminar portion of the optic nerve head. The main types are arteritic, non-arteritic, and autoimmune. Few cases were reported following coronary artery bypass surgery. A 63-year-old man, who is both diabetic and hypertensive, underwent coronary artery bypass graft complicated postoperatively by sudden visual loss in his right eye. The diagnosis was non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. Possible predisposing factors were crowded disc and internal carotid artery stenosis.
A 90 year old male presented with symptoms and signs of right lower cranial nerves palsy. A small mass was found on the right side at the back of his mouth. Light microscopy and histoimmunochemical studies of the biopsy of the mass showed an alveolar soft part sarcoma arising from the right myohyoid muscle. The unusual location and presentation of this rare tumor is discussed.
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy is considered as a chronic form of Guillain-Barre syndrome differing from it in response to steroids, course and prognosis. Papillodema although rare is not an uncommon feature. Here we report a case of florid papillodema in a patient of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, discuss the underlying mechanisms in relation to cerebrospinal fluid pressure and protein content and response to intravenous immunoglobulins.
Herpes zoster or Shingles, an inflammatory viral disease caused by varicella has classical clinical presentation with herpetic morphological pattern exhibited along one or more dermatomes. The self limiting skin disease is accompanied by pain and burning sensations leading to post herpetic neuralgia. The sensory component of the disease is so prominent that the motor involvement is often overlooked. It was not known till recently that profound muscle weakness can be a part of this syndrome. We report 2 cases of herpes zoster who had prominent appreciable motor weakness of the abdominal muscles following the disease. The weakness however has a better prognosis and the lesions in both of our patients healed in 6 months without leaving any residual paralysis.
We report a patient with muscle weakness secondary to elevated serum sodium level. The cause of the elevated sodium level and the mechanism involved in producing muscle weakness are discussed.









Treatment of migraine has traditionally been divided into managing acute attacks and prophylactic treatment. Treatment of acute migraine has been the subject of many research papers and review articles in recent literature partly at the cost of prophylactic treatment, which is the focus of this review. The objective of prophylactic therapy is to reduce frequency, duration and severity of attacks in addition to optimize the patient`s ability to function normally. Preventive therapy is usually undertaken in patients who have more than two migraine episodes per month or when less frequent have severely disabling headaches resistant to usual treatment. Beta-blocking drugs without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (e.g. propranolol) are usually the first drugs of choice followed by tricyclic antidepressant agents (e.g. amitriptyline), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (e.g. naproxen), calcium antagonists (e.g. flunarizine) or valproate. The use of serotonin antagonists (e.g. methysergide) is limited because of their potential serious side effects. Migraine refractory to standard prophylactic therapy is very often the result of overuse of abortive antimigraine drugs. The choice of medication clearly depends on the patient`s profile (age, co-morbid medical conditions) and the contraindication and side effect profile of the drug.
During the recent years, a significant number of anti-epileptic drugs have been approved for prescription in different countries. In addition, some other promising drugs are in various stages of development. Soon after each drug has found its place in the therapeutic arsenal, pregnancies with exposure occur, with an increased risk of birth defect and developmental disturbances. As regards the possible teratogenic effect of the new anti-epileptic drugs, apart some individual reports we have only the results of pre-clinical toxicological studies which are difficult to extrapolate to the human situation, because of the well-known interspecies differences in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. Furthermore, combinations of anti-epileptic drugs are not tested pre-clinically while these new drugs are prescribed as add-on medication. So, metabolic interactions between individual components of such drug combinations may induce unexpected teratogenic effects. Also as for the teratogenic effects of the `old` drugs many questions have still to be defined. The most common and more important are which anti-epileptic drugs or combination of drugs is most safe for a particular woman with epilepsy and if there is an association between single anti-epileptic drugs and specific malformations. The reason is that none of the available reports to date have studied a sufficient number of women with epilepsy exposed to anti-epileptic drug monotherapy during pregnancy. Other questions concern dose-effect relationships, a universally accepted definition of major and minor malformations, and the lack of a thorough, exhaustive evaluation of the other risk factors, apart from the drugs. All these questions need to be ascertained for both the old and the new anti-epileptic drugs. Owing to these considerations, in 1998 an European Register of anti-epileptic drugs and pregnancy was instituted. The primary objective of the study is to evaluate and determine the degree of safety, with respect to the human foetus, of anti-epileptic drugs with reference to both old and new, and to individual drugs and drugs in combination. Secondary objectives are to establish the pattern of abnormalities, if any, associated with anti-epileptic drugs individually and in combination, to delineate drug-specific syndromes, if any, to evaluate dose-effect relationships. Tertiary objectives are to provide references data for use in pre-pregnancy counselling, and for development of guidelines. The evaluation of other etiological risk factors is also considered.


Accumulating evidence supports a primary role for perturbations in redox metabolism in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases. This evidence derives mainly from molecular genetic analysis, direct observation from post-mortem human brain, and biochemical, pathologic, and therapeutic studies in transgenic and other animal models of neurodegeneration. We review here the evidence for redox-mediated pathogenesis in neurodegenerative diseases. The emerging class of redox-based therapeutic agents is then discussed. Drugs of this class are distinguished by their proximate effect, which is oxidative and not phosphorylative.
Considerable evidence exists that the brains of individuals with Alzheimer's disease are subject to elevated levels of oxidative stress, particularly in regions exhibiting pathological damage. A major contributor to this oxidative stress appears to be the inflammatory process. Activation of rodent microglial cells by LPS or beta-amyloid peptide results in a marked up-regulation of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and corresponding nitric oxide (NO) production. Elevated levels of iNOS are also observed in the brains of Alzheimer patients. The reaction of NO with superoxide leads to the generation of the highly reactive and damaging peroxynitrite free radical species. Peroxynitrite appears to play a key role in the generation of an oxidative stress in the Alzheimer brain as evidenced by widespread nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity. We have employed SIN-1 as a peroxynitrite generating system in cell cultures in order to characterize the effects of this free radical on neurons. SIN-1 treatment of primary rat hippocampal neurons in culture results in neurotoxicity by a necrosis mechanism according to electron microscopic criteria. One approach to limiting peroxynitrite mediated damage is to limit superoxide production. An approach we have evaluated is treatment with salen manganese compounds, a class of catalytic antioxidant compounds which behave as superoxide dismutase (SOD)/catalase mimetics to detoxify superoxide. A number of such salen manganese compounds, including EUK-8 and EUK-134, can markedly protect primary rat cortical neurons from hydrogen peroxide mediated oxidative stress. Such salen manganese compounds can similarly afford marked neuroprotection to an oxidative stress imposed by SIN-1, potentially attributable at least in part to their inherent SOD activity. The salen manganese SOD/catalase mimetics represent a promising class of catalytic antioxidant for attenuating oxidative stress.
Mechanisms of neuronal cell death in apoptosis and necrosis are examined. Neurotoxic processes underlying cellular destruction may involve N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation and/or activation of neuronal nitric oxide synthase but the depletion of energy and generation of free radicals appears to be critical. In Alzheimer's disease the damaging effects of peroxynitrite and exposure to beta-amyloid peptide is evident. Mitochondrial dysfunction is involved in several neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Huntington's disease as well as Alzheimer's disease and in these disorders the innovations offered by techniques ranging from transgenic mouse models of the disorder to cell culture preparations are remarkable. Agents of neuroprotection and neurorestoration possess either characteristics specific to particular disorders or have a general applicability or both. The vast array of agents available are for the most part the objectives of laboratory examinations but an increasing selection of compounds are reaching the clinical necessities thereby influencing current strategic notions to modify tactical contingencies. Among the agents listed are included: inhibitors of the enzyme poly-ADP-ribose polymerase, inhibition of apoptotic cell death, agents acting on mitochondrial permeability transition, excitatory amino acid antagonists, applications of neurotrophins, immunophilins, agents influencing heme oxygenase-1 expression and iron sequestration in aging astroglia, improvements in mitochondrial energy production or buffering, and finally dopaminemimetics with differential affinities for dopamine receptors.
A new functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) technique for simultaneous detection (SIDE) of changes in perfusion and blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) contrast is described. Perfusion contrast is generated by using magnetically labeled endogenous water proton spins as a freely diffusible tracer. A single slice-selective inversion pulse is combined with dual echo echo-planar imaging to generate a spin-echo (SE) image sensitive to changes in perfusion and a gradient-echo (GE) image sensitive to changes in both perfusion and BOLD contrast. The SIDE technique was applied to detect functional changes induced by a visual search task. A theoretical analysis is provided to calculate quantitative maps of changes in cerebral blood flow (DeltaCBF) and effective transverse relaxation time (DeltaT(2)*) from the corresponding signal changes in the SE and GE images. Since SE an GE images are generated from the same longitudinal magnetization, no errors due to spatial or temporal mismatch can arise in the quantification of DeltaCBF and DeltaT(2)*.
Cell transplantation has over the last two decades emerged as a promising approach for restoration of function in neurodegenerative diseases, in particular Parkinson's and Huntington's disease. Clinical trials have so far focused on the use of implants of embryonic mesencephalic tissue containing already fate-committed dopaminergic neuroblasts with the capacity to develop into fully mature dopamine neurons in their new location in the host brain. However, the recent demonstration that immature neural progenitor cells with multipotent properties can be isolated from both the developing and adult CNS and that these cells can be maintained and propagated in culture, has provided a new interesting tool for restorative cell replacement and gene transfer therapies. Embryonic stem cells, obtained from the early stages of embryonic development, and neural stem cells, obtained from the developing brain, may provide renewable sources of cells for therapeutic purposes, and could eventually offer a powerful alternative to primary fetal CNS tissue in clinical transplantation protocols. The purpose of this review is to discuss the prospects of the emerging progenitor cell technology for cell replacement and restorative therapies in neurodegenerative diseases, and consider some of the critical issues that must be solved in order to make progenitor cells useful in studies of brain repair.
In recent years, it has become evident that the developing and even the adult mammalian CNS contain a population of undifferentiated, multipotent cell precursors, neural stem cells, the plastic properties of which might be of advantage for the design of more effective therapies for many neurological diseases. This article reviews the recent progress in establishing rodent and human clonal neural stem cell lines, their biological properties, and how these cells can be utilized to correct a variety of defects, with prospects for the near future to harness their behaviour for neural stem cell-based treatment of diseases in humans.
Neural development and transplantation therapies in neurodegenerative disease share a particular feature. In both cases, undifferentiated neural precursor cells are required to differentiate into a range of neural cell types in a tissue-specific fashion. This similarity opens the possibility that the mechanisms that drive neural development play a similar role in CNS repair. In this chapter, two aspects of neural development are considered in terms of their relevance to CNS repair: the diversity of neural precursor cells and positional specification. We present evidence to suggest that neural stem cells have a degree of diversity that is beyond what might have been expected a priori. We also show that neural stem cells express genes that might encode a positional specification for these cells, and consider a number of hypotheses about the role of positional specification in CNS repair.
Transplanted human embryonic dopamine neurons reinnervate the striatum in patients with Parkinson's disease. The grafts can exhibit long-term survival without immunological rejection and despite an ongoing disease process and continuous antiparkinsonian drug treatment. Recent findings using positron emission tomography indicate that the grafts are functionally integrated in the patient's brain and release dopamine into the striatum. In the most successful cases, patients have been able to withdraw L-dopa treatment after transplantation and resume an independent life. About two-thirds of grafted patients have shown clinically useful, partial recovery of motor function: increased percentage of time in the 'on'-phase and reduced rigidity and hypokinesia during 'off'-phases, bilaterally but predominantly on the side contralateral to the graft. Gait, speed, balance and dyskinesias have not exhibited any major, consistent improvements. Current research aims at solving three main problems: (a) large amounts of human embryonic mesencephalic tissue are needed for therapeutic effects; (b) symptomatic relief is incomplete and varies between patients; and (c) patient selection and grafting procedure have not been optimized.
To understand how complex brains evolve one can examine a variety of the products of the evolutionary process and then infer the mechanisms that generate the differences observed. We address this issue using a number of techniques. We combine neurophysiological recording techniques with neuroanatomical tracing techniques and histochemical methods in an effort to accurately determine the functional subdivisions of the neocortex in a variety of mammals. By using these techniques we can determine common features of neocortical organization, or common cortical areas, which are considered homologous. We can observe modifications to patterns of cortical organization, or to cortical fields specifically, that are independently evolved and generally related to morphological and behavioural specializations. Comparative studies have led us to consider the development of the neocortex and the specific changes in developmental mechanisms that might account for the observed changes in extant adults. Both comparative studies and developmental studies allow us to formulate hypotheses regarding how the neocortex is constructed in the life of an individual, and in a lineage over time.
This chapter explores the prospect of using the cerebellar cortex as a model for the development and evolution of the cerebral neocortex. At first, this would seem a nearly fruitless task given the readily apparent structural and functional differences between the two cortices. Cerebellum and cerebrum perform different associative tasks, the cellular 'circuit diagram' of the two structures is different, even the developmental sequences that give rise to the two structures differ markedly. Yet there are similarities between the structures at the conceptual level that are difficult to ignore. Both structures have a relatively simple modular circuitry and achieve their complexity by an increase in either the size or number of the modules. Both have massive commisures connecting the left and right halves of the structure. For the cortex this commisure is the obvious corpus callosum; the cerebellar commisure is made up of parallel fibres of the granule cells that pass freely across the midline. As they are thin and unmyelinated, the number of these crossing fibres may well exceed the number of the callosal axons by a significant amount. By far the most obvious similarity between cortex and cerebellum, however, is that they are both topologically sheet-like in structure. They are broad and wide in the two-dimensional plane of the pial membrane with a relatively modest thickness in the radial dimension. The question for this chapter then is whether these similarities, in particular the sheet-like organization are coincidental or indicative of larger themes that play deeper roles in the development and function of these two seemingly disparate brain regions.
Eight male volunteers were submitted to a 6-week anti-orthostatic bedrest trial followed by a 1-month reambulation period. We prospectively monitored whole-body composition by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, bone and connective tissue metabolism by biochemical markers and calcium regulating hormones by 1-84 parathyroid hormone and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3). Bone mineral density (BMD) did not vary significantly; however, a trend toward an increase in head BMD and a decrease in trunk, lumbar vertebrae and lower limb BMD was observed. A decrease in the lower limb lean content occurred by day 27 and was maximum by day 42 after the beginning of bedrest; it normalized by day 30 after bedrest. The serum levels of both osteocalcin and C-terminal crosslinked telopeptide of type I collagen increased as a consequence of bedrest. A slight increase in the serum levels of the N-terminal propeptide of type III collagen, a marker of connective tissue metabolism, was observed during the bedrest period. Except for the C-terminal extension propeptide of type I collagen, all markers decreased to baseline pre-immobilization levels during the 1-month recovery phase. Serum PTH and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) levels were low during the bedrest period and rose during the reambulation phase. These results seem to reflect early changes in bone and connective tissue metabolism as a result of bedrest unloading, but their order of magnitude remains moderate, thus emphasizing the necessity to perform longer-duration trials.
The present study assessed the effect of a single subcutaneous injection of resiniferatoxin (RTX), an ultrapotent capsaicin analogue, on the activity of spinal cholecystokinin (CCK) systems, by using electrophysiological and in situ hybridization techniques. Subcutaneous RTX at 0.3 mg/kg, but not vehicle, produced marked thermal hypoalgesia in rats on the hot plate and tail flick tests. Partial recovery from hypoalgesia occurred in some (&lt;50%), but not all, RTX-treated rats after 2 weeks. The flexor reflex in response to activation of high threshold afferents was recorded 15-35 days after RTX- or vehicle-treatment. There was no obvious difference between RTX- and vehicle-treated rats in the baseline flexor reflex. Intravenous morphine at 1 mg/kg caused a depression of the flexor reflex in vehicle- and in RTX-treated rats. The reflex depressive effect of morphine was significantly briefer in RTX-treated, non-recovered rats than vehicle-treated rats. Furthermore, CI-988, a high affinity antagonist of CCKB receptors, caused a minor depression of the reflex in vehicle- and RTX-treated rats that had partially recovered, whereas the reflex depressive effect of CI-988 was significantly enhanced in RTX-treated, non-recovered rats. In situ hybridization showed that RTX treatment caused a marked and significant increase in the number of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurone profiles expressing CCKB receptor mRNA, whereas only a small increase was observed for CCKA receptor mRNA expressing neurone profiles. Significantly more DRG neurone profiles expressed CCKB receptor mRNA in RTX-treated, non-recovered rats compared to partially recovered rats. RTX-treatment did not influence the expression of CCK mRNA in DRGs. Since CCK functions as a physiological antagonist of morphine, it is suggested that RTX treatment enhances the activity of spinal CCK systems, leading to the reduced effect of morphine and increased effect of the CCKB receptor antagonist CI-988. This may mainly be due to upregulation of CCKB receptors in DRG neurones.
Behavioral data have suggested that perceptual load can modulate spatial selection by influencing the allocation of attentional resources at perceptual-level processing stages (Lavie &amp; Tsal, 1994). To directly test this hypothesis, event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded for both low- and high-perceptual-load targets in a probabilistic spatial cuing paradigm. The results from three experiments showed that, as measured by the lateral occipital P1 and N1 ERP components, the magnitude of spatially selective processing in extrastriate visual cortex increased with perceptual load. Furthermore, these effects on spatial selection were found in the P1 at lower levels of perceptual load than in the N1. The ERP data thus provide direct electrophysiological support for proposals that link perceptual load to early spatial selection in visual processing. However, our findings suggest a relatively broader model--where perceptual load is but one of many factors mediating early selection.
Diaz-Caneja (1928) made some prescient observations about binocular rivalry. Being in French, however, his paper remained largely unknown to the broader research community. His findings are similar to those reported very recently by contemporary researchers who had independently observed similar phenomena. Using concentric circles and parallel lines as stimuli, Diaz-Caneja presented half of each form to opposite eyes to provoke binocular rivalry. He observed periods in the ensuing binocular alternations in which rivalry occurred between the good Gestalt forms, despite the fact that they were distributed between the eyes. He proposed that each half of a good form generates synchronised oscillations in the visual system, and that this synchronisation enables the dichoptically viewed halves of the one form to be perceived as a whole.
Fourier-phase information is important in determining the appearance of natural scenes, but the structure of natural-image phase spectra is highly complex and difficult to relate directly to human perceptual processes. This problem is addressed by extending previous investigations of human visual sensitivity to the randomisation and quantisation of Fourier phase in natural images. The salience of the image changes induced by these physical processes is shown to depend critically on the nature of the original phase spectrum of each image, and the processes of randomisation and quantisation are shown to be perceptually equivalent provided that they shift image phase components by the same average amount. These results are explained by assuming that the visual system is sensitive to those phase-domain image changes which also alter certain global higher-order image statistics. This assumption may be used to place constraints on the likely nature of cortical processing: mechanisms which correlate the outputs of a bank of relative-phase-sensitive units are found to be consistent with the patterns of sensitivity reported here.
To examine the relationship between visual motion processing for perception and pursuit, we measured the pursuit eye-movement and perceptual responses to the same complex-motion stimuli. We show that humans can both perceive and pursue the motion of line-figure objects, even when partial occlusion makes the resulting image motion vastly different from the underlying object motion. Our results show that both perception and pursuit can perform largely accurate motion integration, i.e. the selective combination of local motion signals across the visual field to derive global object motion. Furthermore, because we manipulated perceived motion while keeping image motion identical, the observed parallel changes in perception and pursuit show that the motion signals driving steady-state pursuit and perception are linked. These findings disprove current pursuit models whose control strategy is to minimize retinal image motion, and suggest a new framework for the interplay between visual cortex and cerebellum in visuomotor control.
Social psychology and psychobiology have a rich historical connection, although over the last half century these two disciplines have seemingly become estranged. To a significant extent, that alienation arose from an archaic and nonviable model of behavioral biology that retarded the development of both disciplines. With the emergence of modern biological perspectives, this impediment no longer limits fruitful collaborations among social psychologists and psychobiologists. Indeed, some of the most exciting contemporary developments are emerging from the areas of social neuroscience, cognitive neuroscience, and behavioral neuroscience. We review the history of links between social psychology and psychobiology, the factors that led to the segregation of these subdisciplines, and the modern biological perspectives that provide the basis for reintegration of these disciplines.

Orthostatic intolerance is a common problem for inbound space travelers. There is usually tachycardia on standing but blood pressure may be normal, low or, rarely, elevated. This condition is analogous to the orthostatic intolerance that occurs on Earth in individuals with orthostatic tachycardia, palpitations, mitral valve prolapse, and light-headedness. Our studies during the Neurolab mission indicated that sympathetic nerve traffic is raised in microgravity and that plasma norepinephrine is higher than baseline supine levels but lower than baseline upright levels. A subgroup of patients with familial orthostatic intolerance differ from inbound space travelers in that they have an alanine-to-to-proline mutation at amino acid position 457 in their norepinephrine transporter gene. This leads to poor clearance of norepinephrine from synapses, with consequent raised heart rate. Clinical features of these syndromes are presented.
The allocentric place discrimination task (APDT) is useful in evaluating working memory separately from and simultaneously with motivation, motor and sensory ability. Muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist scopolamine has been shown to selectively impair the accuracy of APDT without changing swimming speed, distance, and still time. For further evaluation of other neurotransmitters' roles in the APDT, pharmacological manipulations were performed. Neither diazepam 3.0 mg/kg, mecamylamine 10 mg/kg, haloperidol 0.5 mg/kg, nor 8-OH DPAT 1.0 mg/kg affected accuracy of place discrimination. Two kinds of responses were observed following the administration of MK-801 0.3 mg/kg: the accuracy of rats for longer swimming distance tended to decrease, and the accuracy of rats for normal swimming distance did not change. Therefore, NM-801 did not seem to affect the working memory selectively. In addition, neither flumazenil 10 mg/kg, ondansetron 0.3 mg/kg nor R(-)-alpha-metylhistamine 10 mg/kg attenuated the scopolamine-induced deficits. These results suggest that the central muscarinic receptors are selectively and highly important in the APDT.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of lidocaine on harmaline-induced tremors in the rat. Four groups of Wistar rats weighing 45-50 g were injected with harmaline (50 mg/kg i.p.) for inducing experimental tremors. The rats in group 1 served as control, whereas the animals in groups 2, 3, and 4 were also given lidocaine i.p. at doses of 12.5, 25, and 50 mg/kg, respectively, 10 min after the onset of tremors (therapeutic study). In a separate four groups of animals intraperitoneal lidocaine injection was given 10 min before harmaline (prophylactic study) in the same dose regimen as mentioned above. The latency of onset, intensity, and duration of tremor and electromyographic responses were recorded. Lidocaine dose dependently attenuated harmaline-induced tremors in rats. The latency period was increased, and duration and intensity of harmaline-induced tremors was reduced by lidocaine. Our electromyography (EMG) study also revealed a decrease in the amplitude of harmaline-induced tremors in lidocaine-treated rats. In conclusion, the results of this study clearly suggest beneficial effects of lidocaine in harmaline-induced tremors.
A conditioned-suppression procedure was used to study drug conditioning using cocaine as the unconditioned stimulus (UCS). Rats were first trained to nose poke for food-reinforcement during daily 60-min sessions. At least 1 week following jugular vein catheterization, a 5-min tone-light compound stimulus was presented 30 min into the food-reinforcement session. Two minutes after the onset of the stimulus, either 0 (saline), 1.0, 3.0 or 5.6 mg/kg cocaine, was administered i.v. to separate groups of rats. For another group, the stimulus was presented, and the 5.6 mg/kg dose of cocaine was injected in an unpaired fashion (i.e., at different times). After 5 days of training a test was given with the tone-light stimulus presented alone. No disruption of responding during the tone-light stimulus was observed in the saline and 1.0 mg/kg cocaine groups or for the unpaired group. When the tone-light stimulus was paired with 5.6 mg/kg cocaine; however, it produced nearly a 50% reduction in responding, which then gradually extinguished when the stimulus was presented alone for 5 days. The 3.0 mg/kg cocaine group produced intermediate suppression. When the tone-light compound stimulus was shortened to 70 s and the interstimulus interval (ISI) was 0, 30, or 60 s in three separate groups of rats, the most robust conditioned suppression was observed at the 60 s ISI. Therefore, the conditioned suppression procedure, using 3.0 or 5.6 mg/kg i.v. cocaine doses as the UCS, produced robust conditioning effects comparable to other drugs and more conventional reinforcers. The conditioned suppression procedure may be a useful model for studying the classically conditioned effects of cocaine.
Improgan, a compound related to H2 and H3 antagonists, induces antinociception in rodents after intraventricular administration. Characteristics of improgan and its congeners include: (a) morphine-like antinociception on thermal and mechanical tests in two species; (b) no impairment of motor coordination or locomotor activity; (c) evidence for a novel, nonopioid mechanism that is independent of known histamine receptors; (d) lack of tolerance with daily dosing; and (e) unique structure-activity relationships (SARs). Presently, the antinociceptive activity of several new derivatives of improgan was investigated in rats. Among compounds similar to burimamide, VUF4577 (possessing a two-carbon side chain) and VUF4582 (an N-phenyl derivative of VUF4577) induced complete, dose- and time-dependent antinociception on the hot-plate and tail-flick tests with no behavioral side effects. These compounds (with ED50 values of 71-117 nmol) were approximately twice as potent as burimamide itself (a four-carbon derivative). Two other derivatives in which the thiourea group (C=S, known to cause human toxicity) was replaced by either nitroethene (C=CH-NO2, VUF5405) or urea (C=O, VUF5407) also showed effective, potent antinociception on both assays. The latter compound is the most potent improgan-like drug discovered to date (ED50 = 71 nmol). Furthermore, positional isomers of antinociceptive compounds either lacked activity (VUF5394) or induced toxicity (VUF5393), revealing a high degree of pharmacological specificity. Although the mechanism of improgan antinociception remains unknown, the present results show promise for the further development of safe, effective, and potent pain-relieving compounds.
Levodopa is one of the principal agents administered to treat patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Several pharmacologic strategies can limit its side effects and enhance its activity. Although certain exceptions apply, dosage adjustments and drug changes should be instituted slowly. Levodopa is typically introduced in the form of carbidopa-levodopa, with upward dosage titration weekly until symptoms improve. A dopamine agonist may be added when the dosage of levodopa reaches 300-500 mg/day Dopamine agonists are used to control symptoms of PD, decrease or delay motor fluctuations, and allow lower dosages of levodopa to be administered. These agents are also being prescribed early in treatment before carbidopa-levodopa therapy is begun. Addition of a catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor can increase the duration of levodopa's effect and may prove especially valuable for patients who experience early wearing off of levodopa. Patients with PD require close monitoring for drug toxicity. Because most of them are treated with several agents to provide maximum improvement and also receive treatment for comorbid conditions, drug-drug interactions are possible. Frequently, clinically significant interactions are associated with agents that block D2 receptors or deplete dopamine stores in the brain.
New information has accrued from in vivo microdialysis studies about stress-related changes in norepinephrine concentrations in extracellular fluid of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and the activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis. Our data on the effects of lower brainstem hemisections show that paraventricular noradrenergic terminals are derived mainly from medullary A1 and A2 catecholaminergic cells. The activation of these cells contributes importantly to stress-induced noradrenergic activation in the paraventricular nucleus of conscious animals. The results from brainstem hemisection experiments also indicate that baseline levels and immobilization-induced increments in corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA expression in the PVN depend on ipsilaterally ascending medullary tract. Thus, the prevalent concept that stress-induced noradrenergic activation of the HPA axis depends mainly on activation of locus ceruleus noradrenergic neurons requires re-evaluation. Our new stress concepts favor stressor-specific activation of the HPA axis. The present data also suggest the existence of stressor-specific central pathways that differentially participate in the regulation of sympathoneuronal and adrenomedullary outflows as well as of the activity of the HPA axis. Furthermore, the results are inconsistent with a founding tenet of Selye's stress theory, the doctrine of nonspecificity, which defines stress as the nonspecific response of the body to any demand. We expect that future studies in this area will focus on further examination of the notion of stressor-specific patterns of central neurotransmitter release and elucidate the genetic bases of these patterns.
Problems of application of microelectrophysiological techniques in neurobiology are addressed. Authors focused on five basic recording techniques: micro-EEG, multi unit activity, single unit activity, intracellular recording and patch clamp techniques.






We have discussed the role of dopamine in modulating the interactions between cortical and striatal regions that are involved in behavioral regulation. The evidence reviewed seems to suggest that dopamine acts, overall, to promote stimulus-induced responding for conditioned or reward-related stimuli by integrative actions at multiple forebrain sites. It is thus not surprising that dopaminergic dysfunction has been implicated in a number of neuropsychiatric disorders that involve abnormal cognitive and affective function. Future studies aimed at pinpointing the precise anatomical sites of action and molecular mechanisms involved in dopaminergic transmission within the corticolimbic circuit are critical for trying to disentangle the cellular mechanisms by which dopamine exerts its actions. Moreover, the afferent control of dopamine neurons from brainstem and forebrain sites need to be fully explored in order to begin to understand what mechanisms are involved in regulating the dopaminergic response to stimuli with incentive value. Finally, the post-synaptic consequences of prolonged and supranormal dopaminergic activation need to be investigated in order to understand what persistent neuroadaptations result from chronic activation of this neuromodulatory system (e.g. in drug addiction). Answers to these sorts of questions will undoubtedly provide important insights into the nature of dopaminergic function in the animal and human brain.














Volume transmission depends on the migration of informational substances through brain extracellular space (ECS) and almost always involves diffusion; basic concepts of diffusion are outlined from both the microscopic viewpoint based on random walks and the macroscopic viewpoint based on the solution of equations embodying Fick's Laws. In a complex medium like the brain, diffusing molecules are constrained by the local volume fraction of the ECS and tortuosity, a measure of the hindrance imposed by cellular obstacles. Molecules can also experience varying degrees of uptake or clearance. Bulk flow and the extracellular matrix may also play a role. Examples of recent work on diffusion of tetramethylammonium (molecular weight, 74) in brain slices, using iontophoretic application and ion-selective microelectrodes, are reviewed. In slices, the volume fraction is about 20% and tortuosity about 1.6, both similar to values found in the intact brain. Using integrative optical imaging, results obtained with dextrans and albumins up to a molecular weight of 70,000 are summarized, for such large molecules the tortuosity is about 2.3. Experiments using synthetic long-chain PHPMA polymers up to 1,000,000 molecular weight show that these molecules also diffuse in the ECS but with a tortuosity of about 1.6. Studies with osmotic challenge show that volume fraction and tortuosity do not vary together as expected when the size of the ECS changes; a model is presented that explains the osmotic-challenge on the basis of changes in cell shape. Finally, new analytical insights are provided into the complex movement of potassium in the brain.





The Tibetan Buddhist classification of mind, its divisions and the system of meditation practices aimed at achieving ideal states of being are a complex presentation of psychological, behavioral and spiritual concepts and processes that demand thorough understanding before assessing their value and outcome (Yeshe, 1995). It is the authors' belief that with the rapid advances in the neuroscience of mental processes, both scientist and Tibetan practitioner can benefit from each other's knowledge and experience to enhance our search for greater understanding of the relationship between mind, body and spirit.




In this study, the authors have demonstrated the effect of lithium, a typical mood stabilizer, on thrombin-evoked Ca2+ mobilization in C6 cells to elucidate the action mechanisms of the drug. Thrombin-induced Ca2 mobilization was reduced 24 hr after 1 or 10 mM lithium chloride (LiCl) pretreatment. The Ca2+ rise was reduced in a time-dependent manner, and the significant inhibition was observed 9 hr pretreatment with 10 mM LiCl. On the other hand, pretreatment of the cells with 10 mM LiCl for 24 hr did not alter the amount of Galphaq/11 significantly. Pretreatment with 10 mM LiCl for 24 hr failed to reduce the 5-HT-induced Ca2+ mobilization or to affect the desensitization of the 5-HT signal. Finally, thrombin-elicited Ca2+ rise was markedly inhibited in the presence of 0.05 U/ml plasmin, however, the Ca2+ rise was not further attenuated in the presence of plasmin in C6 cells pretreated with LiCl for 24 hr. These results indicate that pretreatment with LiCl attenuated thrombin-evoked intracellular Ca2+ mobilization in plasmin sensitive manner in C6 rat glioma cells. Thus, it is important to investigate the effect of lithium on thrombin-induced cellular responses to clarify the action mechanism of lithium in relation to some abnormality in thrombin-evoked Ca2+ rise observed in bipolar disorders.
Functional gastrointestinal disorders are poorly understood. The lack of clear classification and definition of these disturbances interferes with unsatisfying treatment. The possible explanation has been recently looked up in the changes of brain-gut axis interactions. Simultaneously microelectronics has been made tremendous progress in the cooperation with medical sciences lately. Electronic microcircuits have become widely used in neurosciences because of their many advantages compared to standard investigational devices. Implantable microchips facilitate studies of nervous system allowing carrying on chronic experiments with minimal damage to surrounding organs. Neuromodulation of autonomic nerves gives promise for treatment refractory disturbances of gut motility.
This review proposes that implicit learning processes are the cognitive substrate of social intuition. This hypothesis is supported by (a) the conceptual correspondence between implicit learning and social intuition (nonverbal communication) and (b) a review of relevant neuropsychological (Huntington's and Parkinson's disease), neuroimaging, neurophysiological, and neuroanatomical data. It is concluded that the caudate and putamen, in the basal ganglia, are central components of both intuition and implicit learning, supporting the proposed relationship. Parallel, but distinct, processes of judgment and action are demonstrated at each of the social, cognitive, and neural levels of analysis. Additionally, explicit attempts to learn a sequence can interfere with implicit learning. The possible relevance of the computations of the basal ganglia to emotional appraisal, automatic evaluation, script processing, and decision making are discussed.

Strategy application disorder is a term used to describe a pattern of deficits, usually associated with frontal lobe dysfunction, where people show disorganisation, absentmindedness and problems with planning and decision making in everyday life despite normal performance on traditional neuropsychological tests. It is argued that the prototypical situation which presents problems for these cases are those which require multitasking, and although good cases are rare in the literature, those that do exist show a characteristic neuropsychological pattern. Moreover, this pattern is confirmed in recent group studies of multitasking and of the relationship between multitasking tests (such as the Six Element Test), failures in everyday life and other neuropsychological measures. At present the evidence suggests that the potential frontal brain regions most implicated in multitasking are the anterior cingulate; B.A. 10 and immediately adjacent areas; and the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, with each making a unique contribution to different aspects of performance. Furthermore, recent studies show striking dissociations between performances on multitasking tests and two of the most commonly administered measures of executive function: the verbal fluency test and the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, which sets a minimum level for a fractionation of the executive syndrome in humans.
This article describes a quantitative model, which suggests what the underlying mechanisms of cognitive control in a particular task-switching paradigm are, with relevance to task-switching performance in general. It is suggested that participants dynamically control response accuracy by selective attention, in the particular paradigm being used, by controlling stimulus representation. They are less efficient in dynamically controlling response representation. The model fits reasonably well the pattern of reaction time results concerning task switching, congruency, cue-target interval and response-repetition in a mixed task condition, as well as the differences between mixed task and pure task conditions.
The corpus collosum is the large band of fibers that connects the two cerebral hemispheres of the brain. Individuals who have had the fibers of these tracts surgically severed by callosotomy are able to draw two different spatial figures simultaneously using the left and right hands, without evidence of interactions in the spatial planning processes. Paradoxically, tasks (e.g., tying shoes) that appear to depend on spatial interactions between the left and right hands, each of which is controlled by a separate cerebral hemisphere, pose little difficulty. How can this be? In the study reported here, we observed that well-learned cooperative actions of the hands remain intact in 2 callosotomy patients, whereas actions novel to these patients are virtually impossible for them to produce without visual guidance. We infer that duplicate memory engrams of well-learned actions can be accessed by both cerebral hemispheres without callosal mediation, whereas callosal interactions are necessary for precise cross-matching of sensory information during spatial planning or perceptual-motor learning.
Ultrasonic vocalizations emitted by infant rodents are typically characterized as cries of distress. There are two contexts that are known to reliably elicit ultrasound production: extreme cold exposure and administration of clonidine, an alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist. Noting that these two contexts both entail pronounced decreases in cardiac rate, we have hypothesized that the vocalizations are acoustic by-products of a physiological maneuver, the abdominal compression reaction (ACR), that increases venous return to the heart when return is compromised. As a critical test of this hypothesis, we measured venous pressure near the right atrium in 15-day-old rats after clonidine administration. Consistent with the ACR hypothesis, emission of ultrasound was accompanied by large and reliable increases in venous pressure and, therefore, venous return. These results provide strong, direct support for the ACR hypothesis and, by doing so, underscore the potential pitfalls of anthropomorphic interpretations of the vocalizations of infant rats.



Overcoming problems in communication between psychiatry and primary care requires new models of collaboration. Their success will depend upon the ability of participants to work productively with each other, which will require psychiatry residency programs to offer appropriate preparation for future graduates in working with primary care physicians. This article, based on the training at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, describes a brief curriculum for training psychiatry residents to work effectively with primary care physicians that can be easily integrated with current training rotations and looks at adjustments academic departments need to make to support such programs.
In Saudi Arabia the motor vehicle is the main means of transportation. Between 1971 and 1997; 564,762 people died or were injured in road traffic accidents, a figure equivalent to 3.5% of the total population in Saudi Arabia. During this period 66,914 people have died on the roads in Saudi Arabia due to road accidents, amounting to one person killed and four injured every hour. Over 65% of accidents occur because of vehicles travelling at excess speed and/or drivers disobeying traffic signals. Of deaths in Ministry of Health hospitals, 81% are due to road traffic accidents and 20% of their beds are occupied by traffic accidents victims. Also, 79.2% of patients admitted to Riyadh Armed Forces Hospital with spinal injuries has sustained their injuries as a result of a motor vehicle accident. We recommend compulsory use of safety seat belts in vehicles and the setting up of a new database to collect, store and analyse information relating to the road traffic accidents.

It is becoming increasingly clear that astroglial cells are active participants in the process by which information is generated and disseminated within the central nervous system (CNS). In the hypothalamus, astrocytes regulate the secretory activity of neuroendocrine neurons. They contribute to facilitating sexual development by stimulating the release of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), the neuropeptide that controls sexual development, from LHRH neurons. Astrocytes secrete several growth factors able to stimulate LHRH secretion. Two members of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) family--transforming growth factor alpha (TGFalpha) and the neuregulins (NRGs)-are produced in hypothalamic astrocytes and elicit LHRH secretion indirectly, via activation of receptor complexes formed by three members of the EGF receptor family, also located on astrocytes. Activation of these receptors results in the production of at least one neuroactive substance, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), which stimulates LHRH secretion upon binding to specific receptors on LHRH neurons. Overexpression of TGFalpha in the hypothalamus accelerates puberty, whereas blockade of either TGFalpha or NRG actions delays the process, indicating that both peptides are physiological components of the neuroendocrine mechanism that controls sexual maturation. An increase in hypothalamic expression of at least two of the erbB receptors is initiated before the pubertal augmentation of gonadal steroid secretion and is completed on the day of the first preovulatory surge of gonadotropins. This secondary increase is brought about by gonadal steroids. Estrogen and progesterone facilitate erbB-mediated glia-to-LHRH neuron communication by enhancing astrocytic gene expression of at least one of the EGF-related ligands (TGFalpha) and two of the receptors (erbB-2 and erbB-4). They also facilitate the LHRH response to PGE2 via induction of PGE2 receptors in LHRH neurons. A search for genes that may act as upstream regulators of the pubertal process resulted in the identification of two potential candidates: Oct-2, a POU domain gene originally described in cells of the immune system, and TTF-1, a member of the Nkx family of homeodomain transcriptional regulators required for diencephalic morphogenesis. The hypothalamic expression of both genes increases during juvenile development before the first hormonal manifestations of puberty take place. Their mRNA transcripts are localized to specific hypothalamic cellular subsets, where they appear to regulate different, but interactive, components of the neuronal-glial complex controlling LHRH secretion. While Oct-2 transactivates the TGFalpha promoter, TTF-1 does so to the erbB-2 and LHRH genes but inhibits preproenkephalin promoter activity, suggesting that both transcriptional regulators may act coordinately in the normal hypothalamus to activate genes involved in facilitating the advent of puberty and repress those restraining sexual development. Altogether, these observations indicate that the central activation of the pubertal process involves the participation of both neuronal and astroglial networks and the contribution of upstream transcriptional regulators acting on both the neuronal and glial components of the system.
We previously reported that the metabotropic glutamate receptor R1alpha (mGluR1alpha) can be activated not only by applying glutamate but also by raising extracellular Ca2+ (Ca2+o) concentration, and that the constant stimulation by Ca2+o causes morphological change of transfected Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells (Kubo Y Miyashita T and Murata Y (1998) Science 279, 1722-1725). The physiological role of the Ca2+o-sensing function of mGluR1alpha, however, is not fully clear yet, especially because Ca2+ is constitutively present in the extracellular space unlike other neurotransmitters. In this work, we aimed to elucidate the physiological significance of the Ca2+o-sensing function of mGluR1alpha. The effect of mGluR1alpha activation by Ca2+o on the morphological change of CHO cells was mimicked by forskolin. The effect of mGluR1alpha activation on the morphological change was suppressed by the inhibitors of adenylate cyclase, protein kinase A (PKA) and MAP kinase kinase (MAPKK), and the effect of forskolin was also decreased by the inhibitors of PKA and MAPKK. These results demonstrate the involvement of cAMP, PKA, MAPKK, MAPK pathway in the morphological change. We actually confirmed that the Ca2+o stimulation of mGluR1alpha increased the basal cAMP level of transfected CHO cells. This increase in cAMP was observed even when only the membrane fraction of mGluR1alpha transfected CHO cells were used, and the increase was inhibited by anti-Gs alpha antibody. Taken together, we concluded that the Ca2+o-sensing function of mGluR1alpha and the continuous stimulation by Ca2+o caused the increase in the basal cAMP level by direct coupling with Gs, and triggered the subsequent activation of PKA, MAPKK, and MAPK cascade which resulted in the morphological change of transfected CHO cells.
We previously reported that the metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha (mGluR1alpha) can be activated not only by glutamate but also by extracellular Ca2+ (Ca2+o), and that Ser 166 in the extracellular domain determines the sensitivity to Ca2+o. In the present study, we investigated by intracellular Ca2+ (Ca2+i) imaging, the effect of Ca2+o on the glutamate responses of Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells stably expressing mGluR1alpha wild-type (CHO-wt). As a negative control, we carried out similar experiments using CHO cells expressing Ser166Asp mutant of mGluR1alpha (CHO-S166D) or the substance P receptor (CHO-SPR), which were not activated by Ca2+o application. We observed a remarkable prolongation of the duration of the glutamate response in CHO-wt cells in a Ca2+o concentration dependent manner. In CHO-S166D cells and CHO-SPR cells, only a small sustained component of the glutamate response was observed in the presence of Ca2+o. These sustained components were blocked by SKF-96365, a blocker of receptor-operated Ca2+-influx. Thus, it was concluded that the Ca2+o-sensing function of mGluR1alpha-wt induced the persistent opening of the receptor-operated Ca2+-permeable channels, probably by persistent activation of the receptor by glutamate. We additionally observed that the dose-response relationship of CHO-S166D and CHO-SPR shifted significantly by changing Ca2+o concentration, i.e. Ca2+o was required to maintain the normal ligand responses of these receptors.
MPTP causes damage to substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) dopaminergic (DA) neurons as seen in Parkinson's disease (PD). After sys-temic administration of MPTP, its active metabolite, MPP +, accumulates within SNpc DA neurons, where it inhibits ATP production and stim-ulates superoxide radical formation. The produced superoxide radicals react with nitric oxide (NO) to produce peroxynitrite, a highly reactive tissue-damaging species that damages proteins by oxidation and nitration. Only selected proteins appear nitrated, and among these, is found tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate limiting enzyme in DA synthesis. The process of nitration inactivates TH and, consequently dopamine pro-duction. Peroxynitrite also nicks DNA, which, in turn, activates poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). PARP activation consumes ATP, and thus acutely depletes cell energy stores. This latter event aggravates the preexisting energy failure due to MPP + -induced mitochondrial respira-tion blockade and precipitates cell death. Altogether, these findings support the view that MPTP's deleterious cascade of events include mito-chondrial respiration deficit, oxidative stress, and energy failure. Because of the similarity between the MPTP mouse model and PD, it is tempting to propose that a similar scenario applies to the pathogenesis of PD.
Purpose: The present study investigated the effects of fluoxetine, a serotonin reuptake blocker, on behavioral deficits of rats subjected to transient focal cerebral ischemia. Methods: The right middle cerebral artery of rats was occluded for 120 min using the intraluminal filament method. Fluoxetine treatment (5 mg/kg, i.p.) was started 2 days after ischemia induction and treatment was continued for 10 days thereafter. Sensorimotor recovery was assessed using the limb-placing test and cognitive impairment was assessed using a water-maze test at the end of the experiment. Results: Fluoxetine treatment did not improve performance of ischemic rats in the limb-placing test. Nor was the ischemia-induced deficit in the water-maze test affected by fluoxetine. The infarct volumes in the cortex or striatum, determined after the experiment, were not different between ischemic groups. Conclusion: These results suggest that subchronic fluoxetine treatment following experimental focal cerebral ischemia is not detrimental to behavioral outcome, but it also does not enhance spontaneous sensorimotor recovery or attenuate spatial learning deficits.
Purpose: Diethyldithiocarbamate (DEDC) is a substituted dithiocarbamate that is metabolically interconvertible with disulfiram (Ant-abuse). In recent years DEDC has received considerable attention because of its clinical applications and potential role in mediating both the toxic and therapeutic actions of disulfiram which is frequently used for alcohol aversion therapy. DEDC is known for its multiplicity of action that exerts both pro- and antioxidant effects. In rodents DEDC has been shown to produce neuroprotective as well as neurotoxic effects. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of DEDC on neurological recovery following sciatic nerve crush injury (SNCI) in rats. Methods: Adult female Wistar rats were subjected to SNCI with a haemostat under deep anaesthesia. The animals were orally treated with DEDC at the doses of 250 mg/kg, 500 mg/kg and 750 mg/kg body weight 1 hr before SNCI and then once daily for 60 days. The animals were observed for sciatic functional index (walking deficit), electrophysiological and histological changes. Vitamin E level was measured to deter-mine antioxidant status of sciatic nerve. Results: Crush injury to the sciatic nerve resulted in a significant impairment of functional response which gradually recovered over a period of 22 days. Treatment of animals with DEDC caused a significant delay in functional recovery which was accompanied by poor histo-logical and electrophysiological outcome. Prooxidant effect of DEDC is quite evident from a significant decrease in vitamin E levels in both injured and uninjured sciatic nerves. Conclusions: Our results demonstrate that exposure to DEDC adversely affects recovery from peripheral nerve injury. The delay may to some extent be attributed to DEDC induced oxidative stress.
Purpose: The purpose of this study was to compare the behavioural and anatomical effects of unilateral motor cortex ablation in neonatal, infant, and adult rats. Methods: Rats were given unilateral lesions of the motor cortex on the day of birth (P1), at ten days of age (P10), or in adulthood. They were trained on several motor tasks (skilled forelimb reaching, beam traversing, tongue extension), general motor activity, and a test of spatial learning (Morris water task). Results: Although all lesion groups were equally impaired at skilled reaching with the forelimb contralateral to the lesion, rats with P1 lesions also were impaired at traversing a narrow beam and at learning the Morris task. Gross anatomical analyses revealed that the P1 rats had smaller brains than the other groups, a result that may account for the larger behavioural deficits in the P1 group. Analysis of Golgi-Cox stained neurons showed that relative to control groups, all lesion groups showed an increase in dendritic length in the basilar dendrites of layer III pyramidal cells and, paradoxically a decrease in length of the apical dendrites of the same cells. Conclusions: The bilateral alterations in dendritic organization following the motor cortex lesions suggest that there has been a bilateral reor-ganization of intrinsic cortical connectivity following motor cortex lesions at any age. These alterations in connectivity are likely not identical in the young and adult animals, however, because relative to controls, both the young operated groups, but not the adult group, showed a bilat-eral drop in spine density in the basilar dendrites of layer V pyramidal cells. These findings are discussed with respect to the idea that there may be critical ages in development in which animals can use anatomical modifications to compensate for deficits produced by cortical injury.
Purpose: The purpose of this study was to compare the behavioural and anatomical effects of unilateral motor cortex ablation in neonatal, infant, and adult rats. Methods: Rats were given unilateral lesions of the motor cortex on the day of birth (P1), at ten days of age (P10), or in adulthood. They were trained on several motor tasks (skilled forelimb reaching, beam traversing, tongue extension), general motor activity, and a test of spatial learning (Morris water task). Results: Although all lesion groups were equally impaired at skilled reaching with the forelimb contralateral to the lesion, rats with P1 lesions also were impaired at traversing a narrow beam and at learning the Morris task. Gross anatomical analyses revealed that the P1 rats had smaller brains than the other groups, a result that may account for the larger behavioural deficits in the P1 group. Analysis of Golgi-Cox stained neurons showed that relative to control groups, all lesion groups showed an increase in dendritic length in the basilar dendrites of layer III pyramidal cells and, paradoxically a decrease in length of the apical dendrites of the same cells. Conclusions: The bilateral alterations in dendritic organization following the motor cortex lesions suggest that there has been a bilateral reor-ganization of intrinsic cortical connectivity following motor cortex lesions at any age. These alterations in connectivity are likely not identical in the young and adult animals, however, because relative to controls, both the young operated groups, but not the adult group, showed a bilat-eral drop in spine density in the basilar dendrites of layer V pyramidal cells. These findings are discussed with respect to the idea that there may be critical ages in development in which animals can use anatomical modifications to compensate for deficits produced by cortical injury.


Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a disease of the central nervous system with presumed autoimmune etiology. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an inducible autoimmune disease in laboratory animals, is a widely accepted animal model of MS. Although it is well known that EAE is induced by autoreactive CD4+ T cells specific for myelin antigens, the demyelination process is manifested as a result of complex interactions among encephalitogenic, regulatory and accessory cell populations and factors produced by these cells. The outcome of the disease depends on which components become dominant. Examination of these components using genetically manipulated transgenic or gene-disrupted animal models has proved to be very useful. Here we examine the main processes leading to the development of EAE. The participation of different lymphocyte populations such as T, B cells or NK cells, as well as regulatory molecules and cytokines in the induction and regulation of EAE is discussed in the light of transgenic and knockout animal experiments. These animal models clearly show that autoimmune processes are regulated in a complex way, and that a given factor in this regulation can have very different effects according to the given microenvironment in which it acts.


Quantal size is often modeled as invariant, although it is now well established that the number of transmitter molecules released per synaptic vesicle during exocytosis can be modulated in central and peripheral synapses. In this review, we suggest why presynaptically altered quantal size would be important at social synapses that provide extrasynaptic neurotransmitter. Current techniques used to measure quantal size are reviewed with particular attention to amperometry, the first approach to provide direct measurement of the number of molecules and kinetics of presynaptic quantal release, and to CNS dopamine neuronal terminals. The known interventions that alter quantal size at the presynaptic locus are reviewed and categorized as (1) alteration of transvesicular free energy gradients, (2) modulation of vesicle transmitter transporter activity, (3) modulation of fusion pore kinetics, (4) altered transmitter degranulation, and (5) changes in synaptic vesicle volume. Modulation of the number of molecules released per quantum underlies mechanisms of drug action of L-DOPA and the amphetamines, and seems likely to be involved in both normal synaptic modification and disease states. Statistical analysis for examining quantal size and data presentation is discussed. We include detailed information on performing nonparametric resampling statistical analysis, the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test for two populations, and random walk simulations using spreadsheet programs.
The rat hippocampus contains place cells whose firing is location-specific. These cells fire only when the rat enters a restricted region of the environment called the firing field. In this review, we examine the sensory information that is fundamental to the place cell system for producing spatial firing. While visual information takes precedence in the control of firing fields when it is available, local (olfactory and/or tactile) cues combined with motion-related cues can permit stable spatial firing. Motion-related cues are integrated by hippocampal place cells, but in the absence of external cues do not support stable firing over long periods. While firing fields are based on a variety of sensory cues, they do not strictly depend on such cues. Rather, sensory information is important for activating the representation appropriate to the current environment as reflected by the firing properties of place cell ensembles. Specific sensory channels as well as the memory properties of place cells can support ongoing firing under manipulations of the environment. These memory features raise the question of the role of the place cell system in the acquisition, storage and retrieval of spatial information. Based on the existing literature about the effects of hippocampal lesions and about the metabolic activations in spatial memory tasks, we suggest that a function of the place cell system is to automatically provide the organism with information about its current location so as to allow for the rapid acquisition of novel information.
The establishment of novel animal models using gene targeting and transgenic technology has opened a new area of neuropharmacological research. For the first time, it became possible to alter the expression of a gene in a specific cell type of an intact animal by either overexpression, inhibition or ablation. This review describes the technology and lists the relevant tools, such as reporter genes, suicide genes, immortalizing genes, and promoters, necessary for the targeted expression of these and other genes in specific cells of the central nervous system. In addition, the problem is discussed that the mouse is the species in which this technology is by far the most developed, while the rat has been used as the model species for neuropharmacology during the last century.
Gene targeting using homologous recombination in embryonic stem (ES) cells and transgenic approaches in general allow one to precisely manipulate single genes and investigate their in vivo function in the mouse. Geneticists argue that these techniques are superior to pharmacological approaches as they obviate the lack of highly specific pharmacological agents in the study of brain function and behavior. However, by now it has become clear that transgenic approaches also have some limitations. One problem is spatial and temporal specificity of the genetic manipulation. The other is the possibility that the introduced genetic alteration gives rise to complex, secondary phenotypic changes. This may be a disadvantage in the functional analysis of genes associated with learning and memory especially if the gene of interest plays roles in embryonic development of the brain as well as in adult neural function. Examples of such genes include, but are not limited to, those encoding neurotrophins, cell adhesion molecules, and protein kinases. Second generation gene targeting with inducible and cell type restricted knock-out, or transgenic approaches with inducible gene expression systems, will solve some problems. However, at present these strategies also suffer from difficulties inherent to the traditional knock-out. Several strategies alternative to transgenic approaches are also available. Antisense oligonucleotides, antibodies, or pharmacological agents may be used to manipulate molecular events at the transcription, translation, or protein function levels. I review these strategies briefly and suggest yet another approach: protein targeting with the use of recombinant immunoadhesins. I suggest that this latter approach has the specificity of gene targeting but lacks some of its disadvantages.
Some of the major practical and theoretical issues that are associated with gene-targeting studies in mice are discussed. The availability of sufficient space to house the extensive breeding colonies associated with studies in gene-manipulated mice is an important logistical consideration that requires consideration at an early stage. A practical example is discussed which illustrates some of these issues. Problems associated with disease control and methods of maintaining the health status of valuable colonies are also outlined. Differences in the behavioural phenotype of inbred mouse strains pose important issues for study design and selection of host mouse lines. The results from studies exploring variations in the behavioural phenotype of six common inbred strains are briefly outlined. The impact of phenotypic variation on behavioural studies is considered and the implications for experimental design are discussed.











In this study, increases in loudness with increases in bandwidth, termed loudness summation, were derived from loudness growth functions estimated using a loudness-scaling procedure. The results revealed that at equal loudness category, categorical loudness summation was generally larger in normal-hearing than in hearing-impaired subjects; furthermore, the increase in loudness summation at intermediate loudness levels observed in the former, was absent in the latter. These results, in broad agreement with recent data from the literature, can be explained in the light of physiological data on cochlear compression. One implication of these results regarding hearing aid fitting was that channel-by-channel loudness normalization was effective only when the incoming sound was closed in bandwidth to one of the test stimuli.
The recording of otoacoustic emissions (OAE) was evaluated as a complementary test method for adults with moderate to profound mental retardation (MR). A portable apparatus, ILO 288 Echoport linked to a Compaq LTE 5100 notebook with software ILO 88 V 4.2, was used. Otoscopy and tympanometry were also performed. Criteria for emissions were S/N 3 dB or more and reproducibility 60% or more for at least three frequency-bands. The criteria for partial emissions were the same, but for only one or two frequencies. Two examiners were needed: one to keep the tested person calm and quiet and the other to handle the keyboard. Thirty-eight people with different degrees of MR in connection with other disabilities were included. They had all exhibited incomplete results in a previous hearing screening of more than 1,000 adults with MR. Reproducible transiently evoked OAEs (TEOAE) were recorded from 11 ears (7 people), partial TEOAEs from 6 ears (4 people) and no emissions from 15 ears (10 people). Registration from 24 ears (13 people) could not be evaluated because of too much external and internal noise. Eight people rejected the examination. Only four people showed emissions in both ears. Accordingly, 34 people (89.5%) had to be re-tested or referred for further investigation, 21 of them (55%) because of noisy recordings or no co-operation. It is concluded that the TEOAE-test in its present form cannot fulfil the demands for a functioning test method for this population. In single cases, however, TEOAE-recording can complement other audiological tests.
This study examined job satisfaction among occupational therapists in Swedish psychiatric care, and investigated how clinical supervision, organizational aspects and demographic characteristics contributed to job satisfaction. We received 332 returned questionnaires, corresponding to a response rate of 66.9%. Job satisfaction factors that emerged were: general satisfaction with work, communication and co-operation among team members, managerial feedback, the patients' influence on care and the relatives' influence on care. The respondents rated their general satisfaction, co-operation and communication as high. They were least satisfied with the relatives' influence on care. We found few relationships between other factors and job satisfaction, but, for example, satisfaction with the patients' influence on care was higher among occupational therapists working in outpatient care than among those working in hospital wards. Furthermore, having supervision was positively associated with co-operation and communication. This study revealed a fairly satisfactory situation, possibly thanks to social support, advantageous care-planning strategies and supervision. However, managerial staff must be aware that measures need to be taken continuously to counteract detrimental forces. The study pointed to a need for further research that relates occupational therapists' job satisfaction with issues such as support, control and individual need for growth.
The short- and long-term effects of a 12-week intensive functional restoration programme for 153 participants with chronic spinal pain are reported. The average patient sick leave before the programme started was about one year. At the 2-year follow-up, 69% of the participants reported in telephone interviews that they were working either part time or full time. Aerobic fitness, trunk muscle strength and lifting capacity increased during the programme. In the non-working groups, pain was rated higher and quality of life lower than in the working groups at the 1- and 2-year follow-ups. For the women's return to job, the best predictors were the time since the original pain onset and the achieved capacity to lift from waist to shoulder level. For the men's return to job, the best predictors were the initial work situation, the time since the original pain onset, the oxygen uptake and the lumbar lifting capacity at the end of the programme. The results of this non-controlled rehabilitation programme, both short- and long-term, support earlier findings that intensive rehabilitation can increase physical capacity and general well-being.
Some form of individual psychotherapy, in combination with the prescription of antipsychotic medications, is likely the most common treatment for patients with schizophrenia. In the absence of empirical data supporting the efficacy of a particular approach, psychotherapy has often been guided by ideology and deference to authority. In recent years, a reformulation of schizophrenia as a disorder requiring individualized, comprehensive treatment has allowed the development and empirical testing of new targeted and illness-phase-specific individual psychotherapies. This report reviews randomized clinical trials that have evaluated individual psychotherapy of schizophrenia in the context of changing contemporaneous beliefs about the disorder's etiology and treatment. A general approach to individual treatment, termed &quot;flexible psychotherapy,&quot; derived from historical approaches but consistent with available clinical and research perspectives, is outlined.
We studied schizophrenia spectrum disorders in Chernobyl accident survivors by analyzing Chernobyl exclusion zone (EZ) archives (1986-1997) and by conducting a psychophysiological examination of 100 patients with acute radiation sickness (ARS) and 100 workers of the Chernobyl EZ who had worked as &quot;liquidators-volunteers&quot; for 5 or more years since 1986-1987. Beginning in 1990, there has been a significant increase in the incidence of schizophrenia in EZ personnel in comparison to the general population (5.4 per 10,000 in the EZ versus 1.1 per 10,000 in the Ukraine in 1990). Those irradiated by moderate to high doses (more than 0.30 Sv or 30 rem), including ARS patients, had significantly more left frontotemporal limbic and schizophreniform syndromes. We hypothesized that ionizing radiation may be an environmental trigger that can actualize a predisposition to schizophrenia or indeed cause schizophrenia-like disorders. The development of schizophrenia spectrum disorders in overirradiated Chernobyl survivors may be due to radiation-induced left frontotemporal limbic dysfunction, which may be the neurophysiological basis of schizophrenia-like symptoms. Persons exposed to 0.30 Sv or more are at higher risk of schizophrenia spectrum disorders. An integration of international efforts to discuss and organize collaborative studies in this field is of great importance for both clinical medicine and neuroscience.

The complicated mechanisms of drug dependency were discussed from the perspective of a reward, especially the perspective of psychic dependency of the brain. In Kato's article, the following questions were raised. (1) Improper usage of terminology in describing the objective pharmacological behavior and describing the subjective psychic experience, e.g. the term &quot;obsessional comfort&quot;. (2) The enhanced effects of morphine and d-amphetamine in ICSS (intracranial self-stimulation) were not suitably regarded, as these might be the results of stimulus current running in the brain. The conclusion that &quot;morphine and d-amphetamine are 2 kinds of addictive drugs due to the reinforcement effects on ICSS&quot; appears to be putting the incidental before the fundamental because these are addictive drugs in clinical use. (3) It was unknown why the basic problem of drug dependency was limited to psychic stimulant (antihypnotic, etc.), and why only opiates were represented as an addictive drug. (4) The conclusion that the reinforcement effects of barbital and benzodiazepine were not observed in ICSS contradicted Kato's conclusion, in which the reinforcement effects were detected in an experiment involving self-administration. (5) He reiterated that the usage of terminology was confused in describing the psychic experience and pharmacological behavioral. In response to the comments of the editors, I would answer the questions as follows: It is well-known that the terminologies used in psychiatry are strict and prudent. This should also be the case in the description of pharmacological behaviors in animal models. The author admitted Kato's profound relevant experiences in drug dependency, and did not disapprove of his criticisms about the terminology used in the article to describe objective behaviors and observe subjective experience. That article was excerpted from one of my lectures, which to some extent allowed freedom in phrases and sentences. The following are my answers to Kato's questions.
Five antiepileptic drugs have been marketed in the last decade. We report here a retrospective study of patients attending our unit who were prescribed one of the new antiepileptic drugs. All these patients had refractory localization related epilepsy and had failed to respond to a first-line drug. The drugs had a different profile of side-effects but topiramate (42%) was the most common drug to be withdrawn due to side-effects as compared with tiagabine (26%), vigabatrin (16%), gabapentin (16%), and lamotrigine (15%). With regard to efficacy, 31% of the patients receiving gabapentin had a greater than 50% reduction in seizures compared with lamotrigine (25%), topiramate (20%), vigabatrin (19%) and tiagabine (11%). The number of patients remaining seizure free with gabapentin was 8% whilst for lamotrigine this was 5%, vigabatrin 5%, topiramate 1% and tiagabine 4%. In conclusion, all these five antiepileptic drugs are useful in treating refractory localization related epilepsy.
The paper describes the evidence on potential effects of specially trained nurses working in primary care for patients with epilepsy. The method used was a search and review of evidence published from 1992 to 1999. It was found that where nurses have been trained in epilepsy care, there is good evidence that it is feasible for them to set up and run clinics in family practice. Where this has been undertaken, there is level I evidence that this is acceptable and satisfactory to patients. Where clinics have been set up in primary care, there is level I evidence that there has been an increase in the information and advice recorded as being provided to patients. Structured checklists may additionally prompt service providers to increase the level of information provided to patients, and this hypothesis is being tested currently. In conclusion, epilepsy nurses can set up clinics for patients in primary care which are well attended, satisfy patients, and which are associated with better recording of advice given. There is little published evidence on outcome as opposed to process measures. Trials with adequate sample size and long-term follow-up are necessary to identify whether nurse monitoring with advice and counselling can benefit patients in terms of epilepsy self-management in the long run.
In the 1970s and early 1980s, neuroendocrinology was viewed by many neuroscientists as a &quot;window to the brain&quot; to an understanding of brain function.&quot; In psychiatry, many have viewed sleep physiology as a window in biological psychiatry. This is, in part, because sleep is one of the few easily quantifiable functions of interest to psychiatrists. Melatonin is a hormone with powerful effects on behavior particularly circadian and sleep behavior. In contrast with other hormones, the pathophysiology and pathology of abnormal melatonin secretion is poorly understood. In this article, we document the well-established phase-shifting and sleep-promoting effects of melatonin and discuss some implications for neuropsychiatrists when the neurophysiology of melatonin goes array. It is both striking and in some ways not surprising that the majority of patients with phase delay syndrome described in our research studies have been misdiagnosed as having depression. The reason for this is elucidated in this article and the information concerning this condition may be helpful to many who are relatively unfamiliar with this particular sleep disorder. We can anticipate that patients with specific neurological disorders may have changes in their melatonin secretion and future research, for example in patients with head injury and conditions such as retinitis pigmentosa may be the basis for reviews a few years hence.
Neuroimaging has, in many respects, revolutionized the study of behavioral neurology and cognitive neuroscience. Early studies of brain-behavior relationships relied on a precise neurological examination as the basis for hypothesizing the site of brain damage that was responsible for a given behavioral syndrome. The advent of structural brain imaging, first with computed tomography (CT) and later with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), paved the way for more precise anatomical localization of the cognitive deficits that are manifest after brain injury. In recent years, functional neuroimaging, broadly defined as techniques that provide measures of brain activity, has further increased our ability to study the neural basis of behavior. The modern era of functional brain imaging was introduced with the use of positron emission tomography (PET). In more recent years, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has rapidly emerged as an extremely powerful technique with many advantages over PET for studying cognition. Thus, the principles underlying fMRI studies of cognition are the focus of this review.
This article provides a brief history of the study of aphasia, along with current data on aphasic syndromes and their localization in the brain as well as information on testing procedures. A brief examination of language from a functional perspective is also provided, as it is difficult to understand the breakdown patterns without an appreciation for the complexities of language processing per se.
This article presents a brief history of windsurfing, a relatively new recreational and competitive sport activity also known as sailboarding; a brief summary of physiologic studies of windsurfers; and a review of windsurfing injuries with a focus on the neurological complications of windsurfing.

The expression of the immediate early gene, c-fos, was used to determine the distribution of brainstem neurons activated by stimulation of the distal hypoglossal nerve (XIIn) trunk. The traditional view of the XIIn is one of purely motor function; however, stimulation of XIIn excites neurons in the trigeminal spinal nucleus. The rationale for this study was to use c-fos expression as a marker for postsynaptic activity to define the pattern of brainstem neurons excited by XIIn stimulation. It was further hypothesized that if the afferent fibers that course within XIIn supply deep lingual tissues, then c-fos expression after direct stimulation of XIIn should display a pattern similar to that seen after chemical irritant stimulation of the deep tongue muscle. In barbiturate-anesthetized male rats electrical stimulation of XIIn produced a significant increase in Fos-positive neurons in the dorsal paratrigeminal nucleus (dPa5) and laminae I-II of caudal subnucleus caudalis (Vc) and upper cervical dorsal horn. Mustard oil injection into the deep tongue muscle also produced an increase in c-fos expression in dPa5; however, the highest density of expression occurred in laminae I-II at the dorsomedial aspect of rostral Vc. Both electrical stimulation of XIIn and mustard oil stimulation of the deep tongue increased c-fos expression in the caudal ventrolateral medulla, an autonomic relay nucleus. These results suggest that one site of innervation for afferent fibers that travel within the distal trunk of XIIn is to supply the deep tongue muscle and to terminate in the dPa5. A second group of postsynaptic neurons activated only by XIIn stimulation was located in lamina I-II in caudal portions of Vc and upper cervical dorsal horn, a laminar distribution consistent with a role for XIIn afferents in sensory or autonomic aspects of lingual function.
Light- and electron-microscopic immunocytochemistry (ICC) was performed on Pacinian corpuscles (PCs) obtained from cat mesentery to determine the presence and location of various proteins within the accessory capsule and the neurite. Antibodies to tubulin, neurofilament 200, actin, collagen II and V, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and S-100 were used. Type II collagen was localized only in the outer core of the accessory capsule, which is composed of an inner core, an intermediate layer or growth zone, an outer core and an external capsule. Type V collagen was found only in the intermediate growth zone. Intermediate filaments labeled with anti-GFAP were only found in the inner core. The calcium-binding protein that was labeled by anti-S-100 was found only in the inner core. Diffuse and variable staining for actin is present throughout the accessory capsule. The differences in distribution of these various proteins within the capsule suggest different structural/functional properties of the various capsule regions. The neurite was found to contain microtubules (i.e., tubulin) and neurofilaments throughout, but these cellular inclusions were not found within the cytoplasmic extensions (filopodia) that project from the neurite into the hemilamellar clefts formed by the inner-core hemilamellae. The extensions, however, were found to contain actin in a much greater density than that seen in the neurite proper. The presence of actin, but apparent lack of other cytostructural elements within the extensions, is highly reminiscent of the composition of stereocilia found on vestibular and auditory hair cells. Since stereocilia have been shown to play a role in hair-cell mechanotransduction, it is possible that the cytoplasmic extensions are significantly involved with mechanotransduction within the PC.
The problem of learning is arguably at the very core of the problem of intelligence, both biological and artificial. In this paper we sketch some of our work over the last ten years in the area of supervised learning, focusing on three interlinked directions of research: theory, engineering applications (that is, making intelligent software) and neuroscience (that is, understanding the brain's mechanisms of learning).
As opposed to dealing with the geometry of objects in the 3D world, this paper considers the geometry of the visual input itself, i.e. the geometry of the spatio-temporal hypersurface defined by image intensity as a function of two spatial coordinates and time. The results show how the Riemann curvature tensor of this hypersurface represents speed and direction of motion, and thereby allows to predict global motion percepts and properties of MT neurons. It is argued that important aspects of early and middle level visual coding may be understood as resulting from basic geometric processing of the spatio-temporal visual input. Finally, applications show that the approach can improve the computation of motion.
Cognitive-psychological and neuropsychological studies suggest that the human brain processes facial information in a distinct manner, relying on mechanisms that are anatomically and functionally different from those underlying the recognition of other objects. Face recognition, for instance, can be disrupted selectively as a result of localized brain damage, and relies strongly on holistic information rather than on the mere processing of local features. Similarly, in the non-human primate, distinct neocortical and limbic structures have cell populations responding specifically to face stimuli and only weakly to other visual patterns. Moreover, such cells tend to respond to the entire configuration of a face rather than to individual facial features. But are faces the only objects represented in this way? Here I present some evidence suggesting that at least one aspect of facial processing, the processing of holistic information, may be employed by the primate brain when recognizing any arbitrary homogeneous class of even artificial objects, which the monkey has to individually learn, remember, and recognize again and again from among a large number of distractors sharing a number of common features with the target. Acquiring such an expertise can induce configurational selectivity in the response of neurons in the visual system. Our findings suggests that regarding their neural encoding faces are unlikely to be 'special', but they rather are the default 'special class' of the primate visual system.
Cells in area TE of the inferotemporal cortex of the monkey brain selectively respond to various moderately complex object-features, and those responding to similar features cluster in a columnar region elongated vertical to the cortical surface. Although cells within a column respond to similar features, their selectivity is not identical. The data of optical imaging in TE have suggested that the borders between neighboring columns are not discrete but columns representing related features overlap one another. We have also found, by training adult monkeys for discrimination of a specific set of shapes, that such a long-term training increases the proportion of TE cells responding to the shapes used in the training even in the adult. The data suggested that TE plays important roles in discrimination of complex shapes and in visual expert learning of discriminating a certain class of objects in the adult.
This paper is organised approximately into two halves. In the first half, I review evidence about the structure of the visual system, and I use that evidence to frame what I think are widely held but often implicit ideas about how it works, namely that vision is principally analysis of retinal input. These ideas have been strongly influenced by engineering approaches; form a default view of the visual system that suffuses all the language used to describe it (at least in visual neuroscience); and are to some extent supported by the structural evidence. In the second half, I explore some inconvenient facts from neuroanatomy and neurophysiology which are quite uncomfortable for the traditional view. I then set out a contrary view of how structure and function are linked in the visual system, which is a neurobiological variety of the quite developed view in psychophysics that vision is better understood as knowledge-rich inference. Finally, I explore some of the ramifications of this view for neurophysiological understanding of how the visual system might operate during normal vision.

The activities of neurons in primary visual cortex have been shown to be significantly influenced by stimuli outside their classical receptive fields. We propose that these contextual influences serve pre-attentive visual segmentation by causing relatively higher neural responses to important or conspicuous image locations, making them more salient for perceptual pop-out. These locations include boundaries between regions, smooth contours, and pop-out targets against backgrounds. The mark of these locations is the breakdown of spatial homogeneity in the input. for instance, at the border between two texture regions of equal mean luminance. This breakdown causes changes in contextual influences, often resulting in higher responses at the border than at surrounding locations. This proposal is implemented in a biologically based model of VI in which contextual influences are mediated by intra-cortical horizontal connections. The behavior of the model is demonstrated using examples of texture segmentation, figure-ground segregation, target-distractor asymmetry, and contour enhancement, and is compared with psychophysical and physiological data. The model predicts (1) how neural responses should be tuned to the orientation of nearby texture borders, (2) a set of qualitative constraints on the structure of the intracortical connections, and (3) stimulus-dependent biases in estimating the locations of the region borders by pre-attentive vision.

The idea of stereotaxy in modern neurosurgery is reviewed. Stereotactic surgery has been one of the particular neurosurgical techniques mainly used for functional disorders. Nowadays, it is widely used in the field of general neurosurgery owing to the rapid development of computer-assisted 3D brain images. Functional neurosurgery itself is also changing in the sense that many alternative surgical procedures are now available due to the progress in neuroscience. The original premise of stereotaxy is exactly the same as that of minimally invasive neurosurgery today.
Neuronal connections and cortical maps are continuously remodeled by our experience. Knowledge of the potential capabilityof the brain to compensate for lesions is a prerequisite for optimal stroke rehabilitation strategies. Experimental focal cortical lesions induce changes in adjacent cortex and in the contralateral hemisphere. Neuroimaging studies in stroke patients indicate altered poststroke activation patterns, which suggest some functional reorganization. To what extent functional imaging data correspond to outcome data needs to be evaluated. Reorganization may be the principle process responsible for recovery of function after stroke, but what are the limits, and to what extent can postischemic intervention facilitate such changes? Postoperative housing of animals in an enriched environment can significantly enhance functional outcome and can also interact with other interventions, including neocortical grafting. What role will neuronal progenitor cells play in future rehabilitation-stimulated in situ or as neural replacement? And what is the future for blocking neural growth inhibitory factors? Better knowledge of postischemic molecular and neurophysiological events, and close interaction between basic and applied research, will hopefully enable us to design rehabilitation strategies based on neurobiological principles in a not-too-distant future.









This study was conducted to examine the lymph node metastasis-related carbohydrate epitopes of cancer cells in primary lesions of gastric cancer with submucosal invasion (sm gastric cancer). A total of 118 formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded surgical specimens were studied. Carbohydrate epitopes were detected histochemically using 17 kinds of biotin-labeled lectins and three kinds of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against Thomsen-Friedenreich antigen (HB-T1), Tn (HB-Tn1), and sialyl Tn antigens (HB-STn1). The node-positive group showed significantly lower reactivities with Ricinus communis I (RCA-I), Lotus tetragonolobus (Lotus), Triticum vulgaris (WGA), and Concanavalia ensiformis (ConA), and higher reactivities with HB-STn1. When sm gastric cancer was classified into differentiated and undifferentiated types, lower reactivities with RCA-I and ConA were observed in the differentiated type cancers, whereas lower reactivities with Lotus, WGA, and higher reactivity with HB-STn1 were observed in the undifferentiated type cancers. Nodal status was able to be predicted with high precision by a combination of these carbohydrates and histological subtypes. Since neuraminidase treatment rarely changed the reactivity of cancer cells with these lectins, we conclude that the loss of certain kinds of carbohydrates that are restricted by histological subtypes is related to lymph node metastasis in sm gastric cancer.
Acute 17beta-estradiol treatment had been shown to downregulate the 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA expression in limbic areas of the female rat brain. The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of chronic 17beta-estradiol treatment on 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA expression and 5-HT(1A) receptor binding in ovariectomized female rats. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, no alterations were found on the 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA levels after the estradiol treatment (2 weeks). Radioligand autoradiographic studies using the selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist [(3)H]WAY-100635 revealed reduced receptor binding in the amygdala, hippocampus, perirhinal cortex, and motor cortex after estradiol treatment, whereas no changes were observed in the piriform or retrosplenial cortex. Thus, the previous findings together with the present results indicate that estradiol-induced alterations in 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA expression appears within hours, but diminishes with chronic treatment when significant changes on the receptor-protein level are apparent. The effects of estradiol treatment on the 5-HT(1A) receptor binding in the limbic areas suggest that estrogen can modulate functions such as learning, memory, cognition, emotional processing, and social behavior. Consequently, estradiol modulation of 5-HT(1A) receptor circuits might be a possible pathway for the estrogen influence in the expression of psychiatric and neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, affective disorders, and schizophrenia.
The contribution of NMDA receptors to the expression of long-term potentiation (LTP) is controversial. In entorhinal cortex (EC) previous studies reported either that LTP was exclusively expressed through NMDA receptors or that both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors were involved in LTP expression. To reexamine this issue, horizontal entorhinal cortical slices were prepared from adult rats and electrical stimulation was delivered in layer II/III, while field potential recordings were made in layer III. In the standard condition (2.5 mM Mg(++)), LTP was reliably induced by theta burst stimulation, but was blocked by 100 microM D-AP5, an NMDA receptor antagonist. This corroborates previous reports that NMDA receptor activation is required for induction of EC LTP. The field potential response was not affected by D-AP5, but completely blocked by 10 microM CNQX, a non-NMDA receptor antagonist. This indicates that the expression of LTP is mediated by non-NMDA receptors in the standard condition. LTP of NMDA receptor-mediated responses was tested by comparing NMDA responses before and after applying theta burst stimulation in medium containing low magnesium (0.4-1 mM). Theta burst stimulation induced 43.2+/-9.7% increase of non-NMDA responses (i.e., AP5-insensitive fast component) but 5.6+/-9.0% decrease of the NMDA receptor component (AP5-sensitive slow component). These results indicate that activation of NMDA receptors is critical for induction of LTP, but LTP expression is mediated by non-NMDA receptors in EC under these experimental conditions.
A system for recording of evoked potentials from auditory stimulation was developed. The system consists of a PC equipped with an audio bandwidth board with analog input and output channels. The sound stimulus signal is generated in the computer, D/A converted, and via audio amplifier fed to earphones on the test subject. Auditory evoked potentials in response to sound stimuli are recorded via electrodes, amplified and filtered in an EEG recording system and fed to an A/D converter. The signal is analysed in the PC. The modular design of the program makes it a flexible system where stimulus and recording parameters can easily be modified and new applications can be added to standard clinical measurements. Three applications that are not possible with commercially available systems were developed and evaluated. a) A diagnostic procedure to verify hydrops in patients with Meniere's disease. b) Intraoperative recordings of auditory evoked potentials during neurootological surgery. c) Recording of mismatch negativity (MMN) potentials in evaluation of central auditory functions.
Silver staining procedures have been used in numerous ways to render a variety of physical and biological features visible. In biological tissue, histologic protocols use silver to visualize diverse structures or features, such as reticulin, melanin, fungi, chromosome bands, nucleolar organizing regions, and different features in the nervous system. A comparison of the specific steps in these protocols indicates that the silver is &quot;directed&quot; to stain any given feature by the type of fixation, the pretreatment (&quot;mordanting&quot;), the composition of the silver-containing solution(s), and the form of development (reduction). Since the mechanisms of staining have not been understood historically (nor are they now), each method was developed by trial and error. Keystone methods such as those of Bodian and Bielschowsky exploit the nervous system's affinity for silver (argyrophilia). The beginning of a new era in brain research came with the recognition that distinct silver-impregnated morphologic changes occurring in damaged axons could be used for tracing axon pathways in experimental animals with specifically placed lesions. Improvements in staining methods used to selectively impregnate the disintegrating axons but to leave normal axons unstained were achieved by Nauta and Gygax (early workers with these procedures) and spawned a host of method variations known as the &quot;Nauta&quot; methods. Of these, the Fink-Heimer and de Olmos cupric-silver methods were able to unambiguously demonstrate disintegrating synaptic terminals, thereby allowing complete tracing of axon pathways. The late 1970s and 1980s witnessed innovative applications of these techniques. The silver methods once used to trace axon pathways became indicators of the extreme endpoint of neurotoxicity: disintegrative degeneration of neurons induced by neurotoxic chemicals that were administered systemically. The hallmark of neurotoxic substances is the selectivity with which each destroys specific populations or subpopulations of neurons. The high contrast and sensitivity of the silver degeneration stains greatly facilitate the screening process to detect these affected populations, especially when there is no basis for knowing where in the brain to look for damage. More recently, in addition to expanded use in screening for neurotoxic effects, the silver degeneration stains are being used to chart the neuron populations undergoing programmed cell death in the developing brain. Other newly developed silver methods have been refined to show nondisintegrative degeneration, such as the plaques,and tangles of Alzheimer's disease.
The primary means of communication between neurons in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) is via release of chemical transmitters. Although the first transmitters to be discovered were the biogenic amines, such as acetylcholine and norepinephrine, involved in transmission in the autonomic nervous system, the contribution of other types of transmitters, such as amino acids and peptides, to CNS transmission has been the subject of recent study. Part of this interest stems from the relatively large percentage of neuronal connections that make use of amino acid transmitters such as gamma-aminobutyric acid and glutamate and also from the tremendous diversity possible when peptides are used as transmitters. Several disorders of CNS transmission are related to the degeneration of neuronal pathways in the brain. Two of the most prevalent neurologic disorders that result from degeneration are Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Aspects of these disorders related to chemical neurotransmission are discussed, along with implications with regard to therapeutic strategies. Functions of and possible abnormalities in amino acid transmission that may be associated with CNS disorders are examined. Several peptides are postulated to play a role in neurotransmission and concepts regarding the significance of the coexistence and release of biogenic amines and peptides at the same neuronal terminals are presented.
In addition to astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, microglia represent the third major population of glial cells within the central nervous system (CNS). Microglia are distributed ubiquitously throughout the brain and spinal cord, and one of their main functions is to monitor and sustain neuronal health. Microglial cells are quite sensitive to even minor disturbances in CNS homeostasis, and they become readily activated during most neuropathologic conditions, including peripheral nerve injury, trauma and stroke, inflammatory disease, and neurotoxicant-induced neuronal injury. During activation, microglia display conspicuous functional plasticity, which involves changes in cell morphology, cell number, cell surface receptor expression, and production of growth factors and cytokines. The many changes occurring in activated cells reflect the altered functional states of microglia that are induced by signals arising from injured neurons. Thus, neuronal-microglial signaling plays a fundamental role in understanding how the CNS responds to injury. Reactive microgliosis should be viewed as a cellular effort to initiate ameliorative and reparative measures in the injured brain.
The assembly and disassembly (i.e. turnover) of actin filaments in response to extracellular signals underlie a wide variety of basic cellular processes such as cell division, endocytosis and motility. The bulk turnover of subunits is 100-200 times faster in cells than with pure actin, suggesting a complex regulation in vivo. Significant progress has been made recently in identifying and clarifying the roles of several cellular proteins that coordinately regulate actin-filament turnover.
The pulvinar nuclei of the thalamus are proportionately larger in higher mammals, particularly in primates, and account for a quarter of the total mass. Traditionally, these nuclei have been divided into oral (somatosensory), superior and inferior (both visual) and medial (visual, multi-sensory) divisions. With reciprocal connections to vast areas of cerebral cortex, and input from the colliculus and retina, they occupy an analogous position in the extra-striate visual system to the lateral geniculate nucleus in the primary visual pathway, but deal with higher-order visual and visuomotor transduction. With a renewed recent interest in this thalamic nuclear collection, and growth in our knowledge of the cortex with which it communicates, perhaps the time is right to look to new dimensions in the pulvinar code.
Both necrotic and apoptotic neuronal death are observed in various neurological and neurodegenerative disorders. Calpain is activated in various necrotic and apoptotic conditions, while caspase 3 is only activated in neuronal apoptosis. Despite the difference in cleavage-site specificity, an increasing number of cellular proteins are found to be dually susceptible to these cysteine proteases. These include alpha- and beta-fodrin, calmodulin-dependent protein kinases, ADP-ribosyltransferase (ADPRT/PARP) and tau. Intriguingly, calpastatin is susceptible to caspase-mediated fragmentation. Neurotoxic challenges such as hypoxia-hypoglycemia, excitotoxin treatment or metabolic inhibition of cultured neurons result in activation of both proteases. Calpain inhibitors can protect against necrotic neuronal death and, to a lesser extent, apoptotic death. Caspase inhibitors strongly suppress apoptotic neuronal death. Thus, both protease families might contribute to structural derangement and functional loss in neurons under degenerative conditions.
This is a personal account of how studies of the pharmacology of opiates led to the discovery of a family of endogenous opioid peptides, also called endorphins. The unique pharmacological activity profile of opiates has an endogenous counterpart in the enkephalins and beta-endorphin, peptides which also are powerful analgesics and euphorigenic agents. The enkephalins not only act on the classic morphine (mu-) receptor but also on the delta-receptor, which often co-exists with mu-receptors and mediates pain relief. Other members of the opioid peptide family are the dynorphins, acting on the kappa-receptor earlier defined as precipitating unpleasant central nervous system (CNS) side effects in screening for opiate activity, A related peptide, nociceptin is not an opioid and acts on the separate NOR-receptor. Both dynorphins and nociceptin have modulatory effects on several CNS functions, including memory acquisition, stress and movement. In conclusion, a natural product, morphine and a large number of synthetic organic molecules, useful as drugs, have been found to probe a previously unknown physiologic system. This is a unique development not only in the neuropeptide field, but in physiology in general.
The article is devoted to commemoration of full member of Russian Academy of Medical Sciences, Oleg Andreevich Adrianov, who would have celebrated his 75-th anniversary in 1998. O. S. Adrianov, author of numerous works on physiology and morphology of central nervous system, in the recent years of his was studying the problem of the processes relationship at macro and micro levels of brain organization. Further to the concept created by O.S. Adrianov, data on action of two peptides: delta-sleep and tafcine, on behavior, neurophysiological and neurochemical processes have been consolidated. Experimental data were obtained for rabbits, cats, and dogs, both intact and in the state of pathology (psychomotoric excitement, bradykinesia, penicillin epilepsy). Impact of peptides on convergation processes is discussed: peptide of delta-sleep depresses reactions of brain structures to photo- and phono-stimulation, and activates the serotoninergic system in general; tafcine enforces the convergation processes and activates the dopaminergic system.
Pursuit and perception both require accurate information about the motion of objects. Recovering the motion of objects by integrating the motion of their components is a difficult visual task. Successful integration produces coherent global object motion, while a failure to integrate leaves the incoherent local motions of the components unlinked. We compared the ability of perception and pursuit to perform motion integration by measuring direction judgments and the concomitant eye-movement responses to line-figure parallelograms moving behind stationary rectangular apertures. The apertures were constructed such that only the line segments corresponding to the parallelogram's sides were visible; thus, recovering global motion required the integration of the local segment motion. We investigated several potential motion-integration rules by using stimuli with different object, vector-average, and line-segment terminator-motion directions. We used an oculometric decision rule to directly compare direction discrimination for pursuit and perception. For visible apertures, the percept was a coherent object, and both the pursuit and perceptual performance were close to the object-motion prediction. For invisible apertures, the percept was incoherently moving segments, and both the pursuit and perceptual performance were close to the terminator-motion prediction. Furthermore, both psychometric and oculometric direction thresholds were much higher for invisible apertures than for visible apertures. We constructed a model in which both perception and pursuit are driven by a shared motion-processing stage, with perception having an additional input from an independent static-processing stage. Model simulations were consistent with our perceptual and oculomotor data. Based on these results, we propose the use of pursuit as an objective and continuous measure of perceptual coherence. Our results support the view that pursuit and perception share a common motion-integration stage, perhaps within areas MT or MST.
To date, two cannabinoid receptors, CB1 and CB2, have been cloned. The CB1 receptor has been found in a variety of tissues, particularly in the brain. CB2 receptor mRNA is mainly expressed in the immune system, though one group has found it in mouse cerebellum. Previous immunostaining studies in our lab demonstrated the presence of CB1 receptors in the retina though little evidence exists for the presence of CB2. The putative endogenous ligand for CB2 has been found in retina, however, suggesting that further study of CB2 in retina is warranted. Because glutamate is toxic to retinal ganglion cells in glaucoma and activation of CB2 receptors may be able to protect neurons from glutamate-induced death, we examined the expression of CB2 mRNA in adult rat retina in order to better understand possible neuroprotective mechanisms relevant to glaucoma. Using in situ hybridization, we demonstrated that CB2 cannabinoid receptor messenger RNA was clearly expressed in the adult rat retina, including the somas of retinal ganglion cells. Antisense cRNA probe detected strong signals in the retinal ganglion cell layer, the inner nuclear layer, and the inner segments of photoreceptor cells. Using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in both rat and mouse tissue, we obtained an RT-PCR product with the same sequence as that reported for CB2 in the GenBank database, thus confirming the presence of CB2 mRNA in retina. The presence of CB2 in retina provides new evidence for the presence of CB2 in the central nervous system (CNS) and an excellent model for its study.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) is an ionotropic glutamate receptor that is important in neurotransmission as well as in processes of synaptic plasticity in the mammalian superior colliculus (SC). Despite the importance of this receptor in synaptic transmission, there is as yet no evidence that demonstrates directly the synaptic localization of the NMDAR receptor in SC. We have used electron-microscope (EM) immunocytochemistry to localize the NMDAR1 subunit of this receptor protein and its association with sensory afferents in the cat SC. Retinal synaptic terminals were identified by normal morphology and cortical synaptic terminals by degeneration after lesions of areas 17-18 of the visual cortex. At the light-microscope level, label was densest within the superficial gray and upper optic layers, but also present in all other layers. Label was contained within cell bodies, dendrites, and a few putative axons. At the EM level, antibody labeling was found along postsynaptic densifications and internalized within the cytoplasm of a variety of dendrites and some cell bodies. Postsynaptic profiles labeled by NMDAR1 included conventional dendrites and presynaptic dendrites which contained pleomorphic synaptic vesicles and are known to be GABAergic. Many of the labeled postsynaptic densifications of both of these profile types received synaptic inputs from retinal or cortical terminals. Virtually no NMDAR1 immunoreactivity was found on thin dendritic thorns or putative spines, even when these were postsynaptic to retinal or cortical terminals. In summary, these results show that the NMDAR1 subunit is postsynaptic to both retinal and cortical afferents, which are known to be glutamatergic, and are consistent with physiological evidence showing that stimulation of either pathway can activate the NMDA receptor.
There were three objectives to the work undertaken for this paper: (1) to provide a comprehensive characterization of the statistical properties of arrays of beta-cell somata; (2) to develop a model that simulates cellular arrays with the same properties; and (3) to use this model to examine whether the array of beta-cells should be viewed as one array or as two arrays, one each for its OFF- and ON-center cells. Beta-cells are morphological correlates of the electrophysiological X-cells and those beta-cells whose dendrites stratify within the outer and inner sublamina of the retina's inner plexiform layer correspond, respectively, to OFF- and ON-center X-cells. Arrays of peripheral beta-cell somata from two retinas were studied. A Delaunay triangulation and a Voronoi tessellation were generated for each array and measures derived from these constructs used to analyze the arrays' spatial organization. As others have shown previously with a less complete statistical characterization, we found that the arrays of OFF- and ON-center beta-cells have similar spatial properties and are more regular than the array of all beta-cells. We developed a model to simulate cellular arrays with spatial properties like those of arrays of beta-cells. A good fit between model and real arrays was found when the model assumed an explicit spatial dependence between the placement of OFF- and ON-center cells. We propose therefore that a single array of beta-cells formed of both OFF- and ON-center cells is consistent with the data currently available for beta-cell somatic arrays.
We use a new objective measure of illusory contour strength, threshold reduction for aspect ratio discrimination, to examine the effect of dynamics and relative phase on the Kanizsa illusion. We found no dependence of illusory contour strength on the relative phase of flickering inducers (in phase, antiphase, or in quadrature phase) either for the standard Kanizsa square, or for modifications that facilitated or interfered with amodal completion. Comparison with a vernier acuity task indicates that the distance between the inducers, rather than the nature of the task, accounts for the insensitivity to relative phase.

A flash that is presented aligned with a moving stimulus appears to lag behind the position of the moving stimulus. This flash-lag phenomenon reflects a processing advantage for moving stimuli (Metzger, W. (1932) Psychologische Forschung 16, 176-200; MacKay, D. M. (1958) Nature 181, 507-508; Nijhawan, R. (1994) Nature 370, 256-257; Purushothaman, G., Patel, S.S., Bedell, H.E., &amp; Ogmen, H. (1998) Nature 396, 424; Whitney, D. &amp; Murakami, I. (1998) Nature Neuroscience 1, 656-657). The present study measures the sensitivity of the illusion to unpredictable changes in the direction of motion. A moving stimulus translated upwards and then made a 90 degrees turn leftward or rightward. The flash-lag illusion was measured and it was found that, although the change in direction was unpredictable, the flash was still perceived to lag behind the moving stimulus at all points along the trajectory, a finding that is at odds with the extrapolation hypothesis (Nijhawan, R. (1994) Nature 370, 256-257). The results suggest that there is a shorter latency of the neural response to motion even during unpredictable changes in direction. The latency facilitation therefore appears to be omnidirectional rather than specific to a predictable path of motion (Grzywacz, N. M. &amp; Amthor, F. R. (1993) Journal of Neurophysiology 69, 2188-2199).
It has been proposed [Hubel &amp; Livingstone (1987) Journal of Neuroscience, 7, 3378-3415] that stereopsis is mediated solely by magnocellular pathway in primates. This hypothesis was evaluated for humans in psychophysical experiments with dynamic random-noise stimuli, based on the sustained/transient relationship of behavior mediated by the two divisions of the LGN [Merigan &amp; Maunsell (1993) Annual Review of Neuroscience, 16, 369-402]. The stereoscopic limits show that stereoscopic system is more sensitive to sustained random-dot stimuli than to transient ones. Quantitative modeling of the result implied a weak role for magnocellular input, suggests that human stereopsis is more strongly influenced by parvocellular input through the LGN.
We present a hierarchical neurodynamical system for object recognition based on attentional control of the spatial resolution with which an object is analyzed during an iterative hypothesis testing cycle. Psychophysical evidence strongly suggests that attentional processing results in the enhancement of the spatial resolution in the input region corresponding to the focus of attention. We adopt a computational neuroscience approach in order to analyze this attentional enhancement of the spatial resolution for object recognition. The system consists of a where- and a what-module which include networks with feedforward and feedback interconnections describing the mutual links between different areas of the visual cortex.
During rotational motions, compensatory eye movement adjustments must continually occur in order to maintain objects of visual interest as stable images on the retina. In the present study, the three-dimensional organization of the vestibulo-ocular reflex in pigeons was quantitatively examined. Rotations about different head axes produced horizontal, vertical, and torsional eye movements, whose component magnitude was dependent upon the cosine of the stimulus axis relative to the animal's visual axis. Thus, the three-dimensional organization of the VOR in pigeons appears to be compensatory for any direction of head rotation. Frequency responses of the horizontal, vertical, and torsional slow phase components exhibited high pass filter properties with dominant time constants of approximately 3 s.
Dynamic overshoots are seen after voluntary re-fixation saccades. They are microsaccadic movements which follow primary saccades and have no delay. The purpose of this study was to examine the prevalence and metrics of the dynamic overshoots seen after involuntary saccades. Using infra-red oculography we demonstrate that dynamic overshoots are a common occurrence in physiological square-wave jerks, congenital nystagmus and manifest latent nystagmus and that these overshoots are saccadic in nature and have the same dynamic characteristics as those seen following voluntary saccades. It is therefore likely that they share common neural commands to those dynamic overshoots seen after a volitional saccade. All dynamic overshoots are postulated to be the unwanted consequence of making a saccade and are simulated in a model of fast oculomotor behaviour which is consistent with known experimental results.
Neural mechanisms underlying the initiation of saccadic eye movements were studied by recording the activity of neurons in the superior colliculus of rhesus monkeys that had extensive experience on the gap task using targets restricted to one visual field. The superposition of visual activation upon the increased excitability occurring on gap trials facilitates the occurrence of a motor burst with extremely short latency; the motor burst is tightly coupled to saccade onset for the full range of saccadic reactions times, both regular and express. We found no evidence that express saccades are a special class of saccades triggered directly by visual responses. The low frequency activity, necessary for the occurrence of express saccades, neither initiates express saccades nor serves as an accurate predictor of the direction or latency of saccades. Based upon these findings, the hypothesis that the motor burst of collicular neurons serves as a signal for triggering saccade onset can now be extended to express saccades.
In the probed-sinewave paradigm, threshold for detecting a probe is measured at various phases with respect to a sinusoidally-flickering background. Here we vary the duration of the flickering background before (and after) the test probe is presented. The adaptation is rapid; after approximately 10-30 ms of the flickering background, probe threshold is the same as that on a continually-flickering background. It is interesting that this result holds at both low (1. 2 Hz) and middle (9.4 Hz) frequencies because at middle frequencies (but not at low) there is a dc-shift, i.e. probe threshold is elevated at all phases relative to that on a steady background (of the same mean luminance). We compare our results to predictions from Wilson's model [Wilson (1997), Visual Neuroscience, 14, 403-423; Hood &amp; Graham (1998), Visual Neuroscience, 15, 957-967] of light adaptation. The model predicts the rapid adaptation, and the dc-shift, but not the detailed shape of the probe-threshold-versus-phase curve at middle frequencies.
Current notions of binocular depth perception include (1) neural computations that solve the correspondence problem and calculate retinal positional disparity, and (2) recovery of ecologically valid occlusion relationships. The former framework works well for stimuli with unambiguous interocular correspondence, but less so for stimuli without well-defined disparity cues. The latter framework has been proposed to account for the phenomenon of perceived depth in stimuli without interocular correspondence, but its mechanism remains unclear. In order to obtain more insight into the mechanism, we studied the depth percept elicited by a family of stereograms - 'sieve' stimuli, adapted from Howard (1995) [Perception, 24, 67-74] - with interocular differences but no well-defined positional disparity cue. The perceived depth was measured by comparison to references at various depths established by standard retinal disparity and was consistently found to lie behind the fixation plane. Moreover, the magnitude of the depth percept depended on both the horizontal and vertical spatial characteristics of the stimulus in ways that were at odds with constraints of occlusion geometry. In comparison to the depth percept elicited by stimuli with well-defined disparity cues, the precision of the percept from the sieve stimuli was 10-20 times worse, suggesting that a different underlying computation was involved. Thus, neither of the above frameworks accounts for the depth percept arising from these stimuli. We discuss implications of our results for physiologically based computations underlying binocular depth perception.
We have developed a simple computer-based discrimination task that enables the quick determination of visual acuities in rodents. A grating is displayed randomly on one of two monitors at the wide end of a trapezoidal-shaped tank containing shallow water. Animals are trained to swim toward the screens, and at a fixed distance, choose the screen displaying the grating and escape to a submerged platform hidden below it. Both mice and rats learn the task quickly. Performance falls below 70% when the spatial frequency is increased beyond 0.5 cycles in most C57BU6 mice, and around 1.0 cycles per degree (cpd) in Long-Evans rats.
Phenomenal transparency in random-dot kinematograms is abolished when two motion directions are 'locally-balanced' by pairing limited-lifetime dots at each location [Qian, Andersen and Adelson (1994). Journal of Neuroscience, 14, 7357-7366]. Qian et al. also report that locally-paired stimuli appear as directionless flicker when the paired dots differ in their directions by 90 degrees or more. They attribute this to local inhibition between motion detectors more than 45 degrees apart. We investigated perceived motion in such displays, by requiring subjects to make direction and speed judgements with locally-paired stimuli containing two directions 60, 90 or 120 degrees apart. Subjects perceived coherent motion in these displays and made reliable direction judgements, indicating that the two motions are combined rather than interfering destructively. Our results show that the judged motion of locally-paired stimuli is in the vector-average direction of the two components. This vector-averaging rule also applies when the two sets of component dots differ in their velocity. Similarly, speed judgements comply with a vector-averaging rule for a range of speeds as well as for mixed-speed stimuli. These results suggest that the abolition of transparency does not necessarily imply abolition of a global motion percept. The local interaction abolishing transparency is not exclusively inhibitory, at least for directions up to 120 degrees apart, but generates a vector combination of the superimposed motions.
Increment and decrement probe thresholds were measured during the presentation of two types of temporal masking stimuli. In Experiment 1, we measured thresholds for increment or decrement rectangular probes presented during the presentation of an increment or decrement Gaussian masking stimulus. We find that thresholds are higher when the probe and the Gaussian mask are of the same sign (e. g. both increments). However, both types of Gaussian mask raised increment and decrement probe thresholds above steady state conditions. In Experiment 2, we presented increment or decrement probes at one of eight possible phases of a 1 Hz luminance-modulated sine wave. For both increment and decrement probes, threshold variation with phase is non-sinusoidal in shape, but increment and decrement probe thresholds vary as a function of the sinusoid phase. These experiments show that increment and decrement thresholds vary as a function of the adaptation state of the visual system, and as a function of the direction of change in the adaptation state. Data from both experiments are discussed in terms of a recent neurophysiological model [Hood &amp; Graham (1998). Threshold fluctuations on temporally modulated backgrounds: a possible physiological explanation based upon a recent computational model. Visual Neuroscience, 15 (5), 957-967]. We find that the predicted ON- and OFF-pathway responses do not correlate in a straightforward manner with the psychophysical thresholds, suggesting that detection of increment and decrement probes may not be performed exclusively by one pathway. Our data have implications for modeling visual performance under conditions where visual adaptation is dynamic, such as when scanning complex images or natural scenes.
For rapidly translating targets, vernier thresholds correspond to millisecond asynchronies between targets. The 'temporal hypothesis' is that these thresholds reflect the limiting sensitivity of asynchrony detectors. Previous studies showed that temporal thresholds are generally higher than vernier thresholds, but failed to reject the 'temporal hypothesis' because stimuli had differing spatiotemporal characteristics, and temporal thresholds depend strongly on stimulus and task. Here we use matched grating stimuli to test - and reject - the temporal hypothesis. Expressed as asynchrony, temporal phase discrimination was typically 10-fold poorer than vernier thresholds, and differed in dependence on spatial frequency, temporal frequency, contrast, and susceptibility to stroboscopic masks.
Available experimental data on the gain and phase lags in the closed-loop accommodation responses to stimuli whose dioptric vergence changes sinusoidally with time are examined. It is shown that both phase lags and gain change almost linearly with the temporal frequency of the stimulus. This implies that the phase lags correspond to a frequency-independent time delay and that, if the system is linear, the impulse response should take a symmetrical (sin x/x)(2) form, with a corresponding standard form of step response. Comparison of this derived step response with the quasi-exponential results found experimentally underlines the limitations of attempting to generalize dynamic accommodation performance from responses obtained with predictable sinusoidally-changing stimuli and the application of a linear model. Consideration of the frequency response which would lead to an exponential step response supports the argument that, although the gain results obtained with sinusoidal stimuli are reasonably representative of those applying with other forms of stimulus, the predictable nature of sinusoidally-changing stimuli makes the derived phase lags inapplicable to non-predictable step or other stimuli. Other limitations in linear models of the response are discussed.
Whereas the influence on the elevation of visually perceived eye level (VPEL) by two bilaterally symmetric, long (64 degrees-long), pitched-from-vertical lines in total darkness is only a little more than the average of the VPELs of the two lines measured separately [Matin &amp; Li (1999). Vision Research, 39, 307-329], in the present experiments with 49 2-line combinations of seven orientations (-30 degrees to +30 degrees pitch), the VPEL for two short (12 degrees-long) lines equals the additive sum of the separate influences of the two lines. With one line at a fixed orientation, the slope of the VPEL-versus-pitch function with the second line variable equals the slope of the function when viewing one line alone, but is shifted from the 1-line-alone function by the magnitude of the VPEL of the fixed line. Both the near-averaging and the additivity are summarized by V(theta l, theta r) = k1 + k2 [V(theta l) + V(theta r)], where V(theta l) and V(theta r) are the 1-line VPELs for the pitches of the left and right lines, and V(theta l, theta r) is the 2-line VPEL; the slope constant k2 equals 0.5 for averaging, and 1.00 for simple additivity of the separate visual influences. Measured values are k2 = 0.99 and k2 = 0.61 for short and long lines, respectively. The shift of slope constant is determined by line length and not orientation: parallel and nonparallel lines follow the same rules of combination for short lines as they do for long lines. As for long lines, the short-line results are clear in showing that the visual influence on VPEL is controlled by an opponent-process mechanism. Although 'saturation-near-an-asymptote' along with opponency are required components of the interpretation for the basis of the combination of lines of different orientations and different lengths, they are not by themselves sufficient: All results conform to a neurophysiologically-based model [Matin and Li (1997b). Society for Neuroscience, 23, 175; Matin &amp; Li, under review] that parallel processes feedforward signals from orientation-selective neural units in V1; the model accounts for the shift from additivity to near-averaging with increase in line length as a consequence of the increased contribution of shunting.
The largest component in the fully dark-adapted ERG is a corneal-positive response, known as the b-wave, and believed to originate from depolarizing (ON-type) bipolar cells. The two types of GABA receptors, GABA(A) and GABA(C) have been reported to exist on bipolar cells in rat retina. The goal of these experiments was to find whether these GABA receptors participate in the generation of the b-wave of electroretinogram (ERG). ERGs were recorded from the isolated rat retinas. The P(2)(t) component, obtained by subtracting the ERGs measured before the application of 50 micrograms APB from those measured after the application of 50 micrograms APB, was used as an indicator of depolarizing bipolar cell activity. Photovoltages, the fast P(3)(t) component of ERG, were registered between the two microelectrodes across the rod outer segments. Bicuculline and 3-aminopropylphosphonic acid (3-APA) were used as selective antagonists of GABA(A) and GABA(C) receptors, respectively. It was found that the GABA(A) and GABA(C) receptors antagonists have opposite effects on the b-wave: bicuculline increased the b-wave amplitude, while 3-APA reduced the amplitude of the b-wave. Neither bicuculline nor 3-APA affect photoreceptors.
We studied the ability of human subjects to memorize the visual information in computer-generated random block patterns defined either by luminance contrast, by color contrast, or by both. Memory performance declines rapidly with increasing inter-stimulus interval, showing a half-life of approximately 3 s. We further show that memory performance declines with eccentricity approximately as a Gaussian function of position. Memory decay functions did not depend on whether the patterns were defined by luminance or color contrast. Changing both luminance and color components of block patterns in conjunction did not improve performance suggesting a single memory mechanism is used to store luminance and color derived pattern information. Our results further suggest that color identity (hue, saturation) and pattern information extracted from color- or luminance-contrast are stored independently of each other.
The visual system filters spatial pattern through a range of narrowly tuned spatial mechanisms, but the rules by which the outputs of these mechanisms are combined across time to extract precise geometrical information are not yet clear. One hypothesis is that spatial analysis shifts over time from coarse to finer spatial scales, in order to extract fine spatial information. An alternative hypothesis is that thresholds are determined by the signal-to-noise ratio within an optimal spatial scale. In this study, we measured vernier acuity across exposure duration for equally visible long lines and short lines and found no improvement in spatial precision with time. Using a simultaneous spatial-masking paradigm, we determined the active spatial scales at 100 and 1000 ms. The results show no significant changes in spatial scale, or in the size-range of active scales, for the two exposure durations. Furthermore, whereas vernier thresholds vary markedly with line contrast, we find only modest shifts in spatial scale. Taken together, our results suggest that for vernier acuity, spatial scale is selected very early, and that vernier thresholds are predominantly limited by signal strength within that spatial scale.
In the search for the neural correlate of visual awareness, much controversy exists about the role of primary visual cortex. Here, the neurophysiological data from V1 recordings in awake monkeys are examined in light of two general classes of models of visual awareness. In the first model type, visual awareness is seen as being mediated either by a particular set of areas or pathways, or alternatively by a specific set of neurons. In these models, the role of V1 seems rather limited, as the mere activity of V1 cells seems insufficient to mediate awareness. In the second model type, awareness is hypothesized to be mediated by a global mechanism, i.e. a specific kind of activity not linked to a particular area or cell type. Two separate versions of global models are discussed, synchronous oscillations and spike rate modulations. It is shown that V1 synchrony does not reflect perception but rather the horizontal connections between neurons, indicating that V1 synchrony cannot be a direct neural correlate of conscious percepts. However, the rate of spike discharges of V1 neurons is strongly modulated by perceptual context, and these modulations correlate very well with aspects of perceptual organization, visual awareness, and attention. If these modulations serve as a neural correlate of visual awareness, then V1 contributes to that neural correlate. Whether V1 plays a role in the neural correlate of visual awareness thus strongly depends on the way visual awareness is hypothesized to be implemented in the brain.
Many visual tasks can be decomposed into a sequence of simpler subtasks. Ullman suggested that such subtasks are carried out by elemental operations that are implemented by specialized processes in the visual brain [Ullman, S. (1984). Visual routines. Cognition (18), 97-159]. According to this hypothesis, there are a limited number of elemental operations that, since they can be applied sequentially, may nevertheless give rise to a large number of visual routines. Examples of such elemental operations are visual search, texture segregation and contour grouping. Here we attempt to delineate how such elemental operations are implemented in the visual brain. When an image appears, feedforward processing rapidly leads to an activity pattern that is distributed across many visual areas. Thereafter, elemental operations come into play, and these are implemented by the modulation of firing rates. Firing rate modulations effectuate grouping of neural responses into coherent object representations. Moreover, they permit transfer of information from one operator to the next, which allows flexibility in the sequencing of operations. We discuss how the elemental operations provide a tool to relate cortical physiology to psychophysics, and suggest a reclassification of pre-attentive and attentive processes.
Visual search for a line-element target differing sufficiently in orientation from a background of line elements can be performed rapidly, effortlessly, and without eye movements. There is, however, a response asymmetry: detection is better with an oblique target element in vertical or horizontal background elements than when these orientation are interchanged. If the underlying visual mechanisms also provide an input to the oculomotor system, then a similar asymmetry should be observed in eye-movement behaviour. To test this hypothesis, an experiment was undertaken in which eye movements were recorded while subjects searched for a line-element target in background of line elements; orientations were chosen from the range 0 degree, 30 degrees, 60 degrees, and 90 degrees to the vertical. Data from three subjects showed that (1) latencies for the initial saccade, (2) angular errors in initial-saccade direction, and (3) manual response times depended similarly on the combination of target- and background-element orientations, performance being better for 30 degrees or 60 degrees targets in 0 degree or 90 degrees backgrounds than vice-versa. The early orientation-selective mechanisms responsible for the rapid detection of oriented-line targets are probably the same as those providing signals for saccadic eye movements.
In six healthy adults we examined the sources underlying P1 and N2 of the motion VEP. For this purpose was acquired, in addition to the VEP, MRI images and patterns of regional cerebral blood flow with SPECT for three of the subjects. With the same motion stimulus we also examined the spatial distribution of N2 in children. In both adults and children left and right half-field responses were compared. It was found that N2 is generated by extrastriate activity and that motion stimuli are not equivalently processed in the two cerebral hemispheres. In adults, N2 dominates in one hemisphere irrespective of the visual half-field used for stimulation whereas children show an ipsilateral maximum for N2 upon half-field presentation.
We have shown previously that the gain of the horizontal vestibulo-ocular reflex (HVOR) is modified by afferent signals from extraocular muscle proprioceptors in the decerebrate pigeon. We have now analysed the variability of the HVOR in intact, alert pigeons and, using the artificial vestibulo-ocular reflex method, have found that in all of the pigeons tested afferent signals from the extraocular muscle proprioceptors modify the gain, but not the phase, of the HVOR. While this effect was seen in a given bird only on some occasions, when present it was consistent in magnitude and direction and closely similar to our previous observations on decerebrate pigeons. These results from alert, intact birds strengthen the evidence that extraocular muscle afferent signals play a part in the control of the vestibulo-ocular reflex.
Food intake is regulated via neural circuits located in the hypothalamus. During the past decade our knowledge on the specific mediators and neuronal networks that regulate food intake and body weight has increased dramatically. An important contribution to the understanding of hypothalamic control of food intake has been the characterization of the ob gene product (leptin) via positional cloning. Absence of circulating, functionally active, leptin hormone results in massive obesity as seen in ob/ob mice. Leptin inhibits food intake and increases energy expenditure via an interaction with specific leptin receptors located in the hypothalamus. Leptin receptors, of which there are several splice variants (Ob-Ra through Ob-Re), belong to the superfamily of cytokine receptors, which use the JAK-STAT pathway of signal transduction. Obese db/db mice, which have a mutation in the db locus, are unable to perform JAK-STAT signal transduction due to absence of functionally active (long form; Ob-Rb) leptin receptors. Ob-Rb is primarily expressed in the hypothalamus, with particularly high levels in the arcuate, paraventricular, and dorsomedial nuclei and in the lateral hypothalamic area. The abundance of leptin receptors in the ventromedial and lateral hypothalamus supports early observations that these two regions are intimately associated with the regulation of food intake. Leptin receptors have been identified in neuropeptide Y (NPY)/lagouti-related peptide (AgRP)- and proopiomelanocortin (POMC)/cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART)-containing neurons of the ventromedial and ventrolateral arcuate nucleus, respectively, and in melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH)- and hypocretin/orexin-containing neurons of the lateral hypothalamus, suggesting that the above-mentioned messengers are mediators of leptin's action in the hypothalamus. Indeed, functional studies show that NPY, AgRP, POMC-derived peptides, CART, MCH, and hypocretins/orexins all are important regulators of food intake. Leptin is essential for normal body weight balance, but the exact mechanisms by which leptin activates hypothalamic neuronal circuitries is known to a limited extent. In order to find pharmaceutical approaches to treat obesity, further studies will be needed to reveal the exact mechanisms by which leptin lowers body weight and which role leptin and leptin receptors have in the pathogenesis of human obesity.
One century of investigation in schizophrenia is still not enough to elucidate all the complex issues related to the essential symptomatology, clinical boundaries, aetiology, pathogenesis, outcome, treatment and prevention. Despite the extraordinary progress in the neuroscience field, no definitive data is available for schizophrenia. On the other hand, after the successful activity of the psychopharmacological era, the clinical psychopathological investigations were reduced and almost replaced by the mechanistic operational diagnosis. This has caused an impoverishment in psychiatry. Tracing some historical aspects of schizophrenia since the kraepelinian Dementia Praecox, this article intends to demonstrate the failure of the current model of diagnosis and current limitation of neuroscience. It advocates the reinforcement of Clinical Psychopathology as the foundation for correct and appropriate first steps in the investigation of schizophrenia. The splitting disease is still a challenge to biological psychiatry.
Over the course of the XVIIIth-XIXth centuries, in the Russian Academy of Sciences investigations were actively pursued into the physiology of the nervous system. These studies were published and widely discussed. A valuable contribution was made by D. Bernulli, P. A. Zagorski, G. F. Bidder, F. V. Ovsiannikov, I. M. Sechenov, I. R. Tarkhanov, N. E. Vvedenski, I. G. Orshanski and others.
A review of the papers published in the Journal of Higher Nervous Activity dedicated to behavioral and neurophysiological studies carried out using the genetic approach is presented. The review is based on classification, which subdivides the diversity of behavioral phenomena into three large categories: instinctive, acquired behavior, and elementary reasoning phenomena. The main contribution to these publications was made by researches at the Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Siberian Branch (Novosibirsk), Institute of Physiology, Russian Academy of Sciences (St.-Petersburg), and Department of Physiology of Higher Nervous Activity, Biological Faculty, Lomonosov State University (Moscow). The traditional lines of investigations are: behavioral and neurochemical consequences of domestication, numerous physiological correlations in rat strains selected for high and low excitability levels, and genetic studies of animal reasoning.


In the present study, we examined the temporal and spatial expression profiles of GFAP mRNA and protein in a focal cerebral ischemia model with ischemic injury confined to the cerebral cortex in the right middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory. Northern blot analysis showed a respective 5.5-fold and 7.2-fold increase in the GFAP mRNA in the ischemic right MCA cortex in rats subjected to 30-min (mild) or 60-min (severe) ischemia followed by 72-hr reperfusion. The GFAP mRNA signal remained elevated up to 2-week reperfusion. Interestingly, increased GFAP mRNA signal was clearly demonstrated for the first time in the left MCA cortex. A significant 1.5-fold and 5-fold increase was observed after 72-hr reperfusion following mild and severe ischemia, respectively. However, unlike the ischemic right MCA cortex, this induction was transient in the non-ischemic left MCA counterpart. In situ hybridization studies further revealed characteristic spatial induction profile following mild vs. severe ischemia. In mild ischemia, following 24-hr reperfusion, increase in GFAP mRNA was observed mainly within the ischemic right MCA cortex. Following 72-hr reperfusion, GFAP mRNA signal was observed in virtually the entire ischemic cortex, particularly the amygdala region, then gradually reduced and restricted to right MCA territory and subcortical thalamic nucleus following 2-week reperfusion. On the other hand, in severe ischemia, following 24-hr reperfusion increased GFAP mRNA signal was observed in area surrounding right MCA territory (infarct region) and outer cortical layers within the right MCA territory. Following 72-hr reperfusion, no signal was detected within right MCA cortex; however, increased GFAP signal was detected throughout the remaining ipsilateral cortex and subcortical region, as well as the contralateral cerebral cortex. GFAP mRNA signals then gradually reduced its intensity and was restricted to area surrounding necrosis and ipsilateral thalamic nucleus following 2-week reperfusion. GFAP-like immunoreactivity was also detected in area expressing GFAP mRNA. It is very likely that de novo synthesis was responsible for this increase. In summary, increased GFAP signal was noted in both ipsilateral and contralateral cerebral following mild and severe ischemia. Although the temporal induction profile for mild vs. severe ischemia was similar, the spatial induction profile was different. The mechanism leading to this differential induction and their physiological and functional significance are not clear at present. It is very likely that some local factors may involve, nevertheless, the detailed mechanisms remain to be fully explored.
L1-mediated axon growth involves intracellular signaling, but the precise mechanisms involved are not yet clear. We report a role for the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade in L1 signaling. L1 physically associates with the MAPK cascade components Raf-1, ERK2, and the previously identified p90(rsk) in brain. In vitro, ERK2 can phosphorylate L1 at Ser(1204) and Ser(1248) of the L1 cytoplasmic domain. These two serines are conserved in the L1 family of cell adhesion molecules, also being found in neurofascin and NrCAM. The ability of ERK2 to phosphorylate L1 suggests that L1 signaling could directly regulate L1 function by phosphorylation of the L1 cytoplasmic domain. In L1-expressing 3T3 cells, L1 cross-linking can activate ERK2. Remarkably, the activated ERK localizes with endocytosed vesicular L1 rather than cell surface L1, indicating that L1 internalization and signaling are coupled. Inhibition of L1 internalization with dominant-negative dynamin prevents activation of ERK. These results show that L1-generated signals activate the MAPK cascade in a manner most likely to be important in regulating L1 intracellular trafficking.
Analysis of splice variants and site-directed mutants of the AMPA receptor GluR3 expressed in Xenopus oocytes has shown that lithium produces a large potentiation of the GluR3 flop splice variant and suggested that lithium might inhibit rapid desensitization, which is characteristic of this receptor (Karkanias, N. and Papke, R., Subtype-specific effects of lithium on glutamate receptor function. J. Neurophysiol., 81 (1999) 1506-1512). We now show that mutation of the 769R/ G desensitization site (Lomeli, H.M.J., Melcher, T., Hoger, T., Geiger, J.R., Kuner, T., Monyer, H., Higuchi, M.B.A. and Seeburg, P.H, Control of kinetic properties of AMPA receptor channels by nuclear RNA editing. Science, 9(266) (1994) 1709-1713) greatly attenuates the lithium-induced potentiation of GluR3. Additionally, experiments with the non-desensitizing site-directed mutant GluR3(L507Y) (Stern-Bach, Y., Russo, S., Neuman, M. and Rosenmund, C., A point mutation in the glutamate binding site blocks desensitization of AMPA receptors. Neuron, 21 (1998) 907-918) further confirms that lithium enhances GluR3 responses by reducing desensitization, since lithium's effects are reversed in this mutant. Lithium's effects on GluR3 desensitization are distinct from the effects of aniracetam on desensitization. Specifically, aniracetam, which potentiates wild-type AMPA receptors, is ineffective on the non-desensitizing GluR3(L507Y) mutant, but has synergistic effects with lithium on wild-type receptors.
We analyzed the aplolipoprotein E (APOE) genotypes of 110 probable AD patients and 226 cognitively normal controls in Koreans. The APOE epsilon4 allele was more prevalent in both early- and late-onset AD patients (P &lt; 0.01) than in controls. The odds for the APOE epsilon4-heterozygous subjects were 2.7 (95% CI = 1.6-4.5), and those for the APOE epsilon4-homozygous subjects were 17.4 (95% CI = 2.0-147.3). But the odds were not uniform across age groups, and were higher in women than in men. Although the APOE epsilon2 allele frequency did not differ by diagnosis, the patients carrying an APOE epsilon2 allele showed delayed age-at-onset (P = 0.02). In conclusion, the APOE e4 allele increased the risk for AD in dose-dependent manner, and the APOE epsilon4-conferred AD risk was age- and sex-dependent in Koreans.

In this speculative essay, I examine two evolutionary developments underlying the enormous success of the human brain: its capacity to acquire knowledge and its variability across individuals. A feature of an efficient knowledge-acquiring system is, I believe, its capacity to abstract and to formulate ideals. Both attributes carry with them a clash between experience of the particular and what the brain has developed from experience of the many. Both therefore can lead to much disappointment in our daily lives. This disappointment is heightened by the fact that both abstraction and ideals are subject to variability in time within an individual and between individuals. Variability, which is a cherished source for evolutionary selection, can also be an isolating and individualizing feature in society. Thus the very features of the human brain which underlie our enormous evolutionary success can also be a major source of our misery.
How our brains work is one of the major unsolved problems of biology. This paper describes some of the techniques of molecular biology that are already being used to study the brains of animals. Mainly as a result of the human genome project many new techniques will soon become available which could decisively influence the progress of neuroscience. I suggest that neuroscientists should tell molecular biologists what their difficulties are, in the hope that this will stimulate the production of useful new biological tools.
In discussing artificial intelligence and neuroscience, I will focus on two themes. The first is the universality of cycles (or loops): sets of variables that affect each other in such a way that any feed-forward account of causality and control, while informative, is misleading. The second theme is based around the observation that a computer is an intrinsically dualistic entity, with its physical set-up designed so as not to interfere with its logical set-up, which executes the computation. The brain is different. When analysed empirically at several different levels (cellular, molecular), it appears that there is no satisfactory way to separate a physical brain model (or algorithm, or representation), from a physical implementational substrate. When program and implementation are inseparable and thus interfere with each other, a dualistic point-of-view is impossible. Forced by empiricism into a monistic perspective, the brain-mind appears as neither embodied by or embedded in physical reality, but rather as identical to physical reality. This perspective has implications for the future of science and society. I will approach these from a negative point-of-view, by critiquing some of our millennial culture's popular projected futures.
A millennium, a century, even a decade is a long time-frame for speculation about anything. Advances in biomedical research in the last few decades have been so extraordinary and escalating at an ever-accelerating pace that any prophecy is a risky proposition. However, it is possible to divine the big, unanswered questions and envisage ways in which they might reasonably be approached in the next few decades, a task which I will try to essay. So many drugs treat so many different medical conditions that a detailed and comprehensive coverage would probably be tiresome. Instead, I will address certain broad themes and diseases that offer both immense challenges and great potential for advances. Rather than review detailed experimental issues, I will confine myself to the 'big picture' issues, providing examples of specific research only in a few instances drawing largely from areas I know best.
A quick two-step procedure involving liquid phase isoelectric focusing in the Rotofor cell in combination with electroelution in the Mini whole cell gel eluter has been used for purification of proteins from human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Fractions, each highly enriched in a single protein band and virtually free of other proteins, were selected for characterization by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOFMS). Six CSF proteins, transferrin, alpha1-acid-glycoprotein, Zn-alpha2-glycoprotein, apolipoprotein A1, apolipoprotein E and beta-trace were identified by MALDI-TOFMS analysis of the tryptic digests. These results demonstrate that the combination of liquid phase IEF and electroelution is a rapid preparative two-dimensional separation which can provide single proteins of high purity, in yields sufficient for characterization by MALDI-TOFMS. Characterization of such brain-specific proteins in CSF will be useful in the investigation of the pathophysiology of different brain disorders.
Recent experiments in the cat have demonstrated that several response parameters, including frequency tuning, intensity tuning, and FM selectivity, are spatially segregated across the isofrequency axis. To investigate whether a similar functional organization exists in the primate, we have studied the spatial distribution of pure-tone receptive field parameters across the primary auditory cortex (AI) in six owl monkeys (Aotus trivirgatus). The distributions of binaural interaction types and onset latency were also examined. Consistent with previous studies, the primary auditory cortex contained a clear cochleotopic organization. We demonstrate here that several other properties of the responses to tonal stimuli also showed nonrandom spatial distributions that were largely independent from each other. In particular, the sharpness of frequency tuning to pure tones, intensity tuning and sensitivity, response latency, and binaural interaction types all showed spatial variations that were independent from the representation of characteristic frequency and from each other. Statistical analysis confirmed that these organizations did not reflect random distributions. The overall organizational pattern of overlaying but independent functional maps that emerged was quite similar to that seen in AI of cats and, in general, appears to reflect a fundamental organization principle of primary sensory cortical fields.
Olfactory bulb (OB) glomeruli have long been considered functional units in the processing of odor information. Recently, it has been shown that axons from olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) expressing the same odorant receptor gene converge onto two or a few topographically fixed glomeruli in the OB. The interactions between ORN axons, mitral/tufted cell dendrites, juxtaglomerular (JG) cells, and glial cells during the development of glomeruli is of great importance in light of this receptor gene glomerular topography in the primary olfactory projection. To explore the development of mammalian olfactory glomeruli, we investigated the relationships among radial glia (RG), astrocytes, ORNs, JG cells, mitral/tufted cell dendrites, and olfactory Schwann cells throughout embryonic and early postnatal development. Our results indicate that glomeruli are formed through an invariant sequence of cellular events: (1) pioneering ORN axons contact the rostral telencephalon at approximately E11-14, which coincides with the onset of morphologic changes in telencephalic RG; (2) at E15-16, RG branch and begin to form two plexuses, one located in the subventricular layer and the other superficial to the presumptive mitral cell layer; (3) at E17-18, ORN axons accumulate in a dense band superficial to the outer radial glia plexus; (4) at E19-20, processes from RG and astrocytes begin to ramify to form glial tufts, or glial glomeruli. Coincident with the formation of these glial glomeruli, ORN axons intermingle with the glial processes and form proto-glomeruli; (5) at E21 to P0, JG cells begin to migrate into position surrounding glomeruli, (6) and at P4, the apical tuft of mitral cells becomes restricted to a single glomerulus. Interestingly, glomerular development also occurs in a distinct rostral to caudal gradient. That is, glomeruli in the rostral OB develop earlier than those in the caudal OB, but the sequence of cellular events at any point in the bulb is invariant. These results demonstrate that glomeruli are formed in a specific spatiotemporal sequence beginning with ORN axon-glia contacts, then JG cell arrival, and finally mitral cell apical dendrite restriction.
The accumulation of free zinc (Zn2+) appears to play a role in the neuronal degeneration that occurs after brain injury. Given that neonates respond to brain injury with increased plasticity compared to adults, this study compared the effect of age on free Zn2+ and the Zn2+-binding protein metallothionein-3 (MT-3) after injury. Unilateral cortical stab wounds were produced in 3-day-old and adult rats. Four weeks later, brains were removed for in situ visualization of free Zn2+ and measurement of MT-3 mRNA. Free Zn2+ and MT-3 mRNA accumulated after 4 weeks at the site of injury site when injury occurred in adults. However, 4 weeks after neonatal injury there was no increase in free Zn2+ or MT-3 mRNA in or around the site of injury.

N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are Ca(2+)-permeable glutamate-gated ion channels whose physiological properties in neurons are modulated by protein kinase C (PKC). The present study was undertaken to determine the role in PKC-induced potentiation of the NR1 and NR2A C-terminal tails, which serve as targets of PKC phosphorylation [Tingley, W. G., Ehlers, M. D., Kameyama, K., Doherty, C., Ptak, J. B., Riley, C. T. &amp; Huganir, R. L. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 5157-5166]. Serine residue 890 in the C1 cassette is a primary target of PKC phosphorylation and a critical residue in receptor clustering at the membrane. We report herein that the presence of the C1 cassette reduces PKC potentiation and that mutation of Ser-890 significantly restores PKC potentiation. Splicing out or deletion of other C-terminal cassettes singly or in combination had little or no effect on PKC potentiation. Moreover, experiments involving truncation mutants reveal the unexpected finding that NMDARs assembled from subunits lacking all known sites of PKC phosphorylation can show PKC potentiation. These results indicate that PKC-induced potentiation of NMDAR activity does not occur by direct phosphorylation of the receptor protein but rather of associated targeting, anchoring, or signaling protein(s). PKC potentiation of NMDAR function is likely to be an important mode of NMDAR regulation in vivo and may play a role in NMDA-dependent long-term potentiation.
We quantified the amount of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) immunoreactivity as well as amyloid deposits in a large cohort of transgenic mice overexpressing the V717F human amyloid precursor protein (APP(V717F+/-) TG mice) with no, one, or two mouse apolipoprotein E (Apoe) alleles at various ages. Remarkably, no amyloid deposits were found in any brain region of APP(V717F+/-) Apoe(-/-) TG mice as old as 22 mo of age, whereas age-matched APP(V717F +/-) Apoe(+/-) and Apoe(+/+) TG mice display abundant amyloid deposition. The amount of Abeta immunoreactivity in the hippocampus was also markedly reduced in an Apoe gene dose-dependent manner (Apoe(+/+) &gt; Apoe(+/-) &gt; Apoe(-/-)), and no Abeta immunoreactivity was detected in the cerebral cortex of APP(V717F+/-) Apoe(-/-) TG mice at any of the time points examined. The absence of apolipoprotein E protein (apoE) dramatically reduced the amount of both Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42) immunoreactive deposits as well as the resulting astrogliosis and microgliosis normally observed in APP(V717F) TG mice. ApoE immunoreactivity was detected in a subset of Abeta immunoreactive deposits and in virtually all thioflavine-S-fluorescent amyloid deposits. Because the absence of apoE alters neither the transcription or translation of the APP(V717F) transgene nor its processing to Abeta peptide(s), we postulate that apoE promotes both the deposition and fibrillization of Abeta, ultimately affecting clearance of protease-resistant Abeta/apoE aggregates. ApoE appears to play an essential role in amyloid deposition in brain, one of the neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease.
A single small iontophoretic injection of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin labels projections from the area surrounding the spinal cord central canal at midthoracic (T6-T9) or lumbosacral (L6-S1) segments of the spinal cord. The projections from the midthoracic or lumbosacral level of the medial spinal cord are found: 1) ascending ipsilaterally in the dorsal column near the dorsal intermediate septum or the midline of the gracile fasciculus, respectively; 2) terminating primarily in the dorsal, lateral rim of the gracile nucleus and the medial rim of the cuneate nucleus or the dorsomedial rim of the gracile nucleus, respectively; and 3) ascending bilaterally with slight contralateral predominance in the ventrolateral quadrant of the spinal cord and terminating in the ventral and medial medullary reticular formation. Other less dense projections are to the pons, midbrain, thalamus, hypothalamus, and other forebrain structures. Projections arising from the lumbosacral level are also found in Barrington's nucleus. The results of the present study support previous retrograde tract tracing and physiological studies from our group demonstrating that the neurons in the area adjacent to the central canal of the midthoracic or lumbosacral level of the spinal cord send long ascending projections to the dorsal column nucleus that are important in the transmission of second-order afferent information for visceral nociception. Thus, the axonal projections through both the dorsal and the ventrolateral white matter from the CC region terminate in many regions of the brain providing spinal input for sensory integration, autonomic regulation, motor and emotional responses, and limbic activation.

Our previous work has demonstrated that 100-Hz electroacupuncture (EA) or 100-Hz transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) was very effective in ameliorating the morphine withdrawal syndrome in rats and humans. The mechanism was obscure. (1) Rats were made dependent on morphine by repeated morphine injections (5-140 mg/kg, s.c., twice a day) for eight days. They were then given 100-Hz EA for 30 min 24 h after the last injection of morphine. A marked increase in tail flick latency (TFL) was observed. This effect of 100-Hz EA could be blocked by naloxone (NX) at 20 mg/kg, but not at 1 mg/kg, suggesting that 100-Hz EA-induced analgesia observed in morphine-dependent rats is mediated by kappa-opioid receptors. (2) A significant decrease of the concentration of dynorphin A (1-17) immunoreactivity (-ir) was observed in the spinal perfusate in morphine-dependent rats, that could be brought back to normal level by 100-Hz EA. (3) 100-Hz EA was very effective in suppressing NX-precipitated morphine withdrawal syndrome. This effect of EA could be prevented by intrathecal administration of nor-BNI (2.5 micrograms/20 microliters), a kappa-opioid receptor antagonist, or dynorphin A (1-13) antibodies (25 micrograms/20 microliters) administered 10 min prior to EA. In conclusion, while the steady-state spinal dynorphin release is low in morphine-dependent rats, it can be activated by 100-Hz EA stimulation, which may be responsible for eliciting an analgesic effect and ameliorating morphine withdrawal syndrome, most probably via interacting with kappa-opioid receptor at spinal level.
Adenosine is known to modulate synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus of young animals through activation of adenosine A1 receptors. The objective of the present study is to investigate whether the modulatory role of adenosine on phenomena of synaptic plasticity is maintained or modified in the hippocampus of aged animals. We compared the effects of the selective adenosine A1 receptor antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX, 50 nM), on paired-pulse facilitation (PPF), long-term depression (LTD), long-term potentiation (LTP) and depotentiation elicited in hippocampal slices taken from young adult (5-6 weeks) and old (2 years old) male Wistar rats. DPCPX attenuated PPF both in young (1.64 +/- 0.05 vs. 1.76 +/- 0.05%, n = 6) and in old rats (1.33 +/- 0.05 vs. 1.55 +/- 0.1%, n = 6). LTD was only observed in the presence of DPCPX in both young (21.3 +/- 0.6%, n = 4) and old rats (14.4 +/- 0.9%, n = 6). LTP induced by high-frequency stimulation (HFS) was not significantly different in young and old animals, in the presence or in the absence of DPCPX. A larger depotentiation was observed in the presence of DPCPX in young rats (27.6 +/- 4.4% vs. 16.8 +/- 4.7%, n = 7) as well as in old rats (41.3 +/- 5.1% vs. 16.1 +/- 2.7%, n = 6). LTP induced by theta-burst stimulation was observed only in the presence of DPCPX (53.9 +/- 4.9%, n = 5) in young rats, but could be obtained either in the control solution (81.8 +/- 17.9%, n = 7) or in the presence of DPCPX (98.5 +/- 24.2%, n = 7) in old rats. The modulatory role of endogenous adenosine on synaptic plasticity is generally maintained in aged animals. Drugs interfering with adenosine A1 receptor effects could then be used in old animals to modify synaptic plasticity with relevant behavioural consequences.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) binding to its receptors TrkA and p75(NTR) enhances the survival, differentiation, and maintenance of neurons. Recent studies have suggested that NGF receptor activation may occur in caveolae or caveolae-like membranes (CLM). This is an intriguing possibility because caveolae have been shown to contain many of the signaling intermediates in the TrkA signaling cascade. To examine the membrane localization of TrkA and p75(NTR), we isolated caveolae from 3T3-TrkA-p75 cells and CLM from PC12 cells. Immunoblot analysis showed that TrkA and p75(NTR) were enriched about 13- and 25-fold, respectively, in caveolae and CLM. Binding and cross-linking studies demonstrated that the NGF binding to both TrkA and p75(NTR) was considerably enriched in CLM and that about 90% of high affinity binding to TrkA was present in CLM. When PC12 cells were treated with NGF, virtually all activated (i.e. tyrosine phosphorylated) TrkA was found in the CLM. Remarkably, in NGF-treated cells, it was only in CLM that activated TrkA was coimmunoprecipitated with phosphorylated Shc and PLCgamma. These results document a signaling role for TrkA in CLM and suggest that both TrkA and p75(NTR) signaling are initiated from these membranes.
The ERM protein family members ezrin, radixin, and moesin are cytoskeletal effector proteins linking actin to membrane-bound proteins at the cell surface. Here we report on the cloning of myosin regulatory light chain interacting protein (MIR), a protein with an ERM-homology domain and a carboxyl-terminal RING finger, that is expressed, among other tissues, in brain. MIR is distributed in cultured COS cells, in a punctuated manner as shown using enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-tagged MIR and by staining with a specific antibody for MIR. In the yeast two-hybrid system and in transfected COS cells, MIR interacts with myosin regulatory light chain B, which in turn regulates the activity of the actomyosin complex. Overexpression of MIR cDNA in PC12 cells abrogated neurite outgrowth induced by nerve growth factor (NGF) without affecting TrkA signaling. The results show that MIR, a novel ERM-like protein, affects cytoskeleton interactions regulating cell motility, such as neurite outgrowth.
The androgen receptor and c-Jun are known to interact to modulate each others transcriptional activities. The androgen receptor contains a polymorphic polyglutamine repeat and expansion of this repeat to beyond approximately 40 causes spinobulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA; also known as Kennedy's disease), a genetic form of motor neurone disease. Here we show that the size of this polyglutamine tract influences both c-Jun regulation of androgen receptor-mediated transcription and androgen receptor regulation of c-Jun activity. c-Jun is a key mediator of neuronal survival and death by apoptosis. Inappropriate interactions between c-Jun and androgen receptors containing pathological length glutamine repeats may therefore be part of the pathogenic process in SBMA.

Nerve growth factor (NGF) and other neurotrophins support survival of neurons through processes that are incompletely understood. The transcription factor CREB is a critical mediator of NGF-dependent gene expression, but whether CREB family transcription factors regulate expression of genes that contribute to NGF-dependent survival of sympathetic neurons is unknown. CREB-mediated gene expression was both necessary for NGF-dependent survival and sufficient on its own to promote survival of sympathetic neurons. Moreover, expression of Bcl-2 was activated by NGF and other neurotrophins by a CREB-dependent transcriptional mechanism. Overexpression of Bcl-2 reduced the death-promoting effects of CREB inhibition. Together, these data support a model in which neurotrophins promote survival of neurons, in part through a mechanism involving CREB family transcription factor-dependent expression of genes encoding prosurvival factors.

Philanthotoxin-433 (PhTX-433), a natural polyamine wasp toxin, is a noncompetitive antagonist of certain ionotropic receptors. Six analogues of PhTX-343 (a synthetic analogue of the natural product), in which the secondary amino groups are systematically replaced by oxygen or methylene groups, have been synthesized by coupling of N-(1-oxobutyl)tyrosine with 1,12-dodecanediamine, 4,9-dioxa-1, 12-dodecanediamine, or appropriately protected di- and triamines, the latter being obtained by multistep syntheses. The resulting PhTX-343 analogues were purified and characterized, and their protolytic properties (stepwise macroscopic pK(a) values) were determined by (13)C NMR titrations. All analogues are fully protonated at physiological pH. The effects of these compounds on acetylcholine-induced currents in TE671 cells clamped at various holding potentials were determined. All of the analogues noncompetitively antagonized the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) in a concentration-, time-, and voltage-dependent manner. The amplitudes of acetylcholine-induced currents were compared at their peaks and at the end of a 1 s application in the presence or absence of the analogues. Most of the analogues were equipotent with or more potent than PhTX-343. The dideaza analogue PhTX-12 [IC(50) of 0.3 microM (final current value)] was the most potent, representing the highest potency improvement (about 50-fold) yet achieved by modification of the parent compound (PhTX-343). Thus, the presence of multiple positive charges in the PhTX-343 molecule is not necessary for antagonism of nAChR. In contrast, the compounds were much less potent than PhTX-343 at locust muscle ionotropic glutamate receptors sensitive to quisqualate (qGluR). The results demonstrate that the selectivity for different types of ionotropic receptors can be achieved by manipulating the polyamine moiety of PhTX-343.
Cerebral blood flow (CBF) was measured with PET during rudimentary singing of a single pitch and vowel, contrasted to passive listening to complex tones. CBF increases in cortical areas related to motor control were seen in the supplementary motor area, anterior cingulate cortex, precentral gyri, anterior insula (and the adjacent inner face of the precentral operculum) and cerebellum, replicating most previously seen during speech. Increases in auditory cortex were seen within right Heschl's gyrus, and in the posterior superior temporal plane (and the immediately overlying parietal cortex). Since cortex near right Heschl's has been linked to complex pitch perception, its asymmetric activation here may be related to analyzing the fundamental frequency of one's own voice for feedback-guided modulation.
In the current experiments, we address the emerging hypothesis that transplanted neural precursor cells can respond to local microenvironmental signals in the post-developmental brain and exhibit patterns of differentiation that depend critically on specific location within the brain. HiB5 precursor cells were transplanted into adult mouse cortex, corpus callosum, and multiple positions in striatum, and assessed for differentiation by morphology and immunocytochemistry. Our results indicate that the likelihood of both neuronal and glial differentiation of transplanted precursors depends on proximity to the medial striatum or subventricular zone of the adult host, supporting the concept that microenvironmental signals can critically affect the differentiation fate of neural precursors, and suggesting the potential to manipulate such signals in the adult brain.
A substance P antagonist has recently been reported to have clinical efficacy in the treatment of depression. We have therefore analysed sections from human pons, including the raphe region, with double in situ hybridization using riboprobes complementary to substance P and the 5-hydroxytryptamine transporter (5-HT-T mRNAs). A distinct overlap of cell bodies expressing these two markers was observed in the dorsal and median raphe nuclei. Analysis of double-labelled sections revealed that almost half of the 5-HT neurons in the dorsal raphe and around 25% in the median raphe nucleus expressed substance P mRNA. The highest percentage was observed in the ventrolateral dorsal raphe nucleus and the lowest in the caudal raphe nucleus. These results demonstrate that the phenotype of the raphe 5-HT neurons varies between species, since so far no 5-HT-substance P co-existence has been demonstrated in the dorsal raphe complex of rat. The question is raised whether the present results may be of significance for understanding a possible role of substance P in depression.
7-Hydroxyiminocyclopropan[b]chromen-1a-carboxylic acid ethyl ester (CPCCOEt) has previously been shown to be a selective non-competitive antagonist at the metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptor subtype 1. In this study we have tested the effect of CPCCOEt on mGlu1b, the calcium sensing receptor (CaR) and a chimeric receptor consisting of the agonist binding amino-terminal domain (ATD) of CaR and the seven transmembrane (7TM) domain of mGlu1b (named Ca/1b). CPCCOEt inhibited responses of (S)-glutamic acid and Ca2+ at mGlu1b and Ca/1b, applied at EC50 values, with IC50 values of 10.2 microM and 13.4 microM, respectively, whereas it was weak as an antagonist of Ca2+ at CaR. These data provides strong evidence that CPCCOEt exerts its antagonistic effect on mGlu1 solely by binding to the 7TM domain.
The present study examined the effects of repeated injections of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cholecystokinin (CCK) on both sucrose palatability and body weight. Rats received repeated injections of LPS (200 microg/kg), CCK (8 microg/kg) and/or NaCl on days 1, 4, 7 and 10. Body weight was monitored on each test day and sucrose palatability was assessed using the taste reactivity test (TRT) on days 7 and 10. Rats treated with LPS developed a rapid tolerance to the reductions in body weight; however, this tolerance did not affect sucrose palatability. Furthermore it was found that repeated exposures to LPS and CCK attenuated the typical satiety related behaviors produced in the TRT by administration of CCK. This desensitization to CCK with repeated exposures to LPS may be one of the mechanisms that could account for the rapid development of tolerance to LPS-induced hypophagia.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF), one of the most potent bioactive lipids, has been implicated in modulating long-term potentiation (LTP) and neurotoxicity. In the CNS, glutamate and GABA are the major excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters, respectively. Previous work has focused on the effects of PAF on glutamatergic receptor responses. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the possible actions of PAF on ionotropic GABA receptor responses in primary cultured hippocampal neurons using the whole-cell and single channel patch clamp techniques. Extracellular application of PAF induced a reduction of the GABA gated Cl- current in a majority of cells (29 of 44 cells), while it caused an enhancement in 10 of 44 cells. A similar heterogeneous modulation of PAF on the GABA receptor activities was also observed in outside-out patch recordings. Moreover, the cell-attached single channel recordings showed that PAF decreased the GABA channel activity. Therefore, PAF may modulate synaptic activity by inhibiting GABA receptor channels. During seizures and neural injury, when enhanced synthesis of this lipid mediator takes place, the actions of PAF on inhibitory GABA receptors may contribute to synaptic dysfunction.
Functional neuroimaging experiments have shown that recognition of emotional expressions does not depend on awareness of visual stimuli and that unseen fear stimuli can activate the amygdala via a colliculopulvinar pathway. Perception of emotional expressions in the absence of awareness in normal subjects has some similarities with the unconscious recognition of visual stimuli which is well documented in patients with striate cortex lesions (blindsight). Presumably in these patients residual vision engages alternative extra-striate routes such as the superior colliculus and pulvinar. Against this background, we conjectured that a blindsight subject (GY) might recognize facial expressions presented in his blind field. The present study now provides direct evidence for this claim.
The primate pulvinar connects with the entire array of known visual areas and is postulated to play a role in selective visual attention. Recently, five separate neurochemical subdivisions of a region termed the inferior pulvinar (PI) complex were identified in monkeys. In the present study, similar histochemical procedures were applied to map the extent of the PI complex in humans. Acetylcholinesterase histochemistry and cytochrome oxidase staining demarcated four histochemical zones in human pulvinar, corresponding to the medial, central, lateral and lateral-shell (PI(M), PI(C), PI(L), and PI(L-S)) divisions of the PI complex in monkeys.

The tremendous increase in processing power of personal computers has recently allowed the construction of highly sophisticated models of neuronal function and behavior. Anatomy plays a fundamental role in supporting and shaping nervous system activity, yet to date most details of such a role have escaped the efforts of experimental and theoretical neuroscientists, mainly because of the problem's complexity. When accurate cellular morphologies are included in electrophysiological computer simulations, quantitative and qualitative effects of dendritic structure on firing properties can be extensively characterized. Complete models of dendritic morphology can be implemented to allow the computer generation of virtual neurons that model the anatomical characteristics of their real counterparts to a great degree of approximation. From a restricted and already available experimental database, stochastic and statistical algorithms can create an unlimited number of non-identical virtual neurons within several mammalian morphological classes, storing them in a compact and parsimonious format. When modeled neurons are distributed in three-dimensional and biologically plausible rules governing axonal navigation and connectivity are added to the simulations, entire portions of the nervous system can be &quot;grown&quot; as anatomically realistic neural networks. These computational constructs are useful to determine the influence of local geometry on system neuroanatomy, and to investigate systematically the mutual interactions between anatomical parameters and electrophysiological activity at the network level. A detailed computer model of a &quot;virtual brain&quot; that was truly equivalent to the biological structure could in principle allow scientists to carry out experiments that could not be performed on real nervous systems because of physical constraints. The computational approach to neuroanatomy is just at its beginning, but has a great potential to enhance the intuition of investigators and to aid neuroscience education. Anat Rec (New Anat): 257:195-207, 1999.
To investigate if adenosine A2A receptor stimulation in vivo modulates dopamine D3 receptor binding, we analyzed the effects of 2-[p-(carboxyethyl)-phenylethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxyamidoade nosine (CGS 21680) on the binding properties of the selective D3 receptor agonist [N-propyl-2,3,-3H]4aR,10bR-(+)-trans-3,4,4a,10b-tetrahydro-4 -n-propyl2H,5H-[1]benzopyrano[4,3-b]1,4-oxazin-9-ol ([3H]PD 128907) in the rat forebrain using quantitative autoradiography. Intraperitoneally administered CGS 21680 (0.1-3 mg/kg) increased the Kd and Bmax values of [3H]PD 128907 binding in the islands of Calleja and in subregions of the caudate-putamen. These results suggest that stimulation of adenosine A2A receptors in vivo causes alterations in the binding characteristics of dopamine D3 receptors in the basal ganglia, and that this effect may relate to the neuroleptic-like effect of adenosine A2A receptor agonists.


Phencyclidine (PCP) binds to many sites in brain, including PCP receptors located within the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-operated cation channel and sigma (sigma) receptors. In this study, we compare mechanisms by which PCP, dizocilpine (MK-801), the prototypical sigma receptor agonist (+)-pentazocine, and the proposed endogenous sigma receptor ligand neuropeptide Y regulate potassium (K(+))-stimulated [3H]dopamine release from slices of rat nucleus accumbens. (+)-Pentazocine inhibits K(+)-stimulated [3H]dopamine release, and neuropeptide Y enhances it. Both effects are blocked by sigma(1) and neuropeptide Y receptor antagonists, suggesting possible inverse agonism at a subpopulation of sigma/neuropeptide Y receptors. In contrast, PCP and MK-801 both enhance K(+)-stimulated [3H]dopamine release via sigma(1) and sigma(2) receptor subtypes, as demonstrated by antagonist sensitivity. Regulation of release by both (+)-pentazocine and neuropeptide Y persists in the presence of tetrodotoxin suggests that the sigma/neuropeptide Y receptors mediating the modulation are located presynaptically on dopaminergic nerve terminals, but tetrodotoxin eliminates regulation by PCP and MK-801, suggesting that receptors mediating their effects are located upstream from dopaminergic nerve terminals.
New neurons are continuously generated in certain regions of the adult brain. Studies in rodents have shown that new neurons are generated from self-renewing multipotent neural stem cells. Here we demonstrate that both the lateral ventricle wall and the hippocampus of the adult human brain harbor self-renewing cells capable of generating neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes in vitro, i.e., bona fide neural stem cells.
Cell growth and division are controlled through the actions of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) and cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors (CKIs). Treatment of cell lines with Trichostatin A leads to induction of one of these CKIs, p21, and growth arrest. Induction of p21 can also occur through the actions of TGFbeta1. Latent TGFbeta1 can be activated by the M6P/IGF2R. In the present study we have examined the effect of TSA on members of the IGF axis, the CKIs p21 and p27, and also TGFbeta1 in Hep3B cells. The only member of the IGF axis to be affected by treatments was IGF2. Expression of another gene from the same chromosomal location, H19, was also affected. TGFbeta1 expression was greatly enhanced by TSA. In addition, both CKIs, p21 and p27, were upregulated by TSA. Effects of adding IGF-II or TGFbeta1 to TSA-treated cells on p21 induction were examined. The results show that the induction of p21 by TSA can be modulated by additions of IGF-II whereas addition of TGFbeta1 affects its own expression but not p21. In conclusion, the results indicate that the induction of p21 and cell growth arrest caused by Trichostatin A may involve multiple signaling pathways.
CLK3, a member of the LAMMER family of dual-specificity protein kinases, is abundantly expressed in the reproductive system of male mice. Specifically, high levels of CLK3 protein expression are found in mature spermatozoa in the testis and epididymis. The majority of the CLK3 protein in the testis is a full-length kinase-containing form, and only a small amount of a catalytically inactive N-terminally truncated splice variant protein product is observed. Within the mature spermatozoa CLK3 is localized to the acrosome and tail. CLK3 is expelled from the sperm following the acrosome reaction and inactivated, likely by degradation by the proteases released by the sperm during the acrosome reaction. The CLK family of kinases has previously been implicated in mRNA splicing; however, the bulk of the CLK3 protein in these cells is located in the cytoplasm, suggesting that CLK3 may have additional roles in the cell.
Synapsins, a family of synaptic vesicle proteins, play a crucial role in the regulation of neurotransmission and synaptogenesis. They have been identified in a variety of invertebrate and vertebrate species, including human, rat (Rattus norvegicus), cow (Bos taurus), longfin squid (Loligo pealei), and fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster). Here, synapsins were cloned from three additional species: frog (Xenopus laevis), lamprey (Lampetra fluviatilis), and nematode (Caenorhabditis elegans). Synapsin protein sequences from all these species were then used to explore the molecular phylogeny of these important neuronal phosphoproteins. The ancestral condition of a single synapsin gene probably gave rise to the vertebrate synapsin gene family comprised of at least three synapsin genes (I, II, and III) in higher vertebrates. Synapsins possess multiple domains, which have evolved at different rates throughout evolution. In invertebrate synapsins, the most conserved domains are C and E. During the evolution of vertebrates, at least two gene duplication events are hypothesized to have given rise to the synapsin gene family. This was accompanied by the emergence of an additional conserved domain, termed A. J. Exp. Zool. ( Mol. Dev. Evol. ) 285:360-377, 1999.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a T cell-mediated autoimmune disease of the CNS and an animal model for the human demyelinating disease, multiple sclerosis. In the Lewis rat, myelin basic protein (MBP)-CFA-induced EAE is an acute monophasic disease from which animals recover fully, do not relapse, and develop a robust long-term resistance to further active reinduction of disease. In this paper, we report that rats recovering from MBP-CFA-induced EAE have significantly increased serum levels of reactive nitrogen intermediates indicative of increased NO production. These levels remain elevated after the recovery period and increase even further early after a rechallenge with MBP-CFA, and all animals are totally refractory to a second episode of disease. Oral treatment of rats with N-methyl-l -arginine acetate (l -NMA), beginning at peak disease on day 11 postimmunization, results in significant prolongation of disease and an alteration in the presentation of clinical symptoms from that of solely hind limb paresis/paralysis to severe fore limb involvement as well. Treatment of fully recovered rats with l -NMA 24 h before a rechallenge with MBP-CFA leads to decreased serum reactive nitrogen intermediate levels and results in a second episode of EAE in 100% of animals. Furthermore, l -NMA treatment of fully recovered rats in the absence of a rechallenge immunization leads to spontaneous relapse of disease.
Previous studies achieved conflicting results when correlating magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) abnormalities and cognitive impairment in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. Recently, the estimation of MS lesion load on T1-weighted images and the analysis of magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) histograms, increased the degree of the correlation between physical disability and MRI findings in MS. We assessed the relationship of conventional and non-conventional MRI-derived measures with frontal lobe dementia in MS. Dual echo, T1-weighted and MT MRI scans of the brain were obtained in 11 MS patients with and in 11 without frontal lobe dementia, matched for age, sex, education and disability. Total (TLL) and frontal (FLL) lesion loads were assessed from T2- and T1-weighted scans. MTR histogram analysis was performed for the whole brain, the frontal lobe and the cerebellum. Median TLL and FLL were significantly higher in cognitively impaired patients on both T2- and T1-weighted scans. The MRI measure that better discriminated the two groups of patients was T1-weighted TLL (median values were 19.1 ml for demented and 1.9 ml for non-demented patients, P=0.006). Average MTR, peak height and location of overall brain and frontal lobe histograms were significantly lower for cognitively impaired than for cognitively intact patients (P values ranged from 0.0001 to 0.001). Cerebellar MTR histogram metrics did not significantly differ in patients with and without cognitive decline. The presence of cognitive decline in MS is associated with the extent and pathological severity of brain MRI abnormalities.
In patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), we assessed the short- and long-term effects of a weekly low dose of recombinant human interferon beta 1a (rh-IFN beta 1a) on the development of new magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) lesions enhancing at different gadolinium-DTPA (Gd) doses. Every 4 weeks, standard dose (SD) (0.1 mmol/kg of Gd) and triple dose (TD) (0.3 mmol/kg of Gd) Gd-enhanced brain MRI scans were obtained from 18 patients with relapsing-remitting MS for 3 months before treatment, 4 months after treatment initiation (treatment period [TP] I) and 4 months after 1 year of treatment (TP II) with 44 microg of rh-IFN beta 1a subcutaneously, once a week. The mean numbers of new enhancing lesions/patient/month were 1.4 (baseline), 1.1 (TP I) and 0.7 (TP II) on SD scans and 2.4 (baseline), 1.3 (TP I) and 0.8 (TP II) on TD scans. On average, treatment decreased the rate of new enhancing lesion appearance by 24% (SD scans) and 45% (TD scans) during TP I and by 52% (SD scans) and 66% (TD scans) during TP II. This study indicates that the effect of 44 microg of rh-IFN beta 1a given once a week on MRI-monitored MS activity increases over time. It also suggests that TD MRI is useful in detecting early treatment effect, that would otherwise be missed.
The degree of disability and cerebellar and brainstem impairments in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients were correlated with several magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measures of tissue damage in the whole brain, cerebellum and brainstem to determine the relative contributions of the factors underlying the development of disability in MS. Dual-echo conventional spin-echo, T(1)-weighted and magnetization transfer (MT) scans were obtained from 72 patients with MS and 20 age- and sex-matched controls. The following MRI-derived quantities were considered for the brain as a whole, for the cerebellum and for the brainstem: (a) the number and volume of lesions seen on T(2)-weighted images; (b) the number and volume of lesions seen on T(1)-weighted images; (c) the size of these structures measured on T(1)-weighted scans; (d) the average MT ratio (MTR), peak height and peak position for the MT histogram. With univariate analysis, many MRI measures were significantly different in patients with different levels of disability or cerebellar and brainstem functional system impairments. However, with multivariate analysis, only whole-brain average MTR was significantly related to physical disability, while cerebellar and brainstem T(1) lesion volume and average MTR were related to cerebellar and brainstem impairment. This study shows that increased pathological damage in clinically eloquent sites is the major cause of disability in patients with MS. It also suggests that measures derived from MT histogram analysis and T(1) hypointense lesion load should be considered when evaluating long-term MS evolution.
Terminal Schwann cells (TSCs), neuroglia that cover motoneuron terminals, play a role in regulating the structure and function of the neuromuscular junction. In rats, the number of TSCs at each junction increases rapidly in early postnatal life and more slowly in young adults. It is possible that TSC number increases to match increasing endplate area. Alternatively, the increase in TSC number may reflect a developmental process independent of endplate size or terminal function. To experimentally test the relationship between endplate size and TSC number, we manipulated endplate area in an androgen-sensitive muscle of the rat, the levator ani (LA), by castration and by androgen replacement. We found that TSC number not only increased as endplates enlarged but also decreased when endplates shrank. Ninety days after castration, TSC number decreased by approximately 20% (one cell per junction) as endplate size decreased by 30%. These effects were reversed by testosterone. Testosterone levels did not affect TSC number in the extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscle, where endplate area was unaffected by castration or testosterone treatment. TSC number was, however, significantly correlated with endplate area in both LA and EDL muscles. Furthermore, the relationship between endplate size and TSC number, as defined by the slope of the regression line, was the same in LA and EDL muscles, indicating that this relationship is not a unique feature of the LA muscle. These data suggest that TSC number is a dynamic property of the neuromuscular synapse that is actively regulated throughout life.
TTX-resistant (TTX-R) sodium currents are preferentially expressed in small C-type dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, which include nociceptive neurons. Two mRNAs that are predicted to encode TTX-R sodium channels, SNS and NaN, are preferentially expressed in C-type DRG cells. To determine whether there are multiple TTX-R currents in these cells, we used patch-clamp recordings to study sodium currents in SNS-null mice and found a novel persistent voltage-dependent sodium current in small DRG neurons of both SNS-null and wild-type mice. Like SNS currents, this current is highly resistant to TTX (Ki = 39+/-9 microM). In contrast to SNS currents, the threshold for activation of this current is near 70 mV, the midpoint of steady-state inactivation is -44 +/- 1 mV, and the time constant for inactivation is 43+/-4 msec at 20 mV. The presence of this current in SNS-null and wild-type mice demonstrates that a distinct sodium channel isoform, which we suggest to be NaN, underlies this persistent TTX-R current. Importantly, the hyperpolarized voltage-dependence of this current, the substantial overlap of its activation and steady-state inactivation curves and its persistent nature suggest that this current is active near resting potential, where it may play an important role in regulating excitability of primary sensory neurons.
Afferents to the prefrontal cortex (PFC) from dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area have been implicated in working memory processes and in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Previous anatomical investigations have demonstrated that dopamine terminals synapse on dendritic spines and shafts of pyramidal cells in the PFC. Moreover, neurochemical and physiological studies suggest that dopamine modulates the activity of PFC neurons that project to the nucleus accumbens. However, whether this modulation involves direct synaptic input to cortico-accumbens projection neurons has not been determined. To address this question, retrograde transport of an attenuated strain of pseudorabies virus (PRV) from the nucleus accumbens was combined with immunoperoxidase labeling of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) to identify dopamine terminals in the PFC. At survival times &lt;48 hr, extensive dendritic distribution of immunogold labeling for PRV was observed in cortico-accumbens neurons. However, evidence consistent with trans-synaptic passage of PRV within this timeframe was observed only rarely. When examined at the electron microscopic level, immunogold labeling for PRV was localized to neuronal somata, proximal and distal dendrites, and dendritic spines. Some of these dendritic processes received symmetric synaptic input from TH-immunoreactive terminals. These data represent the first demonstration of dopamine synaptic contacts onto an identified population of pyramidal cells in the PFC. The findings have important implications for understanding how dopamine modulates cortical outflow to limbic regions in normal brain and pathological states such as schizophrenia.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is implicated in responding to affective stimuli. Dopamine (DA) is released in the BLA during numerous conditions; however, the neurophysiological effects of DA in the BLA have not been examined in depth. In this study, the effects of DA receptor manipulation on spontaneous and afferent-driven neuronal firing were examined using in vivo extracellular single-unit recordings in parallel with systemic and iontophoretic drug application, and stimulation of the substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area in the rat. The effects of DA receptor activation in the BLA were found to depend on the characteristics of the BLA neuron examined, causing an increase in the firing rate of putative interneurons and a decrease in the firing of identified projection neurons. Additionally, DA receptor activation attenuated short-latency spikes evoked by electrical stimulation of prefrontal cortical and mediodorsal thalamic inputs to the BLA while potentiating the responses evoked by electrical stimulation of sensory association cortex. DA receptor activation can thus attenuate BLA projection neuron firing via two mechanisms: (1) by a direct inhibition, and (2) by indirect actions mediated via activation of BLA interneurons. This is hypothesized to lead to a global filtration of weaker inputs. Moreover, DA potentiates sensory inputs and attenuates medial prefrontal cortex inputs to the BLA. Conditions in which DA is released in the BLA, such as during the presentation of an affective stimulus, will lead to a potentiation of the strongest sensory input and a dampening of cortical inhibition over the BLA, thus augmenting the response to affective sensory stimuli.
The daily ingestion of alcohol by pregnant mammals exposes the fetal brain to varying levels of alcohol through the placental circulation. Here we focus on the lingering impact on cortical function of 6.5% alcohol administered in a liquid diet to pregnant rats throughout gestation, followed by 3 alcohol-free months before brain function was analyzed in the offspring. Both spontaneous activity of the neurons in the barrel cortex and the level of response to test stimuli applied to the whiskers remained reduced by &gt;75% after alcohol exposure. Whisker pairing, a type of cortical plasticity induced by trimming all but two whiskers in adult rats, occurred in &lt;1 d in controls, but required 14 d to reach significance after alcohol exposure. These long-term neuronal deficits are present in all layers of cortex and affect neurons with both fast and slow action potentials. Plasticity is first seen in the total sample of neurons at 14 d; however, by 7 d, neurons in layer II/III already show plasticity, with no change in layer IV neurons, and a reverse shift occurs toward the inactive whisker in layer V neurons. Analysis of NMDA receptor subunits shows a persistent, approximately 30-50% reduction of NR1, NR2A, and NR2B subunits at postnatal day 90 in the barrel field cortex. Exposing the prenatal alcohol-exposed rats to enriched rearing conditions significantly improves all measured cortical functions but does not restore normal values. The results predict that combinations of interventions will be necessary to completely restore cortical function after exposure of the fetal brain to alcohol.
To elucidate the detailed organization of corticostriatal projections from rodent somatosensory cortex, the anterograde tracers biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) and fluoro-ruby (FR) were injected into separate parts of the whisker &quot;barrel&quot; representation. In one group of rats, the two tracers were injected into different barrel columns residing in the same row; in the other group of rats, the tracers were deposited into barrel columns residing in different rows. Reconstructions of labeled axonal varicosities in the neostriatum and ventrobasal thalamus were analyzed quantitatively to compare the extent of overlapping projections to these subcortical structures. For both groups of animals, corticostriatal projections terminated in densely packed clusters that occupied curved lamellar-shaped regions along the dorsolateral edge of the neostriatum. When the tracers were injected into different whisker barrel rows, the distribution of BDA- and FR-labeled terminals in the neostriatum followed a crude somatotopic organization in which the amount of overlap was approximately the same as in the ventrobasal thalamus. When both tracers were injected into the same whisker barrel row, however, the amount of corticostriatal overlap was significantly higher than the amount of overlap observed in the ventrobasal thalamus. These results indicate that corticostriatal projections from whisker barrel cortex have an anisotropic organization that correlates with the pattern of vibrissal movements during whisking behavior.
Monocular eyelid closure in cats during a critical period in development produces both physiological plasticity, as indicated by a loss of responsiveness of primary visual cortical neurons to deprived eye stimulation, and morphological plasticity, as demonstrated by a decrease in the total length of individual geniculocortical arbors representing the deprived eye. Although the physiological plasticity appears maximal after 2 d of monocular deprivation (MD), the shrinkage of deprived-eye geniculocortical arbors is less than half-maximal at 4 d and is not maximal until 7 d of deprivation, at which time the deprived arbors are approximately half their previous size. To study this form of plasticity at the level of individual thalamocortical synapses rather than arbors, we developed a new double-label colocalization technique. First, geniculocortical afferent arbors serving either the deprived or nondeprived eye were labeled by injection of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin into lamina A of the lateral geniculate nucleus. Then, using antibodies to synaptic vesicle proteins, we identified presynaptic terminals within the labeled arbors in layer IV of the primary visual cortex. Analysis of serial optical sections obtained using confocal microscopy allowed measurement of the numerical density of presynaptic sites and the relative amounts of synaptic vesicle protein in geniculocortical afferents after both 2 and 7 d of MD. We found that the density of synapses in geniculocortical axons was similar for deprived and nondeprived afferents, suggesting that this feature of the afferents is conserved even during periods in which synapse number is reduced by half in deprived-eye arbors. These results are not consistent with the hypothesis that a rapid loss of deprived-eye geniculocortical presynaptic sites is responsible for the prompt physiological effects of MD.
Interneuronal gap junctional coupling is a hallmark of neural development whose functional significance is poorly understood. We have characterized the extent of electrical coupling and dye coupling and patterns of gap junction protein expression in lumbar spinal motor neurons of neonatal rats. Intracellular recordings showed that neonatal motor neurons are transiently electrically coupled and that electrical coupling is reversibly abolished by halothane, a gap junction blocker. Iontophoretic injection of Neurobiotin, a low molecular weight compound that passes across most gap junctions, into single motor neurons resulted in clusters of many labeled motor neurons at postnatal day 0 (P0)-P2, and single labeled motor neurons after P7. The compact distribution of dye-labeled motor neurons suggested that, after birth, gap junctional coupling is spatially restricted. RT-PCR, in situ hybridization, and immunostaining showed that motor neurons express five connexins, Cx36, Cx37, Cx40, Cx43, and Cx45, a repertoire distinct from that expressed by other neurons or glia. Although all five connexins are widely expressed among motor neurons in embryonic and neonatal life, Cx36, Cx37, and Cx43 continue to be expressed in many adult motor neurons, and expression of Cx45, and in particular Cx40, decreases after birth. The disappearance of electrical and dye coupling despite the persistent expression of several gap junction proteins suggests that gap junctional communication among motor neurons may be modulated by mechanisms that affect gap junction assembly, permeability, or open state.
Neuregulin (NRG), a growth and differentiation factor that signals via erbB receptor tyrosine kinases, has been shown to have biological effects in both the CNS and the peripheral nervous system. We report here that erbB4 is expressed in mature cerebellar granule cells, where it appears to be concentrated at the granule cell postsynaptic terminals. We also show that one form of NRG, Ig-NRG, plays a crucial role in aspects of cerebellar granule cell development in vitro. First, Ig-NRG treatment of granule cells in culture selectively induces the expression of the GABA(A) receptor beta2 subunit. This increase in subunit expression is paralleled by an increase in functional GABA(A) receptors. In contrast to its effects on GABA(A) receptor subunit expression, Ig-NRG does not upregulate NMDA receptor N2B and N2C subunit expression. Second, we demonstrate that Ig-NRG also enhances neurite outgrowth from cultured granule cells. Ig-NRG does not, however, act as a survival factor for the granule cells. We have compared the effect of Ig-NRG with the effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a neurotrophin that exerts specific effects on granule cells in culture, and found that BDNF does not mimic the effects of Ig-NRG on GABA(A) receptor subunit expression. Our results show that Ig-NRG has specific effects on granule cell development and maturation and may regulate these processes in vivo.
Protein 4.1N is a neuronal selective isoform of the erythrocyte membrane cytoskeleton protein 4.1R. In the present study, we demonstrate an interaction between 4.1N and nuclear mitotic apparatus protein (NuMA), a nuclear protein required for mitosis. The binding involves the C-terminal domain of 4.1N. In PC12 cells treatment with nerve growth factor (NGF) elicits translocation of 4. 1N to the nucleus and promotes its association with NuMA. Specific targeting of 4.1N to the nucleus arrests PC12 cells at the G1 phase and produces an aberrant nuclear morphology. Inhibition of 4.1N nuclear translocation prevents the NGF-mediated arrest of cell division, which can be reversed by overexpression of 4.1N. Thus, nuclear 4.1N appears to mediate the antiproliferative actions of NGF by antagonizing the role of NuMA in mitosis.
Interictal and ictal discharges represent two different forms of abnormal brain activity associated with epilepsy. Ictal discharges closely parallel seizure activity, but depending on the form of epilepsy, interictal discharges may or may not be correlated with the frequency, severity, and location of seizures. Recent voltage-imaging studies in slices of piriform cortex indicated that interictal-like discharges are generated in a two-stage process. The first stage consists of a sustained, low-amplitude depolarization (plateau activity) lasting the entire latent period prior to discharge onset. Plateau activity takes place at a site distinct from the site of discharge onset and serves to sustain and amplify activity initiated by an electrical stimulus. In the second stage a rapidly accelerating depolarization begins at the onset site and then spreads over a wide region. Here, we asked whether ictal-like discharges can be generated in a similar two-stage process. As with interictal-like activity, the first sign of an impending ictal-like discharge is a sustained depolarization with a plateau-like time course. The rapidly accelerating depolarization that signals the start of the actual discharge develops later at a separate onset site. As found previously with interictal-like discharges, local application of kynurenic acid to the plateau site blocked ictal-like discharges throughout the entire slice. However, in marked contrast to interictal-like activity, blockade of synaptic transmission at the onset site failed to block the ictal-like discharge. This indicates that interictal- and ictal-like discharges share a common pathway in the earliest stage of their generation and that their mechanisms subsequently diverge.
The proliferation of microglia is a normal process in CNS development and in the defense against pathological insults, although, paradoxically, it contributes to several brain diseases. We have examined the types of voltage-activated K(+) currents (Kv) and their roles in microglial proliferation. Microglia were tissue-printed directly from the hippocampal region using brain slices from 5- to 14-d-old rats. Immediately after tissue prints were prepared, unipolar and bipolar microglia expressed a large Kv current, and the cells were not proliferating. Surprisingly, this current was biophysically and pharmacologically distinct from Kv1.3, which has been found in dissociated, cultured microglia, but it was very similar to Kv1.5. After several days in culture the microglia became highly proliferative, and although the Kv prevalence and current density decreased, many cells exhibited a prominent Kv that was indistinguishable from Kv1.3. The Kv1.5-like current was present in nonproliferating cells, whereas proliferating cells expressed the Kv1.3-like current. Immunocytochemical staining showed a dramatic shift in expression and localization of Kv1.3 and Kv1.5 proteins in microglia: Kv1.5 moving away from the surface and Kv1.3 moving to the surface as the cells were cultured. K(+) channel blockers inhibited proliferation, and the pharmacology of this inhibition correlated with the type of Kv current expressed. Our study, which introduces a method for the physiological examination of microglia from identified brain regions, demonstrates the differential expression of two functional Kv subunits and shows that a functional delayed rectifier current is necessary for microglia proliferation.
In many cortical areas, simple stimuli or task conditions activate large populations of neurons. We hypothesize that such populations support processes of interaction within parametric representations and integration of multiple sources of input and we propose to study these processes using distributions of population activation (DPAs) as a tool. Such distributions can be viewed as neuronal representations of continuous stimulus or task parameters. They are built from basis functions contributed by each neuron. These functions may be explicitly chosen based on tuning curves or receptive field profiles. Or they may be determined by minimizing the distance between chosen target distributions and the constructed DPAs. In both cases, construction of the DPA is based on a set of reference conditions in which the stimulus or task parameters are sampled experimentally. In a second step, basis functions are kept fixed, and the DPAs are used to explore time dependent processing, interaction and integration of information. For instance, stimuli which simultaneously specify multiple parameter values can be used to study interactions within the parametric representation. We review an experiment, in which the representation of retinal position is probed in this way, revealing fast excitatory interactions among neurons representing similar retinal positions and slower inhibitory interactions among neurons representing dissimilar retinal positions. Similarly, DPAs can be used to analyze different sources of input that are fused within a parametric representation. We review an experiment in which the representation of the direction of goal-directed arm movements in motor and premotor cortex is studied when prior and current information about upcoming movement tasks are integrated.
Ensemble recording in cerebellar cortex of awake rats presents unique methodological challenges not encountered when recording from the cerebral cortex or from deep brain structures with more homogeneous cell populations. Compared to the cerebral cortex, removal of dura over the cerebellum evokes pronounced swelling, and insertion of multiple closely spaced electrodes in the cerebellar cortex causes considerable dimpling (Welsh JP, Schwartz C. Multielectrode recording from the cerebellum. In: Nicolelis MAL, editor. Methods for Neural Ensemble Recordings, CRC Methods in Neuroscience Series. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press LLC, 1999, pp. 79-100). Also, a repetitious and well-defined neural circuit characterizes the cerebellar cortex across its entire surface. With conventional multi-electrode methods, such as chronically implanted bundles or arrays of microwires, the risk of disrupting the cerebellar cytoarchitecture is high. In most conventional multi-electrode systems, electrodes have rather low impedance and cannot be moved independently after implantation. These limitations make proper unit isolation, necessary to identify each of the recorded cerebellar units, very difficult. We designed a lightweight (14 g), miniature (base plate: 19 x 23 mm; total height: 16 mm) multi-electrode system to allow for the chronic implantation of six independently moveable sharp electrodes with high impedance, in the cerebellar cortex. The six electrodes are arranged in a 2 x 3 matrix (inter-electrode distance: 0.6 mm). At any time after the implantation the vertical position of each individual electrode can be adjusted by screwing spring-loaded electrode heads up or down. The system preserves the integrity of the cerebellar cytoarchitecture, and enables easy isolation and identification of individual cerebellar units in awake, freely moving rats.
1. Potentiation of calcium-activated non-selective cation (CAN) channels was studied in rat hippocampal neurones. CAN channels were activated by IP3-dependent Ca2+ release following metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) stimulation either by Schaffer collateral input to CA1 neurones in brain slices in which ionotropic glutamate and GABAA receptors, K+ channels, and the Na+-Ca2+ exchanger were blocked or by application of the mGluR antagonist ACPD in cultured hippocampal neurones. 2. The CAN channel-dependent depolarization (DeltaVCAN) was potentiated when [Ca2+]i was increased in neurones impaled with Ca2+-containing microelectrodes. 3. Fura-2 measurements revealed a biphasic increase in [Ca2+]i when 200 microM ACPD was bath applied to cultured hippocampal neurones. This increase was greatly attenuated in the presence of Cd2+. 4. Thapsigargin (1 microM) caused marked potentiation of DeltaVCAN in CA1 neurones in the slices and of the CAN current (ICAN) measured in whole cell-clamped cultured hippocampal neurones. 5. Ryanodine (20 microM) also led to a potentiation of DeltaVCAN while neurones pretreated with 100 microM dantrolene failed to show potentiation of DeltaVCAN when impaled with Ca2+-containing microelectrodes. 6. The mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation uncoupler carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone (2 microM) also caused a potentiation of DeltaVCAN. 7. CAN channels are subject to considerable potentiation following an increase in [Ca2+]i due to Ca2+ release from IP3-sensitive, Ca2+-sensitive, or mitochondrial Ca2+ stores. This ICAN potentiation may play a crucial role in the 'amplification' phase of excitotoxicity.
Application of differential display to cultured rat astrocytes subjected to hypoxia allowed cloning of a novel cDNA, termed stress-associated endoplasmic reticulum protein 1 (SERP1). Expression of SERP1 was enhanced in vitro by hypoxia and/or reoxygenation or other forms of stress, causing accumulation of unfolded proteins in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, and in vivo by middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. The SERP1 cDNA encodes a 66-amino acid polypeptide which was found to be identical to ribosome-associated membrane protein 4 (RAMP4) and bearing 29% identity to yeast suppressor of SecY 6 protein (YSY6p), suggesting participation in pathways controlling membrane protein biogenesis at ER. In cultured 293 cells subjected to ER stress, overexpression of SERP1/RAMP4 suppressed aggregation and/or degradation of newly synthesized integral membrane proteins, and subsequently, facilitated their glycosylation when the stress was removed. SERP1/RAMP4 interacted with Sec61alpha and Sec61beta, which are subunits of translocon, and a molecular chaperon calnexin. Furthermore, Sec61alpha and Sec61beta, but not SERP1/RAMP4, were found to associate with newly synthesized integral membrane proteins under stress. These results suggest that stabilization of membrane proteins in response to stress involves the concerted action of a rescue unit in the ER membrane comprised of SERP1/RAMP4, other components of translocon, and molecular chaperons in ER.
Mice incapable of synthesizing the abundant galactolipids of myelin exhibit disrupted paranodal axo-glial interactions in the central and peripheral nervous systems. Using these mutants, we have analyzed the role that axo-glial interactions play in the establishment of axonal protein distribution in the region of the node of Ranvier. Whereas the clustering of the nodal proteins, sodium channels, ankyrin(G), and neurofascin was only slightly affected, the distribution of potassium channels and paranodin, proteins that are normally concentrated in the regions juxtaposed to the node, was dramatically altered. The potassium channels, which are normally concentrated in the paranode/juxtaparanode, were not restricted to this region but were detected throughout the internode in the galactolipid-defi- cient mice. Paranodin/contactin-associated protein (Caspr), a paranodal protein that is a potential neuronal mediator of axon-myelin binding, was not concentrated in the paranodal regions but was diffusely distributed along the internodal regions. Collectively, these findings suggest that the myelin galactolipids are essential for the proper formation of axo-glial interactions and demonstrate that a disruption in these interactions results in profound abnormalities in the molecular organization of the paranodal axolemma.
Conflicting results have been reported on the possible role of life events in triggering OCD onset. Moreover, pregnancy and/or delivery, among life events, appear to influence the OCD course and, in some cases, appear related to its onset. Our purpose was to assess the occurrence of potentially traumatizing events among patients with OCD. The study also provides an initial exploration of the association between OCD and pregnancy or delivery. The number and type of stressful life events which occurred in the 12 months before the onset of OCD were determined for both OCD patients (N = 68, 33 women and 35 men) and a group of comparison subjects (N = 68, 33 women and 35 men) by using a semistructured interview in accordance with Paykel's list. The results did not show a significant excess of life events in patients compared with healthy subjects. No differences were detected between OCD patients according to gender. When examining the type of events, OCD female individuals were found to be more likely than normal female subjects to report exposure to postpartum events, and high rates of obstetric complications were observed in these patients. Subjects with postpartum OCD had significantly higher rates of aggressive obsessions to harm the newborn. OCD male subjects did not show an association between a specific event and onset of the disorder. The findings confirm that the postpartum period represents a risk factor for OCD in some individuals, and suggest that obstetric complications may be relevant to the development of the disorder.
Of heuristic value in understanding the neurochemistry of major depression is whether the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis hyperactivity that occurs in this illness can be related to putative neurotransmitter dysfunction(s). Cholinergic neurotransmission stimulates hypothalamic corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine vasopressin (AVP) secretion, both of which stimulate pituitary corticotropin (ACTH) secretion, but whether the HPA axis in humans is activated only by doses of cholinergic agonists that produce noxious side effects remains controversial. To test the hypothesis of increased cholinergic sensitivity in major depression, physostigmine (PHYSO), a reversible cholinesterase inhibitor, was administered to patients and control subjects at a dose that elevated plasma ACTH, cortisol, and AVP concentrations but produced few or no side effects. Exogenous AVP also was administered to determine if it would augment the effect of low-dose PHYSO on the HPA axis. Twelve premenopausal or estrogen-replaced female major depressives, 12 individually matched female control subjects, eight male major depressives, and eight matched male control subjects underwent four test sessions 5-7 days apart: PHYSO (8 microg/kg IV), AVP (0.08 U/kg IM), PHYSO + AVP, and saline control. Serial blood samples were taken before and after pharmacologic challenge and analyzed for ACTH1-39, cortisol, and AVP. Estradiol and testosterone were also measured at each test session. PHYSO (8 microg/kg) significantly increased plasma ACTH, cortisol, and AVP, while producing no side effects in approximately half the subjects and predominantly mild side effects in the other half. These hormone increases following PHYSO occurred primarily in the female depressives and the male control subjects and were not significantly related to the presence or absence of side effects. The greater the ACTH and AVP responses to PHYSO, the stronger their correlation, suggesting that AVP may have been acting as a secretagogue for ACTH. Administered AVP significantly increased the secretion of ACTH in the patients and control subjects to a similar degree, and AVP given after PHYSO did not augment the HPA axis response to a greater degree in the depressives than in the control subjects. Plasma estradiol and testosterone were within the normal range for all four groups of subjects and were not significantly related to their HPA axis hormone responses. The study results support the hypothesis of heightened cholinergic sensitivity in premenopausal female, but not in male, patients with major depression. The low dose of PHYSO used may represent a useful paradigm for central cholinergic stimulation of the HPA axis.
Recent advances in neuroscience have enabled alcohol dependence to be investigated at cellular and molecular levels. Alcohol exerts biological effects by interacting with cell membranes and receptors, and modifies the function of proteins which regulate signal transduction, intracellular pathways, and gene expression. Adaptation to the acute effects of alcohol constitutes a major determinant of the development of increased tolerance, withdrawal syndrome and dependence. Important targets for alcohol include transmitter-regulated ion channels, receptors coupled to guanosine triphosphate-binding proteins, second messengers, and gene transcription factors. Studies of rodents bred for alcohol sensitivity or resistance have uncovered molecules of importance for the development of alcohol dependence, and certain ethanol-sensitive genes have been identified.
Effects of protein kinase C (PKC) activation on the function of the GABA/benzodiazepine receptor-chloride complex were analyzed by quantitative autoradiography using [3H]muscimol, [3H]flunitrazepam and [35S]TBPS in rat brain slices. The density of [3H]muscimol binding was highest in cerebellar granular layers and high in both the frontal cortex and thalamus, but binding levels in the hippocampus were low. After activation of PKC by 100 nM phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu), [3H]muscimol binding was decreased in the frontal cortex, striatum and thalamus, but binding levels were not changed in the hippocampus or cerebellum. The density of [3H]flunitrazepam binding was high in the cortex, hippocampus and molecular layers of cerebellum but was low in thalamus. PDBu increased the [3H]flunitrazepam binding only in the striatum and in part of the cortex and thalamus after activation of PKC. After activation of PKC by PDBu [35S]TBPS binding was increased in most areas, but binding levels were not changed in the brainstem or cerebellum. The receptor binding was markedly decreased in almost all areas by the addition of 2.5 mM Mg2+. Elevated [35S]TBPS binding produced by PDBu was significantly inhibited by the addition of Mg2+. These results suggest that the activation of PKC potentiates benzodiazepine and TBPS binding, but decreases muscimol binding in a region-specific manner in the rat brain.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been shown to mediate refinement of glutamatergic axonal pathways during development. In this study, we investigated whether the development of a cholinergic pathway in the intermediate gray layer (IGL) of the mouse superior colliculus (SC) is also mediated by NO. The pathway was labeled using an antibody directed against choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and its distribution examined in normal C57/BL6 mice and in knockout mice in which the genes for the neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) or both the endothelial and neuronal isoforms of NOS had been disrupted. We also examined the development of expression of NOS using nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPHd) staining. NADPHd labeled cells were found within the IGL by P8 and formed loose clusters of cells by P12-P15. ChAT and NADPHd labeled fibers were first observed at P12 and gradually established their characteristic two-tiered patchy pattern between P14 and P21. Comparison of the ChAT labeled fiber distribution in normal, single nNOS and double e,nNOS knockout mice revealed no differences between these three groups. We therefore conclude that nitric oxide does not mediate refinement of this cholinergic pathway.
This paper describes postnatal changes in cytochrome oxidase (C.O.) activity in developing fiber tracts. Quantitative histochemistry was used to measure changes in C.O. activity in nine white matter regions at postnatal days (P) 7, 12, 17, 30, and 60 in the rat. At P7, enzyme activity was maximal in the spinal trigeminal tract, medial longitudinal fasciculus, and cerebellar white matter. At P12, maximal levels were measured in the medial lemniscus and cerebral peduncle. C.O. activity increased from low levels at P7 to maximal levels by P17 in the hippocampal commissure, posterior and anterior corpus callosum, and anterior commissure. In all nine regions, C.O. activity decreased by P60. Thus, peaks in C.O. activity shifted as a function of postnatal age in a caudo-rostral direction. The regional heterogeneity in the age of onset in C.O. fluctuations suggests that vulnerability to injury and metabolic dysfunction during the perinatal period will differentially affect white matter structures, depending on the age of onset of such disruptions.
The issue we want to address in the present paper is to establish whether electrical stimulation of latero medial (LM) area, a secondary visual area in the rat, is able to induce Long Term Potentiation (LTP) and Long Term Depression (LTD) in primary visual cortex (V1). To this aim rat slices containing area V1 and LM were prepared at P23 and P40 and field potentials in layers 2/3 of area V1 were recorded stimulating LM. We showed that it was never possible to induce LTP in area V1, unless bicuculline, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors blocker, was applied to the slice. In contrast, LTD was normally inducible. Thus, cortical gabaergic circuitry in area V1 controls LTP but not LTD elicited by stimulation of feedback connections from LM.
We characterized the development and pharmacology of Ca(2+) channel currents in NGF-treated embryonic day 21 cultured rat septal cells. Using standard whole-cell voltage clamp techniques, cells were held at -80 mV and depolarized to construct current-voltage relations in conditions that eliminated Na(+) or K(+) currents. Barium (10 mM) was used as the charge carrier. Maximum current was produced when cells were depolarized to 0 or +10 mV. Recordings from 77 cells revealed that Ca(2+) channel current density increases over time in culture from nearly 0 pA/pF on day 2 in vitro (0.65+/-0.65 pA/pF) to (6.95+/-1.59 pA/pF) on days 6-8. This was followed by a period where currents became nearly 3 times more dense (21.05+/-7.16 pA/pF) at days 9-17. There was little or no evidence for low voltage activated currents. Bath application of 50-100 microM CdCl(2) abolished approximately 95% of the current. Application of 10 microM nimodipine produced a 50.5+/-3.22% reduction in current, 2 microM omega-CTx-GVIA produced a 32.4+/-7.3% reduction, and application of 4 microM omega-Aga-IVA produced a 29.5+/-5.73% reduction in current. When all three inhibitors (10 microM nimodipine, 2 microM omega-CTx-GVIA, and 4 microM omega-Aga-IVA) were applied simultaneously, a residual current remained that was 18.0+/-4.9% of the total current and was completely abolished by application of CdCl(2). This is the first report to characterize Ca(2+) channel currents in cultured embryonic septal cells. These data indicate that there is a steady increase in Ca(2+) channel expression over time in vitro, and show that like other cultured neuronal cells, septal cells express multiple Ca(2+) channel types including L, N, P/Q and R-type channels.
Previous pharmacological and biochemical evidence suggests that mu-subtype opiate receptors are expressed in the mollusk Mytilus edulis (Bivalve), including the organism's ganglia. In this study, we present molecular evidence of mu opiate receptor expression. Using primers derived from the human neuronal mu1 opiate receptor, we used reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to detect expression of mu transcripts from Mytilus pedal ganglia. Sequence analysis of the RT-PCR products revealed 95% identity with the neuronal human mu1 receptor. Furthermore, interleukin-1 and morphine exposure to excised pedal ganglia resulted in up- and down-regulation of the mu receptor transcripts, respectively. This study provides molecular evidence that mu-type opiate receptors are expressed in molluscan ganglia, suggesting that they first appear in invertebrate organisms and are retained during evolution.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) plays a major role in modulating dopamine (DA) neurotransmission by controlling the levels of this neurotransmitter in the extracellular space. We have isolated 8.3 kb of the 5'-flanking regulatory region of the human DAT (hDAT) gene and identified numerous potential elements involved in transcriptional control of the DAT. A series of hDAT-luciferase reporter constructs encompassing increasing amounts of 5'-flanking sequence was utilized in transient transfection assays assessing basal activity and response to selected stimuli. Our results suggest that the proximal hDAT 5'-flanking region displays a strong, nonselective promoter activity that is silenced through regulatory elements present in the distal portion of the 5'-flanking sequence. Although potential cyclic AMP responsive elements (CRE) were identified on the sequence, hDAT constructs were unresponsive to cyclic AMP induction. The transcription factor nurr1 increases the transcriptional activity of several larger hDAT constructs, consistent with the presence of several putative NGFI-B response elements (NBRE). The cloning and functional analysis of an extensive portion of the 5'-flanking regulatory region of the hDAT gene provides further insights into the factors involved in the regulation of this gene.
The possible link between estrogen and serotonin (5-HT) in depression was investigated using a genetic animal model of depression, the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rats, in comparison to control Flinders Resistant Line rats. The mRNA levels of the estrogen receptor (ER) alpha and beta subtypes and the 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A) receptors were analyzed in several limbic-related areas of ovariectomized FSL and FRL rats treated with 17beta-estradiol (0.15 microg/g) or vehicle. The FSL animals were shown to express significantly lower levels of the 5-HT(2A) receptor transcripts in the perirhinal cortex, piriform cortex, and medial anterodorsal amygdala and higher levels in the CA 2-3 region of the hippocampus. The only significant difference between the rat lines in ER mRNA expression was found in the medial posterodorsal amygdala, where the FSL rats showed lower ERalpha expression levels. Overall, estradiol treatment increased 5-HT(2A) and decreased 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA levels in several of the examined regions of both lines. Thus, in many areas, estradiol was found to regulate the 5-HT receptor mRNA expression in the opposite direction to the alterations found in the FSL rats. These findings further support the implication of 5-HT receptors, in particular the 5-HT(2A) subtype, in the etiology of affective disorders. Moreover, the ability of estradiol to regulate the expression of the 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A) receptor genes might account for the reported influence of gonadal hormones in mood and depression.
Neuron-restrictive silencer factor (NRSF, also termed REST) has been proposed to restrict expression of a set of genes to neurons by blocking their transcription in nonneuronal cells. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit type I (NR1) gene contains a consensus sequence for the NRSF/REST binding site (NRSE/RE1). In this study, we evaluated the contribution of NRSF/REST to neuronal specificity of the NR1 gene. NR1 mRNA expression correlates with the absence of NRSF/REST binding activity, rather than expression of NRSF/REST protein, in several cell lines, suggesting that the absence of NRSF/REST-binding activity is necessary for the expression of the NR1 gene. HeLa cells, which do not express the NR1 gene, have NRSF/REST binding activity to the NR1 NRSE/RE1, resulting in inhibition of NR1 promoter activity. However, we also found that two nonneuronal cell lines (C6 glioma and P19 embryonal carcinoma) that lack NRSF/REST-binding activity, manifest only small amounts of NR1 mRNA compared to neuronal cell lines (PC12 pheochromocytoma and neuronally differentiated P19 cells). The enhancement of NR1 mRNA levels during neuronal differentiation of P19 cells is accompanied by an increase in NR1 promoter activity in an NRSF/REST-binding independent manner. Our results suggest therefore that the absence of NRSF/REST-binding activity is necessary but not sufficient for robust NR1 transcription in neuronal cells.
Based on the neurotrophic properties of astrocytes in response to ischemia, the current work focuses on the mechanism for cultured astrocytes to adapt to a hypoxic environment. Intracellular glucose levels in primary cultured rat astrocytes exposed to hypoxia fell by 30% within 24 h, in parallel with a decrease in glycogen stores. Glycolytic metabolism was crucial for cell survival during hypoxia, as 2-deoxyglucose resulted in rapid ATP depletion and cell death. The mechanism for maintaining glucose levels under these conditions appeared to be mobilization of glycogen stores, rather than increased extracellular uptake of glucose, as gluconolactone (an inhibitor of beta1-4 amyloglucosidase) induced a rapid fall in cellular ATP in cultures subjected to hypoxia, whereas cytochalasin B was without affect. Addition of cycloheximide diminished the viability of astrocytes in hypoxia, suggesting an obligatory role of de-novo gene expression to respond to hypoxia. Consistently, the results of differential display suggested the induction of glycolytic enzymes, including aldolase A (EC 4.1.2.13), hexokinase II (ATP: D-hexose 6-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.1), and triosephosphate isomerase (EC 5.3.1.1) in the hypoxic culture. Marked induction of these glycolytic enzymes in hypoxic astrocytes was confirmed by Northern blot analysis. These data provide a theoretical basis to understand the ability of astrocytes to tolerate ischemic condition.
We investigated the influence of 3 days of continuous cocaine exposure on norepinephrine transporter binding in the rat placenta. On gestational day 17, pregnant rats were implanted subcutaneously with two cocaine-containing Silastic capsules. There were two control groups, one that received capsules with vehicle only and was pair-fed to the cocaine-treated females, and a second group that was untreated and fed ad libitum. Placentas and fetal brains were harvested and frozen on gestational day 20, and subsequently subjected to saturation analyses for norepinephrine transporter binding using the selective ligand [3H]nisoxetine. There was a marked increase in the density (B(max)) of norepinephrine transporter binding sites in the placentas of the cocaine-treated animals compared to both control groups, but no change in the fetal brain. The mechanism underlying this up-regulation of the placental norepinephrine transporter is not yet known, but it could involve a beta-adrenoceptor- and cAMP-mediated induction of transporter gene expression.
The 5-HT1A receptor is implicated in depression and anxiety. This receptor couples to G(i) proteins to inhibit adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity but can stimulate AC in tissues (e.g. hippocampus) that express ACII. The role of ACII in receptor-mediated stimulation of cAMP formation was examined in HEK-293 cells transfected with the 5-HT1A receptor, which mediated inhibition of basal and G(s)-induced cAMP formation in the absence of ACII. In cells cotransfected with 5-HT1A receptor and ACII plasmids, 5-HT1A agonists induced a 1. 5-fold increase in cAMP level. Cotransfection of 5-HT1A receptor, ACII, and Galpha(i2), but not Galpha(i1), Galpha(i3), or Galpha(o), resulted in an agonist-independent 6-fold increase in the basal cAMP level, suggesting that G(i2) preferentially coupled the receptor to ACII. The 5-HT1B receptor also constitutively activated ACII. Constitutive activity of the 5-HT1A receptor was blocked by pertussis toxin and the Gbetagamma antagonist, betaCT, suggesting an important role for Gbetagamma-mediated activation of ACII. The Thr-149 --&gt; Ala mutation in the second intracellular domain of the 5-HT1A receptor disrupted Gbetagamma-selective activation of ACII. Spontaneous 5-HT1A receptor activity was partially attenuated by 5-HT1A receptor partial agonists with anxiolytic activity (e.g. buspirone and flesinoxan) but was not altered by full agonists or antagonists. Thus, anxiolytic activity may involve inhibition of spontaneous 5-HT1A receptor activity.
Aluminum, a metal without redox capacity in biological systems, potentiates the stimulation of lipid peroxidation induced by Fe2+. In this study the interactions between aluminum and oxidative stress induced by ascorbate (0.8 mM)/Fe2+ (2.5 microM) in synaptosomes isolated from rat brain were investigated. The amount of Al3+ in aluminum solutions was calculated according to the Zatta protocol (Zatta et al., 1995), and lipid peroxidation was measured by quantifying thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS). In synaptosomes under oxidizing conditions the addition of 11 microM Al3+ increased the formation of TBARS. In synaptosomes incubated in the absence of oxidants no significant differences were found between the levels of lipid peroxidation of synaptosomes incubated in the absence or in the presence of aluminum. In the presence of an oxidizing system aluminum accumulation was significantly increased twofold in synaptosomes. Data suggest that the facilitation of aluminum accumulation during brain oxidative injury might contribute to aluminum neurotoxicity and neuronal cell degeneration.
Four patients affected with autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia, deafness, and narcolepsy underwent brain CT and MRI. Radiologic findings were supratentorial atrophy (more pronounced than infratentorial atrophy), pronounced dilatation of the third ventricle, low T2 signal intensity in the basal ganglia, loss of cerebral cortex-white matter differentiation, and periventricular high-signal rims. 2-[18F]Fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose PET was done with one patient, without specific findings. Genetic analyses excluded SCA-1, SCA-2, SCA-3, SCA-6, SCA-7, DRPLA, and huntingtin gene mutations.




The gray matter surrounding the central canal of rat lumbar spinal cord contains a population of spinothalamic neurons which has been shown to co-contain cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8) and galanin (GAL) (Ju, G., Melander, T., Hkfelt, T. and Frey, P., Immunohistochemical evidence for a spinothalamic pathway co-containing cholecystokinin- and galanin-like immunoreactivities in the rat. Neuroscience, 20 (1987) 439-456). A previous study from our laboratory has shown that female rats have only 62% the number of GAL-containing midline neurons present in males. Counts of CCK-8-containing midline neurons reveal that females have 59% the number observed in males. These results indicate that the degree of sexual dimorphism seen for CCK-8 is the same for GAL in these midline lumbar neurons, and suggests that androgens modulate the production of the co-contained GAL and CCK-8 in a similar fashion within male rat spinal cords.
Functional and molecular changes in glutamate transporters during kindling epileptogenesis were investigated in hippocampus CA1-region of rats. In control animals total glutamate transporter activity was indicated by the stimulatory effect of the high-affinity transporter blocker L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate on extracellular glutamate and aspartate concentrations, as measured by in vivo microdialysis. This blocker-induced elevation was absent already early during epileptogenesis. CA1 levels of the glutamate transporter subtypes GLAST and GLT-1, analyzed by quantitative immunoblotting, did not change during kindling epileptogenesis. However, the 60% decrease in EAAC-1 level observed in age-matched controls was fully compensated for in kindled animals 4-5 weeks after the last generalized seizure. These results indicate a compensatory change of the neuronal EAAC-1 glutamate transporter in CA1 region during kindling epileptogenesis, which may be the consequence of a decrease in total transporter activity.
Small gap junction plaques are associated with tight junction strands in some cell types including hepatocytes and it is thought that they may be closely related to tight junctions and the establishment of cell polarity. In order to examine roles of gap junctions in regulating expression and structure of tight junctions, we transfected human Cx32 cDNA into immortalized mouse hepatocytes (CHST8 cells) which lack endogenous Cx32 and Cx26. Immunocytochemistry revealed that endogenous integral tight junction protein occludin was strongly localized and was colocalized with Cx32 at cell borders in transfectants, whereas neither was detected in parental cells. In Northern blots, mRNAs encoding occludin and the other integral tight junction proteins, claudin-1 and -2, were induced in the transfectants compared to parental cells. In Western blots, occludin protein was increased in the transfectants compared to parental cells, and binding of occludin to Cx32 protein was demonstrated by immunoprecipitation. In freeze fracture of the transfectants, tight junction strands were more numerous and complex compared to parental cells, and small gap junction plaques appeared within induced tight junction strands. Nevertheless, no change in barrier function of tight junctions was observed. These results indicate that in hepatocytes, gap junction, and tight junction expression are closely coordinated, and that Cx32 may play a role in regulating occludin expression.
Dishevelled (Dsh) is involved in both Wingless (Wg) and Frizzled (Fz) signaling pathways. To further determine the function of Dsh, we have performed yeast two-hybrid screening and isolated several genes encoding the molecules associated with the PDZ domain of Dvl1, one of the murine Dsh homologs. During the screening, we found that EPS8, which is a substrate for activated EGF receptor (EGFR), specifically interacted with Dvl1. This interaction was also confirmed in vitro. Through transfection studies, we observed the mutual action between Dvl1 and EPS8. Dvl1 was hyperphosphorylated in the presence of EPS8, whereas the tyrosine phosphorylation of EPS8 by activated EGFR was inhibited in the presence of Dvl1. Immunohistochemistry showed that Dvl1 and EPS8 expression overlap in particular tissues during organogenesis. These results indicate that interaction between Dvl1 and receptor tyrosine kinase signal plays certain roles in developmental events.
The physiological state of the cell is controlled by signal transduction mechanisms which regulate the balance between protein kinase and protein phosphatase activities. Here we report that a single protein can, depending on which particular amino-acid residue is phosphorylated, function either as a kinase or phosphatase inhibitor. DARPP-32 (dopamine and cyclic AMP-regulated phospho-protein, relative molecular mass 32,000) is converted into an inhibitor of protein phosphatase 1 when it is phosphorylated by protein kinase A (PKA) at threonine 34. We find that DARPP-32 is converted into an inhibitor of PKA when phosphorylated at threonine 75 by cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). Cdk5 phosphorylates DARPP-32 in vitro and in intact brain cells. Phospho-Thr 75 DARPP-32 inhibits PKA in vitro by a competitive mechanism. Decreasing phospho-Thr 75 DARPP-32 in striatal slices, either by a Cdk5-specific inhibitor or by using genetically altered mice, results in increased dopamine-induced phosphorylation of PKA substrates and augmented peak voltage-gated calcium currents. Thus DARPP-32 is a bifunctional signal transduction molecule which, by distinct mechanisms, controls a serine/threonine kinase and a serine/threonine phosphatase.
The hippocampus in the mammalian brain is required for the encoding of current and the retention of past experience. Previous studies have shown that the hippocampus contains neurons that encode information required to perform spatial and nonspatial short-term memory tasks. A more detailed understanding of the functional anatomy of the hippocampus would provide important insight into how such encoding occurs. Here we show that hippocampal neurons in the rat are distributed anatomically in distinct segments along the length of the hippocampus. Each longitudinal segment contains clusters of neurons that become active when the animal performs a task with spatial attributes. Within these same segments are ordered arrangements of neurons that encode the nonspatial aspects of the task appropriate to those spatial features. Thus, anatomical segregation of spatial information, together with the interleaved representation of nonspatial information, represents a structural framework that may help to resolve conflicting views of hippocampal function.

The eye-hand span (EHS) is the separation between eye position and hand position when sight-reading music. It can be measured in two ways: in notes (the number of notes between hand and eye; the 'note index'), or in time (the length of time between fixation and performance; the 'time index'). The EHSs of amateur and professional pianists were compared while they sight-read music. The professionals showed significantly larger note indexes than the amateurs (approximately four notes, compared to two notes), and all subjects showed similar variability in the note index. Surprisingly, the different groups of pianists showed almost identical mean time indexes (ca. 1 s), with no significant differences between any of the skill levels. However, professionals did show significantly less variation than the amateurs. The time index was significantly affected by the performance tempo: when fast tempos were imposed on performance, all subjects showed a reduction in the time index (to ca. 0.7 s), and slow tempos increased the time index (to ca. 1.3 s). This means that the length of time that information is stored in the buffer is related to performance tempo rather than ability, but that professionals can fit more information into their buffers.
This study demonstrates the ability of blind (previously sighted) and blindfolded (sighted) subjects in reconstructing and identifying a number of visual targets transformed into equivalent musical representations. Visual images are deconstructed through a process which selectively segregates different features of the image into separate packages. These are then encoded in sound and presented as a polyphonic musical melody which resembles a Baroque fugue with many voices, allowing subjects to analyse the component voices selectively in combination, or separately in sequence, in a manner which allows a subject to patch together and bind the different features of the object mentally into a mental percept of a single recognizable entity. The visual targets used in this study included a variety of geometrical figures, simple high-contrast line drawings of man-made objects, natural and urban scenes, etc., translated into sound and presented to the subject in polyphonic musical form.
Although odorants are known to activate olfactory receptor neurons through cAMP, the long-term effects of odorant detection are not known. Our recent findings indicate that there is also a delayed and sustained cAMP response, with kinetics sufficient to mediate long-term cellular responses. This cAMP response is mediated by cGMP through activation of adenylyl cyclase by protein kinase G (PKG). Therefore, we investigated the ability of odorants to regulate gene expression in rat olfactory epithelium. The cAMP-responsive binding protein (CREB) is a well-characterized transcription factor regulated by cAMP. We examined CREB activity in rat olfactory epithelium and olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) after stimulation with odorants. Odorants increased levels of phosphorylated CREB in olfactory epithelium in vivo, and this increase was localized to ORNs in vitro. Incubation with 8-bromo-cGMP or sodium nitroprusside, a guanylyl cyclase activator, also increased phosphorylated CREB. In vitro, cAMP-dependent protein kinase phosphorylated CREB. In contrast, PKG failed to phosphorylate CREB directly in vitro. Our results demonstrate that the delayed odorant-induced cAMP signal activates CREB, which in turn may modulate gene expression in ORNs. In addition, cGMP indirectly affects CREB activation. This effect of cGMP on CREB activity through cAMP provides another mechanism for the modulation of CREB.
The patch-clamp technique allows currents to be recorded through single ion channels in patches of cell membrane in the tips of glass pipettes. When recording, voltage is typically applied across the membrane patch to drive ions through open channels and to probe the voltage-sensitivity of channel activity. In this study, we used video microscopy and single-channel recording to show that prolonged depolarization of a membrane patch in borosilicate pipettes results in delayed slow displacement of the membrane into the pipette and that this displacement is associated with the activation of mechanosensitive (MS) channels in the same patch. The membrane displacement, approximately 1 micrometer with each prolonged depolarization, occurs after variable delays ranging from tens of milliseconds to many seconds and is correlated in time with activation of MS channels. Increasing the voltage step shortens both the delay to membrane displacement and the delay to activation. Preventing depolarization-induced membrane displacement by applying positive pressure to the shank of the pipette or by coating the tips of the borosilicate pipettes with soft glass prevents the depolarization-induced activation of MS channels. The correlation between depolarization-induced membrane displacement and activation of MS channels indicates that the membrane displacement is associated with sufficient membrane tension to activate MS channels. Because membrane tension can modulate the activity of various ligand and voltage-activated ion channels as well as some transporters, an apparent voltage dependence of a channel or transporter in a membrane patch in a borosilicate pipette may result from voltage-induced tension rather than from direct modulation by voltage.
The effects of the 29-amino acid neuropeptide galanin [GAL (1-29)], GAL(1-15), GAL(1-16), and the GAL subtype 2 receptor agonist D-tryptophan(2)-GAL(1-29) were studied in the dorsal hippocampus in vitro with intracellular recording techniques. GAL(1-15) induced, in the presence of tetrodotoxin, a dose-dependent hyperpolarization in hippocampal CA3 neurons. Most of the GAL(1-15)-sensitive neurons did not respond to GAL(1-29), GAL(1-16), or D-tryptophan(2)-GAL(1-29). These results indicate the presence of a distinct, yet-to-be cloned GAL(1-15)-selective receptor on CA3 neurons in the dorsal hippocampus.
Block of the channel of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors by external Mg(2+) (Mg(o)(2+)) has broad implications for the many physiological and pathological processes that depend on NMDA receptor activation. An essential property of channel block by Mg(o)(2+) is its powerful voltage dependence. A widely cited explanation for the strength of the voltage dependence of block is that the Mg(o)(2+)-binding site is located deep in the channel of NMDA receptors; Mg(o)(2+) then would sense most of the membrane potential field during block. However, recent electrophysiological and mutagenesis studies suggest that the blocking site cannot be deep enough to account for the voltage dependence of Mg(o)(2+) block. Here we describe the basis for this discrepancy: the magnitude and voltage dependence of channel block by Mg(o)(2+) are strongly regulated by external and internal permeant monovalent cations. Our data support a model in which access to the channel by Mg(o)(2+) is prevented when permeant ion-binding sites at the external entrance to the channel are occupied. Mg(o)(2+) can block the channel only when the permeant ion-binding sites are unoccupied and then can either unblock back to the external solution or permeate the channel. Unblock to the external solution is prevented if external permeant ions bind while Mg(2+) blocks the channel, although permeation is still permitted. The model provides an explanation for the strength of the voltage dependence of Mg(o)(2+) block and quantifies the interdependence of permanent and blocking ion binding to NMDA receptors.
CB1, a cannabinoid receptor enriched in neuronal tissue, was found in high concentration in retinas of rhesus monkey, mouse, rat, chick, goldfish, and tiger salamander by using a subtype-specific polyclonal antibody. Immunolabeling was detected in the two synaptic layers of the retina, the inner and outer plexiform layers, of all six species examined. In the outer plexiform layer, CB1 was located in and/or on cone pedicles and rod spherules. Labeling was detected in some amacrine cells of all species and in the ganglion cells and ganglion cell axons of all species except fish. In addition, sparse labeling was found in the inner and/or outer segments of the photoreceptors of monkey, mouse, rat, and chick. Using GC/MS to detect possible endogenous cannabinoids, we found 3 nmol of 2-arachidonylglycerol per g of tissue, but no anandamide was detectable. Cannabinoid receptor agonists induced a dramatic reduction in the amplitude of voltage-gated L-type calcium channel currents in identified retinal bipolar cells. The presence and distribution of the CB1 receptor, the large amounts of 2-arachidonylglycerol found, and the effects of cannabinoids on calcium channel activity in bipolar cells suggest a substantive role for an endogenous cannabinoid signaling system in retinal physiology, and perhaps vision in general.
To enhance their mechanical sensitivity and frequency selectivity, hair cells amplify the mechanical stimuli to which they respond. Although cell-body contractions of outer hair cells are thought to mediate the active process in the mammalian cochlea, vertebrates without outer hair cells display highly sensitive, sharply tuned hearing and spontaneous otoacoustic emissions. In these animals the amplifier must reside elsewhere. We report physiological evidence that amplification can stem from active movement of the hair bundle, the hair cell's mechanosensitive organelle. We performed experiments on hair cells from the sacculus of the bullfrog. Using a two-compartment recording chamber that permits exposure of the hair cell's apical and basolateral surfaces to different solutions, we examined active hair-bundle motion in circumstances similar to those in vivo. When the apical surface was bathed in artificial endolymph, many hair bundles exhibited spontaneous oscillations of amplitudes as great as 50 nm and frequencies in the range 5 to 40 Hz. We stimulated hair bundles with a flexible glass probe and recorded their mechanical responses with a photometric system. When the stimulus frequency lay within a band enclosing a hair cell's frequency of spontaneous oscillation, mechanical stimuli as small as +/-5 nm entrained the hair-bundle oscillations. For small stimuli, the bundle movement was larger than the stimulus. Because the energy dissipated by viscous drag exceeded the work provided by the stimulus probe, the hair bundles powered their motion and therefore amplified it.
A zonal organization of the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus (LGNv) in the cat was studied with the bidirectional tracing method by using the subunit b of cholera toxin (CTb) as the marker. The prime objectives of the present study were to examine precise distribution of terminals of the retinal afferents to the LGNv, and to correlate it with the origins and terminations of the other central connections of the nucleus. The results obtained are summarized as follows: (1) the LGNv of the cat is divided into 3 zones according to the terminations of retinal afferents: lateral, intermediate, and medial; (2) the lateral zone receives afferents from the retina in which ipsi- and contralateral fibers terminate in a complementary fashion. According to the density of labeling of retinal terminals, the lateral zone is further divided into several areas. It also receives fibers from the visual related cortex; (3) the intermediate zone, which does not receive fibers from the retina nor the visual cortex, is reciprocally connected with the midbrain, primarily with the superficial layers of the superior colliculus (SC), and gives rise to thalamic projections to the nucleus centralis lateralis bilaterally; and (4) the medial zone, from which commissural fibers arise, receives afferents bilaterally from the retina, and sends fibers to the SC bilaterally. These results suggest that the LGNv of the cat has three different zones. Functional participation of each zone has been discussed.
Calcium (Ca(2+)) influx through voltage-gated Ca(2+)channels stimulates a variety of neural activities, including process outgrowth, neurotransmission, and synaptic plasticity. In general, L-type channels control Ca(2+) influx into the soma and dendrites, whereas other Ca(2+) channel types control presynaptic activities. Neurons that make ribbon synapses, however, are among a select group of nerve cells whose presynaptic Ca(2+)-dependent secretion is linked to L-type channels. Recently, photoreceptor ribbon synapses have been shown to be capable of dramatic structural remodeling and neuritic outgrowth. Here, we have examined 1) the distribution of dihydropyridine (DHP)-sensitive (L-type) Ca(2+) channels in photoreceptor presynaptic structures and 2) the role of these channels in axonal plasticity and process outgrowth in culture. Using anti-alpha(1C) and the fluorescent dihydropyridine, (-)-DM-BODIPY DHP, L-type channels were localized in the outer plexiform layer of retinal sections and in presynaptic terminals of freshly isolated photoreceptors. In the rod terminal, dense patches of label were present; their distribution and number matched that of synaptic ribbons. After 1-7 days in vitro, punctate alpha(1C) staining occurred along newly formed neurites and presynaptic varicosities. Functional channels were present throughout the culture period, as determined by fura-2 imaging. Channel blockage by nicardipine, a DHP antagonist, inhibited axonal remodeling. Specifically, it prevented axon retraction and lamellipodium formation, reduced neurite growth, and produced long, thin processes on some, primarily cone, photoreceptors. L-type Ca(2+) channel activity, therefore, not only stimulates neurotransmission but contributes to presynaptic structural plasticity at the ribbon synapse.
The interferon-gamma receptor gene was detected in the rat hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the main pacemaker for circadian rhythms, and the molecular identity of the transcript was confirmed by sequencing. The expression of the receptor protein showed a daily rhythm that was dependent on light. It reached its adult pattern in the SCN between postnatal day 11 and 20, i.e., at a time when capacity for photic entrainment of the pacemaker is established.
Although it has been known for over 50 years that olfactory receptor neuron (ORN) neurogenesis and subsequent reinnervation of the olfactory bulb (OB) occurs following ORN injury, the precise intrinsic and extrinsic factors that regulate this dynamic process have not yet been fully identified. In the first of two experiments, we characterized the time course of anatomical recovery following zinc sulfate (ZnSO(4)) lesion of ORNs in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. ZnSO(4) produced a near complete deafferentation of OB within 3 days following intranasal administration. A time-dependent increase in ORN reinnervation of OB was observed following 10, 20, and 30 day recovery intervals. Given the evidence that bFGF, EGF, and TGF-alpha have mitogenic effects on ORNs in vitro, a second experiment examined the extent to which these growth factors (GFs) might enhance ORN regeneration and subsequent reinnervation of OB in vivo. Rats received intranasal infusions of ZnSO(4) on day 0, followed by subcutaneous injections of either bFGF (5, 10, or 50 microgram/kg), EGF (5, 10, or 50 microgram/kg), or TGF-alpha (5 or 10 microgram/kg) on days 3-6. Horseradish peroxidase (HRP) histochemistry of OB following a 10-day recovery period revealed a dose-related enhancement in reinnervation of OB for each of the three growth factors examined, with the greatest enhancement produced by TGF-alpha. These data suggest that GFs may regulate ORN mitogenesis in vivo in a way similar to that which has been characterized in vitro.
The native opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met(5)]enkephalin, is a tonic inhibitory peptide that modulates cell proliferation and tissue organization during development, cancer, cellular renewal, wound healing and angiogenesis. OGF action is mediated by a receptor mechanism. We have cloned and sequenced a 2.1-kilobase (kb) cDNA for a receptor to OGF (OGFr). The open reading frame was found to encode a protein of 580 amino acids, and eight imperfect repeats of nine amino acids each were a prominent feature. The protein encoded by this cDNA exhibited the pharmacological, temporal and spatial characteristics of the OGFr. Functional studies using antisense technology demonstrated an enhancement in cell growth. The molecular organization of the OGFr has no homology to classical opioid receptors. These results provide molecular validity for the interaction of OGF and OGFr in the regulation of growth processes.

The cytosolic domain of the peptide-processing integral membrane protein peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM; EC 1.14. 17.3) contains multiple signals determining its subcellular localization. Three PAM cytosolic interactor proteins (P-CIPs) were identified using the yeast two hybrid system (Alam, M. R., Caldwel, B. D., Johnson, R. C., Darlington, D. N., Mains, R. E., and Eipper, B. A. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 28636-28640); the partial amino acid sequence of P-CIP2 suggested that it was a protein kinase. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry show that P-CIP2 is expressed widely throughout the brain; PAM and P-CIP2 are expressed in the same neurons. Based on subcellular fractionation, the 47-kDa P-CIP2 protein is mostly cytosolic. P-CIP2 is a highly selective kinase, phosphorylating the cytosolic domain of PAM, but not the corresponding region of furin or carboxypeptidase D. Although P-CIP2 interacts with stathmin, it does not phosphorylate stathmin. Site-directed mutagenesis, phosphoamino acid analysis, and use of synthetic peptides demonstrate that PAM-Ser(949) is the major site phosphorylated by P-CIP2. Based on both in vitro binding experiments and co-immunoprecipitation from cell extracts, P-CIP2 interacts with PAM proteins containing the wild type cytosolic domain, but not with mutant forms of PAM whose trafficking is disrupted. P-CIP2, through its highly selective phosphorylation of a key site in the cytosolic domain of PAM, appears to play a critical role in the trafficking of this protein.
Amyloid precursor protein, which gives rise to the A beta polypeptide found in senile plaques in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease, is a member of a family of proteins which includes amyloid precursor-like protein 2 (APLP2). To date, little is known of the involvement of this protein in Alzheimer's disease or any other neurodegenerative condition. The present study set out to determine whether APLP2 expression could be modified in cultured rat cortical neurones exposed to an excitotoxic insult. Treatment of cultures with glutamate (500 microM) for 30 min resulted in increased lactate dehydrogenase liberation into the bathing medium 24 h after removal of the insult indicating neuronal damage. This was accompanied by a decrease in APLP2 recovery in the medium but no change in its intracellular level. Both the increase in LDH release and APLP2 recovery were prevented by pretreatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801. These data show that neuronal APLP2 metabolism is altered in response to an excitotoxic insult.
Study of a patient with damage to the hippocampus and surrounding neocortex reveals intact topographical knowledge of his childhood environment. New studies of spatial memory in animals are also giving insight into the process by which spatial memory becomes consolidated over time.
Several 5-HT(1D/1B) receptor agonists are now entering the marketplace as treatments for migraine. This paper describes the development of selective h5-HT(1D) receptor agonists as potential antimigraine agents which may produce fewer side effects. A series of 3-[3-(piperidin-1-yl)propyl]indoles has been synthesized which has led to the identification of 80 (L-772,405), a high-affinity h5-HT(1D) receptor full agonist having 170-fold selectivity for h5-HT(1D) receptors over h5-HT(1B) receptors. L-772,405 also shows very good selectivity over a range of other serotonin and nonserotonin receptors and has excellent bioavailability following subcutaneous administration in rats. It therefore constitutes a valuable tool to delineate the role of h5-HT(1D) receptors in migraine. Molecular modeling and physical properties have been utilized to postulate the binding conformation of these compounds in the receptor cavity.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is one of the most common chronic metabolic diseases in man. Due to long-term complications of the disease, severely decreasing the quality of life of diabetic patients, early interventions to obviate the risk of complications are of major importance. Therefore, diabetic animal models are of major importance in research for interventional treatment of type 2 diabetes. In this work we investigated the possible alterations in mitochondrial energetic metabolism of Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats during the progression of the disease, since glucose metabolism is closely related to intracellular ATP content. For that reason, respiratory indexes (state 4, state 3, RCR and ADP/O) were evaluated either in the presence of NAD- or FAD-linked substrates (glutamate + malate and succinate, respectively) in mitochondrial preparations of GK and control rats with 8, 12, 26 and 52 weeks of age. Until the age of 1 year (52 weeks) we found no impairment of mitochondrial respiratory indexes both in the presence of glutamate + malate and succinate. In conclusion, this study indicates that GK rat is a good model for studying the initial events of diabetes, since it presents no impairment of liver mitochondrial functions during the first year of life, contrasting clearly with pharmacological induced diabetes.
To determine the origin of the large myelinated fibers in the anterolateral funiculus (ALF) in the spinal cord of humans, myelinated fibers in the ALF of the mid-cervical spinal cord were examined quantitatively. Five groups of subjects were examined, consisting of control subjects, patients with cerebral lesions and showing complete degeneration of the unilateral/bilateral pyramis of the medulla oblongata, those with lesions of the pontine tegmentum, those with lesions of the lower cervical spinal cord, and those with thoracic/lumbar lesions. The results indicate that the large myelinated fibers in the ALF of the mid-cervical spinal cord of humans originate from the tegmentum of the brain stem and the lower cervical spinal cord, and not from the cerebrum, or the thoracic or lumbar spinal cord. Thus, they are descending fibers from the brain stem tegmentum and ascending fibers from the lower cervical cord, and not corticospinal tracts or long-ascending fibers from the thoracic or lumbar spinal cord. The origin of the large myelinated fibers in the ALF of the spinal cord in humans, the number of which was severely decreased in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, is considered to be the long-descending neurons in the brain stem tegmentum and the propriospinal neurons in the spinal cord.
p27/kip1 regulates the G1-S transition of the cell cycle by inhibiting cyclinD-CDK4, cyclinE-CDK2 and cyclinA-CDK2 complexes. Regulation of p27 levels occurs mainly post-translationally by ubiquitin-mediated proteasomal proteolysis. Although genetic changes of p27/kip1 are extremely rare, in many human carcinomas p27 levels are reduced, correlate with histological malignancy, and are associated with poor prognosis. In astrocytic gliomas, p27 decreases with anaplasia and is almost absent in glioblastomas. p27/kip1 was immunohistochemically studied in 37 oligodendrogliomas, categorized according to WHO classification. In this series, the immunohistochemical reaction for p27 was confined to nuclei. p27 score showed a tendency to decrease with malignancy. When the p27 score was considered as high versus low expression (cut-off of p27 labeling index, LI, at 25%), it represented an independent prognostic factor in univariate (P = 0.02) and in multivariate analysis (P = 0.04). The risk ratio suggested that the p27 low expression group had a threefold increased possibility to show a reduced survival. Moreover, p27 levels did not correlate with MIB-1 LI, suggesting that p27 is not merely associated with the control of proliferation.



There is no gold standard for rehabilitation of geriatric patients. Although many studies indicate that a multifaceted team approach, such as seen with specialized stroke units, may enhance outcomes for many patients, how these units achieve this is still unclear. However, the evidence shows that a comprehensive program of both medical and psychosocial support tends to result in patients achieving and maintaining higher levels of function, with less need for readmission, and shorter hospital stays. In addition to interventions aimed at improving function, rehabilitation includes assessment, goal setting, and provision of care to maintain the patient's status. More randomized controlled studies of rehabilitation programs are needed so that we can identify which programs are best for which patients.
A laboratory exercise is described in which students in a neuroscience, psychobiology, or similar laboratory course record the electromyogram (EMG) from themselves, using surface electrodes (placed on the skin). This exercise is intended to give students a firsthand demonstration that electrical activity is produced within them and to allow the students to use this activity to study biological and psychological concepts. The students study the nature of the EMG (changes with tension and the temporal relationship with limb movement) and the concepts of flexion and extension, reaction time, and patellar (&quot;knee jerk&quot;) reflex. In postlaboratory evaluations, undergraduate introductory neuroscience students indicated that they appreciated the opportunity to record electrical activity from their own bodies. The students found the exercise enjoyable, believed that they had learned from it, and indicated that it should be a regular part of the course. If electrophysiology in animal preparations is already part of the course, this exercise requires minimal additional equipment, some of which is easily constructed and the reminder of which is available inexpensively.
The pigeon's main source of regulated heat production, shivering, is especially likely to be used for thermoregulation during the dark phase of the day when there is little heat from locomotor activity. However, food stored in the pigeon's crop is digested during the night, and digestion-related thermogenesis (DRT) will provide heat that should decrease the need for shivering to maintain body temperature (Tb). We investigated the conditions under which DRT alters the occurrence of nocturnal shivering thermogenesis in pigeons. In fasting experiments, in which DRT was minimal, variations in pectoral shivering were closely related to the kinetics of nocturnal Tb when the ambient temperature (Ta) was moderate (21 degrees C). In that case, shivering was low while Tb fell at the beginning of the night, moderate during the nocturnal plateau in Tb, and strong during the prelight increase in Tb. Similar kinetics of nocturnal Tb occurred when Ta = 28 degrees C, but shivering was negligible throughout the dark phase. In restricted feeding experiments, nocturnal DRT was varied by providing different amounts of food late in the light phase. When Ta = 21 degrees C, 11 degrees C, and 1 degrees C, nocturnal Tb and O2 consumption were directly related to the amount of food ingested. However, nocturnal shivering tended to decrease as the food load increased and was significantly reduced at the higher loads. Because nocturnal shivering did not become more efficient in producing heat as the size of the food load increased, we conclude that nocturnal DRT decreased the need for shivering thermogenesis.
To clarify the influence of gender on sympathetic and parasympathetic control of heart rate in middle-aged subjects and on the subsequent aging process, heart rate variability (HRV) was studied in normal populations of women (n = 598) and men (n = 472) ranging in age from 40 to 79 yr. These groups were divided into eight age strata at 5-yr intervals and were clinically diagnosed as having no hypertension, hypotension, diabetic neuropathy, or cardiac arrhythmia. Frequency-domain analysis of short-term, stationary R-R intervals was performed, which reveals very-low-frequency power (VLF; 0.003-0.04 Hz), low-frequency power (LF; 0.04-0.15 Hz), high-frequency power (HF; 0.15-0.40 Hz), the ratio of LF to HF (LF/HF), and LF and HF power in normalized units (LF% and HF%, respectively). The distribution of variance, VLF, LF, HF, and LF/HF exhibited acute skewness, which was adjusted by natural logarithmic transformation. Women had higher HF in the age strata from 40 to 49 yr, whereas men had higher LF% and LF/HF between 40 and 59 yr. No disparity in HRV measurements was found between the sexes in age strata &gt;/=60 yr. Although absolute measurements of HRV (variance, VLF, LF, and HF) decreased linearly with age, no significant change in relative measurements (LF/HF, LF%, and HF%), especially in men, was detected until age 60 yr. We conclude that middle-aged women and men have a more dominant parasympathetic and sympathetic regulation of heart rate, respectively. The gender-related difference in parasympathetic regulation diminishes after age 50 yr, whereas a significant time delay for the disappearance of sympathetic dominance occurs in men.



Neuroimaging in motor neuron disease (MND) is currently performed to exclude other pathologies, though abnormalities may be seen which are consistent with the diagnosis. We report a patient with rapidly progressive MND exhibiting extensive changes on a variety of contemporary magnetic resonance images, which is most likely to represent severe corticospinal tract degeneration.

A prevalence study of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) was performed in New South Wales (NSW), Australia, with a prevalence day of August 6, 1996, which coincided with a national census. The population of NSW was 5,995,544, and the crude prevalence of CIDP was 1.9 per 100,000 population. It was higher in male patients than in female patients, and the age-specific prevalence reached a maximum of 6.7 per 100,000 population in the 70- to 79-year-old age group. The prevalence in the city of Newcastle, with a population of 448,663, was 2.0 per 100,000 population and is representative of the whole of NSW. The estimated crude annual incidence was 0.15 per 100,000 population. The mean age of onset was 47.6 years (median, 53.5 years), 51% of patients had a relapsing-remitting course, the mean duration on prevalence day was 7.1 years (median, 5 years), and 87% of patients were able to walk without walking aids or other assistance.
The mechanisms for the formation of autophagic vacuoles were investigated using GH4C1 cells, a rat pituitary tumor cell line, whose induction increases intracellular levels of lysosomal proteinases and their mRNA by treatment with a combination of hormones (17beta-estradiol, insulin and EGF). By ordinary electron microscopy, autophagic vacuoles containing various undigested structures with or without limiting membranes were abundant in the hormone-induced cells. These vacuoles, also containing numerous small vesicles, appeared to be derived from multivesicular bodies. In fact, there were also numerous C-shaped multivesicular bodies which enclosed cytoplasmic portions, suggesting that these unique structures are involved in the production of the autophagic vacuoles. Moreover, the cytoplasmic portions enlapped by the C-shaped multivesicular bodies were high in electron density and contained filamentous structures. By the cryothin-section immunogold method, the C-shaped multivesicular bodies in some cases contained lysosomal marker proteins such as cathepsins B and H, and Igp 120. Using an anti-actin monoclonal antibody, immunogold particles clearly labeled the cytoplasmic portions enclosed by the C-shaped multivesicular bodies. Pulse-chase experiments with horse radish peroxidase, a fluid-phase endocytic marker, revealed that the incidence of the C-shaped multivesicular bodies labeled with horse radish peroxidase peaked at 30 min after the beginning of chase incubation, whereas no C-shaped multivesicular body with horse radish peroxidase was detected in the cells by cytochalasin D treatment. These results suggest that the C-shaped multivesicular bodies occur in a transitional process from endosomes to lysosomes by the action of actin filaments, and that this morphological change may be essential for the production of autophagic vacuoles in the hormone-induced GH4C1 cells.

The normal functioning of the central nervous system (CNS) requires complex interactions among numerous biological components. The pathophysiology of perturbations in this system is as complex as that of neurological disease. Many methods exist to examine the biological output of dysfunctional cells from a diseased system (e.g., immunohistochemical analysis, electrophysiology, and microdialysis), with one goal being to understand the mechanisms of cell death. This understanding may allow the design of therapeutic strategies to prevent cell death and ensuing behavioral abnormalities. Analysis of messenger RNA (mRNA) levels for various genes in CNS tissue may enhance understanding of neurological disease, since cells differ in the complement and abundance of genes they express. One popular method for detecting changes in gene expression is the Northern blot technique, in which total RNA from a sample is extracted and the RNA molecules are separated by size on a denaturing gel and transferred or &quot;blotted&quot; onto nylon membranes that are then probed with radiolabeled DNA for subsequent autoradiograpic detection of gene expression.


On the pediatric neurosciences unit of British Columbia's Children's Hospital we are in the throes of a nursing staff crisis. In the last year alone we hired ten new graduates to work as casuals on our unit. With a two and a half day hospital orientation, five preceptor shifts, and a Competency Based Education Plan in hand, we send them off to the trenches. We know these nurses have little nursing experience and even less Neuroscience nursing experience. Yet, we expect them to care for patients and families whose problems they may not understand. For a preceptor, and senior colleague, this is a disturbing situation. We recognize that in their orientation shifts they have not even begun to experience the challenges of a Neuroscience unit. Have they cared for a child who has had a postoperative laminectomy? Do they recognize subtle seizures? Have they sat with a family who have just learned that their child has a brain tumor? No. We expect them to care for patients and families with minimal support. This is the reality of nursing today. Many of us pride ourselves on being committed pediatric Neuroscience nurses. Our physicians rely upon our assessment skills and they trust our intuition! We believe we have earned that trust. How can we convey our enthusiasm and excitement to our perceptees so they are motivated to stay and become experienced pediatric Neuroscience nurses? In this presentation we outline our paper to remedy this situation.
Studies on adult animals and humans have shown that the ACTH4-9 analog ORG 2766 influences cognitive performance and possibly has neurotrophic effects. For this reason we studied the effect of ORG 2766 applied in early postnatal life when brain structures and neuronal pathways are still developing. Our aim was to see whether such treatment during development would result in permanent changes in adult behavioural performance. Pups received subcutaneous injections of 1 microg/g bodyweight ACTH4-9 analog ORG 2766 on day 1, 3 and 5 after birth. Control animals in the same nest received saline injections. When the animals had reached an adult age of 3 months they were subjected to a series of tests to measure their behavioural performance. In the first experiment, behavioural stress responses and anxiety were measured by subjecting the rats to the following tests: open field, defensive burying, elevated plus maze, and conditioned fear test. In a second experiment, adult cognitive function was measured in the Morris water-maze, a hippocampus-related spatial learning test, and in the active avoidance test, a more amygdala-related nonspatial test. The results showed that animals treated with ORG 2766 during early postnatal life learned faster in the spatial Morris water-maze. The treatment had a positive effect on performance during the acquisition phase of the learning task, while memory retrieval was not affected. Learning in the nonspatial active avoidance task did not change due to the postnatal ACTH4-9 treatment. In addition, there were no differences in the open field test, the defensive burying test, elevated plus maze and the conditioned fear test. The latter supports the conclusion that the differences in water-maze performance was due to a difference in learning speed, rather than a difference in anxiety or behavioural stress reactivity. Analysis of [3H]CORT binding capacity measured after the learning tests revealed no differences in the hippocampal MR and GR concentration between non-treated and treated animals.
The present study was undertaken to assess the motivational aspects of social behaviour in juvenile and adult rats using the conditioned place preference (CPP) test and anticipatory behaviour for social contact. In addition, the consequences of social isolation during different periods of age on the motivational properties of sucrose-drinking and adult social behaviour were studied. Social play and adult social contact could be used as incentives for place preference conditioning and for inducing conditioned hyperactivity (anticipation) in rats. Both social activities have motivational properties for individually housed rats, whereas group-housing dramatically reduced the motivational aspects of adult social contact. In contrast, sucrose-drinking appears to have motivational aspects independent of the housing condition. Adult social behaviour could not induce a CPP in juvenile isolated rats, suggesting that juvenile isolation during 4 5 weeks reduced the motivational aspects of adult social contact. It seems likely that no CPP was established as a result of the reduced level of social behaviour during the conditioning sessions. Additionally, juvenile isolation during 4-5 weeks appeared to also decrease the motivational properties of sucrose-drinking in maturity, because the intensity of anticipation in response to sucrose was significantly suppressed. Thus, the data suggest that juvenile isolation during 4-5 weeks decreases the motivational properties of both social contact and sucrose-drinking in later life.
Most animal models of focal injury to the sensorimotor cortex have been aimed at detecting non-use or impairment of the limbs in specific tasks or during spontaneous exploratory behaviors. However, the inability to hold a limb still can be an equally disabling movement disorder. The present study investigated the loss of control of limb immobility that occurs following damage to the forelimb region of the rat sensorimotor cortex (FL-SMC). When swimming forward in a tank of water, adult rats typically hold both forepaws mostly motionless underneath the chin, using primarily the hindlimbs for stroking movements. Following a unilateral FL-SMC lesion, rats hold only the non-impaired forelimb immobile under the chin, and make 'immature' stroking movements with the impaired forelimb. We have devised a simple means of assessing and quantifying this deficit. While the criterion for most tests of motor recovery involves appropriate movement of an impaired limb, this test depends on adequate inhibition of movement as the norm, and may be a useful way to assess the loss of inhibitory motor control and the efficacy of potential restorative interventions.


A new automated method of compliance measurement has been developed which may overcome some of the problems of the manual method. Measurement of craniospinal compliance in brain-injured patients offers the potential for early detection of raised intracranial pressure (ICP) before it rises to levels that may damage brain parenchyma. However, limitations of the existing manual volume pressure techniques have meant few centres routinely perform compliance testing. We report on the results of testing this new method against a manual volume pressure response method (VPR) in 10 patients with hydrocephalus. In this comparison study, 19 pairs of compliance measurements were obtained from 10 patients. The compliance values obtained ranged from 0.141 to 1.407 ml/mmHg. There was a good correlation between the two methods (r2 = 0.8508). The average bias in compliance between the two methods was 0.111 ml/mmHg (95% CL for the bias = 0.0438, 0.1788) with the new method reading higher compliance than the manual method. These results indicate that the new automatic method of compliance measurement correlates well with an independent and classical measurement of compliance, and defines the bias and limits of agreement by which the new method measures craniospinal compliance in patients with hydrocephalus. Further work is needed to validate this device over a wider compliance range, especially at the lower compliance range often found in head injured patients. Studies are also required to determine the normal range of compliance values in the patient populations who undergo ICP monitoring. Research into determining which patient populations may benefit from continuous compliance measurement is warranted.
1. The treatment of Parkinson's disease relies predominantly upon dopamine replacement therapy, usually with l-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA). However, side-effects of long-term treatment, such as L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias can be more debilitating than the disease itself. Non-dopaminergic treatment strategies might therefore be advantageous. 2. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential anti-parkinsonian efficacy of the kappa-opioid receptor agonist, enadoline, and the alpha-adrenoreceptor agonist, clonidine, both alone or in combination, in the reserpine-treated rat model of Parkinson's disease. 3. Rats were treated with reserpine (3 mg kg-1), and experiments carried out 18 h later, at which time they exhibited profound akinesia (normal animals 1251+/-228 mobile counts h-1, reserpine-treated animals 9+/-2 mobile counts h-1). Both enadoline and clonidine increased locomotion in reserpine-treated rats in a dose-dependent manner. The maximum locomotor-stimulating effect of enadoline alone was seen at a dose of 0.2 mg kg-1 (208+/-63 mobile counts h-1). The maximum effect of clonidine was seen at a dose of 2 mg kg-1 (536+/-184 mobile counts h-1). 4. Co-administration of enadoline (0.1 mg kg-1) and clonidine (0.01 - 0.1 mg kg-1) at sub-threshold doses, synergistically increased locomotion. 5. The synergistic stimulation of locomotion in the reserpine-treated rat involved activation of kappa-opioid receptors and a combination of both alpha1 and alpha2-adrenoreceptors. 6. The results presented suggest a need for further studies on the potential of stimulating kappa-opioid and/or alpha-adrenoreceptors as a therapy for Parkinson's disease. Furthermore, the studies may offer potential mechanistic explanations of the ability of alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist to reduce L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.
1. In this study we have examined the use of the ecdysone-inducible mammalian expression system (Invitrogen) for the regulation of expression of the predominant L-glutamate transporter EAAT2 (Excitatory Amino Acid Transporter) in HEK 293 cells. 2. HEK 293 cells which were stably transformed with the regulatory vector pVgRXR (EcR 293 cells) were used for transfection of the human EAAT2 cDNA using the inducible vector pIND and a clone designated HEK/EAAT2 was selected for further characterization. 3. Na+-dependent L-glutamate uptake activity (3.2 pmol min-1 mg-1) was observed in EcR 293 cells and this was increased approximately 2 fold in the uninduced HEK/EAAT2 cells, indicating a low level of basal EAAT2 activity in the absence of exogenous inducing agent. Exposure of HEK/EAAT2 cells to the ecdysone analogue Ponasterone A (10 microM for 24 h) resulted in a &gt; or = 10 fold increase in the Na+-dependent activity. 4. L-glutamate uptake into induced HEK/EAAT2 cells followed first-order Michaelis-Menten kinetics and Eadie-Hofstee transformation of the saturable uptake data produced estimates of kinetic parameters as follows; Km 52.7+/-7.5 microM, Vmax 3.8+/-0.9 nmol min-1 mg-1 protein. 5. The pharmacological profile of the EAAT2 subtype was characterized using a series of L-glutamate transport inhibitors and the rank order of inhibitory potency was similar to that described previously for the rat homologue GLT-1 and in synaptosomal preparations from rat cortex. 6. Addition of the EAAT2 modulator arachidonic acid resulted in an enhancement (155+/-5% control in the presence of 30 microM) of the L-glutamate transport capacity in the induced HEK/EAAT2 cells. 7. This study demonstrates that the expression of EAAT2 can be regulated in a mammalian cell line using the ecdysone-inducible mammalian expression system.
1. In this study we report a new assay of heterodimeric gamma-amino-butanoic acid subtype B (GABAB) receptors where either GABABR1a or GABABR1b are co-expressed with GABABR2 and the chimeric G-protein Galphaq-z5 in tsA cells. In this manner we obtained a robust response to GABAB agonists measured as increase in phosphoinositide hydrolysis. 2. We used this assay to characterize a number of commonly used GABAB receptor ligands. Both splice variants displayed the same rank order of agonist potency; 3-aminopropyl(methyl)phosphinic acid (SKF-97541)&gt;GABA&gt;(R)-4-amino-3-(4-chlorophenyl)butanoic acid ((R)-baclofen)&gt;(RS)-4-amino-3-(5-chloro-2-thienyl)butanoic acid (BCTG)&gt;3-aminopropylphosphonic acid (3-APPA) and furthermore, the absolute agonist potency values were very close to each other. 3. 3-APPA was a partial agonist displaying maximal responses of 41 and 61% compared to GABA at GABABR1a and GABABR1b, respectively. The antagonist (RS)-3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-hydroxypropylsulphonic acid (2-OH-saclofen) displayed KB values of 15 and 7.8 microM at GABABR1a and GABABR1b, respectively. 4. The rank order of agonist potency as well as the absolute ligand potencies correspond very well with those previously reported in different tissues, and this study thus provides a functional assay of cloned GABAB receptors which should be a valuable tool for further characterization of GABAB ligands. Finally, we can conclude that the functional pharmacological profiles of the two GABABR1 splice variants are very similar.
Air-puff stimulation applied to a fingertip is known to exert a location-specific facilitatory effect on the size of the motor evoked potentials elicited in hand muscles by transcranial magnetic stimulation. In order to clarify its nature and the pathway responsible for its generation, we studied 27 patients with discrete lesions in the brain (16, 9 and 2 patients with lesions in the cerebral cortex, thalamus and brainstem, respectively). Facilitation was absent in patients with lesions affecting the primary sensorimotor area, whereas it was preserved in patients with cortical lesions that spared this area. Facilitation was abolished with thalamic lesions that totally destroyed the nucleus ventralis posterolateralis (VPL), but was preserved with lesions that at least partly spared it. Lesions of the spinothalamic tract did not impair facilitation. The size of the N20-P25 component of the somatosensory evoked potential showed a mild correlation with the amount of facilitation. The facilitation is mainly mediated by sensory inputs that ascend the dorsal column and reach the cortex through VPL. These are fed into the primary motor area via the primary sensory area, especially its anterior portion, corresponding to Brodmann areas 3 and 1 (possibly also area 2), without involving other cortical regions. The spinothalamic tract and direct thalamic inputs into the motor cortex do not contribute much to this effect. Some patients could generate voluntary movements despite the absence of the facilitatory effect. The present method will enable us to investigate in humans the function of one of the somatotopically organized sensory feedback input pathways into the motor cortex, and will be useful in monitoring ongoing finger movements during object manipulation.
Experimental and clinical studies in animals and humans have indicated that nociceptive nerve fibres can acquire sensitivity to norepinephrine after injury or chemical sensitization. To evaluate the functional relevance of such sensitization, we recorded the activity of single polymodal C-fibre afferents in healthy human volunteers and investigated whether intense physiological sympatho-excitation could affect their firing properties. This was studied before and after chemical sensitization of receptive fields by topical application of mustard oil. All afferent C fibres investigated (11 units in 10 subjects) were mechano-heat-sensitive, and four of seven fibres subjected to mustard oil were also chemosensitive. Putative sensitivity to sympathetic stimulation was investigated during low-frequency (0.25 Hz) electrical stimulation of the unit receptive field at a threshold intensity sufficient to evoke an action potential in the afferent fibre after every second to third stimulus. Following a prolonged period of silent rest, sympathoexcitation was elicited by forced mental arithmetic for 60 s, again followed by a long silent rest period. During stress, sympathetic nerve traffic increased to 625 +/- 146% of the control level, while firing of the afferent units remained unchanged. There was no sign of sympathetically mediated direct activation of afferent units and no change in the relative amounts of afferent activations caused by the background electrical stimulation. Results were similar for all units, both before (seven units in six subjects) and after (seven units in seven subjects) chemical sensitization of their cutaneous receptive field. The results suggest that if chemical sensitization of nociceptive C afferent neurons with mustard oil does induce sensitivity to noradrenaline in humans, it is not sufficient to make C nociceptive fibres respond to short-lasting physiological variations in sympathetic outflow.
Any integrated theory of mind and behavior must address the dynamic interaction between neurobiological and sociocultural systems as possible causes for human action. Newer findings within the behavioral neurosciences have pointed to the brain's exceptional plasticity and flexibility and suggest that one's surroundings, including one's cultural environment, may directly influence the way the human nervous system becomes organized. In this paper, a preliminary connectionist model of culture-brain interaction is proposed in an effort to illustrate the possible contribution of cultural factors to the development of the individual human brain.
Three experiments investigated face processing in children with Williams syndrome (WS). In Experiment 1, the ability to discriminate different aspects of faces was compared between WS subjects and a group of children individually matched for chronological age (CA-matches) and another group matched for mental age (MA-matches). In Experiments 2 and 3, the ability to process the local and configural aspects of geometrical patterns and faces was assessed within the same groups of subjects. The results indicated that the WSs' overall performance on face recognition was below that of the CA-matches, but similar to that of the MA-matches. This study revealed in addition that the CA- and MA-matches showed a bias toward a configural mode of face and geometrical shape processing, whereas children with WS did not show any bias. These findings suggest that face processing undergoes an abnormal developmental course in WS.
Damage to frontal areas has been associated with nonaphasic language disturbances in which word and sentence level processes remain largely intact but text level processes are impaired. Most studies providing evidence for these language deficits have concentrated on text production. To study text comprehension of nonaphasic patients, we adopted the paradigm of Anderson and Pichert (1978) that was developed to separate encoding from retrieval processes. Subjects read a story under one of two alternative perspectives and subsequently recalled it. After this first recall, they were instructed to now adopt the second perspective and to recall the story once more. Twenty-four brain-injured patients participated. Each patient's lesion was evaluated with respect to the involvement of right- and/or left-frontal regions. Seven patients showed unilateral left-frontal lesions, five patients unilateral right-frontal lesions, four patients had bilateral frontal damage, and the lesions of the remaining eight patients did not involve frontal areas. The only factor predicting behavioral results was the presence of a left-frontal lesion. For patients without frontal lesions and patients with unilateral right-frontal lesions, we replicated previously reported results. Encoding relevant information was recalled better than other information. Furthermore, the switch of perspective aided recall of perspective relevant information during the second recall. In contrast, patients with left-frontal or bilateral frontal lesions could not make use of the perspective instructions. While they showed comparable recall performance, as well as sensitivity to the relative ease of information, neither the encoding instructions nor the switch instructions had an impact on the recall patterns. These results suggest that left-frontal damage leads to an impairment of goal directed text processing skills.
The measurement of the total level of nitric oxide (NO) metabolite (NO(x)(-)) by microdialysis has recently been used to assess the production of NO in the in vivo brain [D. Luo, S. Knezevich, S.R. Vincent, N-Methyl-D-aspartate-induced nitric oxide release: an in vivo microdialysis study, Neuroscience, 57 (1993), 897-900; K. Ohta, N. Arai, M. Shibata, J. Hamada, S. Komatsumoto, K. Shimazu, Y. Fukuuchi, A novel in vivo system for consecutive measurement of brain nitric oxide production combined with the microdialysis technique, Neurosci. Lett., 176 (1994), 165-168; K. Shintani, S. Kanba, T. Nakai, K. Sato, G. Yagi, R. Kato, M. Arai, Measurement by in vivo microdialysis of nitric oxide release in the rat cerebellum, J. Psychiatr. Neurosci., 3 (1994), 217-221; H. Togashi, K. Mori, K. Ueno, M. Matsumoto, N. Suda, H. Saito, M. Yoshika, Consecutive evaluation of nitric oxide production after transient cerebral ischemia in the rat hippocampus using in vivo brain microdialysis, Neurosci. Lett., 240 (1998), 53-57]. Although several methods are available for detecting NO(x)(-) levels in dialysates, these methods are either not sensitive enough or require expensive experimental equipment. The method described herein provides a convenient and sensitive procedure for determining NO(x)(-) levels in dialysates. This method is useful for the in vivo study of NO production from various brain regions in various pathological conditions, and can be applied to other tissues.
In this paper, we describe a fast (within 1 h) and efficient method for the preparation of intact genomic DNA suitable for the analysis of DNA integrity in neuronal cells undergoing apoptosis. The procedure involves the embedding of apoptotic cells into low-melting point agarose, in situ cell lysis and purification of DNA samples followed by resolution of fragmented DNA by agarose gel electrophoresis. The method has no restrictions on the number of simultaneous DNA preparations, allows detection of both high and low molecular weight DNA fragments, and is suitable for the preparation of DNA samples from cultured cells, fresh or frozen tissues, as well as from purified nuclei. This procedure is also applicable for the preparation of intact genomic DNA for the megabase-scale analysis.
Studies addressing behavioral functions of dopamine (DA) in the nucleus accumbens septi (NAS) are reviewed. A role of NAS DA in reward has long been suggested. However, some investigators have questioned the role of NAS DA in rewarding effects because of its role in aversive contexts. As findings supporting the role of NAS DA in mediating aversively motivated behaviors accumulate, it is necessary to accommodate such data for understanding the role of NAS DA in behavior. The aim of the present paper is to provide a unifying interpretation that can account for the functions of NAS DA in a variety of behavioral contexts: (1) its role in appetitive behavioral arousal, (2) its role as a facilitator as well as an inducer of reward processes, and (3) its presently undefined role in aversive contexts. The present analysis suggests that NAS DA plays an important role in sensorimotor integrations that facilitate flexible approach responses. Flexible approach responses are contrasted with fixed instrumental approach responses (habits), which may involve the nigro-striatal DA system more than the meso-accumbens DA system. Functional properties of NAS DA transmission are considered in two stages: unconditioned behavioral invigoration effects and incentive learning effects. (1) When organisms are presented with salient stimuli (e.g., novel stimuli and incentive stimuli), NAS DA is released and invigorates flexible approach responses (invigoration effects). (2) When proximal exteroceptive receptors are stimulated by unconditioned stimuli, NAS DA is released and enables stimulus representations to acquire incentive properties within specific environmental context. It is important to make a distinction that NAS DA is a critical component for the conditional formation of incentive representations but not the retrieval of incentive stimuli or behavioral expressions based on over-learned incentive responses (i.e., habits). Nor is NAS DA essential for the cognitive perception of environmental stimuli. Therefore, even without normal NAS DA transmission, the habit response system still allows animals to perform instrumental responses given that the tasks take place in fixed environment. Such a role of NAS DA as an incentive-property constructor is not limited to appetitive contexts but also aversive contexts. This dual action of NAS DA in invigoration and incentive learning may explain the rewarding effects of NAS DA as well as other effects of NAS DA in a variety of contexts including avoidance and unconditioned/conditioned increases in open-field locomotor activity. Particularly, the present hypothesis offers the following interpretation for the finding that both conditioned and unconditioned aversive stimuli stimulate DA release in the NAS: NAS DA invigorates approach responses toward 'safety'. Moreover, NAS DA modulates incentive properties of the environment so that organisms emit approach responses toward 'safety' (i.e., avoidance responses) when animals later encounter similar environmental contexts. There may be no obligatory relationship between NAS DA release and positive subjective effects, even though these systems probably interact with other brain systems which can mediate such effects. The present conceptual framework may be valuable in understanding the dynamic interplay of NAS DA neurochemistry and behavior, both normal and pathophysiological.
The zebrafish (Danio rerio) has been used as a model in neuroscience but knowledge about its behavior is limited. The aim of this study was to determine the preference of this fish species for a dark or light environment. Initially we used a place preference test and in a second experiment we applied an exit latency test. A two-chamber aquarium was used for the preference test. The aquarium consisted of a black chamber and a white chamber. In the first experiment the animal was placed in the aquarium and the time spent in the two compartments was recorded for 10 min. More time was spent in the black compartment (Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed-rank test, T = 7, N1 = N2 = 18, P = 0.0001). In the second experiment the animal was placed in the black or white compartment and the time it took to go from the initial compartment to the opposite one was recorded. The test lasted a maximum of 10 min. The results showed that the animal spent more time to go from the black to the white compartment (Mann-Whitney rank sum test, T = 48, N1 = 9, N2 = 8, P&lt;0.0230). These data suggest that this fish species has a natural preference for a dark environment and this characteristic can be very useful for the development of new behavioral paradigms for fish.
The aims of this study were to construct and develop a self-administered assessment instrument, useful for studying clients' own perception of accessibility and usability in their housing environment, and to test the instrument for reliability. It was developed for use in combination with an objective, norm-based assessment of the physical housing environment, the Enabler instrument. The instrument developed in this study contains 31 questions about different aspects of the physical housing environment. Answers are given on a 7-point rating scale. Content validity was established by the use of an expert panel and pilot testing, followed by a test-retest study. Internal consistency of the instrument was good (Cronbach's alpha 0.96), and very good to moderate agreement between the two ratings was found on all items (mean weighted kappa, Kw 0.71) indicating good reliability. However, the removal of three items from the standardized part of the instrument is suggested. The instrument has a client-centred approach and is a valid and reliable tool, useful for occupational therapy practice and research.
This paper considers 3 questions addressed by the National Institute of Mental Health's Collaborative Multimodal Treatment Study of Children With Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), the MTA study, of pharmacological and behavioural interventions for 7- to 9-year-old ADHD children. First, do behavioural interventions represent a viable treatment option for families of children with ADHD? Second, what are the relative benefits of behavioural and pharmacological interventions? Finally, are there advantages to combining behavioural and pharmacological interventions for children with ADHD? In the absence of secondary analyses, the MTA's primary intent-to-treat analyses released to date are difficult to interpret. While behavioural interventions represented a viable option for many families, the doses achieved via systematic titration and follow-up medication-management protocols yielded larger effect sizes on unblinded primary symptom reports than did behavioural treatments or the medication management used by most families in the community control conditions. Finally, while combined medication and behavioural management demonstrates some benefits, a more definitive conclusion awaits a detailed presentation of secondary analyses and follow-up data.

Cathepsin A/protective protein [3.4.16.5], carboxypeptidase A, is a lysosomal serine protease with structural homology to yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) carboxypeptidase Y. Cathepsin A is a member of the alpha/beta hydrolase fold family and has been suggested to share a common ancestral relationship with other alpha/beta hydrolase fold enzymes, such as cholinesterases. Several lines of evidence indicate that cathepsin A is a multicatalytic enzyme with deamidase and esterase in addition to carboxypeptidase activities. Cathepsin A was recently identified in human platelets as deamidase. In vitro, it hydrolyzes a variety of bioactive peptide hormones including tachykinins, suggesting that extralysosomal cathepsin A plays a role in regulation of bioactive peptide functions. Recent reports emphasize the lysosomal protective function of cathepsin A rather than its protease function. The protective function of cathepsin A is distinct from its catalytic function. Human lysosomal beta-galactosidase and neuraminidase exist as a high molecular weight enzyme complex, in which there is a 54-kDa glycoprotein termed 'lysosomal protective protein'. Based on cell culture studies, protective protein was found to protect both beta-galactosidase and neuraminidase from intralysosomal proteolysis by forming a multienzyme complex and was shown to be deficient in patients with galactosialidosis, a combined deficiency of beta-galactosidase and neuraminidase. Molecular cloning and gene expression studies have disclosed that protective protein is cathepsin A. The cathepsin A precursor has the potential to restore both beta-galactosidase and neuraminidase activities in fibroblasts from patients with galactosialidosis. Cathepsin A knockout mice showed a phenotype similar to human galactosialidosis and the deficient phenotype found in the mutant mice was corrected by transplanting erythroid precursor cells overexpressing cathepsin A. Collectively, these findings demonstrate the significance of cathepsin A as a key molecule in the onset of galactosialidosis and also highlight the therapeutic potential of the cathepsin A precursor for patients with galactosialidosis.
1. To study proteins transported with actin in axons, we pulse-labeled motoneurons in the chicken sciatic nerve with [35S]methionine and, 1-20 days later, isolated actin and its binding proteins by affinity chromatography of Triton soluble nerve extracts on DNase I-Sepharose. The DNase I-purified proteins were electrophoresed on two-dimensional gels and the specific activity of the radioactively labeled protein spots was estimated by fluorography. 2. In addition to actin, which binds specifically to DNase I, a small number of other proteins were labeled, including established actin monomer binding proteins and a protein of 36 kDa and pI 8.5. On the basis of its molecular mass, pI, amino acid composition, and immunostaining, the unrecognized protein was identified as the glycolytic enzyme glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH). 3. The high-affinity binding of GAPDH to actin was confirmed by incubation of Triton-soluble nerve extracts with either mouse anti-GAPDH (or antiactin) and indirect immunomagnetic separation with Dynabeads covalently linked to sheep anti-mouse antibody. Analysis by one-dimensional gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting showed that actin and GAPDH were the main proteins isolated by these methods. 4. Analysis of labeled nerves at 12 and 20 days after pulse labeling showed that GAPDH and actin were transported at the same rate, i.e., 3-5 mm/day, which corresponds to slow component b of axonal transport. These proteins were not associated with rapidly transported proteins that accumulated proximal to a ligation 7 cm from the spinal cord 9 hr after injection of radioactivity. 5. Our results indicate that GAPDH and actin are transported as a complex in axons and raise the possibility that GAPDH could act as a chaperone for monomeric actin, translocating it to intraaxonal sites for exchange with or assembly into actin filaments. Alternatively, actin could be involved in translocating and anchoring GAPDH to specialized sites in axons and nerve terminals that require a source of ATP by glycolysis.
Connexin 26 (Cx26) has been proposed to be a tumor suppressor gene and its expression may modulate development, cell growth and differentiation in various tissues, including the brain. 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) may serve as either tumor promoter (in mammary gland amd skin) or as a differentiating agent (in neuroblastoma and leukemic cells) and may also modulate expression, function and phosphorylation of gap junctions. In this study, to determine the effects of TPA on Cx26 expression and its function in neuroblastoma, we transfected N2A mouse neuroblastoma cells (which are gap junction deficient) with the coding region of human Cx26 gene (which lacks TPA response elements) and examined the changes of expression and function of Cx26 following 10 nM TPA treatment. Individual clones of transfectants stably expressed distinct levels of exogenous Cx26 as judged by Northern and Western blots, immunocytochemistry and electrophysiological recordings. Cx26 channels displayed unitary conductances of about 140-155 pS. Increase of Cx26 expression following TPA treatment was markedly observed using immunocytochemistry and Western blots of membrane fractions although it was not detected in Northern or Western blots of whole cells. This increase in Cx26 expression in the plasma membrane was accompanied by an increase of function as evidenced in measurements of junctional conductance. These results suggest that induction of exogenous Cx26 in neuroblastoma cells by TPA treatment is controlled by post-translational mechanisms.
The active transport of proteins into and out of the nucleus is mediated by specific signals, the nuclear localization signal (NLS) and nuclear export signal (NES), respectively. The best characterized NLS is that of the SV40 large T antigen, which contains a cluster of basic amino acids. The NESs were first identified in the protein kinase inhibitor (PKI) and HIV Rev protein, which are rich in leucine residues. The SV40 T-NLS containing transport substrates are carried into the nucleus by an importin alpha/beta heterodimer. Importin alpha recognizes the NLS and acts as an adapter between the NLS and importin beta, whereas importin beta interacts with importin alpha bound to the NLS, and acts as a carrier of the NLS/importin alpha/beta trimer. It is generally thought that importin alpha and beta are part of a large protein family. The leucine rich NES-containing proteins are exported from the nucleus by one of the importin beta family molecules, CRM1/exportin 1. A Ras-like small GTPase Ran plays a crucial role in both import/export pathways and determines the directionality of nuclear transport. It has recently been demonstrated in living cells that Ran actually shuttles between the nucleus and the cytoplasm and that the recycling of Ran is essential for the nuclear transport. Furthermore, it has been shown that nuclear transport factor 2 (NTF2) mediates the nuclear import of RanGDP. This review largely focuses on the issue concerning the functional divergence of importin alpha family molecules and the role of Ran in nucleocytoplasmic protein transport.
This study investigated whether the selective 5HT1F receptor agonist LY334370 has other possible antimigraine mechanisms in addition to the proposed inhibition of dural plasma extravasation. LY334370 (up to 10(-5) M) had no vasoconstrictor effects on human cerebral arteries in vitro. It had no effect (up to 10 mg kg-1, i.v.) on neurogenic vasodilation of dural blood vessels produced by electrical stimulation of the dura mater in anesthetized rats. Nor had it any effect (at 3 mg kg-1, i.v.) on the hyperalgesia produced by injection of carrageenan into the paw of conscious rats or on nociceptive reflex responses in the spinalized, decerebrate rabbit (up to 3 mg kg-1, i.v.), indicating that it has no general analgesic properties. However, it significantly inhibited activation of second-order neurons in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis produced by electrical stimulation of the dura mater in anesthetised rats at 3 mg kg-1, i.v. These results provide evidence to suggest that LY334370 has a central mechanism of action in blocking the transmission of nociceptive impulses within the trigeminal nucleus caudalis and that this may represent a mechanism through which it has its antimigraine effect.
Adrenaline is known to affect action potentials induced by the step current injection in an olfactory receptor cell (ORC). It is unclear, however, whether it also modulates action potentials induced by odor stimuli. In the present study, the effects of adrenaline on action potentials in ORCs were investigated quantitatively using a computer simulation. Adrenaline suppressed simulated action potentials induced by step current injection near threshold, and increased spike frequency to strong stimuli by 8-25%. Similar effects were obtained by applying a pseudo-transduction current to a model cell. Surprisingly, adrenaline markedly increased spike frequency to strong stimuli by 30-140%, and increased the slope of the stimulus-response relation compared with that of the step current injection. This suggests that adrenaline enhances odorant contrast in olfactory perception by modulating signal encoding of ORCs.
Two groups of normosmic subjects were instructed to feign a total olfactory loss when tested with the Olfactory Confusion Matrix (OCM). One of the groups was given specific instructions as to the number of odorants and trials in the test, as well as the number of items that might be expected to be correctly identified by chance. The responses of both groups of malingerers were compared with responses gathered from a group of anosmic patients. The groups did not differ in terms of performance level (percent correct). In spite of the similarity in terms of accuracy level, an analysis of the pattern of OCM responses to an irritant allowed the anosmic patients to be distinguished from subjects attempting to feign a loss. Subjects were given explicit details about the test performed at the same level as those simply told to feign a loss. These results suggest that the OCM is an effective tool in separating malingering from anosmia.
The efferent connections of the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) in the rat were studied by anterograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. Rostral to the injection site, fibers travel through the rostral parvocellular reticular formation and deflect medially or laterally around the motor trigeminal nucleus, giving off few terminals in these nuclei and terminate in the parabrachial nucleus. Moderate projections to the peritrigeminal zone, including the intertrigeminal nucleus and the dorsal subcoeruleus nucleus, were observed. Caudally to the injection site, dense innervations from the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract were detected in the parvocellular reticular formation ventral and caudal to the injection site and in the intermediate and ventral medullary reticular formation. The rostral central and ventral subdivisions of the NTS up to the level where the nucleus of the solitary tract abuts the fourth ventricle and the hypoglossal nucleus, receive moderate input from the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract. In general, the projections from the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract were bilateral with an ipsilateral predominance. The caudal part of the nucleus of the solitary tract, the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and the facial nucleus were not labeled. It is concluded that medullary rNTS projections participate in oral motor behavior and autonomic control of abdominal organs.
1. During the past decade, extensive investigation of the endothelin (ET) system, primarily characterized by its potent vasoactive peptide element ET-1, has suggested a prominent role for this humoral agent and its isopeptides in cardiovascular and neural regulation. 2. Major elements of this system, including its peptide isoforms, converting enzymes involved in their formation and metabolism, as well as multiple receptor subtypes, have been localized within various components of the cardiovascular system and the central and peripheral nervous systems. 3. An understanding of the possible roles for the ET system in neural regulation and development has progressed over the past several years; most notable is the influence of ET on the central control of cardiovascular function and sympathetic tone. 4. The present concentrated review of ET and the central and peripheral nervous systems is presented to introduce the other papers within this symposium by briefly describing the presence and influence of components of this unique peptide system within pertinent physiological structures involved in cardiovascular, adrenal, sympathetic and enteric developmental function.


Previous reports concerning the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of pathologic gamblers have described disturbed norepinephrine and dopamine (but not serotonin) functioning in the central nervous system. We analyzed neurotransmitter metabolites in two consecutive 6-mL samples of CSF obtained from 10 pathologic male gamblers punctured at the L4-5 level following 8 hours of fasting along with strict bed rest. Data were compared with those for healthy male controls. In conformity with findings in healthy male controls, we found gradients in CSF 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and homovanillic acid (HVA), but not 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl glycol (HMPG). Expressing the CSF concentrations as nmol x L-1 x min-1 of tapping time (an estimate of the mass flow through the needle), the levels of 5-HIAA and HMPG (but not HVA) were found to be significantly lower in gamblers. Levels of 5-HIAA and HVA showed a significant correlation in gamblers but not in healthy controls. Taking tapping time into account, the CSF levels of HMPG and 5-HIAA were significantly lower in gamblers. We concluded that, in light of previous CSF findings of disturbed norepinephrine and dopamine function, altered indolamine function cannot be fully ruled out.
Various conceptual issues have been brought into focus by recent experiments studying the role of the superior colliculus in the control of coordinated movements of the eyes and head, the interaction of saccadic and vergence movements, and cognitive processes influencing the initiation and execution of saccades.
A major challenge for current research in neuroscience is to understand the intrinsic operation of the functional modules of the central nervous system, such as those formed by cortical columns and the neuronal networks controlling motor behaviour. Most vertebrate experimental models used in network analyses involve developing nervous systems, which are in rapid transition with regard to their cellular properties and the expression of different ion channels. Recent advances in our understanding of the cellular and circuit properties of motor networks are making it possible to decipher the mechanisms involved in vertebrate motor pattern generation.
A number of internal model concepts are now widespread in neuroscience and cognitive science. These concepts are supported by behavioral, neurophysiological, and imaging data; furthermore, these models have had their structures and functions revealed by such data. In particular, a specific theory on inverse dynamics model learning is directly supported by unit recordings from cerebellar Purkinje cells. Multiple paired forward inverse models describing how diverse objects and environments can be controlled and learned separately have recently been proposed. The 'minimum variance model' is another major recent advance in the computational theory of motor control. This model integrates two furiously disputed approaches on trajectory planning, strongly suggesting that both kinematic and dynamic internal models are utilized in movement planning and control.
Evidence for experience-dependent plasticity of the brain, including cell regeneration, means that rehabilitation can aim at reinstituting impaired cognitive function, as well as at training compensatory strategies for the lost function. New theoretical frameworks make predictions regarding the circumstances under which these two approaches should each be attempted. There has been progress over the past 6 years in designing effective rehabilitation strategies, with more of these having a strong theoretical basis in cognitive neuroscience. Basic cognitive science has generated counter-intuitive, but effective cognitive rehabilitation methods, showing that the goal of rehabilitation need not always be the most obvious one dictated by real life performance. Limb Activation Training for unilateral neglect is an example of a theoretically derived cognitive rehabilitation procedure that has now been clinically evaluated in clinical trials.
New findings in basic neuroscience, and the growing knowledge regarding neuroplasticity and motor learning have exerted influence and have provided stimuli for motor rehabilitation research. Repeated motor practice has been identified as crucial for motor recovery. Further novel and scientifically based therapeutic approaches have been developed: constraint-induced movement therapy, electromyogram-initiated neuromuscular stimulation, motor imagery and music therapy are all discussed in the present review.
Recent research into the biologic basis of drug addiction continues to offer considerable promise for understanding how neurochemistry, pharmacology, and molecular biology relate to the reinforcing effects of abused drugs. One area of research is the development and pharmacologic and neurochemical characterization of cocaine and opiate polydrug abuse, a growing subset of the drug abuse population. Considerable advances have also been made in understanding how chronic and persistent drug use induces biochemical and molecular biologic adaptations in brain regions related to drug reinforcement.
This clinical trials review is derived from the presentations made at the Third International Conference on Bipolar Disorder, held June 17-19, 1999 in Pittsburgh, PA, published as abstracts in Bipolar Disorders: An International Journal of Psychiatry and Neurosciences, Edited by Jair C. Soares, and Samuel Gershon. In this review, abstracts reporting on the efficacy of &quot;third generation&quot; anti-epileptic agents, including topiramate, lamotrigine, diphenylhydantoin, gabapentin, and the new generation antipsychotic agent, olanzapine in treating bipolar disorders are reviewed.
Implantation and placentation in the mouse requires successful invasion of the uterine wall by primary and secondary trophoblast giant cells. Their invasive nature depends in part on the upregulation of proteinases for the phagocytosis and extracellular digestion of maternal cells and matrix materials. The work reported here studies the expression of cathepsin proteinases during secondary trophoblast differentiation, and compares the expression patterns to fully differentiated day 8.5 primary trophoblast giant cells. Cathepsins B (CB), L (CL), and D (CD) were found to be upregulated during trophoblast differentiation in vivo at the message and protein level producing expression patterns equivalent to those of primary trophoblast. Invasive trophoblast cells expressed higher levels of the processed or active forms of the enzymes, coinciding with the period of trophoblast phagocytosis of maternal blood, decidual cells, and matrix materials. Trophoblast differentiation in vitro showed a similar upregulation of cathepsin enzymes. The enzymes were localized to heterogeneous vesicles that resembled both lysosomes and heterophagic vesicles. The presence of a large lysosomal population within the giant cells was confirmed by vital staining with acridine orange. Analysis of trophoblast-conditioned media also demonstrated secreted forms of CB and CL. The results suggest that cathepsin enzymes may contribute to trophoblast invasion not only through the intracellular breakdown of molecules phagocytosed by trophoblast cells, but also by the extracellular digestion of matrix molecules and activation of other pro-enzymes.
Aged (23 months) and young (3 months) rats were trained on an operant Matching-To-Position (MTP) task that had either (a) specific outcomes (reinforcers) correlated (differential groups), or (b) outcomes uncorrelated (nondifferential groups) for each correct sample-choice sequence. The traditional version of MTP uses a common outcome and is thought to assess spatial working memory. Aged rats are impaired on the traditional version of MTP. However, aged animals trained with the Differential Outcomes Procedure (DOP) did not display the typical age-related decline in spatial working memory. Differences in choice accuracy between old and young rats reached significance only if the subjects were trained with a nondifferential outcomes procedure (NOP)-similar to when a common outcome is used. These data demonstrate that employing behavioral procedures to tap intact cognitive functions is an effective means of enhancing spatial working memory in normal as well as aged subjects.
A currently favored hypothesis postulates that a single field of cells in the neural plate forms bilateral retinas. To learn how retinal precursors segregate, we followed individual labeled neural plate cells in zebrafish. In the late gastrula, a single field of odd-paired-like-expressing cells contributed to both retinas, bordered posteriorly by diencephalic precursors expressing mariposa. Median mariposa-expressing cells moved anteriorly, separating the eyes, and formed ventral anterior diencephalon, the presumptive hypothalamus. In cyclops mutants, corresponding cells failed to move anteriorly, a ventral diencephalon never formed, and the eyes remained fused. Ablation of the region containing these cells induced cyclopia in wild types. Our results indicate that movement of a median subpopulation of diencephalic precursors separates retinal precursors into left and right eyes. Wild-type cyclops gene function is required for these morphogenetic movements.
Questions of dorsoventral axis determination and patterning in Xenopus seek to uncover the mechanisms by which particular mesodermal fates, for example somite, are specified in the dorsal pole of the axis while other mesoderm fates, for example, ventral blood island (VBI), are specified at the ventral pole. We report here that the genes Xvent-1, Xvent-2, and Xwnt-8 do not appear to be in the pathway of VBI induction, contrary to previous reports. Results from the selective inhibition of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) activity, a key regulator of VBI induction, by ectopic Noggin, Chordin, or dominant negative BMP ligands and receptors suggest an alternative route of VBI induction. Injection of noggin or chordin RNA into animal pole blastomeres effectively inhibited VBI development, while marginal zone injection had no effect. Cell autonomous inhibition of BMP activity in epidermis with dominant negative ligand dramatically reduced the amount of (&amp;agr;)T3 globin expression. These results indicate that signaling activity from the Spemann Organizer alone may not be sufficient for dorsoventral patterning in the marginal zone and that an inductive interaction between presumptive VBIs and ectoderm late in gastrulation may be crucial. In agreement with these observations, other results show that in explanted blastula-stage marginal zones a distinct pattern develops with a restricted VBI-forming region at the vegetal pole that is independent of the patterning activity of the Spemann Organizer.

To evaluate the fluid shift and leg venous compliance during orthostatic stress with advancing age, 12 aged and 5 young healthy males were subjected to graded lower body negative pressures (LBNP) of -5, -10, and -15 mmHg. Cardiovascular variables were monitored continuously, and leg venous compliance was determined by venous occlusion plethysmography. Neither heart rate nor mean arterial pressure changed significantly in any subject during LBNP. A progressive decrease in the thoracic fluid volume index and a gradual increase in the leg fluid volume index, indicating a fluid shift towards the lower body were observed significantly in the young group (p&lt;0.05), while these changes were not significant in the aged group. A linear reduction in peripheral venous pressure could be seen during graded LBNP in all subjects, but the reduction rate was smaller in the aged group. Baseline leg venous compliance was reduced in the elderly (p&lt;0.05). During LBNP, venous compliance decreased in all subjects, but the decrease was significantly smaller in the aged group (p&lt;0.05). It is suggested that the smaller fluid shift and smaller decreased leg venous compliance in aged people during gravitational stress were mainly due to the vascular and ventricular stiffness induced by an age-related reduction in visco-elasticity of the peripheral venous and ventricular walls.
The alterations in the sympathetic nervous system are commonly seen after spaceflight and its ground-based simulation model, 6 degrees head-down bed rest (HDBR). Several studies have examined the effect of HDBR for a few days or a weeks on the vasomotor sympathetic tone at rest. However, it remains unclear how a long-lasting (&gt;50 days) HDBR affects resting vasomotor sympathetic nervous activity. Consequently, we measured muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in six healthy male volunteers (range, 26-42 years) in a resting supine position before and after 60 and 120 days of HDBR. MSNA was measured directly from the tibial nerve using a microneurographic technique. Resting supine MSNA significantly increased after 60 (28.2 +/- 2.7 bursts/min) and 120 (29.4 +/- 4.2 bursts/min) days of HDBR compared with the pre-HDBR level (19.0 +/- 2.3 bursts/min). Heart rate was significantly higher after 60 (73 +/- 2 beats/min) and 120 (72 +/- 3 beats/min) days of HDBR than before (65 +/- 2 beats/min). In contrast, mean blood pressure remained unchanged during and after 120 days of HDBR. In conclusion, the resting vasomotor sympathetic tone increased after long-lasting simulated microgravity.

Despite its clinical use as a therapy for refractory epilepsy for more than 75 years, the ketogenic diet (KD) remains a therapy in search of an explanation. The mechanism of action of the KD is unclear and the optimal indications for its clinical use are incompletely defined. Animal models could help to elucidate these questions. Surprisingly, there have been very few animal studies of the KD, and those that have been performed are difficult to compare because of wide discrepancies in experimental methods. Earlier models concentrated on the effect of the KD on acute seizure threshold in normal (i.e. nonepileptic) animals. Recent studies are beginning to examine the longer term effects of the KD and its role in epileptogenesis. Some features of clinical experience have been replicated in animal models, including the role of ketosis, elevation of seizure threshold by both classic ketogenic and medium chain triglyceride diets, better effectiveness at younger ages, and rapid reversal of the seizure protective effect when the diet is discontinued. These parallels raise hope that pertinent clinical questions can be addressed in the more controlled setting of the research laboratory. As in the clinical arena, there has been a recent resurgence of interest in pursuing basic questions related to the ketogenic diet, using techniques of modern neuroscience. Experimental approaches such as brain slice neurophysiology, genetic models, dissection of metabolic pathways, and neurohistological techniques hold much promise in the effort to understand this intriguing alternative to standard anticonvulsants.
Our understanding of cortical alterations and related epilepsies has grown enormously in the last decade thanks to the explosion of basic information from laboratory neuroscience combined with advances in diagnostic tools, therapeutic approaches and surgical techniques. In the present paper, we briefly review the most important advances in these fields from the point of view of the clinician concerned with cortical malformation-related epilepsies. We propose that a highly effective way forward, expected not only to widen knowledge of the basic mechanisms of seizure generation, but also to improved the management of patients, would be to promote interdisciplinary research programmes on resected human cortex that involve neurosurgeons, neurologists and laboratory neuroscientists.
The encoding of direction and speed in the discharge of dorsal premotor (PMd) and primary motor (MI) neurons was studied during two-dimensional visually-instructed pursuit arm movements in which eight directions and four constant speeds were independently manipulated. Each trial consisted of equal durations of visual observation of target movement without hand movement (cue) and visual pursuit-tracking of the target with the hand (track). A total of 240 neurons was recorded from PMd and MI in two Macaca mulatta monkeys. Two classes of regression analyses were used to relate neuronal firing during the cue and track periods to direction and speed. First, the average firing from each period was fitted to target direction or speed. Period-averaged firing significantly correlated with direction more frequently in the track than in the cue period. Conversely, correlations with speed (with or without direction) were more common in the cue than in the track period. Secondly, a binwise regression evaluated the temporal evolution of firing correlations with direction and speed. Supporting the period-based results, significant binwise correlations of the discharge with speed occurred preferentially during the cue period when there was no hand movement. Prior to movement, correlations of the firing with direction became significant and continued through the movement. Both analyses demonstrated a distinct tendency for neurons to be modulated by speed information early and by direction information later. This temporal parcellation reflects both the sequential demands of the task and constraints placed on the neural computations. The early representation of target speed is hypothesized to reflect the need to calculate a 'go signal' for the initiation of movement.
In the hippocampus, spatial representation of the environment has been suggested to be coded by either the firing rate of pyramidal cell assemblies or the relative timing of the action potentials during the theta EEG cycle. Here, we used a behavioural 'space clamp' method, which involved the confinement of the actively running animal in a defined position in space (running wheel) to examine how 'spatial' and other inputs affect firing rate and timing of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells and interneurons. Nineteen per cent of the recorded CA1 pyramidal cells were selectively active while the rat was running in the wheel in a given direction ('wheel' cells). Spatial rotation of the apparatus showed that selective discharge of pyramidal cells in the wheel was under the combined influence of distal and apparatus cues. During steady running, both discharge rate and theta phase were constant. Rotation of the wheel apparatus resulted in a shift of both firing rate and preferred theta phase. The discharge frequency of 'wheel' cells increased threefold (on average) with increasing running velocity. In contrast, change in running speed had relatively little effect on the theta phase-related discharge of 'wheel' cells. Our findings indicate that mechanisms that regulate rate and phase of spikes are overlapping but not necessarily identical.
In central nerve terminals transmitter release is tightly regulated and thought to occur in a number of steps. These steps include vesicle mobilization and docking prior to neurotransmitter release. Intrasynaptic changes in vesicle distribution were determined by electron microscopical analysis and neurotransmitter release was monitored by biochemical measurements. We correlated K + -induced changes in distribution of small and large vesicles with the release of their transmitters. For small synaptic vesicles, amino acid release as well as recruitment to and docking at the active zone were activated within 1 s of depolarization. In contrast, the disappearance of large dense-cored vesicles and the release of the neuropeptide cholecystokinin were much slower, and no docking was observed. Studies with diverse Ca2 + channel blockers indicated that mobilization and neurotransmitter release from both vesicle types were regulated by multiple Ca2 + channels, although in different ways. Neurotransmitter release from small synaptic vesicles was predominantly regulated by P-type Ca2 + channels, whereas primarily Q-type Ca2 + channels regulated neurotransmitter release from large dense-cored vesicles. The different Ca2 + channnel types directly regulated mobilization of and neurotransmitter release from small synaptic vesicles whereas, by their cooperativity in raising the intracellular Ca2 + concentration above release threshold, they more indirectly regulated large dense-cored vesicle exocytosis.
A possibly beneficial effect of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) on acute and chronic nociceptive pain is still a controversial issue. In the present experimental study, SCS was applied, with parameters similar to those used clinically, to awake but restrained rats submitted to intraplantar injection of carrageenan (CAR). The paw circumference and the threshold of paw withdrawal and/or vocalization to pressure, applied by a pair of strain gauge calibrated flat forceps to the paw, were determined before and after CAR injection. As controls, one group of rats was treated by CAR injection only; a second group was subjected to SCS after CAR injection; a third group was pretreated with SCS for 3 days before the injection; a fourth group subjected to SCS only. In the acute phase, 3 h after the injection, SCS enhanced the CAR-induced hyperalgesia and oedema. Conversely, in the subacute phase at day 3-5 after the injection, SCS suppressed the hyperalgesia which was, however, less marked than in the acute phase. However, in that phase, the oedema was still increased by SCS. Pretreatment by SCS influenced neither the natural time course of hyperalgesia nor that of oedema. Circumstantial evidence suggests that the oedema augmentation by SCS in the acute phase may be the result of enhanced vasodilatation with fluid extravasation, probably associated with peripheral release of several substances, such as CGRP. The concomitant increase of the hyperalgesia may reflect an enhanced release of substance P and 5-HT, both peripherally and in the dorsal horn. The attenuation of hyperalgesia in the subacute phase may be due to an inhibitory effect of SCS on A-fibre-mediated wide-dynamic-range neuronal hyperactivity, presumably involving GABAergic mechanisms. However, a direct suppressive effect on sensitized nociceptive-specific second-order neurons cannot be excluded. Copyright 1999 European Federation of Chapters of the International Association for the Study of Pain.
A classification of dysfunctional shunts is proposed and clarification of the terminology discussed. This is based on experience of successive shunt malfunctions over a 3-year period with the aid of ventricular pressure measurements, imaging and clinical semiology. The classification system is both anatomical and functional.
Racemic pindolol, a beta-adrenoceptor and a 5-HT1A/1B receptor antagonist, has been reported to augment and accelerate the clinical efficacy of antidepressants. The (S)-enantiomer is more potent than the (R)-enantiomer both at the beta-adrenergic and at the 5-HT1A/1B receptors. A chiral HPLC column was used for determination of tissue concentrations of the enantiomers of pindolol at 90 min after 8 mg/kg s.c. of the racemate. The (S)/(R) ratio was found to vary between tissues from 1.74 in brain to 0.82 in plasma. The present findings may be important for understanding the pharmacodynamic actions of racemic pindolol.
More than half of the out-patients in Japanese hospitals receive anxiolytics or hypnotics for basic symptomatic management. Benzodiazepines (BZDs) are the most frequently prescribed by psychiatrists and by internists for the treatment of anxiety symptoms (mainly generalised anxiety disorder, psychosomatic diseases and autonomic dystonia). Although numerous BZDs and their analogues were introduced into the Japanese market during the last three decades, thienodiazepine derivatives have the predominant market share, in contrast to the US and the UK. Approved doses are also lower. The lack of buspirone and SSRIs in the market may contribute to the widespread prescription of BZDs in Japan. Several newer anxiolytic candidates, such as BZD receptor partial agonists and 5-HT1A receptor agonists, are currently in various phases of clinical research in Japan. However, the designs of clinical trials, particularly diagnostic precision, need to be revised.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the gender-related differences of clinical features in a sample of obsessive-compulsive (OCD) patients. One hundred and sixty outpatients with a principal diagnosis of obsessive-compulsive disorder (DSM-IV, Y-BOCS = 16) were admitted. Patients were evaluated with a semi-structured interview covering the following areas: socio-demographic data, Axis I diagnoses (DSM-IV), OCD clinical features (age at onset of OC symptoms and disorder, type of onset, life events and type of course). For statistical analysis the sample was subdivided in two groups according to gender. We found an earlier age at onset of OC symptoms and disorder in males; an insidious onset and a chronic course of illness were also observed in that group of patients. Females more frequently showed an acute onset of OCD and an episodic course of illness; they also reported more frequently a stressful event in the year preceding OCD onset. A history of anxiety disorders with onset preceding OCD and hypomanic episodes occurring after OCD onset was significantly more common among males, while females showed more frequently a history of eating disorders. We found three gender-related features of OCD: males show an earlier age at onset with a lower impact of precipitant events in triggering the disorder; OCD seems to occur in a relative high proportion of males who already have phobias and/or tic disorders; and a surfeit of chronic course of the illness in males in comparison with females.
During linear accelerations, compensatory reflexes should continually occur in order to maintain objects of visual interest as stable images on the retina. In the present study, the three-dimensional organization of the vestibulo-ocular reflex in pigeons was quantitatively examined during linear accelerations produced by constant velocity off-vertical axis yaw rotations and translational motion in darkness. With off-vertical axis rotations, sinusoidally modulated eye-position and velocity responses were observed in all three components, with the vertical and torsional eye movements predominating the response. Peak torsional and vertical eye positions occurred when the head was oriented with the lateral visual axis of the right eye directed orthogonal to or aligned with the gravity vector, respectively. No steady-state horizontal nystagmus was obtained with any of the rotational velocities (8-58 degrees /s) tested. During translational motion, delivered along or perpendicular to the lateral visual axis, vertical and torsional eye movements were elicited. No significant horizontal eye movements were observed during lateral translation at frequencies up to 3 Hz. These responses suggest that, in pigeons, all linear accelerations generate eye movements that are compensatory to the direction of actual or perceived tilt of the head relative to gravity. In contrast, no translational horizontal eye movements, which are known to be compensatory to lateral translational motion in primates, were observed under the present experimental conditions.
Vertical head and eye coordination was studied as a function of viewing distance during locomotion. Vertical head translation and pitch movements were measured using a video motion analysis system (Optotrak 3020). Vertical eye movements were recorded using a video-based pupil tracker (Iscan). Subjects (five) walked on a linear treadmill at a speed of 1.67 m/s (6 km/h) while viewing a target screen placed at distances ranging from 0.25 to 2.0 m at 0. 25-m intervals. The predominant frequency of vertical head movement was 2 Hz. In accordance with previous studies, there was a small head pitch rotation, which was compensatory for vertical head translation. The magnitude of the vertical head movements and the phase relationship between head translation and pitch were little affected by viewing distance, and tended to orient the naso-occipital axis of the head at a point approximately 1 m in front of the subject (the head fixation distance or HFD). In contrast, eye velocity was significantly affected by viewing distance. When viewing a far (2-m) target, vertical eye velocity was 180 degrees out of phase with head pitch velocity, with a gain of 0. 8. This indicated that the angular vestibulo-ocular reflex (aVOR) was generating the eye movement response. The major finding was that, at a close viewing distance (0.25 m), eye velocity was in phase with head pitch and compensatory for vertical head translation, suggesting that activation of the linear vestibulo-ocular reflex (lVOR) was contributing to the eye movement response. There was also a threefold increase in the magnitude of eye velocity when viewing near targets, which was consistent with the goal of maintaining gaze on target. The required vertical lVOR sensitivity to cancel an unmodified aVOR response and generate the observed eye velocity magnitude for near targets was almost 3 times that previously measured. Supplementary experiments were performed utilizing body-fixed active head pitch rotations at 1 and 2 Hz while viewing a head-fixed target. Results indicated that the interaction of smooth pursuit and the aVOR during visual suppression could modify both the gain and phase characteristics of the aVOR at frequencies encountered during locomotion. When walking, targets located closer than the HFD (1.0 m) would appear to move in the same direction as the head pitch, resulting in suppression of the aVOR. The results of the head-fixed target experiment suggest that phase modification of the aVOR during visual suppression could play a role in generating eye movements consistent with the goal of maintaining gaze on targets closer than the HFD, which would augment the lVOR response.
To test whether heavy accumulation of ceroid/lipofuscin can disturb important functions of the lysosomal system, AG-1518 human fibroblasts, ceroid/lipofuscin-loaded (following prolonged culture at normobaric hyperoxia) or not, were exposed to amino acid starvation. Ceroid/lipofuscin-loading resulted in decreased cellular survival. Also, there was an inverse relationship between amounts of ceroid/lipofuscin and the survival time of individual cells within the same cultures. Ceroid/lipofuscin-loaded fibroblasts displayed diminished autophagocytotic capacity, as demonstrated by electron microscopy and by treatment of cell cultures with NH4Cl (which inhibits autophagocytotic degradation by increasing intralysosomal pH) for 1 week before ensuing starvation. The latter treatment increased survival of control cells (due to deposition of nondegraded autophagocytosed material before start of starvation), but not that of ceroid/lipofuscin-loaded cells. Moreover, when NH4Cl treatment was combined with starvation, both groups of cells showed approximately the same shortened survival times, testifying to the causal relationship between diminished autophagocytosis and decreased survival of starving ceroid/lipofuscin-loaded cells. We hypothesize that large amounts of undegradable ceroid/lipofuscin within the acidic vacuolar compartment may interfere with lysosomal function, resulting in poor renewal of long-lived proteins and worn-out/damaged organelles, decreased adaptability, and cell death.
Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) is a 41 amino acid peptide that has been localized throughout the mouse cerebellum on postnatal day (P0). The wide-spread distribution of CRF within this brain region at birth suggests that it likely is present during embryonic stages of development. Thus, the intent of this study was to use immunohistochemical techniques to determine when CRF is first present in the cerebellar anlage, to analyze its distribution within the developing cerebellum, and to correlate these findings with early events in cerebellar ontogeny. CRF can first be detected in the cerebellum on embryonic day (E) 10 in scattered puncta that appear to approximate cell bodies throughout the cerebellar plate. Between E11 and E14 the number of puncta increase in the intermediate zone and more dorsal aspect of the cerebellum and decrease in the ventricular zone. At E14, in addition to the puncta, lightly immunolabeled cell bodies are observed in the ventricular zone. Just prior to birth at E17, CRF-immunoreactive varicosities distribute along the multitiered Purkinje cell layer and the intermediate zone. The CRF-positive cell bodies increase in number and intensity of staining. The majority remain within the ventricular zone, although a few also are present in the intermediate zone; it is postulated that these may be glial cells or neurons that are transiently expressing CRF. In conclusion, CRF-positive punctate elements derived from an as yet unknown source are present in the embryonic cerebellum just prior to and during the birth of Purkinje cells and nuclear neurons. The presence of this peptide at this critical stage of cerebellar development and its continued expression throughout the postnatal period of ontogeny suggests that CRF may play an important developmental role.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) has a protective effect on the striatum in animal models of Huntington's disease. However, the mechanism through which it exerts its effect is not clear. In this study, we show that there is a concentration-dependent direct protective effect of CNTF against N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated excitotoxicity on striatal neurons in vitro. The CNTF has to be added more than half an hour before the insult for the effect to occur and its effect is eliminated by the presence of the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. This suggests that the protective mechanism of CNTF does not involve acute interference with the glutamate receptors, but probably requires gene/protein expression. We have also shown that the effect of CNTF against glutamate-induced excitotoxicity is dependent on the concentration of glutamate with a protective effect more evident at a low grade excitotoxic insult. Finally, we saw no effect of CNTF on calcium ionophore A23187-induced toxicity in striatal cultures, indicating that the growth factor does not promote survival by enhancing general defenses against raised intracellular levels of calcium.
Organotypic cultures of rat hypothalamic slice cultures were successfully transduced using adeno-associated viral vectors. Using nuclear-targeted Lac-Z as the reporter gene, transduction was found to be very effective, occurring in as high as 89% of a specific cell type, the oxytocin neurons, present in the cultured explants. These transduction levels were not accompanied by any deleterious effects in the cultured cells 7 days after transduction. Such an in vitro approach should be valuable for the study of cell-specific gene expression in neurons in the central nervous system for which there are no homologous (surrogate) cell lines.
The present study was aimed at evaluating of the effects of dopamine (DA) toxicity on PC12 cells' calcium homeostasis, cellular viability, and free radical levels. Moreover, the effect of receptor inhibition, and DA metabolism and reuptake antagonism on all parameters was also evaluated. Acute treatment with DA impaired the ability of PC12 cells to buffer excess calcium after K+-depolarization, decreased cellular viability by approximately 35%, and increased free radical levels by about 10% in a dose dependent manner. Pretreatment with both active and inactive pargyl monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOi) protected PC12 cells from DA toxicity on cellular viability and free radical levels, regardless of the presence or absence of their target enzymes in PC12 cells. These results suggest a lack of specific involvement of DA metabolism by MAO in dopamine's effects on cellular viability and production of free radicals. However, DA-induced dysregulation of calcium homeostasis seems to be more specifically mediated by DA metabolism by MAO. Results indicate that, in order for toxicity to occur the DA must be taken up into the cells. DA receptors do not mediate dopamine cytoxicity, and the D2 receptor plays a modest role in DA-induced calcium dysregulation and generation of free radicals. Moreover, DA-induced cell viability loss is not mediated by calcium, nor by caspase-3 enzyme, but is prevented by inhibition of mitochondrial permeability transition pores.
Astrocytes generate calcium signals and proliferate in response to a growth factor-like lipid bound to plasma and serum albumin, in a process likely to be important in the formation of glial scars. A number of potential candidates for the physiologically active lipid were investigated. Lysophosphatidic acid, lysophosphatidylcholine, sphingomyelin, and platelet-activating factor all elicited calcium signals of varying magnitudes in cortical astrocytes, although only lysophosphatidic acid elicited calcium signals comparable in amplitude to those induced by the active physiological lipid. None of these lipids, however, caused cell division in astrocytes. There is therefore no invariable relationship between the ability of lipids to induce calcium signals and mitogenic activity. None of the lipids investigated demonstrate the activity of the natural lipid factor in generating both calcium signals and mitotic activity in astrocytes.
We used the serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) method to systematically analyze transcripts present in a microglial cell line. Over 10,000 SAGE tags were sequenced, and shown to represent 6,013 unique transcripts. Among the diverse transcripts that had not been previously detected in microglia were those for cytokines such as endothelial monocyte-activating polypeptide I (EMAP I), and for cell surface antigens, including adhesion molecules such as CD9, CD53, CD107a, CD147, CD162 and mast cell high affinity IgE receptor. In addition, we detected transcripts that were characteristic of hematopoietic cells or mesodermal structures, such as E3 protein, A1, EN-7, B94, and ufo. Furthermore, the profile contained a transcript, Hn1, that is important in hematopoietic cells and neurological development (Tang et al. Mamm Genome 8:695-696, 1997), suggesting the probable neural differentiation of microglia from the hematopoietic system in development. Messenger RNA expression of these genes was confirmed by RT-PCR in primary cultures of microglia. Significantly, this is the first systematic profiling of the genes expressed in a microglial cell line. The identification and further characterization of the genes described here should provide potential new targets for the study of microglial biology.

Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from neurons in the rat's dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL) in a brain slice preparation. Planes of section were chosen to preserve the integrity of fibers in the commissure of Probst (CP) and postsynaptic responses were evoked by electrical stimulation along its length. Results showed that the crossed projection to the DNLL through the CP is mainly, if not exclusively, inhibitory in the rat. Inhibitory postsynaptic responses (IPSPs) evoked by stimulation of the CP were blocked by the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline, but were unaffected by the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine, supporting the conclusion that the crossed inhibitory projection to DNLL from the contralateral DNLL is GABAergic. Stimulation of the CP close to the DNLL frequently evoked excitatory postsynaptic responses as well as IPSPs, but stimulation near the midline evoked IPSPs only. Thus, the excitatory responses probably originated from a pathway other than the projection to the DNLL from the contralateral DNLL through the CP.
Changes in cochlear function in four inbred strains of mice, CBA/CaJ (CBA), C57BL/6J (C57), BALB/cByJ (BALB), and WB/ReJ (WB), previously used to study age-related hearing loss, were evaluated serially as a function of age with 2f(1)-f(2) distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs). DPOAE levels in response to equilevel primary tones for geometric-mean (GM) frequencies from 5.6 to 48.5 kHz were recorded systematically as DP-grams and response/growth or input/output (I/O) functions at monthly intervals from about 2 to 15 months of age. Over the approximate 13-month measurement period, CBAs showed robust and unchanged DPOAEs for all tested frequencies, while BALBs, C57s, and WBs showed strain-specific, age-related decreases in DPOAEs that progressed systematically from the high to low frequencies. Specifically, for the youngest WBs at 2 months of age, no DPOAEs were recordable for GM frequencies &gt; or = 32 kHz, while C57s and BALBs reached the identical stage of cochlear dysfunction by 5 and 8 months, respectively. The differential decline in DPOAE activity shown for WB, C57, and BALB mice supports the notion that they represent unique animal models of age-related changes in cochlear function. In contrast, the unchanging DPOAEs for CBAs over the same time period indicate that this strain makes an effective control for normal cochlear function in the mouse, at least, up to 15 months of age.

We report the cloning and genetic characterization of one human and two murine homologs of the mab-21 cell fate specification gene. mab-21 participates in the formation of sensory organs in the male nematode tail, and is essential for other developmental functions elsewhere in the Caenorhabditis elegans embryo. The expanding mab-21 gene family, which is strikingly conserved in evolution, includes two putative Drosophila members. The two mammalian genes, encoding 41 kDa nuclear basic proteins, are expressed in partially overlapping territories in the embryonic brain, eye and limbs, as well as in neural crest derivatives. Recent genetic data implicating mab-21 as a downstream target of TGF-beta signaling, together with the distribution of mab-21 transcripts in the mouse embryo, propose these novel genes as relevant factors in various aspects of vertebrate neural development.

The author begins by pointing out that, whereas Freud first turned his attention to dreams in 1895, they became an object of neuroscientific interest only in the 1950s, after the discovery of rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep and the observation that a subject woken in an REM phase could remember and narrate them. He discusses the various brain structures found by the neuroscientists to be implicated in dreaming and the associated hypotheses about their involvement in the processes of remembering dreams, their spatial construction and semantic organisation, and the dreamer's emotional participation in and narration of dreams. Attention is drawn to recent psychophysiological research findings indicating that dreaming occurs in all sleep phases and not only in REM episodes. The cognitivist contribution is also discussed. The author goes on to demonstrate the difference between the neuroscientific and psychoanalytic approaches to dreams. Whereas the neuroscientists are interested in the structures involved in dream production and in dream organisation and narratability, psychoanalysis concentrates on the meaning of dreams and on placing them in the context of the analytic relationship in accordance with the affective history of the dreamer and the transference. The brain structures and functions of interest to the neurosciences, while constituting the physical and biological substrate of these aspects, are stated to be irrelevant to their psychoanalytic understanding.

Spatial working memory function was assessed in schizophrenia patients, hypothetically 'psychosis-prone' individuals who report unusual perceptual experiences and normal control subjects with an oculomotor delayed response task. Past studies point to the important role of dorsolateral prefrontal system in spatial working memory deficits of schizophrenia patients. In order to better understand the processes precipitating in working memory deficit, two types of working memory errors were examined: never-corrected vs. immediately-corrected errors. In schizophrenia patients, the loss of spatial representation in working memory, as captured by the presence of never-corrected errors, was much more severe when the target was presented in the right visual hemifield than when the target was presented in the left visual field. The same pattern was observed in healthy, psychometrically ascertained 'psychosis-prone' subjects. Therefore, the observed asymmetry of spatial working memory deficit seems unlikely to be a mere side-effect of medication or hospitalization. Normal control subjects did not show hemispheric asymmetry in error patterns. These results suggest that the loss of spatial representation during a delay period may be more severe in the left hemisphere in patients with schizophrenia and in 'psychosis-prone' individuals.




1. This study examines the cellular localization of alpha1-adrenoceptors and demonstrates that binding to intracellular receptive binding sites in native smooth muscle cells may influence the pharmacological profile of agonists or antagonists. The example tissue studied was rat basilar artery. 2. An alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist and fluorescent analogue of prazosin, BODIPY-FL prazosin (QAPB) allowed visualization, with high resolution, of both plasma membrane and cytosolic binding sites on live native cells, as previously shown in cells harbouring recombinant receptors. QAPB-associated fluorescence binding was both time- and concentration-dependent in rat basilar smooth muscle cells and affinity for alpha1-adrenoceptors was calculated from specific binding curves as 1.1 nM. 3. Concentration-dependent binding of QAPB detected in smooth muscle cells dissociated from rat basilar arteries was composed of diffuse and clustered fluorescence. Visually the diffuse component of fluorescence was the more evident up to a concentration of 5 nM QAPB. Confocal visualization of an optical section through the cell showed that the clustered component was located mainly intracellularly. In rat basilar artery smooth muscle cells the intracellular binding sites were located in close proximity to the nuclear membrane. 4. 3D models of QAPB-associated fluorescence demonstrate that a high proportion of effective binding sites are intracellular, showing not only that a high proportion of receptors are located inside the cell but also that in this location they can bind ligands. This has implications for pharmacological analysis in relation to the consequences of intracellular binding per se and for differential effects upon the pharmacology of particular ligands according to whether they can enter the cell.
Agrin, a 200 kDa extracellular matrix protein, participates in the maturation of the postsynaptic target at the neuromuscular junction. Although agrin has also been detected in central neurons, little is known about its role in the formation of their synapses. In the present study, the pattern of expression, localization and function of agrin in developing hippocampal neurons were analyzed. The results indicate that an increase in agrin protein levels precedes synaptogenesis in cultured hippocampal neurons. This increase in agrin expression is accompanied by its extracellular deposition along the distal third of the axon. To investigate whether agrin plays a role during synapse formation, its expression in cultured hippocampal neurons was suppressed by means of antisense oligonucleotide treatment. The suppression of agrin expression results in the impairment of dendritic development and the formation of fewer synapses than in non-treated or sense-treated neurons. Moreover, this decreased synaptic density is accompanied by a selective inhibition of the clustering of GABA receptors. These results lead to the conclusion that agrin may be an important regulator of the maturation of dendrites and synaptogenesis in central neurons.
Drosophila Suppressor of fused (Su(fu)) encodes a novel 468-amino-acid cytoplasmic protein which, by genetic analysis, functions as a negative regulator of the Hedgehog segment polarity pathway. Here we describe the primary structure, tissue distribution, biochemical and functional analyses of a human Su(fu) (hSu(fu)). Two alternatively spliced isoforms of hSu(fu) were identified, predicting proteins of 433 and 484 amino acids, with a calculated molecular mass of 48 and 54 kDa, respectively. The two proteins differ only by the inclusion or exclusion of a 52-amino-acid extension at the carboxy terminus. Both isoforms were expressed in multiple embryonic and adult tissues, and exhibited a developmental profile consistent with a role in Hedgehog signaling. The hSu(fu) contains a high-scoring PEST-domain, and exhibits an overall 37% sequence identity (63% similarity) with the Drosophila protein and 97% sequence identity with the mouse Su(fu). The hSu(fu) locus mapped to chromosome 10q24-q25, a region which is deleted in glioblastomas, prostate cancer, malignant melanoma and endometrial cancer. HSu(fu) was found to repress activity of the zinc-finger transcription factor Gli, which mediates Hedgehog signaling in vertebrates, and to physically interact with Gli, Gli2 and Gli3 as well as with Slimb, an F-box containing protein which, in the fly, suppresses the Hedgehog response, in part by stimulating the degradation of the fly Gli homologue. Coexpression of Slimb with Su(fu) potentiated the Su(fu)-mediated repression of Gli. Taken together, our data provide biochemical and functional evidence for the hypothesis that Su(fu) is a key negative regulator in the vertebrate Hedgehog signaling pathway. The data further suggest that Su(fu) can act by binding to Gli and inhibiting Gli-mediated transactivation as well as by serving as an adaptor protein, which links Gli to the Slimb-dependent proteasomal degradation pathway.
Activation of LH-releasing hormone (LHRH) secretion, essential for the initiation of puberty, is brought about by the interaction of neurotransmitters and astroglia-derived substances. One of these substances, transforming growth factor alpha (TGFalpha), has been implicated as a facilitatory component of the glia-to-neuron signaling process controlling the onset of female puberty in rodents and nonhuman primates. Hypothalamic hamartomas (HH) are tumors frequently associated with precocious puberty in humans. The detection of LHRH-containing neurons in some hamartomas has led to the concept that hamartomas advance puberty because they contain an ectopic LHRH pulse generator. Examination of two HH associated with female sexual precocity revealed that neither tumor had LHRH neurons, but both contained astroglial cells expressing TGFalpha and its receptor. Thus, some HH may induce precocious puberty, not by secreting LHRH, but via the production of trophic factors--such as TGFalpha--able to activate the normal LHRH neuronal network in the patient's hypothalamus.
VEGF is mitogenic, angiogenic, and a potent mediator of vascular permeability. VEGF causes extravasation of plasma protein in skin bioassays and increases hydraulic conductivity in isolated perfused microvessels. Reduced tissue oxygen tension triggers VEGF expression, and increased protein and mRNA levels for VEGF and its receptors (Flt-1, Flk-1/KDR) occur in the ischemic rat brain. Brain edema, provoked in part by enhanced cerebrovascular permeability, is a major complication in central nervous system pathologies, including head trauma and stroke. The role of VEGF in this pathology has remained elusive because of the lack of a suitable experimental antagonist. We used a novel fusion protein, mFlt(1-3)-IgG, which sequesters murine VEGF, to treat mice exposed to transient cortical ischemia followed by reperfusion. Using high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging, we found a significant reduction in volume of the edematous tissue 1 day after onset of ischemia in mice that received mFlt(1-3)-IgG. 8-12 weeks after treatment, measurements of the resultant infarct size revealed a significant sparing of cortical tissue. Regional cerebral blood flow was unaffected by the administration of mFlt(1-3)-IgG. These results demonstrate that antagonism of VEGF reduces ischemia/reperfusion-related brain edema and injury, implicating VEGF in the pathogenesis of stroke and related disorders.
Neurotransmitters activate genes in their target neurons by precipitating a molecular cascade, which may be the ultimate consequence of chemical neurotransmission. When this transfer is aberrant, a mental disorder may be manifest. When drugs act upon neurons to change gene expression, this could lead to therapeutic actions, side effects, and the long-term consequences of drug abuse.

Progesterone secretion is crucial for maintaining pregnancy to parturition in mammalian species, and in cattle the corpus luteum is the primary source of this hormone. This study determined the roles of prolactin (PRL), growth hormone (GH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) in the luteotropic process in beef heifers hypophyseal stalk-transected (HST, n=7) or sham operated (sham operated controls, SOC, n=9) during midgestation. The main finding was that endogenous PRL and GH maintained progesterone secretion in HST heifers in a similar manner to that in SOC throughout pregnancy. Serum PRL averaged 37 vs 187 and GH 2 vs 4 ng/ml in HST heifers compared with SOC, whereas LH abruptly decreased to undetectable levels after HST compared with a modest 0.4 ng/ml in SOC heifers. The second finding was that parturition and lactation occurred in HST heifers with calf delivery induced to occur at the same time as SOC. Milk production in HST animals was severely limited, and postpartum estrus obliterated compared with SOC. The suckling stimulus sustained milk ejection in HST heifers in spite of diminished PRL, GH, thyroid stimulating hormone, thyroxine and tri-iodothyronine secretion. The results suggest that PRL, GH and possibly placental lactogen are luteotropic during pregnancy in cattle.
Extreme environmental situations are useful tools for the investigation of the general processes of adaptation. Among such situations, high altitude of more than 3000 m produces a set of pathological disorders that includes both cerebral (cAS) and respiratory (RAS) altitude symptoms. High altitude exposure further induces anxiety responses and behavioural disturbances. The authors report an investigation on anxiety responses, personality traits, and altitude symptoms (AS) in climbers participating in a 31-day period of confinement and gradual decompression in a hypobaric chamber equivalent to a climb from sea-level to Mount Everest (8848 m altitude). Personality traits, state-trait anxiety, and AS were assessed, using the Cattell 16 Personality Factor questionnaire (16PF), the Spielberger's State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), and the Lake Louise concensus questionnaire. Results show significant group effect for state-anxiety and AS; state-anxiety and AS increased as altitude increased. They also show that state-type anxiety shows a similar time-course to cAS, but not RAS. Alternatively, our results demonstrate a significant negative correlation between Factor M of the 16PF questionnaire, which is a personality trait that ranges from praxernia to autia. In contrast, no significant correlation was found between personality traits and AS. This suggests that AS could not be predicted using personality traits and further support that personality traits, such as praxernia (happening sensitivity), could play a major role in the occurrence of state-type anxiety responses in extreme environments. In addition, the general processes of coping and adaptation in individuals participating in extreme environmental experiments are discussed.
Margaret Kennard was an American pioneer in the experimental study of sparing and recovery of function. Her most famous experiments were performed on monkeys and apes at Yale University during the late 1930s and early 1940s. By describing the behavioral effects of brain damage on infantile, juvenile, and older primates, she drew new attention to just how important developmental status can be at the time of neural insult. Kennard also conducted experiments which showed that even adult primates can exhibit significant sparing and recovery of function, especially if brain lesions are made in stages rather than all at once. In many respects, Kennard helped launch the modern era of research on sparing and recovery of function by demonstrating that several factors in addition to lesion locus can affect post-injury performance and by recognizing that, if neural reorganization does occur, it probably takes place in spared parts of the damaged system.
This article introduces and critiques the historiographical tradition of the history of the neurosciences as it has been established in the International Society for the History of the Neurosciences (ISHN). The founding members of the ISHN were practitioner-historians, practitioners of the neurosciences with an interest in the great moments, ideas and controversies in the history of their field. The historiographical precedent set by these clinician-historians emphasized those aspects of history most interesting to them. Academic historians bring a different approach to the history of neurosciences, particularly an interest in studying the intellectual and cultural contexts of both the inherited and the forgotten ideas about the nervous system. Their approach to history has not been well presented in the ISHN, in part because the current historiographical tradition does not address their interests. This article highlights the methodological and epistemological differences between academic and practitioner-historians and discusses the difficulties that other historical societies have faced in trying to bring them together. The article then suggests ideas for symposia that might facilitate an interdisciplinary dialogue and a revised historiographical tradition that speaks to the needs of both academic and historians and practitioner historians.
The present account includes a brief life history of Walter Rudolf Hess (1881-1973) and a review of his major neurophysiological contributions. Hess belonged to the nearly extinct generation of great universalists among students of human physiology. He began his scientific work in hemodynamics and ophthalmology, then studied the functional organization and regulation of circulation and respiration and developed a number of highly sophisticated instruments which fostered his international reputation. By electrically stimulating the brain of the unanesthetized, freely moving animal he explored the functional organization and localization of the cat diencephalon in terms of autonomic, extrapyramidal motor functions, and instinctive behavior, e.g. hunger, thirst, fear, and rage. His thoughts on biological order led him to consider the problems of psychic forces. He was convinced of the close correlation of behavioral research and neurophysiology and believed that neuronal patterns determine the content of consciousness without providing clues concerning the transformation of such patterns into subjective experience.
A method is described that allows rapid and reliable serial sectioning down to thicknesses of 1 micron. The tissue is first embedded in celloidin and then in wax and trimmed so that the block is sandwiched between two layers of wax. This combines the virtues of both media. The celloidin gives greater support to tissue than wax and enables the cutting of semithin sections. The wax allows ribbons of serial sections to be produced as in conventional wax microtomy. This makes it easy to produce serial semithin sections as a matter of routine.

The regulation of survival of spinal motoneurons (MNs) has been shown to depend during development and after injury on a variety of neurotrophic molecules produced by skeletal muscle target tissue. Increasing evidence also suggests that other sources of trophic support prevent MNs from undergoing naturally occurring or injury-induced death. We have examined the role of endogenous and exogenous androgens on the survival of developing avian lumbar spinal MNs during their period of programmed cell death (PCD) between embryonic day (E)6 and E11 or after axotomy on E12. We found that although treatment with testosterone, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), or the androgen receptor antagonist flutamide (FL) failed to affect the number of these MNs during PCD, administration of DHT from E12 to E15 following axotomy on E12 significantly attenuated injury-induced MN death. This effect was inhibited by cotreatment with FL, whereas treatment with FL alone did not affect MN survival. Finally, we examined the spinal cord at various times during development and following axotomy on E12 for the expression of androgen receptor using the polyclonal PG-21 antibody. Our results suggest that exogenously applied androgens are capable of rescuing MNs from injury-induced cell death and that they act directly on these cells via an androgen receptor-mediated mechanism. By contrast, endogenous androgens do not appear to be involved in the regulation of normal PCD of developing avian MNs.
We investigated whether activity of expiratory muscles reflects lateralized activity of the vocal organ during production of birdsong. Respiration and syringeal motor activity were assessed in brown thrashers by monitoring bilateral airflow and subsyringeal air sac pressure, together with the electromyographic activity of expiratory abdominal muscles and vocal output. Activity of expiratory muscles was always present on both sides, regardless of whether song was produced bilaterally or on only one side of the syrinx. The average amplitude of expiratory EMG of one side does not change significantly, even if that side is silent during phonation. The temporal pattern of the electromyogram (EMG) was similar on both sides. Bilateral bursts of EMG activity on both sides accompanied changes in the rate of syringeal airflow, even when these flow fluctuations were generated only by one side of the syrinx. Motor commands to the respiratory muscles therefore appear to be bilaterally distributed, in contrast to the lateralized motor control of the syrinx.
Compound eyes of insects in 16 orders were tested for the presence of a blood-retina barrier (BRB) by injecting the hemolymph with Procion yellow, which was excluded from the eye in all Neoptera but not in two apterygotes. A primitive apterygote (Petrobius, Machilidae) was investigated further. Epifluorescence observations with small dyes Lucifer yellow (LY) and sulforhodamine 101 (SR) confirmed uptake by the eye within 3 min of injection. LY and SR both penetrated the eye, particularly the cornea, examined in sections. Uptake was quantified by microfluorometry, yielding entry half-times (t(1/2)) of 1-1.4 min, fitting predictions for a model where tracer uptake is limited by passive diffusion. A much larger fluorescent dextran entered at a similar rate (t(1/2) = 1.70 +/- 0.77 min; n = 22), too fast to be diffusion-limited, pointing to an active process, probably flushing of hemolymph through the retina. This is not an artifact associated with tracer injection and may be the natural result of circulatory pressures. Microfluorometry gave a first estimate of hemolymph volume (2.9% of body weight), of hemolymph mixing time (t(0.95) = 77 min); the eyes' receptive fields were also determined. All results point to a primitive crustacean-like condition in Petrobius, with open access of hemolymph to the eye and no BRB. An evolutionary hypothesis is suggested to explain how a primitive central nervous system barrier later extended to cut off the eye in Neoptera, in the face of access problems for respiratory gases and metabolites.
Increased nitric oxide (NO) production has been implicated in many examples of neuronal injury such as the selective neurotoxicity of methamphetamine and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine to dopaminergic cells, presumably through the generation of the potent oxidant peroxynitrite (ONOO). Dopamine (DA) is a reactive molecule that, when oxidized to DA quinone, can bind to and inactivate proteins through the sulfhydryl group of the amino acid cysteine. In this study, we sought to determine if ONOO could oxidize DA and participate in this process of protein modification. We measured the oxidation of the catecholamine by following the binding of [3H]DA to the sulfhydryl-rich protein alcohol dehydrogenase. Results showed that ONOO oxidized DA in a concentration- and pH-dependent manner. We confirmed that the resulting DA-protein conjugates were predominantly 5-cysteinyl-DA residues. In addition, it was observed that ONOO decomposition products such as nitrite were also effective at oxidizing DA. These data suggest that the generation of NO and subsequent formation of ONOO or nitrite may contribute to the selective vulnerability of dopaminergic neurons through the oxidation of DA and modification of protein.
Chemokines are a family of proteins that chemoattract and activate cells by interacting with specific receptors on the surface of their targets. The chemokine stromal cell-derived factor 1, (SDF1), binds to the seven-transmembrane G protein-coupled CXCR4 receptor and acts to modulate cell migration, differentiation, and proliferation. CXCR4 and SDF1 are reported to be expressed in various tissues including brain. Here we show that SDF1 and CXCR4 are expressed in cultured cortical type I rat astrocytes, cortical neurons, and cerebellar granule cells. In cortical astrocytes, prolonged treatment with lipopolysaccharide induced an increase of SDF1 expression and a down-regulation of CXCR4, whereas treatment with phorbol esters did not affect SDF1 expression and down-modulated CXCR4 receptor expression. We also demonstrated the ability of human SDF1alpha (hSDF1alpha) to increase the intracellular calcium level in cultured astrocytes and cortical neurons, whereas in the same conditions, cerebellar granule cells did not modify their intracellular calcium concentration. Furthermore, in cortical astrocytes, the simultaneous treatment of hSDF1alpha with the HIV-1 capside glycoprotein gp120 inhibits the cyclic AMP formation induced by forskolin treatment.
The therapeutic efficacy of lithium in the treatment of mood disorders is delayed and only observed after chronic administration, a temporal profile that suggests alterations at the genomic level. Lithium has been demonstrated to modulate AP-1 DNA binding activity as well as the expression of genes regulated by AP-1, but the mechanisms underlying these effects have not been fully elucidated. In the present study, we found that the lithium-induced increases in AP-1 DNA binding activity were accompanied by increases in p-cJun and cJun levels in SH-SY5Y cells. Lithium also increased cJun-mediated reporter gene expression in a dose-dependent manner, with significant effects observed at therapeutically relevant concentrations. Lithium's effects on cJun-mediated reporter gene expression in SH-SY5Y cells were more pronounced in the absence of myo-inositol and were blocked by protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors and by cotransfection with a PKCalpha dominant-negative mutant. Chronic in vivo lithium administration increased AP-1 DNA binding activity in frontal cortex and hippocampus and also increased the levels of the phosphorylated, active forms of c-Jun NH2-terminal kinases (JNKs) in both brain regions. These results demonstrate that lithium activates the JNK signaling pathway in rat brain during chronic in vivo administration and in human cells of neuronal origin in vitro; in view of the role of JNKs in regulating various aspects of neuronal function and their well-documented role in regulating gene expression, these effects may play a major role in lithium's long-term therapeutic effects.
Synapsin III, the most recently described member of the synapsin gene family, displays a gene structure and protein domain structure similar to those of synapsins I and II. In this report, however, we describe major differences in the temporal- and tissue-specific expressions of synapsin III. Whereas synapsins I and II each give rise to two isoforms that are expressed predominantly in adult brain, there are at least six synapsin III transcripts (synapsin IIIa-IIIf) that differ with respect to tissue- and developmental stage-specific expression. Three of the neuronal transcripts are detected in fetal and to a lesser extent in adult brain (IIa-IIIc), whereas one (IIId) is detected only in fetal brain. Two additional transcripts (IIIe and IIIf) are detected only in nonneuronal tissues. A putative second promoter, which is contained within an intron in the synapsin III gene locus, appears to generate the nonneuronal synapsin IIIe and IIIf transcripts. This level of genome complexity is far greater than that described previously for the synapsin I and II genes and suggests that synapsin III may have functions distinct from those described for synapsins I and II.
Autoantibodies to acetylcholine receptors and to voltage-gated calcium and potassium channels are thought to be pathogenic in three peripheral neurological disorders: myasthenia gravis, the Lambert Eaton syndrome and acquired neuromyotonia. However, evidence for the role of antibodies in conditions involving the central nervous system, is scanty or unclear. This review describes the ways in which the roles of autoantibodies have been defined in the peripheral diseases, and discusses the more controversial evidence for involvement of autoantibodies in some central disorders such as multiple sclerosis.
The effect of chemical sympathectomy induced with 6-hydroxydopamine (OHDA) on experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was studied in wild type and IL-4-/- C57BL/6 (B6) mice. When actively sensitized with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)35-55 peptide, control B6 mice developed a mild form of EAE with full recovery. The sympathectomized mice developed paralysis with higher maximum disease score and did not recover completely, indicating that the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) down-modulates the process of EAE. Unexpectedly, however, sympathectomy resulted in suppression of EAE in IL-4-/- mice, implying that control of actively induced EAE by the SNS depends on the genetic background of mice. We also induced EAE by passive transfer of MOG35-55-reactive lymph node cells, and this disease was augmented by sympathectomy in both wild type and knockout animals. Further experiments showed that changes in T cell populations and the activity of antigen presenting cells might be responsible for the altered immune response and clinical course after sympathetic ablation. Our studies indicate that the absence of a single cytokine can severely alter nervous-immune system interactions.
Nitric oxide was first described being produced in inflammatory cells involved in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in 1992. Since then some 45 papers have appeared examining the role of NO in this central nervous system autoimmune inflammatory disease. Of the first 10 papers published all resulted in the interpretation that NO was a pathologic or &quot;bad&quot; molecule in the context of EAE. A few papers then began to appear suggesting that NO may not in fact always be a harmful molecule and by the end of 1997 early 1998, 22 papers suggested a destructive role for the molecule while three suggested it was protective. The past two years have seen a significant increase in reports supporting a protective mechanism for NO in EAE such that as of July 1999, 27 papers suggest a destructive and 15 a protective role for NO with a few uncommitted. This review sets out in a more or less chronological order the studies examining the role of NO in EAE and maps our changing understanding of the molecules role in this CNS inflammatory disease and by inference perhaps multiple sclerosis.
This review describes some of the factors that may lead to erroneous interpretations of electromyographic and nerve conduction studies. Such errors may be due either to technical or to biological factors, and it is imperative that the consequent limitations of the methods be considered in a diagnostic setting. Electrodiagnostic findings should always be interpreted in the clinical context, and since they are rarely specific for a particular disorder or pathology, it is necessary to satisfy several criteria to make a specific diagnosis. The aim of electromyographic examination is to ascertain whether weakness is due to a neurogenic lesion or to myopathy. It is, however, not sufficient to show the presence of denervation activity since this may occur in either condition. Therefore the motor unit potentials from both weak and nonaffected muscles should be examined quantitatively. Nerve conduction studies are carried out to ascertain whether motor or sensory myelinated fibers are lost, and whether the primary pathology is due to demyelination or axonal loss or to both. The nerve conduction velocity is of primary importance in this distinction. However, loss of large myelinated fibers leads to slowing of conduction; in some instances the conduction velocity may be normal if only a few large fibers are spared. In addition collateral sprouting in chronic conditions may lead to apparent sparing of motor fibers. Hence an erroneous diagnosis may be made of a sensory neuropathy if additional electromyography or other tests are not carried out. Conduction studies investigate only large myelinated fibers, and therefore in some instances there is discordance between the morphology and physiology. Acquired demyelinating neuropathies are sometimes associated with focal slowing of conduction or with conduction block. The demonstration of conduction block is important, but several requirements must be fulfilled in terms of technique, clinical context, and temporal development in order to avoid errors.

The cysteine protease caspase-1 plays a crucial part in the inflammatory process due to its ability to proteolitically activate proinflammatory cytokine precursors, such as interleukin (IL)-1beta and IL-18. Multiple sclerosis is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the CNS in which the pathogenic process is mainly orchestrated by proinflammatory cytokines. The role of caspase-1 in multiple sclerosis was evaluated by measuring its mRNA levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from seven patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis every 15 days over a 1 year period. The recorded levels were compared with clinical and MRI evidence of disease activity. Brain MRI was performed monthly in each patient. Caspase-1 mRNA levels were significantly increased in PBMCs from patients with multiple sclerosis compared with healthy controls (p&lt;0.001). In patients with multiple sclerosis, a twofold to threefold increase of caspase-1 mRNA mean level was found in the week preceding an acute attack (p&lt;0. 05). The magnitude of caspase-1 mRNA increase correlated with the number of new (p=0.01) but not persisting gadolinium enhancing brain MRI lesions. In conclusion, caspase-1 might be involved in the immune mediated process underlying CNS inflammation and might represent a suitable peripheral immunological marker of disease activity in multiple sclerosis.
Using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), we measured in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) the brain volume changes over a one year period and correlated them with changes in disability. Three-dimensional T1-weighted magnetization prepared rapid acquisition gradient-echo (MP-RAGE) (with subsequent reconstruction of 1-mm thick axial slices) scans of the brain were obtained at baseline and after one year from 14 MS patients. The average percentage decrease of total brain volume was ten times higher for patients who had a deterioration in their expanded disability status scale (EDSS) scores than for those who had not (mean percentage changes were -4.7 and -0.4%, respectively). Over a short time follow-up period, the decrease of brain volume was higher in the MS patients with clinical evolution compared to those with unchanged disability.
We tested the role of group I mGluRs in the induction of long-term depression (LTD) in the visual cortex, using the novel mGluR antagonist LY341495 and mice lacking mGluR5, the predominant phosphoinositide (PI)-linked mGluR in the visual cortex. We find that LY341495 is a potent blocker of glutamate-stimulated PI hydrolysis in visual cortical synaptoneurosomes, and that it effectively antagonizes the actions of the mGluR agonist 1S, 3R-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD) on synaptic transmission in visual cortical slices. However, LY341495 has no effect on the induction of LTD by low-frequency stimulation. Furthermore, mice lacking mGluR5 show normal NMDA receptor-dependent LTD. These results indicate that group I mGluR activation is not required for the induction of NMDA receptor-dependent LTD in the visual cortex.
Whole cell voltage-clamp electrophysiology was used to examine interactions between GABA and glycine at inhibitory amino acid receptors on rat olfactory bulb neurons in primary culture. Membrane currents evoked by GABA and glycine were selectively inhibited by low concentrations of bicuculline and strychnine, respectively, suggesting that they activate pharmacologically distinct receptors. However, GABA- and glycine-mediated currents showed cross-inhibition when the two amino acids were applied sequentially. Application of one amino acid inhibited the response to immediate subsequent application of the other. In the majority of neurons, GABA inhibited subsequent glycine-evoked currents and glycine inhibited subsequent GABA-evoked currents. In a small proportion of neurons, however, GABA inhibited glycine-evoked currents but glycine had little effect on GABA-evoked currents. The reverse was true in other neurons, suggesting that alterations in chloride gradients alone did not account for the cross-inhibition. Furthermore, no cross-inhibition was observed between GABA- and glycine-evoked currents in some neurons. The amplitude of the current evoked by the coapplication of saturating concentrations of GABA and glycine in these neurons was nearly the sum of the currents evoked by GABA and glycine alone. In contrast, the currents were not additive in neurons demonstrating cross-inhibition. These results suggest that olfactory bulb neurons heterogeneously express a population of inhibitory amino acid receptors that can bind either GABA or glycine. Interactions between GABA and glycine at inhibitory amino acid receptors may provide a mechanism to modulate inhibitory synaptic transmission.
The mechanical actions of various ankle muscles were changed by surgically crossing or transferring the tendons in kittens. After the kittens grew to adults, both hindlimbs were implanted with multiple electromyogram (EMG) recording and cutaneous nerve stimulation electrodes to compare the activity of altered and normal muscles. The tendon transfers showed a remarkable tendency to regrow toward normal or only slightly altered mechanical action. In these animals and in the sham-operation controls, the patterns of muscle activity and reflexes were symmetrical in corresponding muscles of the two legs, although they could differ substantially between animals, particularly for the cutaneous reflexes. Eleven animals had at least some persistent alterations in muscle action. Their cutaneous reflex patterns tended to be asymmetric, in some cases quite markedly. EMG activity during unperturbed locomotion and paw-shaking was more symmetrical, but there were some changes in altered muscles and their synergists. The central pattern generators for locomotion and paw-shaking and particularly for cutaneous reflexes during locomotion appear to be at least partially malleable rather than entirely hardwired. This may provide a tool for studying their development and spinal plasticity in general.
Cesium has been widely used to study the roles of the hyperpolarization-activated (I(h)) and inwardly rectifying potassium (K(IR)) channels in many neuronal and nonneuronal cell types. Recently, extracellular application of cesium has been shown to produce epileptiform activity in brain slices, but the mechanisms for this are not known. It has been proposed that cesium blocks the K(IR) in glia, resulting in an abnormal accumulation of potassium in the extracellular space and inducing epileptiform activity. This hypothesis has been tested in hippocampal slices and cultured hippocampal neurons using potassium-sensitive microelectrodes. In the present study, application of cesium produced spontaneous epileptiform discharges at physiological extracellular potassium concentration ([K(+)](o)) in the CA1 and CA3 regions of hippocampal slices. This epileptiform activity was not mimicked by increasing the [K(+)](o). The epileptiform discharges induced by cesium were not blocked by the N-methyl-D- aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist AP-5, but were blocked by the non-NMDA receptor antagonist CNQX. In the dentate gyrus, cesium induced the appearance of spontaneous nonsynaptic field bursts in 0 added calcium and 3 mM potassium. Moreover, cesium increased the frequency of field bursts already present. In contrast, ZD-7288, a specific I(h) blocker, did not cause spontaneous epileptiform activity in CA1 and CA3, nor did it affect the field bursts in the dentate gyrus, suggesting that cesium induced epileptiform activity is not directly related to blockade of the I(h). When potassium-sensitive microelectrodes were used to measure [K(+)](o), there was no significant increase in [K(+)](o) in CA1 and CA3 after cesium application. In the dentate gyrus, cesium did not change the baseline level of [K(+)](o) or the rate of [K(+)](o) clearance after the field bursts. In cultured hippocampal neurons, which have a large and relatively unrestricted extracellular space, cesium also produced cellular burst activity without significantly changing the resting membrane potential, which might indicate an increase in [K(+)](o). Our results suggest that cesium causes epileptiform activity by a mechanism unrelated to an alteration in [K(+)](o) regulation.
Adenosine modulates synaptic transmission by acting on inhibitory A(1) and facilitatory A(2A) receptors, the densities of which are modified in aged animals. We investigated how A(2A) receptor activation influences A(1) receptor function and whether this interaction is modified in aged rats. In hippocampal and cortical nerve terminals from young adult (6 wk), but not old rats (24 mo), the A(2A) receptor agonist, 2-[4-(2-carboxyethyl) phenethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680; 30 nM) decreased the binding affinity of a selective A(1) receptor agonist, cyclopentyladenosine (CPA), an effect prevented by the A(2A) antagonist, (4-(2-[7-amino-2-(2-furyl (1,2,4)-triazolo(2,3-a (1,3,5)triazin-5-yl-aminoethyl)phenol (ZM 241385, 20 nM). This effect of CGS 21680 required intact nerve terminals and was also observed in the absence of Ca(2+). This A(2A)-induced &quot;desensitization&quot; of A(1) receptors was prevented by the protein kinase C inhibitor, chelerythrine (6 microM), and was not detected in the presence of the protein kinase C activator, phorbol-12,13-didecanoate (250 nM), which itself caused a reduction in binding affinity for CPA. The protein kinase A inhibitor, N-(2-guanidinoethyl)-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide (10 microM), and the protein kinase A activator, 8-Br-cAMP (1 mM), had no effects on the A(2A)-induced A(1) receptor desensitization. This A(2A)-induced A(1) receptor desensitization had a functional correlation because CGS 21680 (10 nM) attenuated by 40% the inhibition caused by CPA (10 nM) on CA1 area population spike amplitude in hippocampal slices. This A(2A)/A(1) interaction may explain the attenuation by adenosine deaminase (2 U/ml), which removes tonic A(1) inhibition, of the facilitatory effect of CGS 21680 on synaptic transmission. The requirement of tonic A(1) receptor activation for CGS 21680 to induce facilitation of synaptic transmission was reinforced by the observation that the A(1) receptor antagonist, 1, 3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (20 nM) prevented CGS 21680 (10 nM) facilitation of population spike amplitude. The present results show the ability of A(2A) receptors to control A(1) receptor function in a manner mediated by protein kinase C, but not protein kinase A, in young adult but not in aged rats.
The mechanisms underlying the facilitation (priming) of long-term potentiation (LTP) by prior activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) were investigated in area CA1 of rat hippocampal slices. In particular, we focused on whether a long-lasting increase in postsynaptic excitability could account for the facilitated LTP. Administration of the mGluR agonist 1S, 3R-aminocyclopentanedicarboxylic acid (ACPD) produced rapid decreases in the amplitude of both the slow spike afterhyperpolarization (AHP(slow)) and spike frequency adaptation recorded intracellularly from CA1 pyramidal cells. These changes persisted after drug washout, showing only a slow decay over 20 min. ACPD also caused a leftward shift of the field EPSP-population spike relation and an overall increase in population spike amplitude, but this effect was not as persistent as the intracellularly measured alterations in cell excitability. ACPD-treated cells showed increased spike discharges during LTP-inducing tetanic stimulation, and the amplitude of the AHP(slow) was negatively correlated with the degree of initial LTP induction. The beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol also caused excitability changes as recorded intracellularly, whereas in extracellular experiments it weakly primed the induction but not the persistence of LTP. ACPD primed both LTP measures. Isoproterenol administration during the tetanus occluded the priming effect of ACPD on initial LTP induction but not its effect on LTP persistence. We conclude that the persistent excitability changes elicited by ACPD contributes to the priming of LTP induction but that other ACPD-triggered mechanisms must account for the facilitated persistence of LTP in the priming paradigm.
Opioid peptides have profound inhibitory effects on the production of oxytocin and vasopressin, but their direct effects on magnocellular neuroendocrine neurons appear to be relatively weak. We tested whether a presynaptic mechanism is involved in this inhibition. The effects of mu-opioid receptor agonist D-Ala(2), N-CH(3)-Phe(4), Gly(5)-ol-enkephalin (DAGO) on excitatory and inhibitory transmission were studied in supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurons from rat hypothalamic slices using whole cell recording. DAGO reduced the amplitude of evoked glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in a dose-dependent manner. In the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX) to block spike activity, DAGO also reduced the frequency of spontaneous miniature EPSCs without altering their amplitude distribution, rising time, or decaying time constant. The above effects of DAGO were reversed by wash out, or by addition of opioid receptor antagonist naloxone or selective mu-antagonist Cys(2)-Tyr(3)-Orn(5)-Pen(7)-NH(2) (CTOP). In contrast, DAGO had no significant effect on the evoked and spontaneous miniature GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in most SON neurons. A direct membrane hyperpolarization of SON neurons was not detected in the presence of DAGO. These results indicate that mu-opioid receptor activation selectively inhibits excitatory activity in SON neurons via a presynaptic mechanism.
We previously showed that the associative enhancement of Aplysia siphon sensorimotor synapses in a cellular analog of classical conditioning is disrupted by infusing the Ca(2+) chelator 1, 2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N-N',N'-tetraacetic acid into the postsynaptic motor neuron before training or by training in the presence of the NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV). Our earlier experiments with APV used a nondifferential training protocol, in which different preparations were used for associative and nonassociative training. In the present experiments we extended our investigation of the role of NMDA receptor type potentiation in learning in Aplysia to differential conditioning. A cellular analog of differential conditioning was performed with a reduced preparation that consisted of the CNS plus two pedal nerves. A siphon motor neuron and two siphon sensory neurons, both of which were presynaptically connected to the motor neuron, were impaled with sharp microelectrodes. One sensorimotor synapse received paired stimulation with a conditioned stimulus (brief activation of a single sensory neuron) and an unconditioned stimulus (pedal nerve shock), whereas the other sensorimotor synapse received unpaired stimulation. Training in normal artificial seawater (ASW) resulted in significant differential enhancement of synapses that received the paired stimulation. Training in APV blocked this differential synaptic enhancement. A comparison of the present data with the data from earlier experiments that used nondifferential training is consistent with the possibility that differential training comprises competition between the presynaptic sensory neurons. Synaptic competition may contribute significantly to the associative effect of paired stimulation in the differential training paradigm.
The anterior forebrain pathway (AFP) of songbirds, a specialized dorsal forebrain-basal ganglia circuit, is crucial for song learning but has a less clear function in adults. We report here that neurons in two nuclei of the AFP, the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (LMAN) and Area X, show marked changes in neurophysiological activity before and during singing in adult zebra finches. The presence of modulation before song output suggests that singing-related AFP activity originates, at least in part, in motor control nuclei. Some neurons in LMAN of awake birds also responded selectively to playback of the bird's own song, but neural activity during singing did not completely depend on auditory feedback in the short term, because neither the level nor the pattern of this activity was strongly affected by deafening. The singing-related activity of neurons in AFP nuclei of songbirds is consistent with a role of the AFP in adult singing or song maintenance, possibly related to the function of this circuit during initial song learning.
Recent experimental work has provided evidence that trial-to-trial variability of sensory-evoked responses in cortex can be explained as a linear superposition of random ongoing background activity and a stationary response. While studying single trial variability and state-dependent modulation of evoked responses in auditory cortex of ketamine/xylazine-anesthetized rats, we have observed an apparent violation of this model. Local field potential and unit spike trains were recorded and analyzed during different anesthesia depths-deep, medium, and light-which were defined by the pattern of ongoing cortical activity. Estimation of single trial evoked response was achieved by considering whole waveforms, rather than just one or two peak values from each wave. Principal components analysis was used to quantitatively classify waveforms on the basis of their time courses (i.e., shapes). We found that not only average response but also response variability is modulated by depth of anesthesia. Trial-to-trial variability is highest under medium levels of anesthesia, during which ongoing cortical activity exhibits rhythmic population bursting activity. By triggering the occurrence of stimuli from the spontaneously occurring burst events, we show that the observed variability can be accounted for by the background activity. In particular, the ongoing activity was found to modulate both amplitude and shape (including latency) of evoked local field potentials and evoked unit activity in a manner not predicted by linear superposition of background activity and a stereotyped evoked response. This breakdown of the linear model is likely attributable to rapid transitions between different levels of thalamocortical excitability (e.g., spike-wave discharges), although brain &quot;state&quot; is relatively fixed.
After nerve injury, denervated synaptic sites in skeletal muscle commonly become reinnervated by sprouts that grow from nerve terminals on nearby muscle fibers. These terminal sprouts grow along a glial cell guide or &quot;bridge&quot; formed by Schwann cell (SC) processes that extend from denervated synaptic sites. Data presented here show that most bridges connect innervated and denervated synaptic sites rather than pairs of denervated sites even when most sites in the muscle are denervated. Furthermore, bridges are inhibited by presynaptic or postsynaptic blockade of synaptic transmission, manipulations that do not alter the extent of SC growth. These results show that an activity-dependent postsynaptic signal promotes the formation and/or maintenance of glial bridges and thus muscle reinnervation.
Serotonin (5-HT) plays a crucial neuromodulatory role in numerous physiological and behavioral functions, and dysfunction of the serotonergic system has been implicated in several psychiatric disorders. Despite the widespread importance of the central serotonergic neurotransmitter system, little is known about the molecular mechanisms controlling the development of 5-HT neurons. We previously identified an ETS domain transcription factor, Pet-1, that is expressed in a small number of tissues, including the brain. Here, we show that expression of Pet-1 RNA in the brain is restricted to, and marks, the entire rostrocaudal extent of rat serotonergic hindbrain raphe nuclei. Remarkably, Pet-1 RNA colocalizes with tryptophan hydroxylase-positive neurons in raphe nuclei but not with their nonserotonergic neuron or non-neuronal neighbors. Pet-1 RNA is limited to two domains in the developing hindbrain, which precedes the appearance of 5-HT in each domain by approximately a half day. Conserved Pet-1 binding sites are present in or near the promoter regions of the human and mouse 5-HT1a receptor, serotonin transporter, tryptophan hydroxylase, and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase genes whose expression is characteristic of the serotonergic neuron phenotype. These sites are capable of supporting transcriptional activation through interactions with the Pet-1 ETS domain and can function as enhancers. Together, our findings establish Pet-1 as an early and precise marker of 5-HT neurons and suggest that it functions specifically in the differentiation and maintenance of these neurons.
Cysteine-string proteins (CSPs) are associated with secretory vesicles and critical for regulated neurotransmitter release and peptide exocytosis. At nerve terminals, CSPs have been implicated in the mediation of neurotransmitter exocytosis by modulating presynaptic calcium channels; however, studies of CSPs in peptidergic secretion suggest a direct role in exocytosis independent of calcium transmembrane fluxes. Here we show that the individual expression of various CSP isoforms in Drosophila similarly rescues the loss of evoked neurotransmitter release at csp null mutant motor nerve terminals, suggesting widely overlapping functions for each isoform. Thus, the structural difference of CSP variants may not explain the opposing putative functions of CSP in neurotransmitter and peptide exocytosis. Consistently, the individual overexpression of each CSP isoform in wild-type Drosophila shows similar effects such as impaired viability and interference with wing and eye development. The dominant effects caused by the overexpression of CSP are suppressed by the simultaneous overexpression of syntaxin-1A but not by the coexpression of SNAP-25. Although overexpression of CSP itself has no apparent effect on the synaptic physiology of larval motor nerve terminals, it fully suppresses the decrease of evoked release induced by the overexpression of syntaxin-1A. A direct protein-protein interaction of CSP with syntaxin is further supported by coimmunoprecipitations of syntaxin with CSP and by protein binding assays using recombinant fusion proteins. Together, the genetic and biochemical interactions of CSP and syntaxin-1A suggest that CSP may chaperone or modulate protein-protein interactions of syntaxin-1A with either calcium channels or other components of the regulatory machinery mediating depolarization-dependent neurotransmitter exocytosis.
Cerebellar long-term potentiation (LTP) is a persistent increase in the strength of the granule cell-Purkinje neuron synapse that occurs after brief stimulation of granule cell axons at 2-8 Hz. Previous work has indicated that cerebellar LTP induction requires presynaptic Ca influx, stimulation of Ca-sensitive adenylyl cyclase, and activation of PKA. The evidence implicating PKA has come from bath application of drugs during LTP induction, an approach that does not distinguish between PKA activation in the presynaptic or postsynaptic cell. Although bath application of PKA inhibitor drugs (KT5720, Rp-8CPT-cAMP-S) blocked LTP induction in granule cell-Purkinje neuron pairs in culture, selective application to granule cell or Purkinje neuron somata via patch pipettes did not. We hypothesized that presynaptic PKA activation is required for LTP induction but that drugs applied to the granule cell soma cannot diffuse to the terminal within this timescale. To test this hypothesis, we transfected cerebellar cultures with an expression vector encoding a peptide inhibitor of PKA [Rous sarcoma virus (RSV)-protein kinase A inhibitor (PKI)]. Transfection of RSV-PKI into presynaptic granule cells, but not postsynaptic Purkinje neurons or glial cells, blocked LTP induction produced by either synaptic stimulation or an exogenous cAMP analog. An expression vector encoding a control peptide with no PKA inhibitory activity was ineffective. These results show that induction of cerebellar LTP requires a presynaptic signaling cascade, including Ca influx, stimulation of Ca-sensitive adenylyl cyclase, and activation of PKA, and argue against a requirement for postsynaptic Ca signals or their sequelae.
This month's question addressed something that many of us perhaps still have not formally incorporated into clinical practice, although we all are interested in our patients' health-related quality of life and want our inventions to result in improvements within this area. This view is exemplified by the response from Australia, which is one of several similar, unpublished, replies from the International Panel on this month's question (others came from Germany and Sweden). As mentioned in the introduction, health-related quality of life is becoming increasingly important as an outcome measure in clinical trials of new therapeutic interventions and several new measures have been and are developed. It is interesting and encouraging to hear about the new developments within this area that are being made by neuroscience nurses in different countries and within different subspecialties around the globe. As reported from the International Panel in here, new HRQL measures are currently developed in Canada and the UK focusing on patients with brains injuries and Huntington's disease (HD), respectively. In contrast to most established measures, the Canadian study has primarily been aimed at the positive aspects of life and not merely absence of the negative ones. Steve Smith in the UK has recently started developing a scale for use in clinical management of patients with HD. As far as I have been able to determine, this is the first measure of this kind to be developed for HD. Anyone who would like to know more about Steve's work or take part thereof is encouraged to contact him at this address above. Despite the fact that there already are several HRQL measures available, there is still a need for new instruments reflecting new aspects of health and disease. In addition, tools need to be designed for challenging conditions not readily addressed by existing measures. The replies from Canada and the UK represent these needs. It will be very interesting to eventually take part of the results from these colleagues' work. Finally, the terms HRQL and quality of life are often used interchangeable, indicating that focus also is needed on definition and conceptual construct within this field. There is still a great deal of controversy about what quality of life is and, as a result, how it is best measured and by whom.
Clearly, there is a benefit to the group process in helping to establish teamwork. Teamwork and cooperation can assist with promoting effective communication, improving work quality, and building a sense of well-being within the group. With this cooperation, setting goals and looking toward the future can become a reality. Once goals are set, then developing a professional image can begin. Developing a mission statement can be an effective means to help create that professional image. Having the opportunity to develop a mission for a patient care area and articulating it through a mission statement coalesces the values, beliefs, and philosophy of a group of neuroscience staff. The following is the mission statement developed by the neurosciences unit at the University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics: We, the staff of UWHC Neuroscience unit embrace a vision of excellence in health care for all. Our mission is to deliver consistent quality patient care, while fostering our own professional growth. As caring healers, teachers and patient advocates in an ever-changing health care environment, we are empowered by the code for nurses. Within our scope of practice, we strive to maintain a balance of basic human respect and dignity for patients and their families in their quest for wellness, adaptation, rehabilitation or comfort care. It is our hope that patients and families will work with the health care team to construct a plan of care that best meets the patient's needs and goals. We are committed to accommodate special communication, religious or cultural needs of patients and their families. Our final acknowledgment is to ourselves, as members of the health care team. We celebrate the dignity of the staff by recognizing each individual as a special person capable of making unique and significant contributions to the unit.
The function of the neural cell adhesion molecule, NCAM, is modulated by the expression of the N-linked polysialic acid (PSA) oligosaccharide chain, with PSA serving to decrease the adhesive potential of the protein backbone. In this study, we have generated clonal cells of the rat B104 and human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell lines that over-express the alpha2,6(N) sialyltransferase (ST6N) enzyme in order to investigate the role of this enzyme in PSA biosynthesis. The clonal cells exhibited ST enzyme activities of up to 20-times control levels, which remained stable throughout the duration of the study. The increase in enzyme activity paralleled an increase in enzyme protein levels, as determined by Western blot analysis, and immunocytochemical analysis confirmed the Golgi localisation of the enzyme. The induction of PSA-NCAM expression in the cells expressing high levels of ST6N was confirmed both by using anti-PSA antisera and by specific digestion with endo-N-acetylneuraminidase E, whose actions are specific for alpha2, 8-linked PSA chains. These results demonstrate that the cellular ST6N activity serves to positively influence the expression of PSA in neuronal cells.




Although the question of human BDV infection remains to be resolved, burgeoning interest in this unique pathogen has provided tools for exploring the pharmacology and neurochemistry of neuropsychiatric disorders potentially linked to BDV infection. Two animal models have been established based on BDV infection of adult or neonatal Lewis rats. Analysis of these models is already yielding insights into mechanisms by which neurotropic agents and/or immune factors may impact developing or mature CNS circuitry to effect complex disturbances in movement and behavior.

1. Mechanisms underlying spontaneous rhythmical contractions have been studied in irideal arterioles of the rat using video microscopy and electrophysiology. 2. Rhythmical contractions (4 min-1) were more common during the second and third postnatal weeks and were always preceded by large, slow depolarizations (5-40 mV). 3. Spontaneous contractions were unaffected by tetrodotoxin (1 microM), neurotransmitter receptor antagonists, the sympathetic neurone blocker, guanethidine (5 microM) or sensory neurotoxin, capsaicin (1 microM). 4. Stimulation of sensory nerves inhibited spontaneous activity and this was not prevented by L-NAME (10 microm). 5. L-NAME (10 microm) caused an increase in frequency of spontaneous contractions, while forskolin (30 nM), in the presence of L-NAME, abolished spontaneous, but not nerve-mediated, contractions. 6. Spontaneous activity was not affected by felodipine (1 nM) or nifedipine (1 microM), but was abolished by cadmium chloride (1 microM) or superfusion with calcium-free solution. 7. Caffeine (1 mM), thapsigargin (2 microM) and cyclopiazonic acid (3 microM), but not ryanodine (3 microM), abolished spontaneous and nerve-mediated contractions. After preincubation in L-NAME (10 microM), cyclopiazonic acid abolished spontaneous contractions only. 8. Spontaneous depolarizations and contractions were abolished by 18alpha-glycyrrhetinic acid (20 microM). 9. Results suggest that spontaneous rhythmical contractions are myogenic and result from the cyclical release of calcium from intracellular stores, without a contribution from voltage-dependent calcium channels. Intercellular coupling through gap junctions appears to be essential for co-ordination of these events which could be modulated by nitric oxide and increases in cAMP. The possibility that different intracellular stores underly spontaneous and nerve-mediated contractions is discussed.
1. Electrophysiological recordings and pharmacological manipulations were used to investigate the mechanisms underlying the generation of action potential burst firing and its postsynaptic consequences in visually identified rat layer 5 pyramidal neurons in vitro. 2. Based upon repetitive firing properties and subthreshold membrane characteristics, layer 5 pyramidal neurons were separated into three classes: regular firing and weak and strong intrinsically burst firing. 3. High frequency (330 +/- 10 Hz) action potential burst firing was abolished or greatly weakened by the removal of Ca2+ (n = 5) from, or by the addition of the Ca2+ channel antagonist Ni2+ (250-500 microm; n = 8) to, the perfusion medium. 4. The blockade of apical dendritic sodium channels by the local dendritic application of TTX (100 nM; n = 5) abolished or greatly weakened action potential burst firing, as did the local apical dendritic application of Ni2+ (1 mM; n = 5). 5. Apical dendritic depolarisation resulted in low frequency (157 +/- 26 Hz; n = 6) action potential burst firing in regular firing neurons, as classified by somatic current injection. The intensity of action potential burst discharges in intrinsically burst firing neurons was facilitated by dendritic depolarisation (n = 11). 6. Action potential amplitude decreased throughout a burst when recorded somatically, suggesting that later action potentials may fail to propagate axonally. Axonal recordings demonstrated that each action potential in a burst is axonally initiated and that no decrement in action potential amplitude is apparent in the axon &gt; 30 microm from the soma. 7. Paired recordings (n = 16) from synaptically coupled neurons indicated that each action potential in a burst could cause transmitter release. EPSPs or EPSCs evoked by a presynaptic burst of action potentials showed use-dependent synaptic depression. 8. A postsynaptic, TTX-sensitive voltage-dependent amplification process ensured that later EPSPs in a burst were amplified when generated from membrane potentials positive to -60 mV, providing a postsynaptic mechanism that counteracts use-dependent depression at synapses between layer 5 pyramidal neurons.
1. Intracellular recordings and quantal analysis of synaptic transmission were made at neuromuscular junctions receiving stable convergent innervation in reinnervated rat lumbrical muscles, following recovery from chronic nerve conduction block. The polyneuronally innervated motor endplates (pi-junctions) were identified by vital staining of lateral plantar nerve (LPN) and sural nerve (SN) motor terminals, using the activity-dependent staining properties of the aminostyryl dyes RH414 and FM1-43, respectively. 2. Endplate depolarisation and quantal content per unit area varied by more than a factor of ten ( approximately 0.1-1. 4 quanta microm-2) between fibres. However, the stable pi-junctions produced nearly equivalent endplate depolarisations and quantal content per unit area, suggesting that synaptic strengths were co-regulated at these motor endplates. Quantal content per unit area was also independent of the size of individual synaptic inputs, or whether one, both or neither input was judged sufficient to produce suprathreshold or subthreshold endplate depolarisations. 3. Simultaneous excitation of convergent LPN and SN inputs from some pi-junctions resulted in profound non-linear summation, and in some cases complete occlusion of the response of the smaller input. The amplitude of the smaller, test responses recovered with a time constant of 2.1 +/- 0.5 ms (mean +/- s.e.m.) on varying the interval between paired stimuli, of similar order to the time constant of repolarisation of the conditioning endplate potential. 4. The data show that it is not necessary for a motor nerve terminal to occupy most of an endplate, or to produce a suprathreshold response in order to become stable. The occlusion of linear summation, similar to that described previously at polyneuronal junctions in neonates, suggests that convergent inputs comprising interdigitated synaptic boutons evoke self-contained synaptic responses at endplates, and that these are non-co-operative with respect to overall endplate depolarisation or safety margin for synaptic transmission.


The effects of chronic liver insufficiency resulting from end-to-side portacaval anastomosis (PCA) on glutamine synthetase (GS) activities, protein and gene expression were studied in brain, liver and skeletal muscle of male adult rats. Four weeks following PCA, activities of GS in cerebral cortex and cerebellum were reduced by 32% and 37% (p&lt;0.05) respectively whereas GS activities in muscle were increased by 52% (p&lt;0.05). GS activities in liver were decreased by up to 90% (p&lt;0.01), a finding which undoubtedly reflects the loss of GS-rich perivenous hepatocytes following portal-systemic shunting. Immunoblotting techniques revealed no change in GS protein content of brain regions or muscle but a significant loss in liver of PCA rats. GS mRNA determined by semi-quantitative RT-PCR was also significantly decreased in the livers of PCA rats compared to sham-operated controls. These findings demonstrate that PCA results in a loss of GS gene expression in the liver and that brain does not show a compensatory induction of enzyme activity, rendering it particularly sensitive to increases in ammonia in chronic liver failure. The finding of a post-translational increase of GS in muscle following portacaval shunting suggests that, in chronic liver failure, muscle becomes the major organ responsible for the removal of excess blood-borne ammonia.
The neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) expressed by one-third of rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons mediates pain sensation and vasodilation. The developmental regulation of CGRP is poorly understood, but may involve target-derived factors from skin or viscera. Few embryonic DRG neurons in defined culture express CGRP, indicating inductive signals are required. Follistatin blocked CGRP expression induced by serum or skin-conditioned medium, implicating transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) family members. Activin or bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) 2, 4, or 6 stimulated CGRP expression in 60% of DRG neurons. Brief BMP4 application supported maximal CGRP induction, suggesting that BMP4 is a &quot;switch&quot; rather than a continuous modulator of neuropeptide phenotype. DRG expressed corresponding receptor subunits and exhibited Smad1 transcription factor nuclear translocation following BMP stimulation. BMP mRNAs were present in embryonic targets innervated by CGRP-expressing neurons. Thus, specific TGFbeta family members are candidate regulators of CGRP expression in sensory neurons.
A variety of molecules expressed at the midline of the developing central nervous system (CNS) control multiple aspects of pattern formation and axon guidance. We recently identified monoclonal antibody (mAb) CARO 2 as a novel marker of the ventral midline in the developing rat CNS, and the corresponding antigen as a membrane-associated 28-kDa protein. We report here the isolation of cDNA clones encoding the mAb CARO 2 antigen, which we rename VEMA, for ventral midline antigen. The deduced amino acid sequence of VEMA contains a single transmembrane domain near its N-terminus and several tyrosine-based internalization motifs. These structural features are consistent with the association of VEMA to intracellular membranes. In situ hybridization analyses demonstrate that VEMA mRNA is predominantly expressed at the ventral midline. The restricted distribution of VEMA, as well as several characteristics of its primary structure, suggest a role for this protein in regulating axon guidance in the mammalian CNS.
The Alzheimer's disease beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) is produced by excision from the type 1 integral membrane glycoprotein amyloid precursor protein (APP) by the sequential actions of beta- and then gamma-secretases. Here we report that Asp 2, a novel transmembrane aspartic protease, has the key activities expected of beta-secretase. Transient expression of Asp 2 in cells expressing APP causes an increase in the secretion of the N-terminal fragment of APP and an increase in the cell-associated C-terminal beta-secretase APP fragment. Mutation of either of the putative catalytic aspartyl residues in Asp 2 abrogates the production of the fragments characteristic of cleavage at the beta-secretase site. The enzyme is present in normal and Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain and is also found in cell lines known to produce Abeta. Asp 2 localizes to the Golgi/endoplasmic reticulum in transfected cells and shows clear colocalization with APP in cells stably expressing the 751-amino-acid isoform of APP.
The inhibition of nitric oxide synthase by N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (0.03-3 mM) dose-dependently reduced nitric oxide (NO(*)) levels and enhanced the outward currents carried by human ether-a-gogo-related gene-1 (hERG1) K(+) channels expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes, whereas the increase in NO(*) levels achieved by exposure to L-arginine (0.03-10 mM) inhibited these currents. Furthermore, four NO(*) donors belonging to such different chemical classes as sodium nitroprusside (1-1000 microM), 3-morpholino-sydnonimine (100-1000 microM), (Z)-1-[N-(2-aminoethyl)-N-(2-ammonioethyl)amino]diazen-1- ium-1, 2-diolate (NOC-18; 1-300 microM), and S-nitroso N-acetylpenicillamine (1-300 microM) dose-dependently inhibited hERG1 outward K(+) currents. By contrast, the NO(*) donor NOC-18 (0.3 mM) did not affect other cloned K(+) channels such as rat neuroblastoma-glioma K(+) channel 2, rat delayed rectifier K(+) channel 1, bovine ether-a-gogo gene, rat ether-a-gogo-related gene-2, and rat ether-a-gogo-related gene-3. The inhibitory effect of NO(*) donors on hERG1 K(+) channels was prevented by the NO(*) scavengers 2-phenyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl 3-oxide and hemoglobin. The membrane permeable analog of cGMP, 8-bromo-cGMP (1 mM), failed to reproduce the inhibitory action of NO(*) donors on hERG1 outward currents; furthermore, the specific inhibitor of the NO(*)-dependent guanylyl cyclase, 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4, 3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (50 microM), neither interfered with outward hERG1 K(+) currents nor prevented their inhibition by 0.3 mM NOC-18. Both L-arginine (10 mM) and NOC-18 (0.3 mM) counteracted the stimulatory effect on hERG1 outward currents induced by the radical oxygen species-generating system FeSO(4) (25 microM)/ascorbic acid (50 microM; Fe/Asc). Finally, L-arginine (10 mM) and NOC-18 (0.3 mM) inhibited both basal and Fe/Asc (0.1 mM/0.2 mM)-stimulated lipid peroxidation in X. laevis oocytes. Collectively, the present results suggest that NO(*), both endogenously produced and pharmacologically delivered, may exert in a cGMP-independent way an inhibitory effect on hERG1 outward K(+) currents via an interaction with radical oxygen species either generated under resting conditions or triggered by Fe/Asc.
A long-term paraplegic man presented exclusively (&gt;99%) myosin heavy chain I (MHC I) in the tibialis anterior muscle (TA). This was coupled to a slow speed of contraction, a high resistance to fatigue, and a rapid resynthesis of phosphocreatine after an electrically evoked fatiguing contraction when compared with the TA muscles of 9 other paraplegic individuals. In contrast, the MHC composition of his vastus lateralis, gastrocnemius, and soleus muscles was that expected of a muscle from a spinal cord injured individual. This information may be of clinical importance in terms of the expected morphological and functional adaptations of skeletal muscle to different types of electrical stimulation therapy.
Following severe burns, patients frequently develop a profound resistance to nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers. Several mechanisms have been proposed to account for this, including upregulation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. We investigated the effects of a 30% body surface area (BSA) scald on neuromuscular transmission in slow-twitch soleus (SOL) and fast-twitch extensor digitorum longus (EDL) of rats. Rats were sacrificed 72 h after the injury, a time at which sepsis is unlikely and body weight gain and core temperature have returned to normal. Further groups of rats were sham operated and either pair fed to the scalded rats or freely fed to assess the influence of food restriction. When compared with muscle from pair-fed control rats, scald resulted in an almost 50% increase in miniature endplate potential (mEPP) frequency in both SOL and EDL. However, scald did not increase mean mEPP amplitude in SOL, although it did cause a 10% increase in EDL. Scald injury did produce a significant increase in the size of the evoked endplate potential in SOL (33%) and EDL (37%). These data indicate that a significant increase in the quantal content of evoked transmitter released in SOL (38%) and EDL (30%) occurred by 72 h after scald. Such an increase may contribute to the resistance to nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers documented in patients following thermal injury.
Missense mutations in the human presenilin-1 (PS1) gene, which is found on chromosome 14, cause early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). FAD-linked PS1 variants alter proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein and cause an increase in vulnerability to apoptosis induced by various cell stresses. However, the mechanisms responsible for these phenomena are not clear. Here we report that mutations in PS1 affect the unfolded-protein response (UPR), which responds to the increased amount of unfolded proteins that accumulate in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) under conditions that cause ER stress. PS1 mutations also lead to decreased expression of GRP78/Bip, a molecular chaperone, present in the ER, that can enable protein folding. Interestingly, GRP78 levels are reduced in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. The downregulation of UPR signalling by PS1 mutations is caused by disturbed function of IRE1, which is the proximal sensor of conditions in the ER lumen. Overexpression of GRP78 in neuroblastoma cells bearing PS1 mutants almost completely restores resistance to ER stress to the level of cells expressing wild-type PS1. These results show that mutations in PS1 may increase vulnerability to ER stress by altering the UPR signalling pathway.

Primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells were used to investigate the effects of chronic ethanol exposure (50-100 mM for 3 days) on NMDA receptor functions (Ca2+ fluxes and neurotoxicity), binding parameters of the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist [3H]MK-801, relative abundance of mRNAs coding for NMDA receptor subunits, and expression of NMDA receptor subunit proteins. Ethanol exposure caused a marked increase in NMDA-produced neurotoxicity but produced a differential pattern of effects on NMDA-induced Ca2+ fluxes with a marked enhancement of NMDA-stimulated free cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i), but no changes in NMDA-induced 45Ca2+ uptake. As shown by [3H]MK-801 binding experiments, chronic ethanol had no effect on affinity or number of the NMDA receptors. Furthermore, ethanol exposure had no effect on the relative abundance of the mRNAs for any of the NMDA receptor subunits (four splice variants of NR1, or NR2A-C), or on the expression of NMDA receptor subunit proteins. Our data confirm previous observations that chronic ethanol exposure enhances NMDA receptor-mediated neurotoxicity and elevation of [Ca2+]i, but also suggest that the increased responsiveness of NMDA receptors is not necessarily associated with alterations in the subunit composition or the ligand binding properties of NMDA receptors.

Rats with unilateral dopamine-denervating lesions sustained a 3-week treatment with a daily l-DOPA dose that is in the therapeutic range for Parkinson's disease. In most of the treated animals, chronic l-DOPA administration gradually induced abnormal involuntary movements affecting cranial, trunk, and limb muscles on the side of the body contralateral to the lesion. This effect was paralleled by an induction of FosB-like immunoreactive proteins in striatal subregions somatotopically related to the types of movements that had been elicited by l-DOPA. The induced proteins showed both regional and cellular colocalization with prodynorphin mRNA. Intrastriatal infusion of fosB antisense inhibited the development of dyskinetic movements that were related to the striatal subregion targeted and produced a local specific downregulation of prodynorphin mRNA. These data provide compelling evidence of a causal role for striatal fosB induction in the development of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in the rat and of a positive regulation of prodynorphin gene expression by FosB-related transcription factors.
Effects of continuous pentobarbital administration on binding characteristics of [3H]muscimol were examined by autoradiography, and levels of GABA(A) receptor beta2-subunit mRNA were investigated by in situ hybridization histochemistry in the rat brain. In order to eliminate the induction of hepatic metabolism by systemic administration of pentobarbital, an i.c.v. infusion model of tolerance to and withdrawal from pentobarbital was used. An experimental model of barbiturate tolerance and withdrawal was developed using i.c.v. infusion of pentobarbital (300 microg/10 microl/hr for 7 days) by osmotic minipumps and abrupt withdrawal from pentobarbital. The levels of [3H]muscimol binding were elevated in cingulate of frontal cortex (46%) and granule layer of cerebellum (32%) of rats 24-hr after withdrawal from pentobarbital, while it was only elevated in cingulate (58%) of tolerant rats. The GABA(A) receptor beta2-subunit mRNA was increased in the withdrawal rats only: in the cortex (9-14%), hippocampus (15-21%), inferior colliculus (21%), and granule layer of cerebellum (24%). These results show the involvement of GABA(A) receptor and its beta2-subunit up-regulations in pentobarbital withdrawal rats, and suggest that the levels of [3H]muscimol binding and GABA(A) receptor beta2-subunit mRNA are altered in a region-specific manner during pentobarbital withdrawal.
Cell-attached mode of patch clamp technique was employed to investigate the properties of acetylcholine (ACh)-induced ion channels in acutely dissociated neurons from the marginal division (MrD) of rat striatum. Two types of conductance states (25 pS and 60 pS) were recorded. The 25 pS channel (more than 80%) was the main type in the neurons of MrD and was described here. The amplitudes of inward currents increased with hyperpolorization and the reversing potential was about 0 mV. Both single short opening and long burst openings were observed in MrD neurons. Two-time constants of these two kinds of ion channels are 0.29 ms, 1.84 ms and 1.96 ms, 18.24 ms, respectively. Average close time can be fitted with two exponential functions, the two time constants are 1.7 ms and 54 ms. Probability of channel opening is about 0.012 and no voltage-dependence was found. The properties of reversing potential, voltage-independence and the form of agonist to the ion channels indicated that the recorded channel currents flow through AChR channels. The mAChR is involved in slow synaptic transmission and Ach can not induce the opening of mAChR ion channel. The binding site of ACh to AChR and the nAChR ion channel are the same protein, ACh can only activate nAChR ion channel directly. Therefore, the recorded ion channels in the present study are nAChR ion channels. The results suggest that nAChR ion channels exist in the neurons of MrD and the MrD probably is involved in learning and memory mechanism of the brain.
Exocytosis is regulated by proteins which interact to promote docking and fusion of secretory granules with the plasma membrane. We have used in situ hybridization to study the mRNA expression for vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP) isoforms VAMP-1 and VAMP-2, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25-kDa (SNAP-25) isoforms SNAP-25a and SNAP-25b, mammalian homologue of unc-18 (munc-18) and Hrs-2 in neurosecretory neurons of the magnocellular paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic (SON) nuclei of normal and osmotically challenged animals. In PVN and SON neurons of normal animals, strong labeling was demonstrated for VAMP-2 and SNAP-25a mRNA, whereas VAMP-1 or SNAP-25b mRNA could not be detected. Salt-loading (2% NaCl as drinking water), an animal model which increases the expression and secretion of hormones from hypothalamic magnocellular neurons, resulted in significantly increased mRNA levels for VAMP-2 (36%, 28%), munc-18 (74%, 68%) and SNAP-25a (59%, 77%) in the PVN and SON, respectively. There was no significant increase in Hrs-2 mRNA levels in the PVN, whereas a significant increase (22%) was observed in the SON. In the posterior pituitary, immunohistochemistry showed a marked decrease in numbers and intensity of vasopressin-immunoreactive (-IR) nerve endings after salt-loading. There were no obvious changes in numbers or intensity of VAMP-2-, munc-18-, Hrs-2- or SNAP-25-IR fibers. Large varicosities containing VAMP-2- and Hrs-2 immunocreactivity were seen in salt-loaded animals. The results show isoform-specific mRNA expression in neurosecretory neurons and an increased mRNA expression of proteins participating in the molecular regulation of exocytosis during an experimental situation characterized by increased secretion.
The biosynthesis and secretion of somatostatin (SRIH) within the hypothalamic periventricular-median eminence (PeN-ME) pathway follows a sexually differentiated developmental pattern beginning in the early neonatal period. It is generally accepted that testosterone plays a role in these processes, but the mechanisms underlying the age and sex differences are poorly understood. The present study sought to investigate the hypothesis that gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) may play a role in determining sex differences in SRIH neuronal activity. Using an in vitro hypothalamic preparation where more than 97% of the immunoreactive SRIH is contained within the PeN-ME pathway, peptide release in response to the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline, was followed through development. In the male a stimulatory response, indicative of an inhibitory GABAergic tone on SRIH secretion, was observed as early as postnatal day (P) 5. This persisted throughout juvenile development (P10, P17) and was present also in the adult male (P75), but in the peripubertal period the response to bicuculline was first lost (P25) and then reversed to an inhibition (P40), suggesting a transient switch to an apparent stimulatory GABAergic tone on SRIH release. By contrast, in the female, no bicuculline responsiveness was seen until P25 when it caused a decrease in SRIH release which persisted into adulthood. Using in situ hybridization studies we found no evidence to support the view that these age- and sex-dependent differences were due to changes in the expression of GABA(A) receptor alpha-subunits (alpha(1) and alpha(2)) which are colocalised in the PeN SRIH neurons. Following adult gonadectomy, the bicuculline response was abolished in the male, whereas, in the female it was reversed and identical in magnitude to the response in the intact male. These results demonstrate marked sex differences in GABA(A)-receptor-mediated influences on SRIH release which develop soon after birth and, in the adult, depend on gonadal factors. In the male these factors activate a primarily inhibitory influence, whereas in the female they facilitate an apparently stimulatory tone of GABA on SRIH secretion via the GABA(A) receptor. Our findings thus support the view that GABAergic transmission may play a key role in generating sex differences in the mode of SRIH secretion from the hypothalamus which has been shown to be a major factor in determining the sexually dimorphic patterns of growth hormone secretion.
The Computerized Brain Atlas (CBA) transforms PET images of individual subjects into a standard brain anatomy. We have previously applied this to PET images with [(11)C]raclopride and confirmed that the D2 dopamine receptors in the striatum can be evaluated accurately with a standard brain anatomy. There is growing evidence that extrastriatal D2 receptors, in spite of their low density, have pathophysiological significance for schizophrenia. We used the CBA to explore the extrastriatal distribution of D2 receptors in 13 healthy subjects using [11C]FLB 457, a substituted benzamide with very high affinity for D2 and D3 receptors. There was good agreement between the specific binding ratios from CBA quantification of standardized images and those from region-of-interest analyses of original images. The highest levels of binding were observed in the putamen and caudate nucleus, followed by the globus pallidus and nucleus accumbens. Besides the basal ganglia, the hypothalamus and nucleus ruber also showed high levels of binding. Intermediate levels were found in the substantia nigra, nucleus subthalami, amygdala, and thalamus. Interestingly, there was very heterogeneous binding among the thalamic nuclei. The anterior and mediodorsal nuclei showed relatively high binding. The cerebral cortices showed lower levels with significant regional differences. Binding was highest in the temporal cortex and hippocampus followed by the anterior cingulate gyrus, and the parietal and frontal cortices, but was lowest in the occipital cortex. The use of CBA for analysis of [11C]FLB 457 binding makes it possible to build a normal database for the extrastriatal D2 receptors in the living human brain. The heterogeneous distribution of D2 receptors provides an attractive opportunity for new research on the pathophysiology and drug treatment of schizophrenia.
Ventricles can be involved in different ways in neurotuberculosis, however, the occurrence of intraventricular abscess has been rarely reported. We report a young woman who had intraventricular tubercular abscess. Cranial computed tomographic scan showed hypodense ring enhancing lesion in the right lateral ventricle with unilateral hydrocephalus. She underwent parasagittal craniotomy with total excision of the lesion. The pus obtained from the lesion was teeming with acid fast bacilli.
We report the findings on CT and MR imaging in a patient with rapidly progressive subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE), which correlated with the clinical progression of the disease. In view of the rapid neurological deterioration and CSF pleocytosis, a brain biopsy was done and this confirmed the diagnosis.
Computed tomographic (CT) studies in olivopontocerebellar atrophies (OPCA) and 'early onset cerebellar ataxia with retained tendon reflexes (EOCA)' are few and vary widely in methodology and criteria for cerebellar and brainstem atrophy. In this prospective study, CT scan observations on 26 patients (EOCA-11, OPCA-15) were compared with 31 controls using qualitative and quantitative assessment of cisterns, ventricles and atrophy of brain. Vermian and/or cerebellar hemispheric (predominantly anterior) atrophy was present in 80.8% and both were equally common. Cerebral cortical atrophy (26.9%) and leukoariosis (15.4%) were less frequently seen. Statistically significant atrophy of pons, brachium pontis, cerebellum and midbrain was noted in patient group. No significant differences were observed between EOCA and OPCA groups. Evidence of atrophy did not correlate with either the duration of illness or the severity of cerebellar ataxia in both the groups. The severity of brainstem atrophy in 14 patients with and 12 patients without abnormal brainstem auditory evoked response did not differ significantly. This study highlights the methodology of CT evaluation for brainstem and cerebellar atrophy, draws attention to cerebral atrophy and emphasizes the lack of significant differences in CT morphology between OPCA and EOCA patients.
SV2 proteins are abundant synaptic vesicle proteins expressed in two major (SV2A and SV2B) and one minor isoform (SV2C) that resemble transporter proteins. We now show that SV2B knockout mice are phenotypically normal while SV2A- and SV2A/SV2B double knockout mice exhibit severe seizures and die postnatally. In electrophysiological recordings from cultured hippocampal neurons, SV2A- or SV2B-deficient cells exhibited no detectable abnormalities. Neurons lacking both SV2 isoforms, however, experienced sustained increases in Ca2+-dependent synaptic transmission when two or more action potentials were triggered in succession. These increases could be reversed by EGTA-AM. Our data suggest that without SV2 proteins, presynaptic Ca2+ accumulation during consecutive action potentials causes abnormal increases in neurotransmitter release that destabilize synaptic circuits and induce epilepsy.
The relationship between the neural processing of color and motion information has been a contentious issue in visual neuroscience. We examined this relationship directly by measuring neural responses to isoluminant S cone signals in extrastriate area MT of the macaque monkey. S cone stimuli produced robust, direction-selective responses at most recording sites, indicating that color signals are present in MT. While these responses were unequivocal, S cone contrast sensitivity was, on average, 1.0-1.3 log units lower than luminance contrast sensitivity. The presence of S cone responses and the relative sensitivity of MT neurons to S cone and luminance signals agree with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) measurements in human MT+. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that color signals in MT influence behavior in speed judgment tasks.


Transferase dUTP nick-end labelling (TUNEL) analysis was used to compare the occurrence of cell death in the cerebral wall of cocaine-exposed and drug-nave monkey fetuses. The rhesus monkeys providing the drug-exposed fetuses received 10 mg/kg of cocaine orally (in fruit treats) in the morning and in the evening between pregnancy days 50 and 65. The control pregnant animals received fruit treats only. The fetuses were removed for analysis by Caesarean section 10 h after the last cocaine treatment. The sections of the cerebral wall from the cocaine-exposed fetuses contained significantly higher numbers of TUNEL-positive nuclei (counted either per section area or per 1000 unlabeled nuclei) than the matching sections from the drug-nave fetuses. This elevation in the number of TUNEL-positive cells was observed through the entire depth of the fetal cerebral wall including its proliferative and intermediate zones, cortical plate and the marginal zone. The present study demonstrates that consumption of cocaine during pregnancy can result in increased occurrence of cell death in the developing cerebrum.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) were investigated in hippocampus of a genetic model of Down syndrome, the segmental trisomy (Ts65Dn) mouse. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded from hippocampal slices and LTP and LTD evoked sequentially. LTP decreased whereas LTD increased significantly in Ts65Dn compared with control hippocampus.
Extracellular single-unit recordings and iontophoresis were used to compare the effect of a single administration of pertussis toxin (PTX, 1 microg), into midbrain dopamine (DA) nuclei (A9 and A10 regions), on the muscarinic, NMDA and DA receptor responses of midbrain DA cells in the anesthetized rat. Iontophoretic applications of DA, or apomorphine (50 microg/kg, i.v.), markedly reduced the firing of DA cells in control rats. In PTX-treated animals, these inhibitory responses were totally abolished, indicating that, in both DA nuclei, the inhibitory DA receptors are coupled to Gi/o proteins. In parallel, there was a significant decrease in the number of active DA cells per track which returned to baseline 5 weeks after the treatment. Applications of the muscarinic agonist oxotremorine M (OXO M) or of NMDA produced a potent increase in the firing of DA cells in control rats. DA neurons treated with PTX were still responsive to OXO M, although their sensitivity to the agonist was significantly reduced by 40%. In contrast, NMDA-induced activation remained unchanged, indicating that PTX did not non-selectively dampen all excitatory responses. Applications of cell-permeable cAMP derivatives did not change the basal firing of DA neurons. On the other hand, the phospholipase C inhibitors neomycin and ET-18-OCH3 (200 microg, i.c.v.), reduced significantly the activation of DA cells induced by OXO M. These data suggest that muscarinic activation of DA cells involves an M1-like receptor, possibly coupled to Gq/11 proteins, but also the participation of a PTX substrate.
In the field of human perception, the chemical senses (taste and smell) have received little attention from neuroscience research when compared with auditory, visual and tactile senses. In the case of olfaction, it would appear that the publications over the last few years have been trying to overcome this lack of research. Many investigations have been carried out on lateralization, mainly in relation to specific pathologies (i.e., epilepsy, split-brain, lobotomy, etc.), while there have been few studies of healthy subjects. The results are often contradictory due particularly to special features of the olfactory system. However, consensus is emerging concerning, first, the fact that if both hemispheres are involved in the olfactory process, it is probable that one is more dominant than the other (many studies have revealed a greater impact on the right hemisphere in the treatment of olfactory information, but the dominance has not been clearly established). Second, the simple detection process would appear not to be lateralized whereas the higher-order olfactory tasks which involve memory processes and lexical aspects could be. The exact conditions governing lateralization still require more clarification by systematically taking into consideration the characteristics of the individual subjects, as well as those of the odorant stimuli and the test conditions. Finally, currently available techniques used in neurosciences and particularly cerebral imagery will contribute to a better understanding of the complexity of cerebral asymmetry in olfaction.
This article provides an extensive and comprehensive review of the effects of hormones on cognition. Studies detailing specific neurocognitive functions affected by variation in hormone levels across the life span are presented. Dysregulation of hormone levels is considered from models of both normal and diseased functioning. Patterns of cognitive dysfunction are described for a range of syndromes involving the neuroendocrine system, and evidence of specific neurophysiological mechanisms that can account for these findings is outlined. This review includes discussion of treatment outcomes and the permanency of endocrine-related cognitive dysfunction. The authors present a set of guidelines for clinical neuropsychologists to use for assessment of patients with neuroendocrine system dysfunction. Clinical and methodological issues in research and treatment settings are discussed.
The [14C]2-deoxyglucose method was applied to measure the effects of the synthetic cannabinoid agonist WIN 55212-2 intravenous administration on glucose utilization in the rat brain. Two doses of the drug, that have been reported previously to increase extracellular dopamine concentrations in the shell of the nucleus accumbens, were used (0.15-0.30 mg/kg). At the lower dose, WIN 55212-2 increased energy metabolism selectively in the accumbens shell. Conversely, the higher dose of the drug reduced glucose utilization in the hippocampal formation and ventromedial thalamic nucleus without affecting energy metabolism in the accumbens shell. These results may be useful to further understanding the addictive potentials of cannabinoid drugs.
Many neuropeptides are involved in the control of sexual behaviour at the central level. Among these, the most studied are adrenocorticotropin, alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone, oxytocin and opioid peptides. This attempt to review old and new neuropharmacological, biochemical and psychobiological studies in this field, shows that all these neuropeptides apparently facilitate sexual behaviour, except for opioid peptides, which inhibit sexual performance, in most of the species studied so far (rats, mice, monkeys and humans). However, gonadotropin-releasing hormone, corticotropin releasing factor, neuropeptide Y, galanin, cholecystokinin, substance P and vasoactive intestinal peptide may be also involved in the control of sexual behaviour. Apparently, corticotropin releasing factor, neuropeptide Y and cholecystokinin inhibit, while substance P and vasoactive intestinal peptide facilitate, sexual behaviour. In contrast, gonadotropin-releasing hormone has been reported to exert a facilitative, inhibitory or no effect at all on sexual behaviour. Galanin was also shown either to facilitate or inhibit sexual behaviour. The above-mentioned putative role of the neuropeptides in sexual behaviour derives mainly from studies done in rats. In these studies, neuropeptides, their antisera or drugs that act as agonists or antagonists of neuropeptide receptors, were tested for their effect on sexual behaviour after systemic, intracerebroventricular, or intracerebral administration. The latter were infused into brain areas relevant for sexual behaviour, such as the medial preoptic area, and the ventromedial and paraventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus. The above studies show that little information is available on the mechanisms by which neuropeptides influence sexual behaviour. Also unclear is whether the above neuropeptides influence the anticipatory phase (sexual arousal and/or motivation) or the consummatory phase (performance) of sexual behaviour, except for opioid peptides. New information about the role of neuropeptides may come from the application of molecular biology and genetic manipulation techniques to the study of sexual behaviour. Of these, FOS protein determination, antisense oligonucleotides aimed at the neutralisation of neuropeptide and/or neuropeptide receptor mRNAs in specific brain areas, and gene ablation seem the most promising. Although still in the early stages, it is likely that these methodologies will provide new insights into the role of neuropeptides in the control of sexual behaviour.
An outline is given of mechanisms that generate oxidative stress and inflammation. Considered are the metabolic mechanisms that give rise to peroxides, the source of strong oxidants; the production of dicarbonyls that interact with macromolecules to form advanced glycation endproducts; and the role that activation of the transcription factor NF(Kappa)B has in the expression of pro-inflammatory genes. Management of oxidative stress is considered by outlining the central role of reduced glutathione (GSH) in peroxide scavenging, dicarbonyl scavenging and activation of NF(Kappa)B. Cellular GSH levels are dictated by the balance between consumption, oxidation of GSH, reduction of oxidized-glutathione, and synthesis. The rate-limiting enzyme in GSH synthesis is L-gamma-glutamyl-L-cysteine synthase, a phase II enzyme. Phase II enzyme inducers are found in many fruits and vegetables. It is suggested that dietary phase II enzyme inducers be investigated for their potential for preventing or retarding the development of degenerative diseases that have an underlying oxidative stress and inflammatory component.
In contrast to cardiovascular disease, the impact of nutritional status on the prevention and outcome of stroke has received limited investigation. We present a mechanism based on animal studies, clinical data, and epidemiological data by which protein-energy status in the acute stroke and immediate postinjury periods may affect outcome by regulating reduced glutathione (GSH), a key component of antioxidant defense. As cysteine is the limiting amino acid for GSH synthesis, the GSH concentration of a number of nonneural tissues has been shown to be decreased by fasting, low-protein diets, or diets limiting in sulfur amino acids. The mechanism may also be relevant in brain since GSH in some brain regions is responsive to dietary sulfur amino acid supply and to the pro-cysteine drug, L-2-oxothiazolidine-4-carboxylate. The latter is an intracellular cysteine delivery system used to overcome the toxicity associated with cysteine supplementation. These findings may provide the mechanism to explain both the inverse correlation between dietary protein and stroke mortality and the documented association between suboptimal protein-energy status and diminished functional status following a stroke. Future investigations should examine the role of nutritional intervention in neuroprotective strategies aimed at improving stroke outcome. Pharmacological interventions such as L-2-oxothiazolidine-4-carboxylate should be investigated in animal models of stroke, as well as the impact of nutritional status on the response to these agents. Finally, micronutrient deficiencies that may accompany protein-energy malnutrition, such as selenium, should also be investigated for their role in antioxidant defense in cerebral ischemia.
Ascorbic acid, found physiologically as the ascorbate anion, is an abundant water-soluble antioxidant. It is concentrated in the intracellular compartment of all tissues in the body. The CNS has particularly high levels of ascorbate. Recent data from this laboratory indicate that ascorbate is distinctly compartmentalized between neurons and glia, with an average intracellular concentration of 10 mM in neurons and 1 mM in glial cells. These data can be contrasted with those for another important low molecular weight antioxidant, glutathione, which is somewhat more concentrated in glia than in neurons. The present review summarizes evidence for ascorbate compartmentalization between neurons and glia and considers these data in light of evidence for the roles of ascorbate as a neuroprotective antioxidant and as a neuromodulator in the CNS.

The family of the G protein-coupled opioid receptors was recently extended by a novel member that did not bind any of the typical opioid receptor ligands. Identification of the orphan receptor in this way led to the advent of &quot;reverse pharmacology&quot; to identify the corresponding physiological ligands. Nociceptin, a heptadecapeptide, which was discovered as an endogenous ligand, first, attracted us by its reported nociceptive or anti-opioid actions. However, following studies revealed that this peptide has both nociceptive and antinociceptive actions under different conditions; e.g., administration routes or doses affect its actions. In our recent studies using a unique peripheral peripheral nociception test, nociceptin given locally at lower doses was found to produce nociception through substance P release from nociceptor endings, while at higher doses, it produced antinociceptive actions through an inhibition of phospholipase C activity stimulated by nociceptive substances. Such hypothetical mechanisms can be applied to the mechanisms of nociceptin-induced paradoxical actions in the central nervous system. The physiological role of nociceptin has recently been reported using nociceptin receptor knock-out mice. Following the report of a hearing problem in such mice, the nociceptin receptor was found to be involved in the development of morphine analgesic tolerance. In this review, more findings on the physiological roles of nociceptin or its receptor, such as pain control and memory-learning, are discussed on the basis of reports using nociceptin receptor knock-out mice.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common cause of dementia in the elderly, is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized pathologically by the presence of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in the brains of affected individuals. Senile plaques are composed of amyloid-beta peptides (A beta), a proteolytic derivative of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta APP). A subset of AD is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait (familial AD, FAD). Mutations in genes encoding beta APP, presenilin (PS) 1 and PS2 are known to cause FAD. Genetic mutations in all three genes that cosegregate with FAD increase the production of the most amyloidogenic species, A beta 42. Moreover, PS1-deficient neurons exhibit severe defects in the production of A beta, suggesting that PS1 plays an important role in gamma-cleavage that liberates the C terminus of A beta. The physiological role of PS is still unknown, but data from studies in C. elegans, Drosophila and PS1 knock out mice suggests that PS1 plays a crucial role in Notch signaling, and recently it was shown that PS1 is required for the proteolytic release of the intracellular domain of Notch following activation of Notch by its ligand. Further studies on PS-mediated intra- and jaxtamembranous proteolysis will lead to the understanding of the pathological mechanism of AD as well as of a novel mode of membrane protein processing.
Nutrition plays a central role in linking the fields of developmental neurobiology and cognitive neuroscience. It has a profound impact on the development of brain structure and function and malnutrition can result in developmental dysfunction and disease in later life. A number of diseases, including schizophrenia, may be related to neurodevelopmental insults such as malnutrition, hypoxia, viruses or in utero drug exposure. Some of the most significant findings on nutrition and neurodevelopment during the last three decades, and especially during the last few years, are discussed in this review. Attention is focused on the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms by which diet exerts its effects. Randomized intervention studies have revealed important effects of early nutrition on later cognitive development, and recent epidemiological findings show that both genetics and environment are risk factors for schizophrenia. Particularly important is the effect of early nutrition on development of the hippocampus, a brain structure important in establishing learning and memory, and hence for cognitive performance. A major aim of future research should be to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying nutritionally-induced impairment of neurodevelopment and specifically to determine the mechanisms by which early nutritional experience affects later cognitive performance. Key research objectives should include: (1) increased understanding of mechanisms underlying the normal processes of ageing and neurodegenerative disorders; (2) assessment of the role of susceptibility genes in modulating the effects of early nutrition on neurodevelopment; and (3) development of nutritional and pharmaceutical strategies for preventing and/or ameliorating the adverse effects of early malnutrition on long-term programming.

The effects of spinal lesions on reactions of rats to nociceptive electrocutaneous stimulation (ES) were evaluated by measuring the speed of operant escape responses, the magnitude of hindlimb flexion reflexes and the amplitude of reflex vocalizations. ES intensities ranging from 0.1 to 0.8mA were delivered to either hindpaw of rats that were trained to terminate stimulation (perform an escape response) with one forelimb. Unilateral thoracic lesions within the lateral column were produced by surgically transecting axons, with or without insertion of blood-soaked Gelfoam into the lesion cavity. The latter procedure was intended to standardize and maximize hemotoxic damage to the gray matter at the lesion site. The speed of conscious escape responses to all intensities was reduced contralaterally and to comparable extents following each type of lesion. Involvement of mid-lateral axons was an important determinant of contralateral deficits in escape responding. Escape speed for ipsilateral stimulation was not affected by the lesion without intentional insertion of blood but was reliably increased by addition of blood to the lesion site. Flexion reflexes were substantially decreased contralaterally and slightly decreased ipsilaterally, in accordance with previous investigations of anterolateral lesion effects in monkeys. Early (reflex) vocalizations were essentially eliminated for stimulation contralateral to the lesions, but vocalizations following ipsilateral stimulation were little affected. Postoperative variations in behavioral responsivity over time were not accounted for by pre- and post-estrous stages of the estrous cycle. The principal finding of this study is that hemotoxic accompaniments of a spinal lesion produce hyperalgesia for nociceptive stimulation applied ipsilaterally to segments well caudal to the lesion. This finding indicates that hemotoxic injury of the gray matter near an anterolateral spinal lesion enhances the excitation of certain rostral structures that receive nociceptive information.
The objective of this study was to investigate the central processing of dynamic mechanical allodynia in patients with mononeuropathy. Regional cerebral blood flow, as an indicator of neuronal activity, was measured with positron emission tomography. Paired comparisons were made between three different states; rest, allodynia during brushing the painful skin area, and brushing of the homologous contralateral area. Bilateral activations were observed in the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) and the secondary somatosensory cortex (S2) during allodynia compared to rest. The S1 activation contralateral to the site of the stimulus was more expressed during allodynia than during innocuous touch. Significant activations of the contralateral posterior parietal cortex, the periaqueductal gray (PAG), the thalamus bilaterally and motor areas were also observed in the allodynic state compared to both non-allodynic states. In the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) there was only a suggested activation when the allodynic state was compared with the non-allodynic states. In order to account for the individual variability in the intensity of allodynia and ongoing spontaneous pain, rCBF was regressed on the individually reported pain intensity, and significant covariations were observed in the ACC and the right anterior insula. Significantly decreased regional blood flow was observed bilaterally in the medial and lateral temporal lobe as well as in the occipital and posterior cingulate cortices when the allodynic state was compared to the non-painful conditions. This finding is consistent with previous studies suggesting attentional modulation and a central coping strategy for known and expected painful stimuli. Involvement of the medial pain system has previously been reported in patients with mononeuropathy during ongoing spontaneous pain. This study reveals a bilateral activation of the lateral pain system as well as involvement of the medial pain system during dynamic mechanical allodynia in patients with mononeuropathy.

This experiment explored sex differences in behaviour using factor analysis to describe the relationship between different behavioral variables. A principal component solution with an orthogonal rotation of the factor matrix was used, ensuring that the extracted factors are independent of one another, and thus reflect separate processes. In the elevated plus-maze test of anxiety, in male rats factor 1 accounted for 75% of the variance and reflected anxiety, factor 2 represented activity, and accounted for 24% of the variance. This contrasted with the finding in female rats in which factor 1 was activity, accounting for 57% of the variance, with the anxiety factor accounting for only 34% of the variance. When behaviour in both the plus-maze and holeboard were analysed, a similar sex difference was found with anxiety emerging as factor 1 in males and holeboard activity as factor 1 in females. Locomotor activity in the inner portion of the holeboard loaded on the anxiety factor for males, but on activity for females. When behaviours in the plus-maze and sexual orientation tests were analysed, anxiety emerged as factor 1 in males, sexual preferences factor 2, and activity factor 3. In females, activity was factor 1, sexual preference factor 2, anxiety factor 3, and social interest factor 4. These results suggest caution should be exercised in interpreting the results from female rats in tests validated on males because the primary controlling factor may be different.
In a previous experiment rats avidly avoided a solution of 2-deoxy-d-glucose in 0.2% saccharin (2-DG+S), drinking less than 1 mL over 3 days. The present study investigated taste avoidance and conditioned taste aversion (CTA) to orally presented 2-DG+S as well as CTA in response to i.p. injections of 2-DG. In Experiment 1, rats were given either a glucose/saccharin(G +S) solution or 2-DG+S for eight 30-s test periods. Four seconds into the first 30-s test, rats in the 2-DG+S group licked significantly less than rats in the G+S group, and licking almost totally ceased in the remaining seven tests. Overnight water intake was not different between the groups, but when offered a G+S solution, rats in the 2-DG+S group almost totally avoided the solution and still showed a significant aversion to G+S when retested 6 days later. In Experiment 2, rats were allowed to drink G +S, and were then injected i.p. with 500 mg 2-DG/kg, 500 mg D-glucose/kg body weight in 0.3 mL water, or with 0.3 mL saline. When tested with a G +S solution the next day, rats in the 2-DG group showed a highly significant avoidance, while rats in the glucose group were not different from those in the saline group. The results of the second experiment are consistent with earlier studies of CTA induced by i.p. injections of 2-DG. The present study indicates that small amounts of orally ingested 2-DG produce a CTA as strong or even stronger than that following injected 2-DG, most likely by inducing malaise. Whether the onset of malaise is fast enough to account for the rapid initial avoidance of this solution or a taste factor is also involved is not yet clear.
The product of meal number x meal size, over time, is food intake. Because estrogens modulate feeding activity via their action on the hypothalamus, and because there is a diurnal rhythm in the expression of cytoplasmic estrogen receptors and in estrogen binding activity, the present study examined the effects of ovariectomy and later hormone therapy on acute changes in body weight, and on the meal number-to-meal size relationship as reflected by food intake in the dark/light feeding patterns, in adult female rats in the intact state and after ovariectomy. Twelve female Fischer rats were randomized into ovariectomy and sham operation groups. A rat eater meter measured the feeding indexes for 15 days before and 25 days after ovariectomy, and later for 35 days with hormone therapy. We report: (a) mean body weight gain was linear before and up to ovariectomy, while exponential after ovariectomy; (b) increase in daily food consumption is mainly via an increase in food intake during the light phase; (c) light phase meal number remains unchanged, meal size significantly increases, with the resultant increase in overall food intake; (d) during the dark phase, meal size also significantly increases, but is accompanied by a proportional decrease in meal number, resulting in unchanged dark-phase food intake; and (e) estrogen restoration with either estradiol valerate or estradiol-progesterone combination, reversed the above changes. Data show that in the female Fischer 344 rat: (a) changes in daily rhythm in food intake are brought about by differential effects of the hormones on both meal size and meal number in both the total daily levels as well as in the dark-to-light distribution; (b) estadiol appears to have a tonic inhibitory effect on the light phase meal size and a phasic effect on the dark phase meal size and number, but no significant effect on the light-phase meal number; and (c) in the Fischer rats, progesterone augments estradiol's effect on these indicies.
The psychiatric emergency service (PES) is an excellent learning environment that offers trainees a multitude of educational opportunities. PES personnel need to develop training programs to ensure that psychiatry residents obtain knowledge and skills in emergency evaluation, crisis management, and triage of patients, as required by accreditation bodies. Curriculum guidelines can best be achieved through a rotation that offers an orientation, didactic presentations, clinical supervision, and graded responsibilities. Improved training opportunities, senior electives, and fellowships will promote emergency psychiatry as a career choice.

Lewy bodies (LBs) are hallmark lesions of degenerating neurons in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). DLB is the second most common neurodegenerative dementia after Alzheimer's disease, which is characterized clinically by fluctuating cognitive impairments, visual hallucinations and parkinsonism, and pathologically by the appearance of cortical LBs. To characterize the components of LBs, we have developed a purification procedure for LBs from cortices of patients with DLB using sucrose density separation followed by fluorescence-activated particle sorting. We then raised monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) to purified LBs, and obtained a mAb (LB509) that intensely immunolabeled LBs and specifically reacted with a approximately 18kDa brain protein, which was identified as alpha-synuclein. LB509 as well as other antibodies to alpha-synuclein, but not to beta-synuclein, immunostained brainstem and cortical LBs in sporadic PD and DLB brains. Recently, a point mutation in alpha-synuclein gene was identified in some autosomal-deminantly inherited familial PD pedigrees. Moreover, glial cytoplasmic inclusions in the brains of patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA) were shown to be alpha-synuclein positive. Taken together, our data strongly implicate alpha-synuclein in the formation of LBs and the selective neuronal degeneration in PD, DLB and MSA.
Sarcoglycanopathy is a group of four autosomal recessive muscular dystrophies whose symptoms are similar to Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). These dystrophies are caused by mutations on anyone of the genes encoding four subunits of sarcoglycan complex which are transmembranous and dystrophin associated proteins. When the protein product of the mutated gene is absent, entire sarcoglycan complex is absent or greatly reduced in amount. This further gives rise to the weak connection between dystrophin and dystroglycan complex. These cause Duchenne-like phenotype. In DMD, dystrophin is absent and sarcoglycan complex is greatly reduced. These similarities in molecular defects in these diseases may cause the similarity in symptoms.
Neuronal fibers, especially axonal fibers, have empirically been implicated in the generation of the observed anisotropism in apparent diffusion within the nervous system. Fast axonal flow is believed to play a main, if not sole, role in producing this observed anisotropy. Given that apparent diffusivity follows a Gaussian distribution, &quot;averaged&quot; diffusion length may be calculated as a function of diffusion coefficient (eigenvalue) and diffusion time. This method can be developed into a non-invasive imaging technique for obtaining an estimate of fast axonal flow in humans, in vivo. In this lecture, one of such technique, magnetic resonance axonography (MRX) is briefly described.


In the present study, glycine uptake in SK-N-SH cells was determined with liquid scintillation technique, and the rapid effects of steroids on glycine uptake in SK-N-SH cells were investigated. The results were as follows. High-affinity glycine uptake in SK-N-SH cells was dependent on Na+ and Cl-. Corticosterone (CORT), progesterone (P) and dexamethasone (DEX) had rapid effects on the glycine uptake. Since estradiol (E2) and deoxycorticosterone (DOC) had no effects, it was suggested that the rapid effects of steroids were specific. The rapid effects of CORT were concentration-dependent in a range of 10(-9)-10(-6) mol/L. The rapid effects were not affected by the inhibitor of protein synthesis and persisted even when CORT was conjugated with bovine serum album, but attenuated when Ca2+ was absent in the external medium. The results suggest that the steroid effect on glycine uptake in SK-N-SH cells was nongenomicly mediated.
Those insults to the spinal cord which occur when ventral or dorsal roots are avulsed from the surface of the cord have been considered unfavourable with regard to both survival and axon regeneration of lesioned neurons. In this review, we describe the development of a surgical procedure aiming at a restoration of motor function after ventral root avulsion lesions. This development includes a series of investigations in animals, where an unexpected capacity for cell survival and axon regeneration of motoneurons after a cut lesion in the spinal cord was demonstrated and analyzed in great detail. Based on these findings, a surgical technique was tested, where avulsed ventral roots were replanted into the cord. After confirmation that such implanted roots could serve as a conduit for outgrowing motor axons in animals, the technique has been evaluated in a limited number of human cases of root avulsion lesions. We conclude that surgical intervention may indeed lead to return of motor function also in human cases of ventral root avulsion lesions. Interestingly, the procedure also seems to have an attenuating effect on the pain that develops in cases with a combined dorsal root avulsion. Lastly, we conclude that the cut lesion in the ventral part of the spinal cord, followed by axon regeneration in motoneurons may serve as a model for axon regeneration in the central nervous system.
Here we tested whether exposure to either tailshock or swim stress alters ovarian hormone levels, estrogen and progesterone, in females and whether the effects are persistent. Adrenal hormone levels were also measured in males and females. Estradiol levels were elevated in unstressed females during proestrus relative to females in other stages of estrous, and exposure to the stressors enhanced estradiol beyond basal levels. For females stressed during diestrus 2, estradiol levels were elevated immediately after stressor cessation and up to 24 hrs. Exposure to tailshock, but not swim-stress, transiently enhanced progesterone in females stressed during the stage of proestrus and estrus. Glucocorticoid levels were elevated in response to both stressors and were supraelevated in females under both basal and stress conditions relative to males, particularly in blood from females exposed to acute swim stress. These results indicate that exposure to a relatively acute stressful event immediately and persistently enhances serum estradiol and are discussed in the context of reports that exposure to the same stressors immediately and persistently impairs associative learning in the female rat.
This series of studies investigated the effects of psychological stress and the neurosteroid dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) on hippocampal primed burst (PB) and long-term (LTP) potentiation, two electrophysiological models of memory. The DHEAS and stress manipulations were performed on awake rats, and then PB and LTP were recorded while the rats were anesthetized. DHEAS enhanced PB potentiation when administered to rats under non-stress conditions, but had no effect when given to stressed rats. Further study showed that DHEAS enhanced PB potentiation only when it was administered before, but not after, the rats were stressed. The DHEAS and stress manipulations had no effect on LTP. This study provides three major findings regarding stress, neurosteroids and hippocampal plasticity. First, DHEAS enhanced a threshold form of plasticity (PB potentiation), but had no effect on a supra-threshold form of plasticity (LTP). Second, stress blocked the DHEAS-induced enhancement of PB potentiation. Third, stress and DHEAS effects on the hippocampus were so durable they could be performed on awake animals and then be studied while the animals were anesthetized. That DHEAS enhanced a subset of forms of hippocampal plasticity under restricted behavioral conditions may help to resolve conflicting observations of DHEAS effects on cognition and mood in people.

The purpose of the present experiment was to test the possibility that atypical antipsychotics and classical antipsychotics differentially regulate specific neurochemical processes within the entopeduncular nucleus. For these experiments, rats were administered clozapine (25 mg/kg), haloperidol (1 mg/kg), or Tween-80 (control) daily for 21 days. Dopamine D(1)-receptor binding was assessed with in vitro receptor autoradiographic methods and the mRNAs corresponding to the two forms of glutamate decarboxylase (glutamate decarboxylase-65 and glutamate decarboxylase-67) were analyzed using in situ hybridization histochemical methods. In addition, vacuous chewing movements (VCM) were measured throughout the drug administration period as a functional indicator of drug action and changes in striatal dopamine D(2)-receptor binding were measured as a positive control for D(2)-receptor antagonist properties of haloperidol and clozapine. In agreement with previous reports, haloperidol increased D(2)-receptor binding throughout the striatum while clozapine had a more limited impact on D(2)-receptors. Behavioral analysis revealed that both haloperidol and clozapine enhanced the display of vacuous chewing movements to a similar extent but with a different postinjection latency. In the entopeduncular nucleus, clozapine increased D(1)-receptor binding compared to controls while haloperidol was without effect. With respect to the regulation of GAD mRNAs, haloperidol increased glutamate decarboxylase-65 and glutamate decarboxylase-67 mRNA levels throughout the entopeduncular nucleus. The effects of clozapine were restricted to increases in glutamate decarboxylase-65 mRNA. These studies show that clozapine and haloperidol, both of which increase the occurrence of VCM, differentially modulate the neurochemistry of the entopeduncular nucleus.
Behavioral sensitization to psychomotor stimulants is accompanied by a number of alterations in the mesoaccumbens dopamine (DA) system, including DA autoreceptor subsensitivity in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and DA D1 receptor supersensitivity in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). We investigated the role of excitatory amino acid (EAA) transmission in the induction of cocaine sensitization and these accompanying DA receptor alterations. To do so, we used three glutamate receptor antagonists, the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg), the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CGS 19755 (10.0 mg/kg), and the AMPA receptor antagonist NBQX (12.5 mg/kg). Rats received daily double injections of either one of these antagonists or saline with either cocaine (15.0 mg/kg) or saline for 5 days. Cocaine sensitization was defined as an increase in horizontal locomotor activity in response to cocaine challenge (7.5 mg/kg) on the third day of withdrawal. All three antagonists prevented the induction of cocaine sensitization. Extracellular single cell recordings revealed that these antagonists also prevented the induction of DA autoreceptor subsensitivity in the VTA and DA D1 receptor supersensitivity in the NAc. To determine whether the relevant glutamate receptors were under regulation by medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) EAA efferents, we next lesioned the mPFC bilaterally with ibotenic acid at least 7 days before repeated cocaine treatment began. These lesions also prevented the induction of cocaine sensitization and the associated neuroadaptations. Our findings indicate that glutamate transmission from mPFC to the mesoaccumbens DA system is critical for the induction of cocaine sensitization and its cellular correlates.

Humans are exceedingly social animals, but the neural underpinnings of social cognition and behavior are not well understood. Studies in humans and other primates have pointed to several structures that play a key role in guiding social behaviors: the amygdala, ventromedial frontal cortices, and right somatosensory-related cortex, among others. These structures appear to mediate between perceptual representations of socially relevant stimuli, such as the sight of conspecifics, and retrieval of knowledge (or elicitation of behaviors) that such stimuli can trigger. Current debates concern the extent to which social cognition draws upon processing specialized for social information, and the relative contributions made to social cognition by innate and acquired knowledge.
In the mammalian brain, LTP is an enduring form of synaptic plasticity that is posited to have a role in learning and memory. Compelling new evidence for this view derives from studies of LTP in the amygdala, a brain structure that is essential for simple forms of emotional learning and memory, such as Pavlovian fear conditioning in rats. More specifically, antagonists of the NMDA receptor block both amygdaloid LTP induction and fear conditioning, fear conditioning induces increases in amygdaloid synaptic transmission that resemble LTP, and genetic modifications that disrupt amygdaloid LTP eliminate fear conditioning. Collectively, these results provide the most-convincing evidence to date that LTP mediates learning and memory in mammals.
The two components of voluntary tracking eye-movements in primates, pursuit and saccades, are generally viewed as relatively independent oculomotor subsystems that move the eyes in different ways using independent visual information. Although saccades have long been known to be guided by visual processes related to perception and cognition, only recently have psychophysical and physiological studies provided compelling evidence that pursuit is also guided by such higher-order visual processes, rather than by the raw retinal stimulus. Pursuit and saccades also do not appear to be entirely independent anatomical systems, but involve overlapping neural mechanisms that might be important for coordinating these two types of eye movement during the tracking of a selected visual object. Given that the recovery of objects from real-world images is inherently ambiguous, guiding both pursuit and saccades with perception could represent an explicit strategy for ensuring that these two motor actions are driven by a single visual interpretation.
The development of small-molecule antagonists of the substance P (SP)-preferring tachykinin NK1 receptor during the past decade represents an important opportunity to exploit these molecules as novel therapeutic agents. On the basis of its anatomical localization and function, SP has been implicated in diverse pathophysiologies; of these, diseases of the CNS have been examined in the greatest detail. Although SP is best known as a pain neurotransmitter, it also controls vomiting and various behavioural, neurochemical and cardiovascular responses to stress. Recent clinical trials have confirmed the efficacy of NK1 receptor antagonists to alleviate depression and emesis but, surprisingly, not pain. Thus, multiple clinical trials, targeted to appropriate patient populations, are necessary to define the therapeutic potential of novel neurotransmitter ligands.
Research within the past decade has provided compelling evidence that anaesthetics can act directly as allosteric modulators of transmitter-gated ion channels. Recent comparative studies of the effects of general anaesthetics across a structurally homologous family of inhibitory amino acid receptors that includes mammalian GABAA, glycine and Drosophila RDL GABA receptors have provided new insights into the structural basis of anaesthetic action at transmitter-gated channels. In this article, the differential effects of general anaesthetics across inhibitory amino acid receptors and the potential relevance of such actions to general anaesthesia will be discussed.
In pulmonary hypertension (PHT), pulmonary vascular resistance is elevated as a result of increased pulmonary vascular tone and pulmonary vascular remodelling. Certain diet pills, such as the fenfluramines, have been associated with the development of PHT. This class of drugs act as indirect 5-HT receptor agonists and can inhibit 5-HT reuptake and cause the release of 5-HT from platelets. Many pulmonary vasoconstrictors, including 5-HT, activate both Gi- and Gq-linked receptors. Increasing evidence suggests that Gq activation might amplify Gi-linked intracellular pathways to 'uncover' or potentiate vasoconstrictor responses - a phenomenon known as pharmacological synergism, which occurs in the pulmonary circulation. In this review the evidence that 5-HT plays a role in PHT and that pharmacological synergism might contribute to its pathology is discussed.
The effects of attention on visual evoked potentials triggered by motion-onset were examined in four experiments. A set of randomly oriented bars was used as stimuli. The first experiment showed that responses to motion-onset following pattern-onset by less than 300 ms were suppressed. In the other three experiments, the amplitude of N170 was reduced when attention was drawn away from the moving elements and towards spatially interspersed bars that remained static. The superposition of the two sets made spatial selection unlikely. These results support the existence of an attentional 'motion filter' (separating stationary from moving elements) that can operate at early stages of visual processing.




Tropomyosin (TM) is thought to exist in equilibrium between two states on F-actin, closed and open [Geeves, M. A., and Lehrer, S. S. (1994) Biophys. J. 67, 273-282]. Myosin shifts the equilibrium to the open state in which myosin binds strongly and develops force. Tropomyosin isoforms, that primarily differ in their N- and C-terminal sequences, have different equilibria between the closed and open states. The aim of the research is to understand how the alternate ends of TM affect cooperative actin binding and the relationship between actin affinity and the cooperativity with which myosin S1 promotes binding of TM to actin in the open state. A series of rat alpha-tropomyosin variants was expressed in Escherichia coli that are identical except for the ends, which are encoded by exons 1a or 1b and exons 9a, 9c or 9d. Both the N- and C-terminal sequences, and the particular combination within a TM molecule, determine actin affinity. Compared to tropomyosins with an exon 1a-encoded N-terminus, found in long isoforms, the exon 1b-encoded sequence, expressed in 247-residue nonmuscle tropomyosins, increases actin affinity in tropomyosins expressing 9a or 9d but has little effect with 9c, a brain-specific exon. The relative actin affinities, in decreasing order, are 1b9d &gt; 1b9a &gt; acetylated 1a9a &gt; 1a9d &gt; 1a9a &gt; or = 1a9c congruent with 1b9c. Myosin S1 greatly increases the affinity of all tropomyosin variants for actin. In this, the actin affinity is the primary factor in the cooperativity with which myosin S1 induces TM binding to actin in the open state; generally, the higher the actin affinity, the lower the occupancy by myosin required to saturate the actin with tropomyosin: 1b9d &gt;1a9d&gt; 1b9a &gt; or = acetylated 1a9a &gt; 1a9a &gt; 1a9c congruent with 1b9c.
The performance of freely moving rats (n=18) in a decision-making reaction time task was analyzed to provide data that can be compared with noise-compatibility paradigms previously obtained in humans. Rats were first trained in an auditory pitch discrimination task involving a Go/Nogo response choice. In a subsequent phase, the two tones used in the previous phase were simultaneously presented in different combinations from two locations. Only the presence of the correct tone from the correct location was predictive of the reward. The observed behavioral strategies suggest a competition between two processes: one involving stimulus evaluation, response preparation and execution, the other involving recognition of the stimulus features associated with inhibition of the Go-response. The reaction times in the most adopted strategies towards the end of the experiment suggest an effect of stimulus congruence. Perceptual processes are affected by the congruence of 'pitch' and 'location' stimulus dimensions and the duration of the response may, but need not, be affected by overlapping dimensions. The analysis of error and aborted trials also suggest that subject's reaction and subsequent motor action may depend on whether stimulus identification processes can pass information to the response activation system prior to completion of sensory processing. The data are discussed in the framework of processing stages theory and dimensional overlap model.
Three video-formatted experiments investigated the categorization of 'above' and 'below' spatial relations in baboons (Papio papio). Using an identity matching-to-sample task, six baboons correctly matched line-dot stimuli based on the 'above' or 'below' location of the dot relative to the line (Experiment 1). Positive transfer of performance was then observed when the line-dot distance depicted in the sample stimulus differed from that of the two comparison stimuli (Experiment 2). Using a go/nogo procedure, two baboons were further trained to discriminate whether a 'B' character was displayed 'above' or 'below' a '3' character (Experiment 3). After training, a positive transfer of performance was observed with the same type of stimuli depicted in different type fonts. Altogether, these results suggest that baboons may form conceptual representations of 'above' and 'below' spatial relations, and categorize visual forms on that basis.
Transport between intracellular compartments requires the activity of an N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein (NSF). NSF is a member of a growing family of ATPases regulating several membrane fusion reactions. We have cloned the NSF ortholog from the moth, Manduca sexta (MsNSF). MsNSF is highly conserved in domains critical for NSF function in vertebrates. MsNSF codes for a protein of 745 amino acids, translating to a M(r) of 83kDa in vitro. MsNSF is 72% and 61% similar in amino acid sequence to Drosophila and vertebrate NSFs, respectively. We expressed the D1 ATP domain of MsNSF toward which antibodies selective to MsNSF were generated. Affinity purified alpha-MsNSF antibodies detect a 83kDa protein which is highly enriched in nervous tissues. Levels of MsNSF expression are substantially lower in other tissues examined. Anti-MsNSF antibodies are capable of inhibiting vertebrate intra-Golgi transport of a cargo protein in vitro. The identification of NSF ortholog from Manduca, whose neuroendocrine system is well studied, should facilitate isolation of complexes involved in protein trafficking from insect models. Phylogenetic analysis of NSF and related proteins suggests that the members of the AAA family arose from different ancestors, since the ingroup was not monophyletic. Proteasomal subunits and p97 homologs form two distinct subfamilies, while NSF homologs branch in to the third.
A direct pathway from the retina to the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) has been demonstrated in both albino rats and Mongolian gerbils. Following intraocular injection of cholera toxin subunit B (CTB), a diffuse stream of CTB-positive, fine-caliber optic axons emerged from the optic tract at the level of the pretectum/anterior mesencephalon. In gerbils, CTB-positive axons descended ventromedially into the periaqueductal gray, moving caudally and arborizing extensively throughout the DRN. In rats, the retinal-DRN projection comprised fewer, but larger caliber, axons, which arborized in a relatively restricted region of the lateral and ventral DRN. Following injection of CTB into the lateral DRN, retrogradely labeled ganglion cells (GCs) were observed in whole-mount retinas of both species. In gerbils, CTB-positive GCs were distributed over the entire retina, and a nearest-neighbor analysis of CTB-positive GCs showed significant regularity (nonrandomness) in their distribution. The overall distribution of gerbil GC soma diameters ranged from 8 to 22 micrometer and was skewed slightly towards the larger soma diameters. Based on an adaptive mixtures model statistical analysis, two Gaussian distributions appeared to comprise the total GC distribution, with mean soma diameters of 13 (SEM +/-1.7) micrometer, and 17 (SEM +/-1.5) micrometer, respectively. In rats, many fewer CTB-positive GCs were labeled following CTB injections into the lateral DRN, and nearly all occurred in the inferior retina. The total distribution of rat GC soma diameters was similar to that in gerbils and also was skewed towards the larger soma diameters. Major differences observed in the extent and configuration of the retinal-DRN pathway may be related to the diurnal/crepuscular vs. nocturnal habits of these two species.
Degeneration of hair cells (HC) and/or spiral ganglion neurons (SGN) is a major cause of hearing loss. Postnatal rat cochlear explant cultures are used to study the toxic actions of different classes of ototoxins and to identify molecules that can protect SGN and HC from ototoxic damage. Various ototoxins induce differential damage to HC and/or SGN. While gentamicin preferentially causes HC death, sodium salicylate selectively induces degeneration of SGN. In contrast, cisplatin results in destruction of both SGN and HC. Specific neurotrophins, including NT-4/5, BDNF, and NT-3, greatly protect SGN from all three types of ototoxins. In contrast, NGF and other growth factors have no effect. Of the 51 compounds examined, only concanavalin A (Con A), a lectin molecule, significantly protects HC from gentamicin. A dose-dependent study of Con A shows that maximal protection occurred at 100 nM. Further experiments indicates that preincubation of Con A with gentamicin does not form a complex, and coaddition of Con A and gentamicin to bacterial cultures, such as E. Coli cultures, does not interfere with the antibiotic activity of gentamicin. When the other 21 lectins are examined, Erythrina cristagalli lectin and Detura stramonium lectin also show activity similar to Con A. These findings may help elucidate the mechanisms of ototoxins and suggest that specific neurotrophins and lectins may be of therapeutic value in the prevention of ototoxin-induced hearing loss.

A number of studies indicate that galanin (GAL) is a potent modulator of basal acetylcholine release in the rat forebrain e.g. in the cholinergic neurons of the septo-hippocampal projections. Thus, GAL perfused through the microdialysis probe decreased basal acetylcholine release in the ventral hippocampus, while it enhanced acetylcholine release in the dorsal hippocampus. This finding indicates that GAL may act via different mechanisms within the subsystems of the hippocampus. This hypothesis has received support from studies using the Morris swim maze, a learning task dependent on hippocampal mechanisms. GAL (3 nmol/rat) infused into the ventral hippocampus impaired spatial learning acquisition, while it tended to facilitate when injected into the dorsal hippocampus. However, the effects of GAL on acetylcholine release and on spatial learning, which are due to activation of GAL-receptors, appear to be indirectly mediated possibly via noradrenaline transmission. GAL is also a potent inhibitor of mesencephalic 5-HT neurotransmission in vivo. These findings are discussed in relation to the role of acetylcholine and serotonin in cognition.
Recent demonstrations of the feeding-inhibitory properties of putative peptides derived from cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) raise the question of interactions between CART peptides and other messenger molecules implicated in the control of food intake. The present study investigated the histochemical relationship of CART to the neuropeptides thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), orexin/hypocretin and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the hypothalamus. Double-label in situ hybridization showed that CART to a great extent is co-expressed with TRH in hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus neurons. This technique was also used to demonstrate that MCH, but not orexin/hypocretin, mRNA colocalized with CART in neurons of the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus/lateral hypothalamic area. CART-peptide immunoreactive cell bodies in this region, as well as in the arcuate nucleus and the medial posterodorsal nucleus of the amygdala, were all seen to have close appositions formed by NPY-immunoreactive nerve terminals. Lastly, in a study of mice treated with the neurotoxin, monosodium glutamate, which targets the arcuate nucleus, a near-total ablation of CART peptide immunoreactive cell bodies in this nucleus was accompanied by decreased terminal staining for CART peptide in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, the arcuate nucleus itself and in the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus. These findings further define the position of hypothalamic CART neurons within the hierarchy of brain circuitries regulating energy balance, demonstrating the presence of CART peptide in several cell populations that form putative down-stream targets of NPY terminals, including hypophysiotropic TRH neurons and lateral hypothalamic MCH neurons.
The distribution of NK(1) receptor immunoreactivity in the amygdaloid complex, induction of NK(1) receptor endocytosis in the amygdala following immobilisation stress, and the ability of pretreatment with the substance P antagonist L-760,735 or imipramine to block this response were examined in gerbils, a species with human-like NK(1) receptor pharmacology. Highest levels of immunolabelling were observed in the anterior, amygdalo-hippocampal and medial nuclei. Less dense labelling was observed in the basolateral nucleus, where it was possible to clearly visualise the distal dendrites of NK(1) immunoreactive neurones and quantify the effect of immobilisation stress on NK(1) receptor endocytosis morphology, a marker of local substance P release. Immobilisation for 1 h caused an approximately 60% increase in the number of dendritic processes undergoing NK(1) receptor endocytosis in the basolateral amygdala that was inhibited by acute pretreatment of animals with L-760,735 (3 mg/kg), but not by imipramine (10 mg/kg). These findings are consistent with other evidence that the amygdala represents a possible site of action for the antidepressant and anxiolytic efficacy of substance P antagonists.
Examination of families of neuropeptides and their receptors can provide information about phyletic relationships and evolutionary processes. Within an individual a given signal molecule may serve many diverse functions, mediated via subtypes of the receptor which may be coupled to their transduction mechanisms in different ways. The rate of evolution of a peptide may reflect or be reflected in the rate of evolution of its receptor. For example, in the neuropeptide Y (NPY) family, pancreatic polypeptide (PP) shows significant structural diversity, while NPY is highly conserved. Molecular forms of a given subtype of NPY receptor that is selectively activated by NPY (Y1 or Y2 or Y5) are also highly conserved, but the subtype that is primarily activated by PP (Y4), shows remarkable diversity. Also, between receptor subtypes there can be remarkable diversity. This is evident in several neuropeptide families, where a neuropeptide sequence is highly conserved across a wide range of species but where the receptor homology of subtypes with species tends to be much lower than homology between species. For example, human and rat vasopressin are identical, but the human V(1)- or V(2)-vasopressin receptors are approximately 80% homologous with rat V(1)- or V(2)-receptors, but within humans or rats the V(1)-receptor is less than 50% homologous with the V(2)-receptor. Furthermore, duplication of an ancestral gene is thought to have led to the co-presence in eutherian mammals of oxytocin and vasopressin, which have maintained a close structural similarity, yet in many species the oxytocin receptor is only 30 to 50% homologous with vasopressin receptors. Thus it appears that there has been greater evolutionary pressure to conserve the signal molecule, than to conserve the structure of the receptor. Evaluation of the evolution of neuropeptides and their receptors may be useful in determining phyletic relationships. Traditional classification places the guinea pig as a hystricomorph rodent within the same order (Rodentia) as the muriform or myomorph rat and mouse. However, molecular analyses of polypeptides have led to the suggestion that guinea pigs belong to a distinct order. Analysis of several neuropeptide sequences and the Y4 receptor supports this view. In general terms for both neuropeptides and receptors, sequence homology reflects phylogeny and taxonomy as based on morphological features. Within the oxytocin/vasopressin family in which peptides and receptors have been characterised in invertebrate representatives as well as fish and amphibia in addition to mammals, the molecular diversity correlates well with evolutionary diversity.
We investigated the effect of chronic hypoxia (10% O(2) for 14 days) on airway responsiveness in rats. Chronic hypoxia significantly (P&lt;0. 05, P&lt;0.01, P&lt;0.01, respectively) attenuated contractions evoked by methacholine (10(-9)-3x10(-4) M), endothelin-1 (10(-10)-3x10(-7) M) and potassium chloride (10(-3)-7x10(-2) M) in rat isolated trachea. To investigate this attenuation, we studied the effect of epithelial removal, indomethacin (3x10(-6) M), and L-nitro arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 10(-4) M), on contractile responses in control and chronically hypoxic rat trachea. Indomethacin did not alter contractions evoked by methacholine or endothelin-1 in control or hypoxic rats. In contrast, epithelial removal and L-NAME both significantly potentiated responses to methacholine and endothelin-1 in trachea from control and chronically hypoxic rats. In separate experiments, tracheal rings were first contracted with methacholine (10(-6) M) and then relaxed, either by the nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside or by the beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist, salbutamol. Sodium nitroprusside was significantly (P&lt;0.001) more effective at reversing induced tone in tracheal rings from chronically hypoxic than control rats. Salbutamol, however, was equally effective in chronically hypoxic and control rats. These results suggest that, in trachea from both control and chronically hypoxic rats, contractile responses to methacholine and endothelin-1 are inhibited by nitric oxide, probably released from the epithelium. The attenuation of contractile responses in airways from chronically hypoxic rats may be due to an enhanced guanylyl cyclase activity and hence, an increased response to nitric oxide.
Calcineurin is a Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase that is abundantly expressed in several specific areas of the brain, which are exceptionally vulnerable to stroke, epilepsy, and neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we assessed the effects of high level activity of calcineurin on neuronal cells. Virus-mediated high level constitutive activity of calcineurin rendered neuronal cells susceptible to apoptosis induced by serum reduction or by a brief exposure to calcium ionophore. Adenovirus-mediated, high level forced activity of calcineurin induced cytochrome c/caspase-3-dependent apoptosis in neurons. Preincubation with the calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporin A and FK506 reduced susceptibility to apoptosis. High level constitutive expression of Bcl-2 or CrmA or incubation with a specific caspase-3 inhibitor inhibited the calcineurin-induced apoptosis. These data indicate that high level constitutive activity of calcineurin predisposes neuronal cells to cytochrome c/caspase-3 dependent apoptosis even under sublethal conditions.
The Alzheimer's amyloid-beta precursor protein (betaAPP) is a type 1 membrane-spanning protein from which the Alzheimer's disease amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) is proteolytically derived. To date, attempts to identify the enzymes responsible for Abeta generation have failed. Here we report the accumulation of Abeta-immunoreactive peptides in yeast expressing human betaAPP. Characterization of these peptides by metabolic labeling, immunoprecipitation with Abeta-specific antibodies, and N-terminal radiosequencing indicates that these peptides include the Abeta peptide at their N termini. The Abeta-like peptides generated in yeast were recovered predominantly as 8- and 12-14-kDa species. A 4-kDa species was recovered either when a protease-deficient strain was used to prevent breakdown or when the 8- and 12-14-kDa species were treated with disaggregating agents. The likely existence in yeast of enzymes generating the Abeta N terminus indicates that the molecular identification of yeast beta-secretase-like enzymes may be accomplished using genetic screens or empirical approaches based upon the sequenced genome of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
In pyramidal cells, somatic action potentials can propagate actively back into the apical dendrites and potentiate calcium influx at simultaneously activated glutamatergic synapses, presumably by relieving the voltage-dependent block of NMDA channels. We have used computer simulations to investigate the conditions under which this potentiation will be optimal. We find that a spike with a long duration and limited amplitude (peak of approximately -10 mV) will be most effective. A back-propagating action potential will achieve this form if the dendritic membrane has a low K+ channel density and a modest Na+ channel density (30-70 pS/microm2, similar to experimentally observed densities). The relative increase in calcium due to the backpropagating spike will be small, however, unless the accumulated calcium is rapidly removed.
The neural mechanisms associated with hypnosis were investigated in a single highly hypnotizable subject by measuring the mismatch negativity (MMN) component of auditory ERP, reflecting the preattentive discrimination of change in stimulus flow, in normal baseline state and under hypnosis. It has been proposed that the frontal inhibition associated with hypnosis can be measured as a decrease in MMN. ERPs were elicited using the passive oddball paradigm with standard and deviant sine tone stimuli of 500 and 553Hz, respectively. The measurement was repeated in five separate sessions. In hypnosis the MMN was significantly larger compared to baseline. The results indicate that hypnosis can give rise to altered information processing in the brain even at a relatively early, i.e. preattentive level and that the larger MMN measured under hypnosis does not support frontal inhibition theory.
The density of TH-IR varicosities was analyzed in the hippocampus of 15 normal controls and 11 schizophrenics. The average density of varicosities in apposition with pyramidal cells and in the neuropil was 30-35% lower in CA2, but not other sectors of schizophrenics. Age was correlated with varicosity density in all sectors, particularly in CA2 where young patients showed a 50% reduction on non-pyramidal cells. Neuroleptic dose showed a negative correlation with the density of varicosities, and notably the dose of young schizophrenics was four times higher than that of older subjects. Thus, antipsychotic dose appears to be associated with a suppression of a normal age-related increase of dopamine projections to CA2 during the early phases of schizophrenia.
To determine whether endogenous DHEAS level is related to cognitive performance in the rhesus monkey, we tested 9 young and 14 old monkeys on the acquisition and the 120 s delay condition of the delayed non-matching to sample and on the spatial delayed recognition span test. A single summary measure of cognitive ability, the cognitive performance index (CPI), was derived from these three tests. As expected, the mean level of DHEAS as well as the CPI declined with age. DHEAS level, however, was not significantly correlated with CPI, after controlling for the relationship of age to these two variables. Further, impaired and unimpaired aged monkeys did not differ in DHEAS level. These findings suggest that DHEAS is not independently associated with age-related cognitive decline in the rhesus monkey.
A number of epidemiological studies suggest that estrogen therapy is linked to a reduced risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). The present study was conducted to evaluate the effect of 17beta-estradiol on beta-amyloid (Abeta)-induced toxicity and was performed in rat pheochromocytoma PC 12 cells by measuring the mitochondrial activity. 17Beta-estradiol (10(-5), 10(-6) and 10(-8) M) attenuated Abeta(25-35)-induced toxicity in PC 12 cells. The neuroprotective effect of 17beta-estradiol (10(-5) M) was prevented in the presence of the nicotinic antagonists methyllycaconitine (MLA) and mecamylamine, suggesting an interaction probably via the alpha7 nicotinic receptor subtype. Chronic treatment with 17beta-estradiol (10(-10)-10(-5) M) alone did not change the number of [3H]epibatidine binding sites in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells and rat PC 12 cells, but significantly prevented the enhanced [3H]epibatidine binding in nicotine-treated PC 12 cells. This study demonstrates that 17beta-estradiol exerts neuroprotective effects which might involve interaction with the alpha7 nicotinic receptor subtype.
In this study, we have investigated the effect of altered corticosteroid levels on the expression and processing of the amyloid beta precursor protein (A betaPP) and its amyloid precursor-like protein (APLP) homologue in rat brain. Four groups of animals were used in the study: sham operated, adrenalectomised, and adrenalectomised treated with either dexamethasone or aldosterone, with the A betaPP/APLP expression being determined by western blot analysis. While there were no changes in the levels of A betaPP/APLP following adrenalectomy, treatment with dexamethasone, but not aldosterone, resulted in a marked increase in protein expression levels with the level of increase varying between the brain regions examined. Corticosteroids had a more marked effect on the particulate rather than the soluble form of the protein, thus suggesting that elevated glucocorticoids may also be adversely influencing A betaPP/APLP processing.
This investigation was undertaken to study the effect of nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, aminoguanidine on iminodipropionitrile (IDPN)-induced neurobehavioral and vestibular toxicity in rats. The dyskinetic syndrome was produced in male Wistar rats by i.p. injections of IDPN (100 mg/kg) for 6 days. Aminoguanidine was administered orally in the doses of 50, 150 and 300 mg/kg, 60 min before IDPN in three different groups. Control rats received vehicle only, whereas another group was treated with 300 mg/kg of aminoguanidine alone (without IDPN). Our results showed that aminoguanidine significantly and dose dependently exacerbated the incidence and intensity of IDPN-induced dyskinetic head movements. Aminoguanidine potentiated IDPN-induced loss of air righting reflex. The histopathological examination of inner ear showed aggravation of IDPN-induced degeneration of sensory hair cells in the crista ampullaris by aminoguanidine. These results suggest the role of nitric oxide in IDPN-induced neurobehavioral and vestibular toxicity.
The patterning and morphogenesis of multicellular organisms require a complex interplay of inductive signals which control proliferation, growth arrest, and differentiation of different cell types. A number of such signaling molecules have been identified in vertebrates and invertebrates. The molecular dissection of these pathways demonstrated that in vertebrates, mutations or abnormals function of these signaling pathways were often associated with developmental disorders and cancer formation. The Hedgehog (Hh) family of secreted proteins provides a perfect example of such signaling proteins. In the following review, we will not discuss in detail the role of Hh as a morphogen, but rather focus on its signal transduction pathway and its role in various human disorders.
The life-history strategies of organisms are sculpted over evolutionary time by the relative prospects of present and future reproductive success. As a consequence, animals of many species show flexible behavioral responses to environmental and social change. Here we show that disruption of the habitat of a colony of African cichlid fish, Haplochromis burtoni (Gnther) caused males to switch social status more frequently than animals kept in a stable environment. H. burtoni males can be either reproductively active, guarding a territory, or reproductively inactive (nonterritorial). Although on average 25-50% of the males are territorial in both the stable and unstable environments, during the 20-week study, nearly two-thirds of the animals became territorial for at least 1 week. Moreover, many fish changed social status several times. Surprisingly, the induced changes in social status caused changes in somatic growth. Nonterritorial males and animals ascending in social rank showed an increased growth rate whereas territorial males and animals descending in social rank slowed their growth rate or even shrank. Similar behavioral and physiological changes are caused by social change in animals kept in stable environmental conditions, although at a lower rate. This suggests that differential growth, in interaction with environmental conditions, is a central mechanism underlying the changes in social status. Such reversible phenotypic plasticity in a crucial life-history trait may have evolved to enable animals to shift resources from reproduction to growth or vice versa, depending on present and future reproductive prospects.
Apoptotic and necrotic cell death are well characterized and are influenced by intracellular ATP levels. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), a nuclear enzyme activated by DNA strand breaks, physiologically participates in DNA repair. Overactivation of PARP after cellular insults can lead to cell death caused by depletion of the enzyme's substrate beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and of ATP. In this study, we have differentially elicited apoptosis or necrosis in mouse fibroblasts. Fibroblasts from PARP-deficient (PARP(-/-)) mice are protected from necrotic cell death and ATP depletion but not from apoptotic death. These findings, together with cell death patterns in PARP(-/-) animals receiving other types of insults, indicate that PARP activation is an active trigger of necrosis, whereas other mechanisms mediate apoptosis.
Several scaffold proteins for neurotransmitter receptors have been identified as candidates for receptor targeting. However, the molecular mechanism underlying such receptor clustering and targeting to postsynaptic specializations remains unknown. PSD-Zip45 (also named Homer 1c/vesl-1L) consists of the NH(2) terminus containing the enabled/VASP homology 1 domain and the COOH terminus containing the leucine zipper. Here, we demonstrate immunohistochemically that metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha (mGluR1alpha) and PSD-Zip45/Homer 1c are colocalized to synapses in the cerebellar molecular layer but not in the hippocampus. In cultured hippocampal neurons, PSD-Zip45/Homer1c and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are preferentially colocalized to dendritic spines. Cotransfection of mGluR1alpha or mGluR5 and PSD-Zip45/Homer 1c into COS-7 cells results in mGluR clustering induced by PSD-Zip45/Homer 1c. An in vitro multimerization assay shows that the extreme COOH-terminal leucine zipper is involved in self-multimerization of PSD-Zip45/Homer 1c. A clustering assay of mGluRs in COS-7 cells also reveals a critical role of this leucine-zipper motif of PSD-Zip45/Homer 1c in mGluR clustering. These results suggest that the leucine zipper of subsynaptic scaffold protein is a candidate motif involved in neurotransmitter receptor clustering at the central synapse.
Simultaneous recordings were made of ear and tail blood flow during alerting responses to salient environmental stimuli in conscious rabbits, and during electrical stimulation of the spinal trigeminal tract and raphe pallidus in anesthetized rabbits. Blood flow fell in a highly correlated manner (Pearson coefficient ranging from 0.52 to 0.95) in these experimental situations. Salient stimuli in conscious rabbits, and noxious stimuli in anesthetized rabbits appear to cause a generalized vasoconstriction in cutaneous beds.
Low-threshold sensory pathways have been suggested to have an important role in the formation and maintenance of sensory abnormalities which are observed after peripheral nerve injury. Fos-like immunoreactive (Fos-LI) neurons are expressed in spinal cord laminae III-IV and the gracile nucleus by electrically stimulating the injured nerves at Abeta strength after sciatic nerve transection in rats. This suggests that the excitability of these neurons is increased by nerve injury. In this study, we investigated which receptors are involved in the regulation of the increased excitability in spinal and gracile nucleus neurons. The sciatic nerve of Sprague-Dawley rats (150 g) was transected 7 days before the experiment day. The rats were administered morphine, muscimol, baclofen, MK-801, CNQX, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride (L-NAME) or clonidine i.p., and then electrically stimulated at 0.1 mA to the proximal region to the nerve injury site under urethane anesthesia. Two hours after the stimulation, Fos-LI expression was increased in the spinal cord dorsal horn and the gracile nucleus in control rats. Baclofen inhibited the Fos-LI expression both in the spinal cord and the gracile nucleus. Morphine inhibited only the Fos-LI expression in the posterior cutaneous (PC) nerve territory of laminae I-II, but not in the sciatic nerve (SC) territory, laminae III-IV nor the gracile nucleus. MK-801 had an inhibitory but complicated effect in laminae I-II and the gracile nucleus. The other drugs were not effective on Fos-LI expression. It is suggested that the GABA(B) receptor has a pivotal role in the regulation of Fos-LI expression after electrical stimulation to the injured low-threshold sensory fibers, and other receptors have little effect on the Fos-LI expression.
In lamprey, sensory transmission from mechanosensory receptors (dorsal cells) to central neurons is presynaptically inhibited by GABA(B) receptor activation. The mechanisms underlying this effect were investigated using isolated dorsal cells, where voltage-dependent calcium currents were recorded in the whole-cell configuration. Activation of GABA(B) receptors by baclofen decreased the peak amplitude of high voltage-activated (HVA) calcium currents and slowed the activation phase. The role of G-proteins in mediating the effects of baclofen was examined. Intracellular dialysis of GTPgammaS occluded the effects of baclofen. Intracellular dialysis of GDPbetaS and preincubation in pertussis toxin both attenuated the effect of baclofen. Specific calcium channel blockers were used to study the types of HVA calcium channels involved in the GABA(B)-mediated modulation. The baclofen-induced inhibition was not affected by the L-type calcium channel antagonist nimodipine, but was partially blocked by the N-type blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA, and completely occluded by omega-conotoxin MVIIC, a blocker of both N- and P/Q-type channels. The pharmacology of dorsal cell GABA(B) receptors was studied using two agonists, baclofen and CGP 27492, and four antagonists, CGP 35348, CGP 55845, phaclofen and saclofen. The inhibition induced by either of the two agonists was blocked by CGP 55845, phaclofen and saclofen. The antagonist CGP 35348 completely blocked the inhibition of HVA calcium current induced by the agonist CGP 27492, but had no effect on baclofen-induced GABA(B) receptor activation. This study thus demonstrates that GABA(B) receptor activation in lamprey mechanosensory neurons inhibits N- and P/Q-type calcium channels in a voltage- and G-protein-dependent manner.
Mapping the effects of alcohol consumption on neural activity could provide valuable information on mechanisms of alcohol's effects on behavior. The present study sought to identify effects of alcohol consumption on expression of inducible transcription factors (ITFs) in mouse brain. C57BL/6J mice were trained to consume 10% ethanol/10% sucrose solution during a 30-min limited access period. Control animals were given access to 10% sucrose solution or water. Following the final day of the procedure, animals were sacrificed and immunohistochemical analyses were performed for three ITFs (c-Fos, FosB, and Zif268). Alcohol-consuming animals had increased ITF expression in several brain areas. Specifically, c-Fos was significantly induced in the nucleus accumbens core (AcbC), the medial posteroventral portion of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeMPV), and the Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EW). Expression of c-Fos was significantly lower in the dentate gyrus of alcohol-consuming animals vs. sucrose-consuming animals. However, it was not significantly different from the water controls. Induction of c-Fos in AcbC, CeMPV and EW was significantly related to blood alcohol concentrations (BAC). Furthermore, FosB expression in the CeMPV and the EW was also significantly higher in the alcohol-consuming animals vs. water controls. FosB expression in the EW was significantly related to BAC. The significance of these results is two-fold. First, our experiments demonstrate that ITF mapping is an effective strategy in identifying alcohol-induced changes following voluntary consumption. Second, they suggest a relationship between ITF expression in AcbC, CeMPV and EW and the level of alcohol intoxication.
We found a novel subtype of prostaglandin (PG) I(2) receptor (IP(2)) expressed in the central nervous system. Recently we have demonstrated that (15R)-16-m-tolyl-17,18,19, 20-tetranorisocarbacyclin (15R-TIC) and 15-deoxy-16-m-tolyl-17,18,19, 20-tetranorisocarbacyclin (15-deoxy-TIC), IP(2)-specific ligands, significantly prevented high (50%) oxygen-induced apoptotic neuronal death in cultured hippocampal neurons. We report here a potent neuroprotective effect of such analogs on delayed neuronal death of hippocampal CA1 neurons following transient ischemia for 3 min in gerbils. (15S)-16-m-tolyl-17,18,19,20-tetranorisocarbacyclin (15S-TIC), which nonselectively acts both on the PGI(2) receptor expressed in the peripheral tissue (IP(1)) and on IP(2), also showed a neuroprotective effect on such an ischemic model at higher doses than those for 15R-TIC and 15-deoxy-TIC. These PGI(2) analogs did not affect brain temperature, indicating that the agents showed the neuroprotective effect not by a hypothermic effect, but rather by the direct action on neurons.
Alcohol administration (1 g/kg, i.p.) increased the levels of the neurosteroids 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (allopregnanolone) and 3alpha,21-dihydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone, THDOC) in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus both in alcohol-naive Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) and -non-preferring (sNP) rats (two rat lines selectively bred for alcohol preference and non-preference, respectively). However, the increase reached several fold higher levels in sP than in sNP rats (6-24 vs. 2-11 fold the basal levels, respectively). Since the two neurosteroids are the most potent endogenous positive modulators of GABA(A) receptors and elicit anxiolytic and rewarding effects, while voluntary alcohol consumption produces anxiolytic and rewarding effects in sP but not in sNP rats, the results suggest that the neurosteroids may play a role in the anxiolytic and rewarding effects of alcohol in sP rats.
Delta(9)-Tetrahydrocannabinol (1 and 5 mg/kg, i.p.) produced, dose-dependently, antinociceptive effects using hot plate and tail flick tests in rats. These effects were suppressed not only by the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist SR 141716A (0.5 mg/kg; i.p.) but also by the dopamine D(2) receptor antagonists S(-)-sulpiride (5 and 10 mg/kg; i.p.) and S(-)-raclopride (1.5 and 3 mg/kg; i.p.). Conversely, Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol antinociceptive effects were potentiated by the dopamine D(2) receptor agonists (-)-quinpirole (0.025 mg/kg, s.c.) and (+)-bromocriptine (0.5 and 1 mg/kg; i.p.). Our results indicate that the antinociceptive effects of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol are mediated by the concomitant activation of cannabinoid CB(1) and dopamine D(2) receptors and that dopamine D(2) receptor agonists may be useful in improving the analgesic effects of cannabinoids.
The role of the Ca(2+)-activated tyrosine kinase, Pyk2, in the pleiotropic coupling of nerve cell stimulation to the MAP kinase cascade still remains undefined. Using a panel of PC12 clones, one of which was defective in Pyk2, we demonstrate (1) that the MAP kinase response induced by a [Ca(2+)](i) rise (following application of the Ca(2+) ionophore, ionomycin) is inappreciable in the defective clone and is re-established after Pyk2 transfection; and (2) that the responses to both protein kinase C and P(2y2) receptor activation occur normally even in the defective cells. We conclude that Pyk2 is the key mediator in the pathway activated by Ca(2+) but has minor roles with the other types of stimulation.
The neurotrophic effect of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has been well documented in both the central and peripheral nervous systems. From the histological findings, target cells of GDNF have been considered to be neurons. In the present study, the expression of GDNF receptors, ret and GFRalpha-1, was demonstrated in rat primary cultured microglia by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and the protein-level expression of Ret was also confirmed by Western-blotting analyses. Moreover, GDNF stimulated the phosphorylation of MAP kinase (ERK1/2) in the cells. These results suggest that GDNF regulates not only neuronal survival and maturation but also certain functions of microglia in the brain.
Prenatal cocaine exposure can result in neurobehavioral disturbances and structural modifications of the central nervous system. In the present study, cocaine was injected into pregnant rats and the brains of their offspring were examined at the light microscopic level. As adults, cocaine-exposed offspring exhibited subtle, but consistent, hippocampal abnormalities. In particular, the stratum pyramidale (particularly the CA1 region) was interrupted by frequent gaps in lamination, and ectopic pyramidal cells were found in stratum oriens and radiatum.
Inositol (1,4,5) trisphosphate (Ins(1,4,5)P(3)) is a well-known messenger molecule that releases calcium from intracellular stores. Homologues with up to six phosphates have been characterized and recently, homologues with seven or eight phosphate groups, including pyrophosphates, have been identified. These homologues are diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (PP-InsP(5)/InsP(7)) and bis(diphospho)inositol tetrakisphosphate (bis-PP-InsP(4)/InsP(8)) [1], the rapid turnover of which [2] is regulated by calcium [2] and adrenergic receptor activity [3]. It has been proposed that the high-energy pyrophosphates might participate in protein phosphorylation [4]. We have purified InsP(6) kinase [5] and PP-InsP(5) kinase [6], both of which display ATP synthase activity, transferring phosphate to ADP. Here, we report the cloning of two mammalian InsP(6) kinases and a yeast InsP(6) kinase. Furthermore, we show that the yeast protein, ArgRIII, is an inositol-polyphosphate kinase that can convert InsP(3) to InsP(4), InsP(5) and InsP(6). We have identified a new family of highly conserved inositol-polyphosphate kinases that contain a newly identified, unique consensus sequence.
Animals learn that a tone can predict the occurrence of an electric shock through classical conditioning. Mice or rats trained in this manner display fear responses, such as freezing behaviour, when they hear the conditioned tone. Studies using amygdalectomized rats have shown that the amygdala is required for both the acquisition and expression of learned fear responses. Freezing to a conditioned tone is enhanced following damage to the dorsal part of the medial prefrontal cortex, indicating that this area may be involved in fear reduction. Here we show that prefrontal neurons reduce their spontaneous activity in the presence of a conditioned aversive tone as a function of the degree of fear. The depression in prefrontal spontaneous activity is related to amygdala activity but not to the freezing response itself. These data indicate that, in the presence of threatening stimuli, the amygdala controls both fear expression and prefrontal neuronal activity. They suggest that abnormal amygdala-induced modulation of prefrontal neuronal activity may be involved in the pathophysiology of certain forms of anxiety disorder.

Nondemented older subjects with cognitive impairment are at higher risk of death than are mentally intact persons. It is unknown whether the effect of cognitive impairment on mortality is independent or mediated by poorer health or other factors. To address this issue, the authors used a prospective population-based cohort study with 8 years of follow-up started in 1987 in the urban district of Kungsholmen, Stockholm, Sweden. Subjects were all 75- to 95-year-old subjects nondemented at baseline (n = 1,435). Data on cognition, health (mental and subjective health, physical diseases and comorbidity, nutritional status, and disability), and apolipoprotein E genotype were collected at baseline as was time of death at follow-up. Cognitive impairment was defined on the basis of age- and education-specific cutoffs on the Mini-Mental State Examination. When compared with cognitively unimpaired subjects (n = 1,210), those cognitively impaired (n = 225) had poorer health conditions, were more frequently apolipoprotein E epsilon4 carriers, and had greater mortality risk (hazard ratio = 1.7; 95% confidence interval: 1.5, 2.1). Neither health nor apolipoprotein E genotype accounted for the association of cognitive impairment with mortality (adjusted hazard ratio = 1.6; 95% confidence interval: 1.3, 1.9). The functional and behavioral consequences associated with the progression of cognitive impairment may mediate the increased mortality risk.
Detailed characterisation of six inbred strains of mice commonly used in transgenic and knockout research was carried out using a battery of behavioural tests (SHIRPA) followed by discriminant analysis of the data. In the primary observation screen, DBA/2 mice were relatively irritable and vocalised during handling. C57BL/6 were hyperactive as measured by transfer arousal, arena activity and touch-escape tests. By contrast, C3H were markedly hypoactive, had significantly enhanced grip strength and were also significantly impaired on the visual placing task. In the elevated plus-maze, BALB/c mice showed the highest level of open arm entries and time spent in the open arms, indicating the lowest level of anxiety. There was a clear dissociation of strains on exploratory activity, as measured in the holeboard test and spontaneous locomotor activity (LMA). DBA/2 mice were hyperactive in LMA but demonstrated relatively low levels of holeboard exploration. None of the six strains learnt the water maze spatial learning task particularly well. C57BL/6 and 129/Sv demonstrated most ability and C3H showed no evidence of having acquired the task. The SHIRPA screening battery and discriminant analysis of the data have enabled us to determine the relevant contribution of a number of behavioural measurements to the marked differences in phenotype of mouse strains. These data confirm the importance of carrying out a comprehensive profile in order to accurately characterise the phenotype of gene-targeted and transgenic mice.
Cerebral lateralisation is revealed in the zebrafish by preferential eye use, which differs according to the visual stimulus that is being fixated. Past findings [Bisazza A, Pignatti R, Vallortigara G. Behav. Brain Res. 1997b;89:237-242; Miklsi A, Andrew RJ, Savage, H. Physiol. Behav. 1998;63:127 135] suggest that the right eye is used when the stimulus (or scene) is such as to require a careful period of examination in order to decide on a response. The left eye is used when the fish has to check whether an identical stimulus has been seen before. We here show that the same association of right eye use with decision to respond holds for biting at small targets (coloured or black and white beads). Biting and right eye use were both high at the first presentation of both types of bead, and fell together over two further trials with the same type of bead. At the fourth trial the appearance of the bead was changed. A change in colour caused both right eye use and biting to return, whereas a change in orientation of the black stripe on the black and white bead had no effect on either (and seemed to be largely ignored). In the case of the coloured beads, habituation of biting was accompanied by continued interest, shown by increased binocular fixation. The reduction in reliance on right eye viewing thus represents a change in the strategy of analysis rather than coming to ignore the stimulus. It would allow a greater involvement of the left eye system.
Many halogenated foreign compounds are detoxified by conversion to the corresponding cysteine S-conjugate, which is N-acetylated and excreted. However, several halogenated cysteine S-conjugates [e.g. S-(1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethy)-L-cysteine (TFEC)] are converted to mitochondrial toxicants by cysteine S-conjugate beta-lyases. In the present work, we showed that TFEC appreciably inactivated highly purified alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) in the presence of a cysteine S-conjugate beta-lyase. Incubation of PC12 cells (which contain endogenous cysteine S-conjugate beta-lyase activity) with TFEC led to a concentration- and time-dependent loss of endogenous KGDHC activity. A 24-hr exposure to 1 mM TFEC decreased KGDHC activity in the cells by 90%. Although treatment with TFEC did not inhibit intrinsic pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHC) activity, it inhibited dichloroacetate/Mg2+-mediated activation/dephosphorylation of PDHC in the PC12 cells by 90%. To determine the selectivity of enzymes targeted by TFEC, several cytosolic and mitochondrial enzymes involved in energy metabolism [malate dehydrogenase, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, glutamate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, cytosolic and mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferases (AspAT)] were also assayed in the PC12 cells exposed to 1 mM TFEC for 24 hr. Of these enzymes, only mitochondrial AspAT, a key enzyme of the malate-aspartate shuttle, was inhibited. The present results demonstrate a selective vulnerability of mitochondrial enzymes to toxic cysteine S-conjugates. The data indicate that TFEC may be a useful cellular/mitochondrial toxicant for elucidating the consequences of the diminished mitochondrial function that accompanies numerous neurodegenerative diseases.
Understanding the biology of the pharmacological stabilization of mood will undoubtedly serve to provide significant insight into the pathophysiology of manic-depressive illness (MDI). Accumulating evidence from our laboratories and those of other researchers has identified the family of protein kinase C isozymes as a shared target in the brain for the long-term action of both lithium and valproate. In rats chronically treated with lithium, there is a reduction in the hippocampus of the expression of two protein kinase isozymes, alpha and epsilon, as well as a reduction in the expression of a major PKC substrate, MARCKS, which has been implicated in long-term neuroplastic events in the developing and adult brain. In addition, we have been investigating the down-stream impact of these mood stabilizers on another kinase system, GSK-3 beta and on the AP-1 family of transcription factors. Further studies have generated promising preliminary data in support of the antimanic action of tamoxifen, and antiestrogen that is also a PKC inhibitor. Future studies must address the therapeutic relevance of these protein targets in the brain using innovative strategies in both animal and clinical investigations to ultimately create opportunities for the discovery of the next generations of mood stabilizers for the treatment of MDI.
A solution phase synthesis for the preparation of 3-aryloxy-2-propanolamine libraries has been developed. This resulted in the identification of 5 as a ligand with dual affinity for 5-HT1A and serotonin reuptake receptors which shows excellent pharmacokinetic parameters.

The homeobox genes in the Dlx family are required for differentiation of basal forebrain neurons and craniofacial morphogenesis. Herein, we studied the expression of Dlx-1, Dlx-2, and Dlx-5 RNA and protein in the mouse forebrain from embryonic day 10.5 (E10.5) to E12.5. We provide evidence that Dlx-2 is expressed before Dlx-1, which is expressed before Dlx-5. We also demonstrate that these genes are expressed in the same cells, which may explain why single mutants of the Dlx genes have mild phenotypes. The DLX proteins are localized primarily to the nucleus, although DLX-5 also can be found in the cytoplasm. During development, the fraction of Dlx-positive cells increases in the ventricular zone. Analysis of the distribution of DLX-1 and DLX-2 in M-phase cells suggests that these proteins are distributed symmetrically to daughter cells during mitosis. We propose that DLX-negative cells in the ventricular zone are specified progressively to become DLX-2-expressing cells during neurogenesis; as these cells differentiate, they go on to express DLX-1, DLX-5, and DLX-6. This process appears to be largely the same in all regions of the forebrain that express the Dlx genes. In the basal telencephalon, these DLX-positive cells differentiate into projection neurons of the striatum and pallidum as well as interneurons, some of which migrate to the cerebral cortex and the olfactory bulb.
The formation of the enteric nervous system (ENS) from neural crest-derived cell precursors requires the growth factor glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and the receptors Ret and GDNF family receptor alpha 1 (GFRalpha1). We investigated the location(s), the timing, and the extent to which these GDNF receptors appear in the population of crest-derived precursors that form the avian ENS using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Sections and whole mounts of embryonic chick gastrointestinal tract were costained with antibodies to the receptors and to HNK-1, a marker for crest-derived cells. Neural crest-derived precursors migrate through the primitive esophagus to colonize the gizzard where an extensive cellular network forms. Ret-immunoreactivity (ir) was found in a network of cells in the gizzard at embryonic day (E)3.5. As development proceeded, Ret-immunoreactive cells appeared at progressively more caudal positions and were present in the colon at E7.5. Costaining with Ret and HNK-1 was performed to determine the number of Ret-immunoreactive cells in the crest-derived population. Ret appeared in some HNK-1 cells in the esophagus and gizzard at embryonic day (E)3.5. During development, the number of crest cells with Ret increased in the ganglia of the gizzard and small intestine. GFRalpha1-ir was also found in HNK-1 cells in the esophagus at E3.5 but did not appear in the gizzard until E4.5. Surprisingly, the colonizing vanguard of crest-derived cells lacked both Ret- and GFRalpha-ir. Between E4.5 and E6.5, the fraction of HNK-1-positive cells expressing GFRalpha1 increased considerably in the foregut. Ret and GFRalpha1 were coexpressed in many cells at E6.5, and the number of such cells increased as development progressed. In the adult, GFRalpha1 and Ret were found in the neuropil of enteric ganglia. We conclude that the population of cells expressing the receptors increases during development and persists in the adult, findings that support a neurotrophic role for GDNF in the formation and maintenance of the avian ENS.
NO and IFN-gamma have normally been considered cytotoxic and proinflammatory molecules, respectively, in the setting of the central nervous system inflammatory disease autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Using mice lacking the ligand binding chain of the IFN-gamma receptor (IFNgammaR-/-), we have previously shown that IFN-gamma is not essential for myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein peptide (MOG35-55) induced EAE expression but is in fact essential for its down-regulation. Here we examined the downstream molecular and cellular mechanism(s) of IFN-gamma regulation and demonstrate that neither IL-4 nor IL-10 appear to play a role in down-regulation nor do various lymphoid cell populations. Cells of the macrophage lineage are key to down-regulation as evidenced by the fact that peritoneal exudate cells from IFNgammaR+/+ mice inhibit Ag-driven proliferation of IFNgammaR-/- lymphocytes, whereas IFNgammaR-/- peritoneal exudate cells do not. High levels of reactive nitrogen intermediates are detected in the former cultures but not the latter, and the inhibition of proliferation is reversible with an inhibitor of inducible NO synthase, indicating a key role for NO in down-regulation. Studies with bone marrow chimeras indicate that down-regulation occurs not only systemically but also within the target tissue. These data suggest that IFN-gamma down-regulates EAE by inducing inducible NO synthase and subsequently NO production, both by macrophages in the periphery and, by inference, microglia and astrocytes in the target tissue.
Teleost fish retinas grow throughout adult life through both cell addition and stretching. Cell division occurs at the periphery of the retina, resulting in annular addition of all cell types except rod photoreceptors, which are added in the central retina. Since many teleosts have a region of high cellular density at the temporal pole of the eye, we analyzed whether and how this specialized region of high visual acuity maintained its relative topographical position through asymmetric circumferential growth. To do this, we measured the pattern of long-term retinal growth in the African cichlid Haplochromis burtoni. We found that the retina expands asymmetrically along the nasotemporal axis, with the nasal retina growing at a higher rate than the temporal, dorsal, or ventral retinae, whose growth rates are equal. This nasotemporal asymmetry is produced via significantly greater expansion of retinal tissue at the nasal pole rather than through differential cell proliferation. The mechanisms responsible for this differential retinal enlargement are unknown; however, such asymmetric expansion very likely minimizes disruption in vision during rapid growth.
The majority of neuropeptides in Lymnaea stagnalis are proteolytically processed from larger precursors at sites composed of single or multiple basic amino acid residues. Previous studies have identified several putative prohormone convertases in the brain of Lymnaea. To characterize the complete family, we undertook three independent approaches: reverse-transcribed polymerase chain reaction screening, and low-stringency cDNA and genomic library screenings. The central nervous system cDNA library screening yielded two cDNAs encoding Lfurin1 and its variant form, Lfurin1-X. Both proteins show the characteristic organization of (human) furin with a putative catalytic domain, a P domain, a Cys-rich domain, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic tail. Lfurin1 and Lfurin1-X are identical, apart from a putative alternatively spliced noncatalytic luminal protein domain, which is present exclusively in Lfurin1-X. In situ hybridization revealed that the Lfur1 gene is expressed throughout the Lymnaea brain, but that the level varies considerably from one neuron to another. Quantitative analysis of the expression level of the two alternatively spliced transcripts revealed that it is neuron type-specifically regulated. This probably indicates the functional importance of noncatalytic luminal protein domains in these enzymes. In addition, our findings suggest that apart from the identified convertases LPC2, Lfurin1/Lfurin1-X, and Lfurin2, additional prohormone convertase diversity is either not present or present only at low levels in the Lymnaea brain. Alternatively, additional prohormone convertases could exist with a lower degree of sequence conservation than the other Lymnaea prohormone convertase members. From our findings, it appears that the majority of prohormone processing in Lymnaea is carried out by the three thus far identified types of Kex2-related prohormone convertases despite the large number of neuropeptide precursors and diverse multiple basic cleavage sites hydrolyzed.
Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) has been proposed to play a role as a neurotransmitter in the retina, but not much attention has been given to the regulation of ATP release from retinal neurons. In this work, we investigated the release of ATP from cultures enriched in amacrine-like neurons. Depolarization of the cells with KCl, or activation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy- 5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) receptors, evoked the release of ATP, as determined by the luciferin/luciferase luminescent method. The ATP release was found to be largely Ca(2+) dependent and sensitive to the botulinum neurotoxin A, which indicates that the ATP released by cultured retinal neurons originated from an exocytotic pool. Nitrendipine and omega-Agatoxin IVA, but not by omega-Conotoxin GVIA, partially blocked the release of ATP, indicating that in these cells, the Ca(2+) influx necessary to trigger the release of ATP occurs in part through the L- and the P/Q types of voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channels (VSCC), but not through N-type VSCC. The release of ATP increased in the presence of adenosine deaminase, or in the presence of 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX), an adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist, showing that the release is tonically inhibited by the adenosine A(1) receptors. To our knowledge, this is the first report showing the release of endogenous ATP from a retinal preparation.
Axonal degeneration plays an important role in the accumulation of disability in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Pathological studies have demonstrated axonal damage, particularly in areas of acute inflammation and demyelination, and in chronic lesions. Axonal loss and its progression, which is associated with neurological disability, has also been demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies. The mechanisms of axonal loss are uncertain, but may involve axonal degeneration secondary to demyelination, or damage to the axonal cytoskeleton. Inflammatory mediators, including cytokines and proteolytic enzymes may contribute to axonal damage, as may nitric oxide. Axonal destruction may also be due to immune attack directed at axonal components. The realisation that axonal degeneration is a fundamental component of MS that may occur early in the disease course should alter the approach to management and open avenues to a more targeted immunotherapy aimed at reducing the progression of disability.
Progressive injury to the mammalian CNS often reduces the severity of lesion-induced deficits or spares the behavior from deficits altogether. The mechanism(s) underlying this behavioral sparing is not clearly understood, but axonal sprouting is a likely candidate. To test this possibility, unilateral, two-stage (progressive) lesions of the entorhinal cortex, which are known to accelerate sprouting by the crossed temporodentate pathway and spare spatial memory function, were made in rats. We examined the changes in synaptic efficacy (as measured by the amplitude and slope of evoked population EPSPs) of the crossed temporodentate projection after either one-stage or progressive unilateral lesions of the entorhinal area. Whereas the synaptic efficacy of the one-stage group did not differ significantly from the control group at 4, 6, or 8 d after the lesion, the synaptic efficacy of the crossed temporodentate pathway in the progressive lesion group significantly increased above the control values as early as 4 d after the lesion and remained stable thereafter. Axonal sprouting thus may provide a mechanism by which to account for behavioral sparing after progressive brain damage.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a candidate molecule for regulating activity-dependent synaptic plasticity on the grounds of its expression pattern in developing visual cortex and that of its receptor, trkB (Castrn et al., 1992; Bozzi et al., 1995; Schoups et al., 1995; Cabelli et al., 1996), as well as the modulation of these patterns by activity (Castrn et al., 1992; Bozzi et al., 1995; Schoups et al., 1995). Infusing trkB ligands or their neutralizing agents, the trkB-IgG fusion proteins, into visual cortex alters the development and plasticity of ocular dominance columns (Cabelli et al., 1995; Riddle et al., 1995; Galuske et al., 1996 ; Gillespie et al., 1996; Cabelli et al., 1997). To test further the physiological role of BDNF, we studied a transgenic mouse that expresses elevated levels of BDNF in primary visual cortex (V1) postnatally (Huang et al., 1999). We found that unlike the infusion experiments, excess BDNF expressed in mouse visual cortex did not block ocular dominance plasticity. Instead, single neurons in V1 of the BDNF transgenic mice were as susceptible to the effects of monocular deprivation (MD) as neurons in wild-type mice, but only during a precocious critical period. At a time when V1 in the wild-type mouse responded maximally to a 4 d MD with a reduction in its response to deprived eye visual stimulation, the transgenic mouse V1 had already passed the peak of its precocious critical period and no longer responded maximally. This finding suggests a role for BDNF in promoting the postnatal maturation of cortical circuitry.
Release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to the cytosol is a critical step in apoptotic cell death after focal cerebral ischemia. The relationship among cytochrome c release, selective vulnerability, and delayed death of hippocampal CA1 neurons after transient global ischemia was examined. Global ischemia was induced by 10 min of bilateral common carotid artery occlusion and hypotension in rats. Cytosolic expression of cytochrome c was evaluated by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. Apoptosis after global ischemia was also characterized by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated uridine 5'-triphosphate-biotin nick end-labeling (TUNEL) staining and DNA gel electrophoresis. Immunohistochemistry showed cytosolic cytochrome c-positive cells exclusively in the CA1 subregion of the hippocampus as early as 2 hr after ischemia. Double fluorescent immunostaining confirmed that CA1 neurons and a small number of astrocytes expressed cytochrome c. Western blot analysis revealed a band (15 kDa) of cytochrome c in the cytosolic fraction and a corresponding decrease in the mitochondrial fraction. A significant number of TUNEL-positive cells appeared only in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer of the hippocampus, and DNA gel electrophoresis showed a significant amount of DNA fragmentation 3-5 d after ischemia. Our data provide the first evidence that cytochrome c was released to the cytosol from mitochondria in CA1 neurons after global ischemia and that the release preceded DNA fragmentation. These findings suggest cytochrome c involvement in the delayed death of hippocampal CA1 neurons in rats after transient global ischemia.
Septal cholinergic neurons may affect hippocampal memory encoding and retrieval by differentially targeting parvalbumin (PARV)-containing basket cells and neuropeptide Y (NPY) interneurons. Thus, the cellular associations of cholinergic efferents, identified by the low-affinity, p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)), with interneurons containing either PARV or NPY in the hilus of the rat dentate gyrus were examined in single sections using dual labeling immunoelectron microscopy. Most profiles immunoreactive (IR) for PARV and NPY were perikaryal and dendritic and found within the infragranular and central hilar regions, respectively, whereas most profiles with p75(NTR)-labeling were unmyelinated axons and axon terminals. Although PARV-labeled profiles were more numerous, p75(NTR)-labeled axons and terminals contacted few PARV-IR profiles compared to NPY-labeled profiles (2% of 561 for PARV vs 12% of 433 for NPY). Moreover, structures targeted by p75(NTR)-IR axon terminals varied depending on the presence of PARV or NPY immunoreactivity. p75(NTR)-IR terminals primarily contacted PARV-IR dendrites (87%) compared to somata (13%); however, they contacted more NPY-IR somata (57%) than dendrites (43%). p75(NTR)-labeled terminals formed exclusively symmetric (inhibitory-type) synapses with PARV-IR somata and dendrites; however, they formed mostly symmetric but also asymmetric (excitatory-type) synapses with NPY-IR somata and dendrites. These results suggest that septal cholinergic efferents in the dentate gyrus: (1) preferentially innervate NPY-containing interneurons compared to PARV-containing basket cells; and (2) may provide a more powerful (i.e., somatic contacts), yet functionally diverse (i.e., asymmetric and symmetric synapses), modulation of NPY-containing interneurons. Moreover, they provide evidence that neurochemical subsets of hippocampal interneurons can be distinguished by afferent input.
We investigated whether gaze direction modified the pattern of finger movement activation in human cerebral cortex using functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Participants performed a sequential finger-tapping task or made no finger movements while maintaining gaze in the direction of the moving hand (aligned conditions) or away from the location of the moving hand. Functional MR signals, measured in the hemisphere contralateral to the moving hand, revealed finger movement-related activation in primary motor cortex, lateral and medial premotor cortex, and a wide extent of the lateral superior and inferior parietal lobules. In each area, the extent of the finger movement activation increased when static gaze was more aligned with the moving hand compared to when gaze was directed away from the moving hand. These data suggest the existence of large-scale cortical networks related to finger actions and indicate that skeletomotor processing in the cerebral cortex is consistently modified by gaze direction signals.
Previous studies have suggested the persistence of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells in the adult mammalian subcortical white matter. To identify oligodendrocyte progenitors in the adult human subcortical white matter, we transfected dissociates of capsular white matter with plasmid DNA bearing the gene for green fluorescence protein (hGFP), placed under the control of the human early promoter (P2) for the oligodendrocytic protein cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (P/hCNP2). Within 4 d after transfection with P/hCNP2:hGFP, a discrete population of small, bipolar cells were noted to express GFP. These cells were A2B5-positive (A2B5(+)), incorporated bromodeoxyuridine in vitro, and constituted &lt;0.5% of all cells. Using fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), the P/hCNP2-driven GFP(+) cells were then isolated and enriched to near-purity. In the weeks after FACS, most P/hCNP2:hGFP-sorted cells matured as morphologically and antigenically characteristic oligodendrocytes. Thus, the human subcortical white matter harbors mitotically competent progenitor cells, which give rise primarily to oligodendrocytes in vitro. By using fluorescent transgenes of GFP expressed under the control of an early oligodendrocytic promoter, these oligodendrocyte progenitor cells may be extracted and purified from adult human white matter in sufficient numbers for implantation and cell-based therapy.
Theories of both cortical field development and cortical evolution propose that thalamocortical projections play a critical role in the differentiation of cortical fields (; ). In the present study, we examined how changing the size of the immature neocortex before the establishment of thalamocortical connections affects the subsequent development and organization of the adult neocortex. This alteration in cortex is consistent with one of the most profound changes made to the mammalian neocortex throughout evolution: cortical size. Removing the caudal one-third to three-fourths of the cortical neuroepithelial sheet unilaterally at an early stage of development in marsupials resulted in normal spatial relationships between visual, somatosensory, and auditory cortical fields on the remaining cortical sheet. Injections of neuroanatomical tracers into the reduced cortex revealed in an altered distribution of thalamocortical axons; this alteration allowed the maintenance of their original anteroposterior distribution. These results demonstrate the capacity of the cortical neuroepithelium to accommodate different cortical fields at early stages of development, although the anteroposterior and mediolateral relationships between cortical fields appear to be invariant. The shifting of afferents and efferents with cortical reduction or expansion at very early stages of development may have occurred naturally in different lineages over time and may be sufficient to explain much of the phenotypic variation in cortical field number and organization in different mammals.
Activation of erbB-1 receptors by glial TGFalpha has been shown to be a component of the developmental program by which the neuroendocrine brain controls mammalian sexual development. The participation of other members of the erbB family may be required, however, for full signaling capacity. Here, we show that activation of astrocytic erbB-2/erbB-4 receptors plays a significant role in the process by which the hypothalamus controls the advent of mammalian sexual maturation. Hypothalamic astrocytes express both the erbB-2 and erbB-4 genes, but no erbB-3, and respond to neuregulins (NRGs) by releasing prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), which acts on neurosecretory neurons to stimulate secretion of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), the neuropeptide controlling sexual development. The actions of TGFalpha and NRGs in glia are synergistic and involve recruitment of erbB-2 as a coreceptor, via erbB-1 and erbB-4, respectively. Hypothalamic expression of both erbB-2 and erbB-4 increases first in a gonad-independent manner before the onset of puberty, and then, at the time of puberty, in a sex steroid-dependent manner. Disruption of erbB-2 synthesis in hypothalamic astrocytes by treatment with an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide inhibited the astrocytic response to NRGs and, to a lesser extent, that to TGFalpha and blocked the erbB-dependent, glia-mediated, stimulation of LHRH release. Intracerebral administration of the oligodeoxynucleotide to developing animals delayed the initiation of puberty. Thus, activation of the erbB-2-erbB-4 receptor complex appears to be a critical component of the signaling process by which astrocytes facilitate the acquisition of female reproductive capacity in mammals.
The Na,K-ATPase is a dominant factor in retinal energy metabolism, and unique combinations of isoforms of its alpha and beta subunits are expressed in different cell types and determine its functional properties. We used isoform-specific antibodies and fluorescence confocal microscopy to determine the expression of Na,K-ATPase alpha and beta subunits in the mouse and rat retina. In the adult retina, alpha1 was found in Mller and horizontal cells, alpha2 in some Mller glia, and alpha3 in photoreceptors and all retinal neurons. beta1 was largely restricted to horizontal, amacrine, and ganglion cells; beta2 was largely restricted to photoreceptors, bipolar cells, and Mller glia; and beta3 was largely restricted to photoreceptors. Photoreceptor inner segments have the highest concentration of Na,K-ATPase in adult retinas. Isoform distribution exhibited marked changes during postnatal development. alpha3 and beta2 were in undifferentiated photoreceptor somas at birth but only later were targeted to inner segments and synaptic terminals. beta3, in contrast, was expressed late in photoreceptor differentiation and was immediately targeted to inner segments. A high level of beta1 expression in horizontal cells preceded migration, whereas increases in beta2 expression in bipolar cells occurred very late, coinciding with synaptogenesis in the inner plexiform layer. Most of the spatial specification of Na,K-ATPase isoform expression was completed before eye opening and the onset of electroretinographic responses on postnatal day 13 (P13), but quantitative increase continued until P22 in parallel with synaptogenesis.
The expression and functional properties of connexin36 (Cx36) were examined in two communication-deficient cell lines (N2A-neuroblastoma and PC-12 cells) transfected with Cx36 and in hippocampal neurons that express the connexin endogenously. Transfected cells expressed the expected 2.9 kb Cx36 transcript and Cx36 immunoreactivity, whereas nontransfected cells were devoid of Cx36. The relationship between steady-state junctional conductance (g(j)) and transjunctional voltage was well described by a two-state Boltzmann equation. The half-inactivation voltage (V(0)), the ratio of minimal to maximal g(j) (g(min)/g(max)), and the equivalent gating charge were +/- 75 mV, 0.55, and 1.75, respectively, indicating that Cx36 exhibits very low voltage sensitivity. Conductance of single Cx36 channels measured with patch pipettes containing 130 mM CsCl was 10-15 pS (n = 15 cell pairs); despite this low unitary conductance, Cx36 channels were permeable to the dye Lucifer yellow. Hippocampal neurons expressed Cx36 both in vivo and in culture. The electrophysiological properties of channels in cultured hippocampal neurons were similar to those of the channels expressed by the transfected cell lines, and the neuronal channels were similarly permeable to Lucifer yellow. The unique combination of weak voltage sensitivity, small unitary conductance, and permeation by anions as large as second messenger molecules endows Cx36 gap junction channels with properties well suited for mediating flexible electrical and biochemical interactions between neurons.
Tetanic stimuli to layer I-II afferents in rat prefrontal cortex induced long-term depression (LTD) of layer I-II to layer V pyramidal neuron glutamatergic synapses when tetani were coupled to bath application of dopamine. This LTD was blocked by the following metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonists coapplied with dopamine: (S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG; group I and II antagonist), (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA; group I antagonist), or (RS)-alpha-methylserine-O-phosphate monophenyl ester (MSOPPE; group II antagonist). This suggests that the dopamine-facilitated LTD requires synaptic activation of groups I and II mGluRs during tetanus. LTD could also be induced by coupling tetani to bath application of groups I and II mGluR agonist (1S, 3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD). In the next series of experiments, coapplication of dopamine and 1S,3R-ACPD, but not application of either drug alone, consistently induced LTD without tetani or even single test stimuli during drug application, suggesting that coactivation of dopamine receptors and the mGluRs is sufficient for LTD induction. Immunoblot analyses with anti-active mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAP-Ks) revealed that D1 receptors, D2 receptors, group I mGluRs, and group II mGluRs all contribute to MAP-K activation in prefrontal cortex, and that combined activation of dopamine receptors and mGluRs synergistically or additively activate MAP-Ks. Consistently, LTD by dopamine + 1S, 3R-ACPD coapplication, as well as the two other forms of LTD (LTD by dopamine + tetani and LTD by 1S,3R-ACPD + tetani), was blocked by bath application of MAP-K kinase inhibitor PD98059. LTD by dopamine + 1S,3R-ACPD coapplication was also blocked by postsynaptic injection of synthetic MAP-K substrate peptide. Our results suggest that dopamine receptors and groups I and II mGluRs cooperate to induce LTD through converging postsynaptic activation of MAP-Ks.
A retinal ganglion cell commonly expresses two spatially overlapping receptive field mechanisms. One is the familiar &quot;center/surround,&quot; which sums excitation and inhibition across a region somewhat broader than the ganglion cell's dendritic field. This mechanism responds to a drifting grating by modulating firing at the drift frequency (linear response). Less familiar is the &quot;nonlinear&quot; mechanism, which sums the rectified output of many small subunits that extend for millimeters beyond the dendritic field. This mechanism responds to a contrast-reversing grating by modulating firing at twice the reversal frequency (nonlinear response). We investigated this nonlinear mechanism by presenting visual stimuli to the intact guinea pig retina in vitro while recording intracellularly from large brisk and sluggish ganglion cells. A contrast-reversing grating modulated the membrane potential (in addition to the firing rate) at twice the reversal frequency. This response was initially hyperpolarizing for some cells (either ON or OFF center) and initially depolarizing for others. Experiments in which responses to bars were summed in-phase or out-of-phase suggested that the single class of bipolar cells (either ON or OFF) that drives the center/surround response also drives the nonlinear response. Consistent with this, nonlinear responses persisted in OFF ganglion cells when ON bipolar cell responses were blocked by L-AP-4. Nonlinear responses evoked from millimeters beyond the ganglion cell were eliminated by tetrodotoxin. Thus, to relay the response from distant regions of the receptive field requires a spiking interneuron. Nonlinear responses from different regions of the receptive field added linearly.
The amygdala is intimately involved in emotional behavior, and its role in the generation of anxiety and conditioned fear is well known. Benzodiazepines, which are commonly used for the relief of anxiety, are thought to act by enhancing the action of the inhibitory transmitter GABA. We have examined the properties of GABA-mediated inhibition in the amygdala. Whole-cell recordings were made from neurons in the lateral division of the central amygdala. Application of GABA evoked a current that reversed at the chloride equilibrium potential. Application of the GABA antagonists bicuculline or SR95531 inhibited the GABA-evoked current in a manner consistent with two binding sites. Stimulation of afferents to neurons in the central amygdala evoked an IPSC that was mediated by the release of GABA. The GABA(A) receptor antagonists bicuculline and picrotoxin failed to completely block the IPSC. The bicuculline-resistant IPSC was chloride-selective and was unaffected by GABA(B)-receptor antagonists. Furthermore, this current was insensitive to modulation by general anesthetics or barbiturates. In contrast to their actions at GABA(A) receptors, diazepam and flurazepam inhibited the bicuculline-resistant IPSC in a concentration-dependent manner. These effects were fully antagonized by the benzodiazepine site antagonist Ro15-1788. We conclude that a new type of ionotropic GABA receptor mediates fast inhibitory transmission in the central amygdala. This receptor may be a potential target for the development of new therapeutic strategies for anxiety disorders.
We have exploited a new monoclonal antibody against the tyrosine kinase A (TrkA) nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor to block the NGF-TrkA interaction in the rat basal forebrain. The monoclonal antibody MNAC13 is a potent antagonist that prevents the binding of NGF to TrkA in a variety of systems. This antibody was used to study the maintenance of the cholinergic phenotype in the rat basal forebrain in vivo, by the implant of antibody-secreting cells. Basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCNs) are greatly affected by the antibody treatment, both in terms of cell number and of cell soma size. When antibody-secreting cells are implanted at postnatal day 2 (P2), the effects observed at P8 are as severe as those obtained with anti-NGF antibodies and, interestingly, are observed also if anti-TrkA cells are implanted at P8, when anti-NGF antibodies, delivered by the same route, are no longer effective (). The effects induced by anti-TrkA, as those induced by anti-NGF, are reversible, but the time required for recovery and the critical period in the sensitivity of BFCNs to the functional inactivation of TrkA is twice as long than that observed when NGF is intercepted. These results demonstrate that BFCNs are more sensitive to the block of TrkA activation than they are to the block of NGF. The cloning of MNAC13 variable regions and their assembly into a functional polypeptide of reduced size (single chain Fv fragment) will allow its use in gene transfer applications.
The eyecup preparation has traditionally been used to study retinal physiology in lower vertebrates and in some mammals. The procedures for preparing eyecups of the rat and mouse have not been described, however. We now describe methods for preparing and maintaining viable eyecups for these two species. Eyecups were everted over a plastic dome and held in place between the two halves of a superfusion chamber. Fluid exchange in the chamber was rapid, with near total exchange occurring in 9 s. Eyecup viability was tested by monitoring light-evoked retinal responses as the preparation aged. In both rat and mouse, the amplitude of the electroretinogram (ERG) b-wave decreased slowly, declining to 1/2 maximal amplitude in approximately 70 min. Light-evoked spike activity of neurons in the ganglion cell layer remained stable for approximately 3 h and attenuated responses were recorded for an additional 1-2 h. Eyecups were able to dark adapt. Retinal sensitivity, tested by monitoring b-wave amplitude, recovered following exposure to an adapting light.
This study introduces algorithmic complexity to measure characteristics of brain functions. The EEG of the rat was recorded with implanted electrodes. The normalized complexity value was relatively independent of data length, and it showed a simpler and easier calculation characteristic than other non-linear indexes. The complexity index revealed significant differences among awake, asleep, and anesthetized states. It may be useful in tracking short-term and long-term changes in brain functions, such as anesthetized depth, drug effects, or sleep-wakefulness.
Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta) is an inflammatory cytokine whose expression is elevated in brain during seizures, ischemia, and injury. Expression of IL-1beta and its receptor can also be observed in normal brain. Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is also a dual mediator that promotes neuronal plasticity responses as well as inflammation. We have determined the role of PAF in the regulation of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) genes by IL-1beta in rat primary hippocampal cultures. As assessed by reverse transcriptase/polymerase chain reaction (RT/PCR), recombinant mouse IL-1beta (1 nM) led to an induction of COX-2 mRNA which peaked at 2 hours, declined to baseline levels by 4 hours, began to rise again by 6 hours, and remained elevated at 24 hours post-treatment. iNOS mRNA was also induced, but unlike COX-2, its abundance peaked at 4 hours and decreased by 6 hours to a plateau lasting through 24 hours. Pretreatment with PAF antagonist BN50730 blocked induction of COX-2 mRNA by 2-hour IL-1beta treatment, and 2-hour treatment with the PAF analog mcPAF mimicked the effects of IL-1beta on COX-2 mRNA levels. Following injury, synaptic plasticity changes may be affected by IL-1beta-PAF-COX-2 neuronal signaling.
Retinal amacrine cells express metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), but their physiological role is unknown. We investigated the effect of mGluR on [(3)H]acetylcholine release ([(3)H]ACh) from cultured chick amacrine-like neurons. Activation of group III mGluR with the agonist L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4) inhibited [(3)H]ACh release evoked by 25 mM KCl in a dose-dependent manner, and this effect was sensitive to pertussis toxin. In contrast, activation of group I or II mGluR with (S)-3, 5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) and (2S,2'R,3'R)-2-(2', 3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine (DCG-IV), respectively, did not affect significantly [(3)H]ACh release. The effect of L-AP4 on [(3)H]ACh release was sensitive to nitrendipine, suggesting that it is, at least in part, due to inhibition of L-type Ca(2+) channels. Activation of group III mGluR also partly inhibited omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive Ca(2+) channels, coupled to [(3)H]ACh release. The L-AP4 did not affect the cAMP levels measured in amacrine-like neurons depolarized with 25 mM KCl or stimulated with forskolin, indicating that the effect of group III mGluR on [(3)H]ACh release is not due to inhibition of adenylyl cyclase activity. Inhibition of protein kinase A with KT-5720 was without effect on [(3)H]ACh release evoked by 25 mM KCl, further indicating that the effect of group III mGluR on [(3)H]ACh release cannot be attributed to the inhibition of the kinase. The effect of L-AP4 on [(3)H]ACh release was reversed by DHPG or by DCG-IV, and activation of group II mGluR also partially inhibited cAMP production stimulated by forskolin. Taken together, our results show that the effect of group III mGluR on [(3)H]ACh release may be due to a direct inhibition of L- and N-type Ca(2+) channels and is modulated by group I and group II mGluR.
Spinal cord pathology, such as demyelination and axonal loss, is a common feature in multiple models of central nervous system (CNS) injury and disease. Development of methods to quantify spinal cord pathology objectively would aid studies designed to establish mechanisms of damage, correlate pathology with neurologic function, and assess therapeutic interventions. In this study, we describe sensitive methods to objectively quantify spinal cord demyelination, remyelination, atrophy, and axonal loss following the initiation of a progressive inflammatory demyelinating disease with Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV). Spinal cord demyelination, remyelination, and atrophy were quantified from representative 1-microm-thick cross sections embedded in Araldite plastic using interactive image analysis. In addition, this study demonstrates novel, automated methodology to quantify axonal loss from areas of normal-appearing white matter, as a measure of secondary axonal injury following demyelination. These morphologic methods, which are applicable to various models of CNS injury, provide an innovative way to assess the benefits of therapeutic agents, to determine mechanisms of spinal cord damage, or to establish a correlation with sensitive measures of neurologic function. J. Neurosci Res 58:492-504.
The Dale's law postulates that a neuron releases the same neurotransmitter from all its branches. In the case of multiple neurotransmitters it would require all transmitters to be released from all branches. The retinal cholinergic amacrine cells contain and release gamma-aminobutyric (GABA) and, therefore, if GABA and acetylcholine (ACh) are released at the same sites, this could mean that amacrine cells simultaneously excite and inhibit postsynaptic cells. Conversely, if the two neurotransmitters are released at different synapses, or if their release is regulated in a distinct manner, they may play different physiological roles. Recent studies carried out in cultured cholinergic amacrine-like neurons showed that Ca(2+)-dependent release of ACh and GABA have a different sensitivity to membrane depolarization, to the effect of blockers of voltage gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCC) and to the effect of presynaptic A(1) adenosine receptors. Therefore, it is proposed that in retinal amacrine cells the Ca(2+)-dependent release of ACh and GABA occurs at distinct cellular locations. The possible nature of these release sites and the physiological significance of this model are discussed in this review.
1. The study of the physiological role of long-term potentiation (LTP) is often hampered by the challenge of finding a physiological event that can be used to assess synaptic strength. We explored the possibility of utilising a naturally occurring event, the hippocampal sharp wave (SPW), for the assessment of synaptic strength and the induction of LTP in vivo. 2. We used two methods in which hippocampal cells were either recorded intracellularly or extracellularly in vivo. In both cases, a linear association between the magnitude of the SPW and cellular responsiveness was observed. 3. LTP was induced by depolarising cells during SPWs by either direct intracellular current injection or extracellular microstimulation adjacent to the cell body. Both of these approaches led to an increase in the slope of the linear association between SPWs and cellular responsiveness. 4. This change was achieved without a rise in overall cell excitability, implying that the synapses providing input to CA1 cells during sharp waves had undergone potentiation. 5. Our findings show that the Hebbian pairing of cellular activation with spontaneous, naturally occurring synaptic events is capable of inducing LTP.
Selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) demonstrate tissue-specific estrogen receptor (ER) agonist or antagonist properties. Raloxifene, a prototypical SERM, has ER agonist properties in bone and on cholesterol metabolism but full antagonist properties in the uterus and breast. To characterize the ER agonist/antagonist profile of raloxifene in the brain, we have examined its effect on the activity of a known estrogen-responsive gene product, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), in the hippocampus and other brain regions of 6-month-old ovariectomized (OVX) Sprague-Dawley rats. Three weeks post-ovariectomy, animals received estradiol benzoate (EB, 0.03 mg or 0.3 mg kg(-1) day(-1) for 3 or 10 days); raloxifene HCl (3.0 mg kg(-1) day(-1) for 3 or 10 days), tamoxifen (3.0 mg kg(-1) day(-1) for 10 days) or vehicle (20% CDX). As previously reported, ChAT activity decreased by approximately 20%-50% in the hippocampus of OVX compared with SHAM-operated control rats with no change in ChAT activity observed in the hypothalamus. Raloxifene or EB reversed the OVX-induced decrease in ChAT activity in the hippocampus but did not change ChAT activity in the hypothalamus. Animals that received combined EB (0.03 mg/kg) plus raloxifene (1 mg/kg) or tamoxifen alone (3.0 or 10 mg/kg) also showed increased hippocampal ChAT activity. Raloxifene failed to increase uterine weight and blocked the estrogen-induced increase in uterine weight, while another SERM, tamoxifen, increased uterine weight. These data demonstrate that raloxifene has estrogen-like properties on hippocampal ChAT activity in vivo, and suggest that benzothiophene SERMs may exert estrogen-like beneficial effects on cholinergic neurotransmission in brain without producing peripheral stimulation of breast or uterine tissue.
Using mild heat shock of rat brain slices as a model for cellular insult, corticosteroid-mediated regulation of protein synthesis has been investigated. Following a single in vivo injection of rats with corticosterone or the Type II glucocorticoid receptor agonist, RU-28362, synthesis of a 28 kDa protein is elevated in cerebellar slices which are subsequently incubated in vitro at 39 degrees C for 3 h. Immunoblotting of proteins subsequent to separation by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis has identified this glucocorticoid-sensitive protein to be the small molecular weight heat-shock protein, HSP27. Synthesis of the major heat-shock proteins, HSP70 and HSP90, is not glucocorticoid-sensitive. When animals are sacrificed at either 4 h following an aldosterone injection or at 24 h following a corticosterone injection, the synthesis of HSP27 in cerebellar slices is decreased. Treatment of adrenalectomized rats with either corticosterone, RU-28362 or aldosterone produces increased synthesis of HSP27. With duration of heat shock, there is a transient increase in the synthesis of HSP27 after 2 h at 39 degrees C in slices from the cerebral cortex, with a more sustained synthesis of HSP27 in cerebellar slices. In hippocampal slices, HSP27 is rarely present. The upregulated synthesis of HSP27 in the cerebellum following an acute exposure to stress-like elevations in corticosterone titers may contribute to the relative resistance of this brain region to cellular insults.
Infusion of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) into patients with migraine precipitates the onset of a migraine attack several hours after completion of the infusion. Using an infusion of GTN into anaesthetised rats, this study investigates the relationship of regional cerebral blood flux rCBF(ldf), cortical nitric oxide (NO) and cortical superoxide concentrations and the effect of sumatriptan on each variable. In saline treated animals, a 30 min infusion of GTN (2 microgram kg(-1) min(-1), i.v.) was found to markedly increase cortical rCBF(ldf) (133+/-3% of baseline) and NO concentrations (141+/-13% of baseline). Superoxide levels exhibited an inverse relationship to NO levels, decreasing below basal to 48+/-14% of baseline. It is hypothesised that high NO levels during GTN infusion may decrease the detectable superoxide due to &quot;leeching&quot; of the superoxide into low level peroxynitrite formation. In the presence of sumatriptan, a decrease below baseline in cortical rCBF(ldf) (82+/-5% of baseline) and NO concentration (64+/-13% of baseline) was observed throughout GTN infusion, although superoxide levels significantly increased above baseline by 105+/-14 nM (p&lt;0.05, ANOVA post hoc LSD test). The mechanism for this action of sumatriptan is unknown but may include; modulation of cell redox state, NO scavenging or direct manipulation of superoxide release.

The marine sponge Ianthella basta synthesizes at least 25 tetrameric bromotyrosine structures that possess a stringent structural requirement for modifying the gating behavior of ryanodine-sensitive Ca(2+) channels (ryanodine receptors) (RyR)). Bastadin 5 (B5) was shown to stabilize open and closed channel states with little influence on the sensitivity of the channel to activation by Ca(2+) (Mack, M. M., Molinski, T. F., Buck, E. D., and Pessah, I. N. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 23236-23249). In the present paper, we utilize single channel analysis and measurements of Ca(2+) flux across the sarcoplasmic reticulum to identify bastadin 10 (B10) as the structural congener responsible for dramatically stabilizing the open conformation of the RyR channel, possibly by reducing the free energy associated with closed to open channel transitions (DeltaG*c --&gt; o). The stability of the channel open state induced by B10 sensitized the channel to activation by Ca(2+) to such an extent that it essentially obviated regulation by physiological concentrations of Ca(2+) and relieved inhibition by physiological Mg(2+). These actions of B10 were produced only on the cytoplasmic face of the channel, were selectively eliminated by pretreatment of channels with FK506 or rapamycin, and were reconstituted by human recombinant FKBP12. The actions of B10 were found to be reversible. A structure-activity model is proposed by which substitutions on the Eastern and Western hemispheres of the bastarane macrocycle may confer specificity toward the RyR1-FKBP12 complex to stabilize either the closed or open channel conformation. These results indicate that RyR1-FKBP12 complexes possesses a novel binding domain for phenoxycatechols and raise the possibility of molecular recognition of an endogenous ligand.
A mechanism by which the Ras-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway mediates growth factor-dependent cell survival was characterized. The MAPK-activated kinases, the Rsks, catalyzed the phosphorylation of the pro-apoptotic protein BAD at serine 112 both in vitro and in vivo. The Rsk-induced phosphorylation of BAD at serine 112 suppressed BAD-mediated apoptosis in neurons. Rsks also are known to phosphorylate the transcription factor CREB (cAMP response element-binding protein) at serine 133. Activated CREB promoted cell survival, and inhibition of CREB phosphorylation at serine 133 triggered apoptosis. These findings suggest that the MAPK signaling pathway promotes cell survival by a dual mechanism comprising the posttranslational modification and inactivation of a component of the cell death machinery and the increased transcription of pro-survival genes.
Adding the membrane-permeant oxidant tert-butylhydroperoxide (t-BOOH) to the incubation medium, in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells, induced a marked and progressive concentration-dependent (300, 500 and 1000 microM) increase of free radical production, as evaluated by the fluorescent probe 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate (DCFH-DA) and of the intracellular Ca(2+) ion concentrations [Ca(2+)](i). The removal of extracellular Ca(2+) ions did not prevent t-BOOH-induced [Ca(2+)](i) elevation, whereas the intracellular Ca(2+) ion chelator 1,2-bis(o-aminophenoxy) ethane-N,N, N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA) (10 microM) was shown to be effective. Both t-BOOH-induced free radical formation and the [Ca(2+)](i) increase were completely prevented by the peroxyl scavenger alpha-tocopherol (50 microM). t-BOOH induced a time-dependent SH-SY5Y cell injury, monitored by a 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay (approximately 25% at 1 h, 50% at 3 h, 80% at 5 h) and by fluorescein diacetate (FDA)-propidium iodide (PI) fluorescent staining. The entity of t-BOOH-induced cell damage was the same both in the absence and in the presence of the intracellular Ca(2+) ion chelator BAPTA. By contrast, the peroxyl scavenger alpha-tocopherol (50 microM) completely prevented cell injury due to oxidative stress. Finally, superoxide dismutase (SOD) (500 ng/ml) caused a 30% reduction of t-BOOH-induced 2', 7'-dichlorofluorescein (DCF) fluorescence, whereas it did not modify the extent of cell injury produced by the oxidant. Collectively, the results of the present study demonstrated that in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells, the rise of [Ca(2+)](i) which occurs during oxidative stress is not involved in cell injury. Therefore, oxidative stress-induced cell death may be exclusively attributed to free radical overproduction.
PTEN phosphatase is a tumor suppressor gene that dephosphorylates phosphatidylinositol phosphates. PTEN restrains the function of a major antiapoptotic and survival pathway involving phosphoinositide 3-kinase and Akt kinase. Our purpose was to find out whether apoptotic inducers affect the expression of PTEN in cerebellar granule neurons and neuroblastoma 2a cells (Neuro-2a). PTEN mRNA expression showed a major 5.5-kb and a lower abundance 2.5-kb transcripts. In Neuro-2a cells, serum withdrawal induced a prominent, continuous decrease both in 5.5- and 2.5-kb transcripts of PTEN mRNA. Simultaneously, the expression level of 56-kDa PTEN protein decreased in Neuro-2a cells. The decrease in PTEN expression precedes apoptotic changes observed after serum withdrawal. On the contrary, okadaic acid and etoposide only slightly affected the expression of PTEN although they induce a prominent apoptosis in Neuro-2a cells. In cerebellar granule neurons, okadaic acid treatment induced a prominent increase in PTEN mRNA expression after 6-h treatment, both at the 5.5- and 2.5-kb transcripts. The early response in PTEN mRNA expression disappeared in 5.5-kb transcripts already at 12 h and in the case of 2.5-kb transcripts it lasted up to 24 h. Potassium deprivation, known to induce apoptosis in cerebellar granule cells, did not affect PTEN mRNA expression but together with serum deprivation induced a clear decrease in the 5. 5-kb PTEN transcripts. It seems that the changes in PTEN expression level and neuronal apoptosis are not related to each other in general but the expression of PTEN phosphatase seems to regulate certain apoptotic signals affecting phosphoinositide 3-kinase function.
Tryptophan hydroxylase, the initial and rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of serotonin (5-HT), is inactivated by the quinone of L-DOPA. L-DOPA itself has no effect on enzyme activity. The inactivation of tryptophan hydroxylase could be prevented by glutathione (GSH), dithiothreitol, cysteine, and ascorbic acid but not by scavengers of hydrogen peroxide (catalase), hydroxyl radical (DMSO), or superoxide (superoxide dismutase). All cysteinyl residues within tryptophan hydroxylase are modified after treatment with L-DOPA-quinone as revealed by loss of DTNB-reactivity and formation of cysteinyl-DOPA residues. L-DOPA-quinone also converts tryptophan hydroxylase to a redox-cycling quinoprotein. These results suggest a possible mechanism of 5-HT neuronal damage in Parkinson's Disease by a redox-cycling quinoprotein.
The calcium-binding protein, calbindin (CALB) is: (a) distributed throughout the central nervous system (CNS), (b) abundant in neurons and, (c) thought to act as a buffer by binding intracellular calcium, mediating neurogenesis (cell profileration) and neuronal programmed cell death. Using Northern analysis, CALB mRNA distribution was characterized in 12 different adult brain regions. Additionally, CALB mRNA levels were characterized in the medial basal hypothalamus (MBH) and preoptic area (POA) in perinatal male and female rats, in order to compare this mRNA pattern to the dimorphic MBH-POA CALB protein profile our laboratory previously reported. Three CALB mRNA species were detected (at 1.9, 2.8 and 3.2 kilobase pairs) in all CNS regions. The smallest mRNA transcript (at 1.9 kilobase pairs) was the most abundant of the three CALB mRNAs. To quantify these mRNA signals, CALB mRNA levels were normalized to 18s ribosomal RNA bands. Among the various adult brain sites assayed, the cerebellum expressed the highest CALB mRNA signals. High CALB mRNAs were observed in the MBH-POA, olfactory bulb and hippocampal regions. Moderate CALB mRNA levels were seen in the striatum and frontal cortex while moderate to low CALB mRNA levels were observed in the posterior cortex, entorhinal cortex, midbrain, pons, thalamus and medulla. During perinatal development, MBH-POA CALB mRNA levels were lowest at gestation day (GD) 18, increased four-fold in newborns and remained at moderate levels during early postnatal development. Male CALB mRNA levels were notably greater than female values at GD 18 and in newborns. Whereas, at PND 2, the CALB mRNA levels were approximately equivalent in males and females. These findings suggest that in the adult CNS CALB mRNAs vary among different brain regions. The present male vs. female MBH-POA CALB mRNA levels confirm previously reported dimorphic protein patterns of MBH-POA CALB during perinatal development. Thus, the genesis of sexually dimorphic structures may be influenced by the dimorphic CALB expression in the MBH-POA region.
In several brain areas, extracellular adenosine (AD) levels are higher during waking than sleep and during prolonged wakefulness AD levels in the basal forebrain increase progressively. Similarly, c-Fos levels in several brain areas are higher during waking than sleep and remain elevated during prolonged wakefulness. In the present study, we investigated the effect of extracellular AD levels on c-Fos protein and activator protein-1 (AP1) binding in the basal forebrain of rats. Increased levels of extracellular AD were induced either by keeping the animals awake, or by local perfusion of AD into the basal forebrain. During prolonged wakefulness extracellular AD concentration was monitored using in vivo microdialysis. The effect of AD perfusion on the behavioral states was recorded using polysomnography. At the end of the perfusion period the basal forebrain tissue was analyzed for the levels of c-Fos protein and AP1 binding. In vivo microdialysis measurements showed an increase in AD levels with prolonged wakefulness. Unilateral perfusion of AD (300 microM) increased non-REM sleep and delta power (0.5 to 4 Hz) when compared to rats perfused with artificial CSF. The levels of c-Fos protein and the AP1 DNA binding were high in the basal forebrain of both sleep-deprived animals and in animals perfused with AD. The results suggest that AD might mediate, at least in part, the long term effects of sleep deprivation by inducing c-Fos protein and subsequent AP1 binding.

In an attempt to improve motor recovery of the upper limb after stroke, we added a robot (MIT-Manus) experience that provided additional goal-directed sensorimotor activity to standard rehabilitation treatments. The first trial produced a significant decrease in motor impairment in the upper limb for the treated group. In re-evaluating 12 of those 20 patients, nearly 3 years later, robot-trained patients showed further significant decreases in impairment measures of the affected limb. The groups were comparable at the start of the study.
A 33-year-old woman admitted for meningoencephalitis had features of encephalitis lethargica develop on her third day of illness. She had ophthalmoplegia, akinetic mutism, and prominent extrapyramidal signs consisting of lip and hand tremors, cogwheel rigidity, and facial bradykinesia.

The simian retrovirus (SRV) genome contains a constitutive transport element (CTE) within its 3' intergenic region (IR) that mediates the nuclear export of unspliced SRV RNA. The serogroup 2 SRV CTE is predicted to form a stable stem-loop structure containing two major internal loops exhibiting 180 degrees inverse symmetry, with loop face sequences A, A', B, and B' and additional minor internal and terminal loops. To begin the identification of potential CTE-interacting proteins and to assess structural requirements for protein interaction, we conducted RNA mobility shift assays using IR fragments that obliterated this region's known stable stem-loop structure. Using immunoblotting assays, we have determined that RNA helicase A, implicated in the nuclear export of unspliced SRV genomic RNA, does not appear to interact directly with either the complete serogroup 2 SRV 3' IR or the subregion RNAs and that formation of RNA-protein complexes is conferred by interaction with other novel proteins. UV crosslinking of RNA-protein complexes, coupled with RNase T1/A digestion, indicates that a novel protein of 120 kDa molecular weight interacts with the complete CTE or with individual subregion RNAs. Transfection analyses indicate that SRV recombinants containing A, A', B, or B' sequences forming the faces for two open loops undergo RNA export; only the complete sense CTE recombinant or a second recombinant containing two subregions in sense orientation that reconstitute the 3' two-thirds of the 3' IR, and contain only A' and B that form the faces for two terminal loops, are capable of SRV RNA export. These experiments indicate that secondary structural determinants of the 3' IR and multiple protein interactions may be important factors in the nuclear export of unspliced SRV RNA.
A major interest in cognitive science is the relationship between linguistic and perceptual representations of space. One approach to exploring this relationship has been to investigate aspects of the linguistic encoding of space that correspond closely to aspects of the visual system. Another approach, which does not contradict the first but rather complements it, is to investigate ways in which linguistic and visual representations of space are different. This paper pursues the second approach by arguing that the distinction between proximal and distal demonstratives (e.g. this vs. that, here vs. there) does not correspond to an independently established distinction between near and far space in the visual system but is instead based on language-internal factors. Recent neuropsychological and neurophysiological studies suggest that the brain contains separate mechanisms for representing, on the one hand, near or peripersonal space which extends roughly to the perimeter of arm's reach and, on the other hand, far or extrapersonal space which expands outward from that boundary. In addition, crosslinguistic research suggests that it is very common for languages to have two basic types of demonstrative terms - proximal and distal. This parallelism raises the possibility that the linguistic distinction may derive from the perceptual distinction. However, several arguments support the contrary view that the two distinctions are independent of one another. A substantial proportion of languages in the world have demonstrative systems that divide space into three or more egocentrically-grounded regions, thereby violating the two-way perceptual contrast. Even more importantly, empirical studies of how demonstratives are used in ongoing discourse in different languages suggest that they do not encode quantitative spatial information such as within vs. beyond arm's reach; instead, they specify abstract semantic notions that, when combined with the unique pragmatic features of communicative contexts, allow speakers to make a virtually unlimited range of spatial distance contrasts. Thus, demonstratives constitute an interesting case of divergence between linguistic and perceptual representations of space.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) is widely expressed in the central nervous system. Recent studies have pointed to a role for CART-derived peptides in inhibiting feeding behavior. Although these actions have generally been attributed to hypothalamic CART, it remains to be determined whether additional CART pathways exist that link signals from the gastrointestinal tract to the central control of food intake. In the present study, we have investigated the presence of CART in the rat vagus nerve and nodose ganglion. In the viscerosensory nodose ganglion, half of the neuron profiles expressed CART and its predicted peptide, as determined by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. CART expression was markedly attenuated after vagotomy, but no modulation was observed after food restriction or high-fat regimes. A large proportion of CART-labeled neuron profiles also expressed cholecystokinin A receptor mRNA. CART-peptide-like immunoreactivity was transported in the vagus nerve and found in a dense fiber plexus in the nucleus tractus solitarii. Studies on CART in the spinal somatosensory system revealed strong immunostaining of the dorsal horn but only a small number of stained cell bodies in dorsal root ganglia. The present results suggest that CART-derived peptides are present in vagal afferent neurons sensitive to cholecystokinin, suggesting that the role of these peptides in feeding may be explained partly by mediating postprandial satiety effects of cholecystokinin.
Propagation of discharges in cortical and thalamic systems, which is used as a probe for examining network circuitry, is studied by constructing a one-dimensional model of integrate-and-fire neurons that are coupled by excitatory synapses with delay. Each neuron fires only one spike. The velocity and stability of propagating continuous pulses are calculated analytically. Above a certain critical value of the constant delay, these pulses lose stability. Instead, lurching pulses propagate with discontinuous and periodic spatio-temporal characteristics. The parameter regime for which lurching occurs is strongly affected by the footprint (connectivity) shape; bistability may occur with a square footprint shape but not with an exponential footprint shape. For strong synaptic coupling, the velocity of both continuous and lurching pulses increases logarithmically with the synaptic coupling strength g(syn) for an exponential footprint shape, and it is bounded for a step footprint shape. We conclude that the differences in velocity and shape between the front of thalamic spindle waves in vitro and cortical paroxysmal discharges stem from their different effective delay; in thalamic networks, large effective delay between inhibitory neurons arises from their effective interaction via the excitatory cells which display postinhibitory rebound.
The action of calmodulin (CaM) on target proteins is important for a variety of cellular functions. We demonstrate here, however, that the presence of a CaM-binding site on a protein does not necessarily imply a functional effect. The alpha-subunit of the cGMP-gated cation channel of human retinal cones has a CaM-binding site on its cytoplasmic N-terminal region, but the homomeric channel that it forms is not functionally modulated by CaM. Mutational analysis based on comparison to the highly homologous olfactory cyclic nucleotide-gated channel alpha-subunit, which does form a CaM-modulated channel, indicates that residues downstream of the CaM-binding domain on these channels are also important for CaM to have an effect. These findings suggest that a CaM-binding site and complementary structural features in a protein probably evolve independently, and an effect caused by CaM occurs only in the presence of both elements. More generally, the same may be true for other recognized binding sites on proteins for modulators or activators, so that a demonstrated physical interaction does not necessarily imply functional consequence.
Although D amino acids are prominent in bacteria, they generally are thought not to occur in mammals. Recently, high levels of D-serine have been found in mammalian brain where it activates glutamate/N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors by interacting with the &quot;glycine site&quot; of the receptor. Because amino acid racemases are thought to be restricted to bacteria and insects, the origin of D-serine in mammals has been puzzling. We now report cloning and expression of serine racemase, an enzyme catalyzing the formation of D-serine from L-serine. Serine racemase is a protein representing an additional family of pyridoxal-5' phosphate-dependent enzymes in eukaryotes. The enzyme is enriched in rat brain where it occurs in glial cells that possess high levels of D-serine in vivo. Occurrence of serine racemase in the brain demonstrates the conservation of D-amino acid metabolism in mammals with implications for the regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate neurotransmission through glia-neuronal interactions.
Previous PET studies of tyrosine transport have suggested that the transport of tyrosine from blood to brain compartment is not dependent on its plasma concentration in patients with schizophrenia. In order to examine this relationship, the transport constant (K1) of tyrosine was determined in five patients with schizophrenia and five normals. L-[1-11C]Tyrosine was injected i.v. and arterial blood samples were taken during PET scanning. The tyrosine transport was assessed during baseline conditions and after oral administration of L-tyrosine at a dose (175 mg/kg) that significantly elevated the plasma levels. K1 was determined from tracer kinetic modelling. The transport rate dropped in the normals after tyrosine loading, which is consistent with the prevailing notion that the brain transport system for neutral amino acids works close to saturation, whereas it was virtually unchanged in the schizophrenics. The results demonstrated that tyrosine transport was not saturated in the patients with schizophrenia and thus could lead to elevated brain concentrations of tyrosine.
Genetic factors and dopamine receptor dysfunction have been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Recently, an association between a putative functional promoter polymorphism (-141C Ins/Del) in the dopamine D2 receptor gene and schizophrenia was reported. We investigated unrelated Swedish schizophrenic patients (n = 129) and control subjects (n = 179) for the same polymorphism. Similarly to a previous Japanese report, the - 141C Del allele frequency was significantly lower in patients than controls (chi2=4.4, 1 df, p&lt;0.05; odds ratio 0.49, 95% confidence interval 0.26-0.91). The present and previous results may indicate that the -141C Ins/Del dopamine D2 receptor gene polymorphism affects susceptibility to schizophrenia.
Two synaptic-vesicle proteins, rab3a and synaptophysin, have been studied on post-mortem brain tissues of schizophrenics and healthy controls. We found significantly reduced levels of rab3a in thalamus (p&lt;0.001); for both proteins in gyrus cinguli and hippocampus (p&lt;0.0001); for rab3a in frontal and parietal cortex (p&lt;0.05); and no differences in temporal cortex or cerebellum in schizophrenics compared with controls. Reduced synaptic density may be a prominent feature of the molecular neuropathology of schizophrenia.
Mature rod and cone photoreceptor cells extend terminals to the outer plexiform layer (OPL), where they form characteristic spherules or pedicles, synapsing with the second-order neurons of the inner nuclear layer (INL). The present study demonstrates that, prior to the formation of this connectivity, immature rods and cones in the ferret extend processes beyond the level of the horizontal cells and future OPL, reaching the inner plexiform layer (IPL). The number of processes extending to the IPL increases steadily as the population of photoreceptor cells expands postnatally, reaching a maximum 2 weeks after birth. These processes are immunopositive for synaptophysin, and they terminate in two strata occupied by the dendrites of amacrine cells and ganglion cells. The frequency of these processes declines rapidly during the third postnatal week, and they are no longer detectable by the fourth postnatal week. Their loss is neither a consequence of photoreceptor cell death nor is it due to selective protein trafficking mechanisms that render them immunonegative. Rather, these processes retract to the level of the OPL during this period, coincident with the maturation of bipolar and horizontal cell processes. These results demonstrate that, despite the clear presence of environmental signals presaging the formation of the OPL, photoreceptor terminals initially ignore them to grow beyond this level of the retina. Rather, they detect and respond to signals within the IPL during this period, terminating in proximity to the processes of other cells in the inner retina, where they may contribute to transient retinal circuitry during early development.
Quantitative electron microscopy was used to examine the relative contributions of different types of synapses to the circuitry of the thalamic reticular nucleus (RTN) in the rat. Single RTN cells were injected with Lucifer Yellow (LY) in fixed brain slices and examined after photoconversion; corticothalamic axons and terminals were labeled by anterograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L); and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic terminals were labeled by postembedding immunocytochemistry. Three types of synapses, made by morphologically distinguishable small terminals (ST), large terminals (LT), and GABAergic terminals, were distributed on all portions of the dendritic trees of injected RTN cells. ST and LT terminals formed asymmetrical, presumed excitatory, synaptic contacts. On proximal dendrites, approximately 50% of the synapses were ST, 30-40% were LT, and 10-25% were GABAergic. On distal dendrites, 60-65% were ST, 20% were LT, and 15% were GABAergic. PHA-L labeling showed that labeled corticothalamic terminals and ST terminals have identical morphological features and the same distribution patterns on RTN dendrites, indicating that the majority of excitatory afferents to RTN neurons are derived from the cerebral cortex. The LT terminals found in smaller numbers are probably derived from collateral axons of thalamocortical relay cells. GABAergic terminals formed by LY-labeled, intra-RTN axon collaterals were relatively few in number, and no dendrodendritic synapses were observed.
Cerebral blood flow (CBF) was measured with PET during rudimentary singing of a single pitch and vowel, contrasted to passive listening to complex tones. CBF increases in cortical areas related to motor control were seen in the supplementary motor area, anterior cingulate cortex, precentral gyri, anterior insula (and the adjacent inner face of the precentral operculum) and cerebellum, replicating most previously seen during speech. Increases in auditory cortex were seen within right Heschl's gyrus, and in the posterior superior temporal plane (and the immediately overlying parietal cortex). Since cortex near right Heschl's has been linked to complex pitch perception, its asymmetric activation here may be related to analyzing the fundamental frequency of one's own voice for feedback-guided modulation.
The putative neurotransmitter peptide CART has been suggested to be involved in the actions of psychostimulants. We analyzed the CART mRNA expression in mesolimbic brain areas of male and ovariectomized 17beta-estradiol- (30 microg) and vehicle-treated female rats. A gender difference was noted in the accumbens shell during basal conditions; male rats expressed higher levels of CART mRNA than both female groups. Following binge cocaine injections (3 x 15 mg/kg), elevated levels were found in the central amygdala of male but not female rats. In the medial accumbens shell CART mRNA was elevated after cocaine, but only in the non-treated females. The present results support a role of mesolimbic CART in psychostimulant drug action.
Auditory neuropathy affects the normal synchronous activity in the auditory nerve, without affecting the amplification function in the inner ear. Patients with auditory neuropathy often complain that they can hear sounds, but cannot understand speech. Here we report psychophysical tests indicating that these patients' poor speech recognition is due to a severe impairment in their temporal processing abilities. We also simulate this temporal processing impairment in normally hearing listeners and produce similar speech recognition deficits. This study demonstrates the importance of neural synchrony for auditory perceptions including speech recognition in humans. The results should contribute to better diagnosis and treatment of auditory neuropathy.
The exact causes of the extensive cell death in nigral transplants are still unknown. Since poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) overactivation has been implicated in neuronal death, we examined the effects of PARP on the survival of nigral grafts by using donor tissue from PARP knock-out or wild-type mice. Eight hours after preparation of the nigral cell suspension, cell damage was quantified by measurement of lactate dehydrogenase release, DNA fragmentation and caspase activation. At this stage, PARP deletion had no protective effect. Moreover, neither the survival of transplanted dopaminergic neurons, nor the functional recovery of hemiparkinsonian graft recipients were improved by the absence of PARP. We conclude that cell death in embryonic nigral grafts is not affected by the absence of PARP activation.
In the guinea pig, labyrinthectomy induces an immediate depression of the resting discharges in the neurons of the ipsilateral vestibular nuclei. Later on, in spite of the persistent deprivation of their ipsilateral labyrinthine input, a spontaneous restoration of activity, which is complete within 1 week, occurs in these neurons. Here, by using computer-assisted quantitative two-dimensional gel analysis, we have detected three proteins whose expressions were increased in the ipsilateral vestibular nuclei 1 week after unilateral labyrinthectomy. The spatio-temporal pattern of this phenomenon was compatible with a role for it in the restoration of activity in the vestibular neurons deprived of their ipsilateral labyrinthine input. Furthermore, the N-terminal amino acid sequences of two of these expressed proteins were obtained.
To investigate the neural substrate underlying the mechanisms of Kanji and Kana writing, we conducted a PET activation study during mental writing task in eight right-handed normal Japanese subjects. During scans subjects were required to mentally write a Kanji or three Kana letters with their right hand, for each stimulant word presented auditorily. The direct comparisons between Kanji writing and Kana writing revealed that the left posterior inferior temporal gyrus was activated in Kanji writing while the left angular gyrus was activated in Kana writing. In addition, more extensive areas were activated in Kanji writing compared with Kana writing. These results suggest that different respective neural substrates are involved in Kanji and Kana writing respectively.
Regions of the hippocampal inward rectifier potassium channel Kir 2.3 that contact the aqueous environment were investigated by identification of native cysteine residues that confer sulfhydryl reagent sensitivity to the channel conductance. Kir 2.3 currents were inhibited by N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), whereas currents of Kir 2.1 were unaffected. The reactive residues were identified as Kir 2.3 Cys28 and Cys50 using chimeric constructs and mutagenesis. These sites were not accessible to p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonate (pCMPS) applied extracellularly. However, both Cys28 and Cys50 were accessible to 2-(trimethylammoniumethyl) methanethiosulfonate (MTSET) applied to the intracellular surface of the membrane. These studies demonstrate that Cys28 and Cys50 lie in a cytoplasmic aqueous accessible region of the channel, and suggest that the channel N-terminus is a key constituent of the internal vestibule of the pore and/or modulates channel gating.
In the light of earlier findings of reduced cholecystokinin (CCK) peptide and CCK mRNA levels in the cerebral cortex, we have used in situ hybridization to examine possible regulation of mRNAs coding for two isoforms of the CCK(B) receptor in frontal cortex (Brodmann's area 10) of schizophrenic patients. The hybridizations revealed a 51% decrease of the full length CCK(B) receptor mRNA in the outer layers (II-III) of the frontal cortex. The corresponding alterations for the truncated isoform were a 65% reduction in the outer layers and a 62% reduction in the inner layers (IV-VI) of the frontal cortex. This strengthens the hypothesis that CCKergic transmission in this part of the brain is involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.

TYK2, a Janus kinase, plays both structural and catalytic roles in type I interferon (IFN) signaling. We recently reported (Rani, M. R. S., Gauzzi, C., Pellegrini, S., Fish, E., Wei, T., and Ransohoff, R. M. (1999) J. Biol. Chem. 274, 1891-1897) that catalytically active TYK2 was necessary for IFN-beta to induce the beta-R1 gene. We now report IFN-beta-mediated activation of STATs and other components in U1 (TYK2-null) cell lines that were complemented with kinase-negative (U1.KR930) or wild-type TYK2 (U1.wt). We found that IFN-beta induced phosphorylation on tyrosine of STAT3 in U1.wt cells but not in U1.KR930 cells, whereas STAT1 and STAT2 were activated in both cell lines. Additionally, IFN-beta-mediated phosphorylation of interferon-alpha receptor-1 (IFNAR-1) was defective in IFN-beta treated U1.KR930 cells, but evident in U1.wt cells. In U1A-derived cells, the p85/p110 phosphoinositol 3-kinase isoform was associated with IFNAR-1 but not STAT3, and the association was ligand-independent. Further, IFN-beta treatment stimulated IFNAR-1-associated phosphoinositol kinase activity equally in either U1.wt or U1.KR930 cells. Our results indicate that catalytically active TYK2 is required for IFN-beta-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT3 and IFNAR-1 in intact cells.
Amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) is the main constituent of amyloid fibrils found in senile plaques and cerebral vessels in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is derived by proteolysis from the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP). We have analyzed the amyloidogenic processing of APP using chimeric proteins stably transfected in Chinese hamster ovary cells. The extracellular and transmembrane domains of APP were fused to the cytoplasmic region derived from the CD3 gamma chain of the T cell antigen receptor (CD3gamma). CD3gamma contains an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention motif (RKK), in the absence of which the protein is targeted to lysosomes without going through the cell surface (Letourneur, F., and Klausner, R.D. (1992) Cell 69, 1143-1157). We used the wild-type sequence of CD3gamma to create an APP chimera predicted to remain in the ER (gammaAPP(ER)). Deletion of the RKK motif at the C terminus directed the protein directly to the lysosomes (gammaAPP(LYS)). A third chimera was created by removing both lysosomal targeting signals in addition to RKK (gammaAPP(DeltaDelta)). This last construct does not contain known targeting signals and consequently accumulates at the cell surface. We show by immunofluorescence and by biochemical methods that all three APP chimeras localize to the predicted compartments within the cell, thus providing a useful model to study the processing of APP. We found that Abeta(1-40) is generated in the early secretory and endocytic pathways, whereas Abeta(1-42) is made mainly in the secretory pathway. More importantly, we provide evidence that, unlike in neuronal models, both ER/intermediate compartment- and endocytic-derived Abeta forms can enter the secretable pool. Finally, we directly demonstrate that lysosomal processing is not involved in the generation or secretion of either Abeta(1-40) or Abeta(1-42).
The preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus (POA/AH) sits as a boundary region rostral to the classical diencephalic hypothalamus and ventral to the telencephalic septal region. Numerous studies have pointed to the region's importance for sex-dependent functions. Previous studies suggested that migratory guidance cues within this region might be particularly unique in their diversity. To better understand the early development and differentiation of the POA/AH, cytoarchitectural, birthdate, immunocytochemical, and cell migration studies were conducted in vivo and in vitro using embryonic C57BL/6J mice. A medial preoptic nucleus became discernible using Nissl stain in males and females between embryonic days (E) E15 and E17. Cells containing immunoreactive estrogen receptor-alpha were detected in the POA/AH by E13, and increased in number with age in both sexes. From E15 to E17, examination of the radial glial fiber pattern by immunocytochemistry confirmed the presence of dual orientations for migratory guidance ventral to the anterior commissure (medial-lateral and dorsal-ventral) and uniform orientation more caudally (medial-lateral). Video microscopy studies followed the migration of DiI-labeled cells in coronal 250-microm brain slices from E15 mice maintained in serum-free media for 1-3 days. Analyses showed significant migration along a dorsal-ventral orientation in addition to medial-lateral. The video analyses showed significantly more medial-lateral migration in males than females in the caudal POA/AH. In vivo, changes in the distribution of cells labeled by the mitotic indicator bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) suggested their progressive migration through the POA/AH. BrdU analyses also indicated significant movement from dorsal to ventral regions ventral to the anterior commissure. The significant dorsal-ventral migration of cells in the POA/AH provides additional support for the notion that the region integrates developmental information from both telencephalic and diencephalic compartments. The sex difference in the orientation of migration of cells in the caudal POA/AH suggests one locus for the influence of gonadal steroids in the embryonic mouse forebrain.
The intricate circuitry of the nervous system has been shown to be refined by activity-dependent processes often involving the glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. NMDA receptor activity has been directly associated with axonal growth during development and in adult models of synaptic plasticity. The axonal growth-associated protein GAP-43 has been involved in the same processes as the NMDA receptor, but a direct link between the two has never been demonstrated in vivo. It is attractive to think that the NMDA receptor may regulate axonal growth through GAP-43. We tested this idea in outgrowing axons of hippocampal granule cells, the mossy fibers. Granule cells normally only express GAP-43 in an organized outside-in manner during a restricted period in postnatal development paralleling the pattern of axonal extension. Here, we show that during postnatal development in a transgenic mouse bearing a GAP-43 promoter/lacZ reporter construct, granule cells also display an outside-in pattern of promoter activation as indexed by transgene expression (PATE). In fact, PATE precedes axonal outgrowth with temporospatial fidelity. Since PATE deactivates on growth termination, the promoter may function as a switch for an intrinsic program of regulated axonal growth. The NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 administered within a restricted time frame (4-8 days) results in a decrease in the extent and intensity of mossy fiber staining. While levels of GAP-43 mRNA are significantly reduced in granule cells, GAP-43 PATE is not. The level of GAP-43 expression and axonal growth during development appears to be dually controlled by a transcriptional program that is activity-independent and by a posttranscriptional mechanism that is activity-dependent and NMDA mediated.
The combination of ethanol and cocaine is commonly abused by human addicts which has serious clinical consequences. Here, the effects of separately and concurrently administered ethanol and 'binge' cocaine on kappa opioid receptor (KOR) mRNA in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) of rats were studied. KOR mRNA was down-regulated in both brain regions during concurrent as well as separate treatment with these drugs. In the VTA, the most pronounced decrease was obtained following combined treatment with ethanol and 'binge' cocaine. In the NAc, the strongest decrease was observed in the 'binge' cocaine group. This profound decrease of KOR mRNA in regions important for brain reward suggests a potential role of the KOR system in the abuse of cocaine and ethanol.

Inhibitory interneurons are critical to sensory transformations, plasticity and synchronous activity in the neocortex. There are many types of inhibitory neurons, but their synaptic organization is poorly understood. Here we describe two functionally distinct inhibitory networks comprising either fast-spiking (FS) or low-threshold spiking (LTS) neurons. Paired-cell recordings showed that inhibitory neurons of the same type were strongly interconnected by electrical synapses, but electrical synapses between different inhibitory cell types were rare. The electrical synapses were strong enough to synchronize spikes in coupled interneurons. Inhibitory chemical synapses were also common between FS cells, and between FS and LTS cells, but LTS cells rarely inhibited one another. Thalamocortical synapses, which convey sensory information to the cortex, specifically and strongly excited only the FS cell network. The electrical and chemical synaptic connections of different types of inhibitory neurons are specific, and may allow each inhibitory network to function independently.

Morphine (10 and 20 mg/kg, s.c.) does not modify dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens of cannabinoid CB(1) knock-out mice under conditions where it dose-dependently stimulates the release of dopamine in the corresponding wild-type mice. These results demonstrate that cannabinoid CB(1) receptors, regulate mesolimbic dopaminergic transmission in brain areas known to be involved in the reinforcing effects of morphine.
4-(2-[7-amino-2-(2-furyl1,2,4-triazolo2,3a-1,3, 5triazin-5-yl-amino]ethyl)phenol (ZM 241385) has been used as an antagonist of adenosine A(2A) receptors, exhibiting high selectivity over adenosine A(1) receptors. We now report that ZM 241385 (10-50 nM) attenuated the inhibitory action of N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (10 nM) and R(-)-N(6)-phenylisopropyladenosine (R-PIA, 20 nM), two selective adenosine A(1) receptor agonists, on hippocampal population spike amplitude. This effect is unlikely to be a direct antagonism of adenosine A(1) receptor since the K(i) of ZM 241385 to displace [3H]PIA (2 nM) binding, from hippocampal membranes ranged from 0.8 to 1.9 microM. These results question the usefulness of ZM 241385 to define adenosine A(2A) receptors actions in functional studies.
Laser photocoagulation and several experimental treatments for choroidal neovascularization (CNV) in patients with age-related macular degeneration attempt to ablate the neovascularization, but do not address underlying angiogenic stimuli. As a result, recurrences are a major problem. Drug treatment to counter the growth of CNV would be a major advance, but its development is impeded by lack of knowledge concerning the stimuli and other molecular signals involved in the pathogenesis of CNV. Herein we explore clues that can be gleaned from clinical, epidemiological, pathological, and experimental data. These suggest that abnormalities of the extracellular matrix of retinal pigmented epithelial (RPE) cells may promote a pro-angiogenic RPE phenotype that contributes to the development of CNV. This provides a general hypothesis that can be tested, but it is also necessary to test hypotheses regarding the specific alterations in gene expression that contribute to CNV. Identification of alterations in gene expression will provide targets for rational design of drug treatment.
The cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the death of photoreceptors and other retinal cells in age-related macular degeneration (AMD) remain poorly understood. Some of the questions for which answers need to be sought, and which are explicitly or implicitly addressed in this article include: (1) how do patterns of cell death in AMD compare, qualitatively and quantitatively, with &quot;normal&quot; cell death in aging retinas, and with cell death in retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and its animal models; (2) is apoptosis involved in AMD; (3) is there any evidence that rods are necessary for cone survival; (4) if the answer is yes, is there evidence that rods produce one or more survival-promoting factor(s) that act directly on cones; (5) are the effects of rods upon cones exclusively mediated by diffusible factors, or do they also involve contact-mediated interactions; (6) is there any evidence that photoreceptors regulate the survival and/or function of RPE and Mller cells, as well as the interactions between these cells and cones; (7) are trophic factors and their receptors in the macula different from those in other parts of the retina; and (8) are toxic mechanisms involved in the onset and progression of cell death in AMD? Clear cut answers to most of these (and related) questions about cell death in AMD are not yet available. The goal of this article is to summarize discussion that should help in the formulation of suitable hypotheses, amenable to experimental analysis. To provide a platform for such discussion, we present an overview of progress made in recent years in the analysis of other retinal degenerations and of neuronal degenerations in other regions of the CNS. We conclude with an overview of concepts and speculation derived from our current research.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is increasingly recognized as a complex genetic disorder in which one or more genes contribute to an individual's susceptibility for developing the condition. Twin and family studies as well as population-based genetic epidemiologic methods have convincingly demonstrated the importance of genetics in AMD, though the extent of heritability, the number of genes involved, and the phenotypic and genetic heterogeneity of the condition remain unresolved. The extent to which other hereditary macular dystrophies such as Stargardts disease, familial radial drusen (malattia leventinese), Best's disease, and peripherin/RDS-related dystrophy are related to AMD remains unclear. Alzheimer's disease, another late onset, heterogeneous degenerative disorder of the central nervous system, offers a valuable model for identifying the issues that confront AMD genetics.
Deferoxamine is an effective iron chelator and a potential therapeutic agent for use in minimizing free radical-mediated injury following trauma. Iron chelation may also be an effective means of limiting tumor growth by decreasing bioavailable iron. Deferoxamine can modulate gene expression through manipulation of intracellular iron levels; specifically at the posttranscription level by changing the activity of iron regulatory proteins (IRPs). The effect of iron chelation on the transcription of genes is still unclear, but iron-binding sites on DNA have been reported. Here we investigate the influence of deferoxamine on gene transcription. Two-directional (forward and backward) suppression subtraction hybridization (SSH) was performed on human astrocytoma cells (SW1088) cultured in either standard media or treated for 48 hours with deferoxamine. To restrict the number of false-positive clones, reverse Northern blotting was used to further verify the differentially expressed cDNA clones. Positive clones were sequenced and the mRNAs were re-examined on Northern blots for changes in expression over time of deferoxamine exposure. The results of these analyses have identified both novel and known genes whose expression is influenced by iron chelation. The known genes include a group related to energy production and a group related to protease function. These results provide examples of genes not previously known to be directly influenced by iron availability, and as such may be potential targets for iron chelation therapy.





The symptomatology of Alzheimer disease (AD), its longevity, and associated cost make it an extremely challenging disease for individuals, their families, health care, and social support systems. Moreover, the expanding aging population worldwide means that strategies to contain costs are an urgent priority. As the largest component of the direct costs of AD is due to the cost of institutionalization, cost-containment strategies have focused on ways to maintain the AD patient in the community for as long as possible. Disease severity is a strong predictor of institutionalization, and patients' cognitive function (in the form of their Mini-Mental State Examination score) is frequently used as a prognostication of their living environment, and thus the overall cost of their care. Strategies to maintain patients at home are directed at either the patient's symptoms or the caregiver's ability to cope with those symptoms and the responsibilities of caregiving. Examples of strategies directed at the caregiver include education and support programs. Drug treatments, notably acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, present the best option for improving patient function, thereby preserving patient autonomy. A number of preliminary studies, whose results are summarized here, have demonstrated that the use of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitors tacrine, metrifonate and donepezil, and the glial cell modulator, propentofylline, results in reductions in the overall costs of care. Most health economic studies have focused only on comparison of the costs associated with paying for administering a treatment and the savings produced by postponed institutionalization. However, there is a growing realization that some measures of the quality of life or well-being of both patient and caregiver should also be incorporated. Thus, the health economics of dementia is an extremely complex area of study that is rapidly growing, due to the likelihood that cost-effectiveness will form the basis for future reimbursement decisions.


The present study sought to determine whether central glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1)-receptor signalling contributes to the anorexigenic effects of systemically administered lithium chloride (LiCl). Male Sprague-Dawley rats with chronic intracerebroventricular (ICV) cannulas were acclimated to a feeding schedule that included daily 30-min access to palatable mash. In the first experiment, ICV infusion of a GLP-1-receptor antagonist [exendin-4-(3-39)] significantly attenuated (10 microgram dose) or completely blocked (20 microgram dose) the inhibition of food intake produced by subsequent ICV infusion of GLP-1-(7-36) amide (5 microgram). In the second experiment, rats were infused with 0, 10, or 20 microgram of the GLP-1-receptor antagonist ICV, followed by injection of 0.15 M LiCl (50 mg/kg ip) or the same volume of 0.15 M NaCl. The ability of LiCl treatment to suppress food intake was significantly attenuated in rats that were pretreated with the GLP-1-receptor antagonist. These results support the view that central mechanisms underlying LiCl-induced anorexia include a prominent role for endogenous GLP-1 neural pathways.
Several pituitary hormones are important in the regulation of metabolism, and their release appears to be controlled by a circadian clock. Consequently, they may be involved in feeding-entrained circadian rhythms. Hypophysectomized (Hypox) and sham-operated male Sprague-Dawley rats had access to food for 4 h each day. Food-anticipatory activity (FAA) and core body temperature (T(b)) were monitored. Both groups entrained to the daily meal with an increase in activity in the 4 h preceding meal access and quickly reentrained after an 8-h phase advance of food access. FAA was not disrupted in either group after suprachiasmatic lesions were added. Core T(b) increased in the sham-operated subjects before mealtime, but Hypox rats failed to show this effect. Rather, T(b) declined during anticipation and throughout the food access period. Respiratory quotient (RQ), an indirect measure of metabolic rate, was measured for 24 h in some subjects. Sham-operated rats showed a dramatic downturn in RQ 1 h before mealtime, whereas Hypox rats showed a steadily decreasing RQ throughout the day. The results show that the pituitary hormones are not necessary for FAA and that in Hypox rats the anticipatory rise in T(b) and changes in RQ become dissociated from anticipatory behavior, indicating that these functions are separate outputs of the food-entrainable circadian oscillator.

A unilateral, complete rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament was diagnosed in 60 consecutive patients by arthroscopy within 1 week of trauma. Most ruptured ligaments were treated by acute nonaugmented repair immediately after the arthroscopy. Fifty-five and 56 patients were reevaluated after 12 years and 20 years, respectively. Twenty-five patients (45%) had at least one reoperation during the follow-up period of 20 years, primarily for meniscal problems. Seven patients (13%) had repeat anterior cruciate ligament surgery. The overall Lysholm knee function score remained at a median of 90 points from 12 to 20 years, but patients had decreased their sporting activities from team sports at full rehabilitation to physical fitness activities at the late follow-up. Patients who had repeat surgery had a worse knee function score, were less satisfied with their knees, and also had to change activities and change work more often than patients without reoperation. The majority of patients had, at both follow-up periods, unstable knees. At 20 years, weightbearing radiographs showed slight-to-moderate changes equivalent to osteoarthrosis in 84% (47) of patients and a 32% increase in osteoarthrosis since the 12-year evaluation.


Twenty-one members of a Swedish family suffering from myopathy and cardiomyopathy underwent neurological and cardiological investigations. Medical charts of 2 affected deceased patients were reviewed. Twelve patients had myopathy. The distribution of weakness was axial in mildly affected, axial and predominantly distal in moderately affected, and generalized in severely affected patients. The electromyogram showed signs of myopathy in 10 patients. Muscle biopsy specimens showed myopathic changes, rimmed vacuoles, and accumulation of desmin, dystrophin, and other proteins. Electron microscopy revealed granulofilamentous changes and disorganization of myofibrils. Several patients had episodes of chest pain or palpitations. Three men had arrhythmogenic right ventribular cardiomyopathy. Nonsustained ventribular tachycardia, atrial flutter, and dilatation of the ventricles mainly affecting the right ventricle were documented. Two of them had a pacemaker implanted because of atrioventricular block and sick sinus syndrome. Inheritance is autosomal dominant with variable onset and severity of skeletal muscle and cardiac involvement. Linkage analysis of candidate chromosomal regions showed a maximum 2-point LOD score of 2.76 for marker locus D10S1752 on chromosome 10q. A multipoint peak LOD score of 3.06 between markers D10S605 and D10S215 suggests linkage to chromosome 10q22.3, and this region may harbor a genetic defect for myofibrillar myopathy with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopahty.


Demographic and neuropsychological test data from patients with dementia of Alzheimer or multi-infarct type were analysed in an examination of the validity of the National Adult Reading Test (NART) as an index of premorbid ability in established dementia. The discrepancy between premorbid IQ predicted firstly using the NART and secondly using demographic variables entered in a recognised regression equation was calculated. This discrepancy correlated strongly with measures of current level of functioning, even after exclusion of patients with apparent dysphasia or dyslexia. The results indicate that NART performance is clearly influenced by severity of dementia, and that use of the NART as a comparator in estimating the severity of established dementia will lead to systematic underestimation of severity as a function of that severity. Estimates of premorbid function based on demographic variables may be preferable in this context.
This review focuses on findings from our laboratory regarding mechanisms by which the ovarian steroid hormones, estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P), act in the hypothalamus (HYP) to regulate the expression of lordosis, an important component of female reproductive behavior in rats and many other species. The first section summarizes recent work suggesting that cGMP, perhaps via P-receptor activation, may be an intracellular mediator of the facilitatory actions of a variety of hormones and neurotransmitters on lordosis behavior in E2-primed rats. In the second section, we focus on E2 and P regulation of norepinephrine (NE) neurotransmission in the HYP. We review evidence that ovarian hormones act both peripherally and centrally to determine whether NE is released in the HYP in response to copulatory stimuli. We also suggest that the steroid milieu determines the cellular responses of hypothalamic neurons to released NE, favoring the activation of pathways implicated in the facilitation of both lordosis behavior and the preovulatory gonadotropin surge. It is likely that E2 and P have similar actions on other neurotransmitter and neuromodulator systems, thereby maximizing the probability that females are sexually receptive during the periovulatory period.
Sex steroids exert potent effects on mood and mental state in the human. Our previous experimental findings in female rats suggest that these effects may be mediated, in part, by the action of estrogen on the 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor (5-HT(2A)R) and serotonin transporter (SERT) in brain. Here we review our recent findings on the effect of acute (approximately 32 h) testosterone manipulation on central 5-HT(2A)R and SERT in male rats. Castration decreased while testosterone or estrogen, but not 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (5alpha-DHT), increased significantly the content of 5-HT(2A)R mRNA and SERT mRNA in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) and the density of 5-HT(2A)R and SERT binding sites in higher centers of the brain. The lack of effect of 5alpha-DHT, a potent androgen which cannot be converted to estrogen, suggests that the action of testosterone depends upon its conversion to estrogen by aromatase. This may also explain why estrogen, but not testosterone or 5alpha-DHT, increased the density of 5-HT(2A)R binding sites in the caudate-putamen, a brain region where aromatase is scarce. The estrogen induction of SERT mRNA is most prominent in the rostral DR and this together with the correlation between sensitivity of DR serotonin neurons to estrogen and neurotoxic amphetamine derivatives provides a potential topochemical handle with which to investigate testosterone/estrogen regulation of SERT gene expression. These findings are discussed in relation to the possible role of interactions between sex steroids and serotonin mechanisms in mood disorders, schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease.

The purpose of these experiments was to explore the hypothesis that the effects of nicotine on anxiety depend on the time since administration and the duration of treatment. In the social interaction test of anxiety, acute nicotine administration (0.1 mg/kg, subcutaneously) decreased social interaction when rats were tested 5 min after injection, but increased it when they were tested 30 min after injection. Social interaction was also decreased 1 h post-injection, but levels returned to baseline between 3 and 30 h. As these changes were independent of any changes in locomotor activity, nicotine seemed to be having both anxiogenic and anxiolytic effects at different times after injection. An anxiolytic effect was also observed 30 min after the second nicotine injection, and the anxiogenic effect observed 5 min after injection remained after 4 days of nicotine administration. However, after 7 days of nicotine treatment, tolerance was observed to both these effects. When rats were tested 72 h after the last of 7 or 14 days of nicotine treatment, an anxiogenic withdrawal response was observed. Thus, an oppositional mechanism may underlie tolerance to the anxiolytic effects, whereas there is as yet no evidence for this type of mechanism mediating tolerance to the anxiogenic effects.
The cDNA encoding the predominant rat brain high-affinity l-glutamate transporter GLT-1 was isolated and subcloned into the pIND expression vector for the establishment of steroid hormone inducible expression in vitro using the ecdysone-inducible mammalian expression system. Steroid hormone-inducible expression was demonstrable in a stable cell line designated HEK/GLT-1. Treatment of HEK/GLT-1 cells with 10 microM ponasterone A for 24 hincreased the maximum velocity (V(max)) of Na(+)-dependent l-glutamate uptake by greater than 10-fold, as compared with the uninduced cells. Equivalent levels of l-glutamate transport capacity were observed in the uninduced GLT-1 cell line and the host cell line indicating that the expression of GLT-1 was tightly regulated. To confirm that the increased l-glutamate uptake observed in HEK/GLT-1 cells following induction was attributable to the expression of GLT-1, rather than the up-regulation of the endogenously expressed EAAT3 subtype present in the host cells, we evaluated the effects of the selective GLT-1 inhibitors dihydrokainate (DHK) and kainate. Both DHK and kainate produced concentration-dependent inhibition of the l-glutamate uptake into HEK/GLT-1 cells, and the estimated IC(50) values were consistent with those described for the cloned GLT-1. These results demonstrate that the expression of GLT-1 can be tightly regulated in vitro using the ecdysone system.
A nonstationary signal analysis technique is introduced, which regards an oscillatory physiological signal as a sum of its fragments, presented in the form of a fragmentary decomposition (FD). The virtue of FD is that it is free of the necessity to choose a priori the basis functions intended for signal analysis or synthesis. FD uses an unchanged signal fragment between adjacent zero-crossings, as a natural basis function called the half-wave function (HWF). To show that such a function is a physically meaningful object, Fourier transform methods were employed, supported by the similar basis function (SBF) algorithm, which provides the means for numerical Fourier transform spectroscopy of separate half-waves and their frequency domain description in terms of both amplitude and phase. The application of this method to parameter identification of 751 EMG half-waves from the eye blink EMG records of ten normal subjects showed that HWF's frequency domain image represents a Gaussian distribution, which applies over a defined range of relative frequencies. This empirical evidence shows that HWFs are produced by a specific system of first-order nonlinear differential equations, whose dependency on a number of random factors is characteristic of deterministic chaos. The particular form of solutions indicates that statistical regularities relevant to the central limit theorem are likely to underlie the genesis of the mass potentials studied. FD shows potential utility in a range of nonstationary physiological signals.
The well-known neural mass model described by Lopes da Silva et al. (1976) and Zetterberg et al. (1978) is fitted to actual EEG data. This is achieved by reformulating the original set of integral equations as a continuous-discrete state space model. The local linearization approach is then used to discretize the state equation and to construct a nonlinear Kalman filter. On this basis, a maximum likelihood procedure is used for estimating the model parameters for several EEG recordings. The analysis of the noise-free differential equations of the estimated models suggests that there are two different types of alpha rhythms: those with a point attractor and others with a limit cycle attractor. These attractors are also found by means of a nonlinear time series analysis of the EEG recordings. We conclude that the Hopf bifurcation described by Zetterberg et al. (1978) is present in actual brain dynamics.
Over the past three decades of psychiatric research, abnormalities in the noradrenergic system have been identified in particular anxiety disorders such as panic disorder. Simultaneously, neuroscience research on fear pathways and the stress response have delineated central functions for the noradrenergic system. This review focuses on the noradrenergic system in anxiety spectrum disorders such as panic disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and phobias for the purpose of elucidating current conceptualizations of the pathophysiologies. Neuroanatomic pathways that are theoretically relevant in anxiogenesis are discussed and the implications for treatment reviewed.
High-affinity, intrapore binding of Ca(2+) over competing ions is the essential feature in the ion selectivity mechanism of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. At the same time, several million Ca(2+) ions can travel each second through the pore of a single open Ca(2+) channel. How such high Ca(2+) flux is achieved in the face of tight Ca(2+) binding is a current area of inquiry, particularly from a structural point of view. The ion selectivity locus comprises four glutamate residues within the channel's pore. These glutamates make unequal contributions to Ca(2+) binding, underscoring a role for neighboring residues in pore function. By comparing two Ca(2+) channels (the L-type alpha(1C), and the non-L-type alpha(1A)) that differ in their pore properties but only differ at a single amino acid position near the selectivity locus, we have identified the amino-terminal neighbor of the glutamate residue in motif III as a determinant of pore function. This position is more important in the function of alpha(1C) channels than in alpha(1A) channels. For a systematic series of mutations at this pore position in alpha(1C), both unitary Ba(2+) conductance and Cd(2+) block of Ba(2+) current varied with residue volume. Pore mutations designed to make alpha(1C) more like alpha(1A) and vice versa revealed that relative selectivity for Ba(2+) over K(+) depended almost solely on pore sequence and not channel type. Analysis of thermodynamic mutant cycles indicates that the motif III neighbor normally interacts in a cooperative fashion with the locus, molding the functional behavior of the pore.
1. The cellular and molecular actions of BW534U87 were studied using intracellular and extracellular recordings from the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices and whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings of recombinant human brain type IIA Na+ channels expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. 2. Normal excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials evoked in hippocampal slices were unaffected by BW534U87 or the adenosine deaminase inhibitor EHNA. However, epileptiform activity was depressed by BW534U87 (50 micronM) and this inhibition was reversed by the adenosine receptor antagonist 8-phenyl theophylline (8-PT, 30 micronM). EHNA (10 micronM) mimicked the effects of BW534U87. Furthermore, BW534U87 enhanced the inhibitory effects of exogenous adenosine on evoked synaptic potentials. BW534U87 (50 micronM) also voltage- and use-dependently inhibited action potentials elicited by current injection, independent of the adenosine system, since it was not affected by 8-PT. 3. In CHO cells expressing the recombinant human brain Na+ channel, BW534U87 produced a concentration- and voltage-dependent inhibition of Na+ currents with a half-maximal inhibitory concentration of 10 micronM at a Vh of -60 mV. Use-dependent inhibition was evident at high-frequencies (20x20 ms pulse train at 10 Hz). 4 In conclusion, BW534U87 blocks hippocampal epileptiform activity by a dual mechanism. The first action is similar to that produced by EHNA and is dependent on endogenous adenosine probably by inhibition of adenosine deaminase. Secondly, BW534U87 directly inhibits voltage-gated Na+ channels in a voltage- and frequency-dependent manner. Both actions of BW534U87 are activity-dependent and may synergistically contribute to its overall anticonvulsant effects in animal models of epilepsy.
1. The antagonist activity of a series of diinosine polyphosphates (IpnI, where n=3, 4, 5) was assessed against ATP-activated inward currents at rat P2X(1-4) receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes and studied under voltage-clamp conditions. 2. Diinosine polyphosphates were prepared by the enzymatic degradation of their corresponding diadenosine polyphosphates (e.g., Ap5A into Ip5I) using 5'-adenylic deaminase, and purified using reverse-phase chromatography. 3. Against ATP-responses at rP2X1 receptors, the potency order for antagonism was (pIC50): Ip5I (8.5)&gt;Ip4I (6.3)&gt;Ip3I (&gt;4.5). Ip5I (10-100 nM) caused a concentration-dependent rightwards displacement of the ATP concentration-response curve without reducing the maximum ATP effect. However, the Schild plot was non-linear which indicated Ip5I is not a competitive antagonist. Blockade by micromolar concentrations of Ip5I was not surmountable. Ip4I also behaved as a non-surmountable antagonist. 4. Against ATP-responses at rP2X3 receptors, the potency order for antagonism was (pIC50): Ip4I (6. 0)&gt;Ip5I (5.6)&gt;Ip3I (&gt;4.5). Blockade by Ip4I (pA2, 6.75) and Ip5I (pA2, 6.27) was surmountable at micromolar concentrations. 5. Diinosine polyphosphates failed to inhibit ATP-responses at rP2X2 receptors, whereas agonist responses at rP2X4 were reversibly potentiated by Ip4I and Ip5I. None of the parent diadenosine polyphosphates behave as antagonists at rP2X1 - 4 receptors. 6. Thus, Ip5I acted as a potent and relatively-selective antagonist at the rP2X1 receptor. This dinucleotide pentaphosphate represents a high-affinity antagonist for the P2X1 receptor, at which it acts in a competitive manner at low (&lt;/=100 nM) concentrations but has more complex actions at higher (&gt;100 nM) concentrations.
In human and experimental diabetes, the relationship between molecular abnormalities in perikarya of sensory neurons and structural abnormalities in their distal axons is largely unexplored. In this study we examined neurofilament (Nf) and tubulin messenger RNA (mRNA) expression and their incorporation into distal sensory axons during progressive streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats. After 2 and 6 months of diabetes, we measured mRNA levels of all three Nf subunits, B50 [growth associated protein-43 (GAP-43)] and alpha-tubulin in L4-L6 dorsal root ganglia using Northern analysis. The same animals underwent morphometric studies of myelinated fibres by light microscopy and quantitative analysis of Nf and microtubule numbers and density within sural myelinated and unmyelinated axons. Multifibre in vivo sensory and motor conduction nerve recordings confirmed slowing of conduction velocities in diabetic rats indicating experimental neuropathy. mRNA levels for the three Nf subunits, B50 (GAP-43) and alpha-tubulin were unchanged from controls at 2 months, but were decreased by 26-46% at 6 months. These changes accompanied declines in Nf numbers and densities within large myelinated sensory axons, and Nf numbers in unmyelinated fibres by 6 months. Microtubule numbers and densities were similarly reduced in large myelinated axons, and microtubule numbers reduced in small myelinated and unmyelinated axons in diabetes at 6, but not 2 months. Axonal atrophy was observed in unmyelinated fibres at 6 months. Our findings indicate that decreased mRNA expression of cytoskeletal proteins in sensory neurons accompanies a reduction in their incorporation into distal axons. These changes imply that there is a direct link between pathological changes in the sensory neuron and alterations of its distal branches from experimental diabetes. The changes in gene expression in diabetes are unique and differ from those that develop after axotomy.
The molecular characterization of single-gene disorders or chromosomal abnormalities that result in a cognitive abnormality (predominantly mental retardation) and of the genetic variants responsible for variation in intellectual abilities (such as IQ, language impairment and dyslexia) is expected to provide new insights into the biology of human cognitive processes. To date this hope has not been realized. Success in finding mutations that give rise to mental retardation has not been matched by advances in our understanding of how genes influence cognition. In contrast, the use of engineered mutations in mice to study models of learning and memory has cast new light on the molecular basis of memory. A comparison of studies of human and mouse mutations indicates the limitations of current genetic approaches to the understanding of human cognition. It is essential to interpret a mutation's effect within a well-characterized neural system; mutations can be used to define gene function only when the mutation has an effect on a system whose constituents form a serial causal chain, such as the molecular components of a signal transduction pathway. Typically, however, genetic mutations with a cognitive and behavioural phenotype are characterized by specific effects on different systems whose inter-relationships are unknown. Genetic approaches are currently limited to exploring neuronal function; it is not yet clear whether they will throw light on how neuronal connections give rise to cognitive processes. We need a much greater integration of different levels of understanding of cognition in order to exploit the genetic discoveries. In short, a rapprochement between molecular and systems neuroscience is required.
The performance of 18 frontal lobe lesion (FL) and 10 frontal lobe dementia (FLD) patients on an associative memory test was compared with the performance of their matched normal controls. The FL group was severely impaired on cued and free recall and was moderately impaired on a recognition condition. Left FL patients performed the poorest on the cued and free recall conditions. The FLD patients were moderately impaired on the free recall condition only but there was a subgroup of FLD patients with additional left temporal atrophy who appeared severely impaired on both cued and free recall. These findings indicate that both left frontal and temporal lobe damage can impair associative learning and that this impairment is more strikingly seen with free rather than cued recall.
The A-not-B (AB) task has been hypothesized to measure executive/frontal lobe function; however, the developmental and measurement characteristics of this task have not been investigated. Performances on AB and comparison tasks adapted from developmental and neuroscience literature was examined in 117 preschool children (ages 23-66 months). Age significantly predicted performance on AB, Delayed Alternation, Spatial Reversal, Color Reversal, and Self-Control tasks. A four-factor analytic model best fit task performance data. AB task indices loaded on two factors with measures from the Self-Control and Delayed Alternation tasks, respectively. AB indices did not load with those from the reversal tasks despite similarities in task administration and presumed cognitive demand (working memory). These results indicate that AB is sensitive to individual differences in age-related performance in preschool children and suggest that AB performance is related to both working memory and inhibition processes in this age range.
While there is substantial evidence for abnormalities in serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission in major depressive disorder (MDD), almost all of the findings derive from studies of young adults. Moreover, relatively little research has assessed brain 5-HT transmission in vivo. Neuroendocrine studies do not permit evaluation of a range of brain regions, but only the limited circuitry associated with hormone release. Data from autopsy studies are limited by the difficulties of assessment of the acute clinical picture before death, and by post-mortem artifacts. In vivo neuroimaging techniques overcome many of the methodological limitations of both these approaches. There is a large body of imaging data indicating regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and cerebral metabolic rate (rCMR) decrements both with aging and in patients with MDD. While the physiological bases for these phenomena are largely unknown, changes in brain 5-HT function may be involved. Neuroanatomical studies have revealed an intricate network of 5-HT-containing neurons within the cerebral microvasculature, with physiological evidence for serotonergic control of both rCBF and rCMR. Acute pharmacological challenges are available to probe brain 5-HT function. Such paradigms, using neuroendocrine responses as endpoints, have been of some utility in predicting outcome with antidepressant treatment. The role of 5-HT dysregulation in geriatric MDD takes on more importance given concerns regarding putative reduced efficacy of serotonin-specific reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) in this population. If this is due to diminished responsivity of 5-HT systems, then the ability to identify antidepressant nonresponders via 5-HT challenge in combination with neuroimaging measures may have important clinical utility.




















































































The survival of grafted embryonic striatal tissue, dissected from the lateral ganglionic eminence, depends on the status of the host striatum. We found significantly larger volumes of surviving graft tissue and of striatal-like tissue (P-zone) within the graft, when the host striatum had been subjected to an excitotoxic lesion prior to transplantation surgery. Concomitantly the numbers of surviving grafted cells, assessed in both cresyl violet-stained sections and in sections stained with an immunohistochemical marker for striatal neurons, increased as compared to when graft tissue was placed in an intact unlesioned striatum. Finally, we examined the impact of treatment of the donor tissue with ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) on graft survival. CNTF has previously been shown to protect striatal neurons against excitotoxic insults both in vitro and in vivo, but it did not improve striatal graft survival when added to the cell suspension prior to implantation.
Living systems are structure determined systems. Teaching is never feasible, but learning is inevitable, a comment by an observer about some aspect of the constant changes occurring while life goes on. Teachers are all those who open up spaces for conviviality and allow congruent changes to take place. There are no instructive interactions in nature. Health and the biology of living systems are phenomena studied in different domains. What is healthy or unhealthy for humans, is defined by human culture. As biological phenomena, health and disease are relational configurations of the organism and its medium. From this perspective, individual health is a social phenomenon.



The mu3 opiate receptor subtype is expressed in human surgical specimens of both normal lung and non-small-cell lung carcinoma. Nitric oxide (NO) release is mediated through the mu3 receptor, and in lung carcinoma, morphine-stimulated NO release is significantly higher and prolonged than in normal lung. Using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Southern blot analysis we show that specific mu opioid receptor transcripts are present in lung carcinoma and other cells with the mu3 profile. Our findings identify a unique role for the mu3 opiate receptor in opiate-mediated NO release and suggest that endogenous opiates, through their release of NO, may play a role in cancer progression.
In monolayer cultures of P19 EC cells treated with both all-trans retinoic acid (RA) and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-4 (RA/BMP-4 treatment), many non-adherent apoptotic cells and activated caspase-3-positive cells were observed, but they were not observed in cells treated with RA or BMP-4 alone. Consistent with the appearance of activated caspase-3-positive cells, BMP-4 and RA together induced processing of caspase-9, Ac-DEVD-MCA cleavage activity and DNA fragmentation. These three activities were observed infrequently or not at all when cells were treated with RA or BMP-4 alone. In the RA/BMP-4 treatment-induced apoptosis, caspase-9 was upstream of caspase-3 in the enzyme cascade, and the caspase-9 to -3 step was key in the apoptotic pathway. Bcl-xL inhibited processing of caspase-9, Ac-DEVD-MCA cleavage activity and DNA fragmentation induced by RA/BMP-4 treatment. However, unlike staurosporine-induced apoptosis, cytochrome c, which activates caspase-9, was not detected in the cytosol of RA/BMP-4-treated cells. RA and BMP-4 may activate caspase-9 through an apoptotic pathway other than the Apaf-1/cytochrome c pathway. The prominent decrease of X-chromosome-linked inhibitory apoptosis protein (XIAP) in the cytosol may explain the activation of caspase-9 induced by RA and BMP-4 treatment.
Many of the important clinical decisions we make on a daily basis in stroke medicine are not supported by adequate evidence. This leads to variations in practice. If practice influences outcome, this must be regarded as unacceptable since it implies that many patients are receiving sub-optimal treatment. Where the advantages of certain treatment policies over others are only moderate, large randomised clinical trials provide the most reliable evidence of effectiveness. However, only a tiny proportion of patients with stroke are randomised in trials. Instead, the majority are exposed to treatments allocated haphazardly, rather than randomly, which serves only to delay the emergence of evidence concerning the relative merits of alternative treatment approaches. We suggest that we might increase the proportion of patients who contribute to advancing our knowledge by developing 'families' of trials. A 'family' would comprise a series of randomised trials into which patients with stroke may be enrolled either simultaneously or sequentially into one or more of the trials which would share common systems for randomisation and follow-up. Such a system would facilitate large, simple, randomised trials, reduce research costs, increase the generalisability of trial results and allow clinicians and patients to contribute to advancing our knowledge whenever they are uncertain about the best treatment. In this article, we discuss the advantages of this approach, some of the problems and their potential solutions.
The molecular cloning and the elucidation of the gene structures of the acid (aSMase) and a neutral sphingomyelinases (nSMase) of mouse and human facilitated the structural and functional analysis of these enzymes responsible for the catabolism of sphingomyelin present ubiquitously in the membrane lipid bilayer of mammalian cells. The protein and enzymic properties of the glycoprotein aSMase and of a non-glycosylated nSMase residing in the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum have been analysed in the native as well as in the recombinant shingomyelinases. Important insight was gained from gene targeting experiments in which an aSMase deficient mouse line was generated which mimics the neurovisceral form of the human Niemann-Pick disease. The availability of the cloned aSMase and nSMases discovered so far led to a genetic approach to the verification of the concept that these enzymes in the 'sphingomelin cycle' are responsible for the generation of ceramide regarded as a lipophilic second messenger in the intracellular signal cascades activated by e.g. TNF-alpha, Fas ligand or cellular stress. All the available evidence derived from the aSMase deficient mouse line and several cell lines overexpressing aSMase and nSMase questions a role of ceramide released by the mammalian sphingomyelinases known so far in intracellular signal transduction.
The treatment options for children with brain tumors are quite limited. Advances in tumor biology and neuroscience have opened new avenues of treatment. New approaches include gene therapy, agents designed to interfere with signal transduction, antiangiogenesis drugs, maturation agents, immunotherapy, and immunoconjugates. New means of drug/agent delivery, including drugs that selectively open the tumor-blood barrier and convection-infusional approaches, are under study. Such innovative treatments will be more widely employed in the years ahead and may improve outcome for children with brain tumors.
Angiostatin is an endogenous inhibitor of tumor neovascularization that inhibits the proliferation of endothelial cells. Production of sufficient quantities of biologically active angiostatin by the enzymatic cleavage of plasminogen has proven difficult in that it has delayed clinical testing. We have cloned, expressed, and purified a recombinant human angiostatin derivative (K1-3) using a mammalian expression system. Through the addition of a secretory signal and polyhistidine sequence tag, K1-3 can be purified from post-culture medium by simple column chromatography. Purified K1-3 protein is apparently folded in an active conformation, as evidenced by its ability to bind to lysine-Sepharose. In vitro, recombinant K1-3 significantly suppressed endothelial cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner with an IC50 of 50 nM. Using an animal model of intracranial brain tumors in immune-competent rats, systemic administration of purified recombinant K1-3 resulted in up to 85% suppression of tumor growth (P = 0.011). Growth suppression was accompanied by a 32% decrease (P = 0.01) in tumor neovascularization. This study demonstrates a simple method to produce a biologically active recombinant angiostatin derivative. The ability to suppress intracerebral tumor growth after systemic administration suggests that K1-3 is likely to have therapeutic value in the treatment of malignant glial tumors.
1. The accompanying articles in this symposium describe several different approaches used to examine the function of glycine and GABA receptors, including pharmacology and neurochemistry, permeability and agonist-binding approaches, the use of mutated recombinant receptors and monoclonal antibody staining to examine receptor distribution on neurons. 2. The present review focuses on the use of another, quite different, approach: the use of murine mutants, spasmodic and spastic, to study the function of native glycine receptors at synaptic connections within the central nervous system.
To evaluate the feasibility of staining for myelin in archival materials, paraffin blocks were prepared from brain tissue that had been in formalin for intervals ranging from 7 months to over 53 years. Verhoeff and Luxol fast blue stains of the resulting sections yielded staining whose quality was unaffected by duration of fixation. Myelinated and unmyelinated areas were clearly distinguished, and the morphology of individual myelin sheaths was well-preserved. No changes to conventional protocols were required, but it was necessary carefully to monitor the progress of differentiation. With antigen retrieval, it was possible to display immunoreactivity for myelin basic protein. While this persisted even after prolonged fixation, fine detail was lost from the myelin sheaths, and there was staining of oligodendroglial cytoplasm and nuclei, which was not seen in recently fixed tissue. In contrast to this loss of detail in myelin sheaths, immunohistochemistry for glial fibrillary acidic protein displayed astrocytic morphology clearly, even in the oldest tissue. We conclude that archival, formalin-fixed material can be adequately examined for myelin loss and astrocytosis.
Electrically elicited long-latency reflexes (LLRs) were obtained from thenar muscles by either fully rectified or non-rectified raw recordings in 10 healthy volunteers. The LLR II onset latencies were significantly (P &lt; 0.0001) delayed on rectified (mean +/- SD: 49.8+/-2.9 ms) compared to raw (45.3+/-2.3 ms) recordings, with a mean difference of 4.4 ms. These data show that, according to the recording technique employed, the LLR II onset latencies can change considerably. The possible implications on cortical relay time (CRT) calculation and the understanding of the intracortical connections physiology are discussed.


Network theory is a relatively recent explanatory development to improve our understanding of emotions and emotional disorders. Connectionist neural networks are introduced as mathematically well-defined network theories that have been suggested as PTSD models, partly because of their ability to form and retrieve memories. Explanatory requirements that a comprehensive PTSD theory must have are reviewed. A connectionist neural network system called the bidirectional associative memory (BAM) is extended to encode emotion and cognition and is then shown to satisfy all PTSD explanatory requirements and consequently constitutes a comprehensive PTSD theory. Empirical work pertaining to a fundamental assumption that learning alters brain structure in ways that can be detected by neuroimaging is reviewed. Novel predictions are made, and relevance to neuroscience is discussed.
Increasing recognition of the prevalence and impairment associated with social phobia has spurred the development of effective psychosocial treatments for this disorder. Exposure-based interventions have the most empirical support. This article applies the tripartite model of anxiety to social phobia, describes state-of-the-art psychosocial treatments, and highlights studies on the comparative and combined efficacy of psychological and pharmacologic treatments. Clinical issues related to treatment implementation, limitations of extant psychosocial interventions, and suggestions for future research are also discussed.
Social phobia is an anxiety disorder that is characterized by excessive fear and/or avoidance of situations in which an individual believes that he or she may be the subject of evaluation or scrutiny while interacting with other people or performing a specific task. This article reviews the available literature on the neurobiology underlying social phobia, including autonomic nervous system effects, neuroimaging findings, pharmacologic challenge studies, and neuroendocrine responsivity and function. Overall, such studies have found few consistently demonstrable differences in neurobiology between patients with social phobia and healthy controls, but further investigations are needed.

In this review, two issues are highlighted: 1) the difficulties that can form major hurdles in trying to understand a disease or a fundamental biologic process at the genetic and molecular level and 2) the potential opportunities that genetic models such as the Drosophila or c-elegans can provide in answering clinically or biologically relevant questions. This review also lists in some detail the areas in which these models have been helpful and successes have been scored. For such models to be used, however, requires the &quot;dissection&quot; of a biologic or a disease process into a tractable phenotype that can be assayed in a genetic model and have relevant and interpretable conclusions. The hope is that questions pertaining to sleep, arousal, respiratory neurobiology, and their disorders can be formulated in such a way to be addressed in models that can lend themselves to very exciting discoveries.
It is important that before treatment is initiated, the precise diagnosis of brain tumor has been made and fits with the clinical, radiographic, and histologic findings. With low-grade gliomas, maximal surgical resection should be attempted. We delay radiation therapy unless the patient has significant neurologic symptoms that could be alleviated by treatment. Patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) and anaplastic astrocytoma should undergo maximum surgical resection, postoperative radiation therapy, and adjuvant chemotherapy with bischloroethylnitrosourea (BCNU) or intensive procarbazine, chloroethylcyclohexylnitrosourea (CCNU), and vincristine (PCV) therapy, respectively. Patients with anaplastic oligodendroglioma (AO) and mixed anaplastic oligodendroglioma-astrocytoma (AOA) should undergo maximal surgical resection, postoperative radiation therapy, and intensive adjuvant PCV therapy. Meningiomas are usually managed with surgery alone; radiation therapy is used if the meningioma is malignant or recurs. Tamoxifen or hydroxyurea may be useful for recurrent meningiomas. Patients with primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma undergo biopsy; surgical resection of the tumor is not necessary. We treat immunocompetent patients with multimethod therapy. Patients with AIDS and primary CNS lymphoma receive radiation alone. Because the prognosis for primary CNS lymphomas has not changed significantly in the past 20 years, patients with these tumors should be enrolled in clinical trials if possible. Novel approaches, such as targeting angiogenesis, using signal transduction or invasion, or employing genes affecting growth control, are being pursued.
This report describes a population of individuals with dementia living alone in the community. Data were collected as part of the Canadian Study of Health and Aging (CSHA). We found that one third of the subjects in the CSHA sample with a dementia residing in the community lived alone. Whether their identified informal caregiver had thought about institutionalization was an important factor in actual short-term (2-year) institutionalization and appeared to be influenced by living arrangements. Caregivers of those living alone provided less hands-on assistance, experienced less burden, and were less likely to be depressed than those living with the demented person, but were more likely to have considered institutionalization. Presumably, this was driven by concerns about safety and support. How to support the growing numbers of individuals with dementia living alone in the community will be a significant challenge. Copyrightz1999S.KargerAG,Basel

Apoliprotein E (ApoE) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Antibodies to ApoE label senile plaques (SP), and an interaction between ApoE and beta-amyloid has been found in in vitro studies. Further, an increased frequency of the ApoE epsilon4 allele in AD has been reported in numerous papers. However, the pathogenetic mechanism of ApoE in AD is not known. We studied ApoE in brain tissue (hippocampus, cerebellum, frontal and temporal cortex) from patients with AD and age-matched control subjects, using both quantitative Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. In AD, a reduction of ApoE was found in the hippocampus (50% of the control value) and in the frontal cortex (52% of the control value), while no significant changes in ApoE levels were found in the temporal cortex or in the cerebellum. Also by immunohistochemistry, ApoE staining was generally decreased in AD brains, both in the neuropil and in the neuronal cellular compartments. Within the AD group, there was no significant correlation between the ApoE level and SP or neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) counts, either in the hippocampus (r = -0.14 and r = 0.55, respectively), or in the frontal cortex (r = -0.03 and r = 0.01, respectively). There were no significant differences in duration, severity of dementia, SP or NFT counts, or ApoE levels between AD patients with different numbers of ApoE epsilon4 alleles. After experimental brain damage in animals, marked increases in ApoE are found, probably as part of lipid recycling in neuronal and synaptic remodelling and regeneration. One may speculate whether the decrease in ApoE may suggest a disturbance in the ApoE system in AD that is unrelated to ApoE isoforms, beta-amyloid deposition and NFT formation. Copyrightz1999S.KargerAG,Basel
The plasma insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) level was determined in family members carrying the Swedish amyloid precursor protein (APP) 670/671 mutation with or without Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in age-matched controls from the same family. Plasma growth hormone (GH) and prolactin (PRL) levels were also determined. Measurement of the plasma IGF-I level by radioimmunoassay revealed a significant reduction only in the family members with AD compared to age-matched controls. However, there was no significant difference in the levels of GH and PRL between the mutation carriers with or without AD and their respective age-matched controls. These findings indicate that the mechanism(s) regulating GH and PRL were preserved and those regulating IGF-I levels might be affected in AD patients with the Swedish APP 670/671 mutation. CopyrightCopyright 1999S.KargerAG, Basel
Tau proteins are central to the neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease and tau levels in cerebrospinal fluid are elevated in affected individuals. In this study, we investigated the presence of tau in plasma from subjects with Alzheimer's disease (n = 16), frontotemporal dementia (n = 10), vascular dementia (n = 16) and from healthy controls (n = 15). By using an ELISA with monoclonal tau antibodies, tau immunoreactivity was detected in approximately 20% of the subjects. However, no difference between the disease and control groups was seen. After gel filtration of tau immunopositive plasma, the peak reactivity was found in the 160-kD fraction, indicating the source to be tau-like molecules of high-molecular-weight or polymers of low-molecular-weight tau isoforms. We conclude that measurements of tau in plasma cannot be utilized diagnostically for Alzheimer's disease or for the other dementias investigated. Copyrightz1999S.KargerAG,Basel
This study investigated age-dependent changes in regional neocortical thickness after hemineodecortication in cats and compared the results to previously reported volumetric and cross-sectional data. Subjects sustained hemineodecortication on postnatal days (P) P10, P30, P60 or in adulthood. Neocortical thickness was quantified at 115 sites along 20 stereotaxic coronal anterior-posterior (AP) planes using defined sites of the main cerebral sulci for the measurements. The analysis established significantly lower thickness values for adult-lesioned as compared to (a) P30, P60 and control groups at AP +14, (b) P30 group at 7 planes along a range of AP +9 to AP +3, and (c) P10 and P60 groups at AP +6. Both the P10 and the P30 groups presented a significantly thicker neocortex than controls at select coronal planes clustering behind AP +10 (parietal and temporal cortices). When analyzed by sulcus, results once again reflected significant advantages for the early-lesioned cats with a significantly thicker cortex found at 4 of the 8 sulci examined. Again, significant advantages were also discovered for early-lesion subjects compared with control cats (splenial, cruciate sulci). Overall, the range of significant effects (from AP +14 to AP 0) and the direction of the means suggested that there was a significant, age-dependent (P10-P60), regional sparing of neocortical thickness with a peak effect occurring at P30. We concluded that: (a) there was a regional sparing/increase of neocortical thickness suggesting that discrete cortical areas are selectively involved in the resistance to structural atrophy following hemineodecortication in young cats (P10-P60) and (b) the global loss of neocortex volume found in our previous study was not apparent using the present thickness measurement. It is suggested that both of these measurements must be taken into account when assessing morphological effects upon the neocortex either in human pathology (i.e. hemispherectomy, intractable epilepsy) or in animal models.
Cortical dysplasia (CD) is now recognized as one of the major causes of pediatric focal neocortical epilepsy, and surgical procedures have been considered early in life. However, the mechanisms involved in seizure generation and intractability in these patients are still unknown. We analyzed with immunocytochemistry for various antibodies the brain tissue from 4 children (10 months to 6 years old) with focal epilepsy due to focal CD in order to study the inhibitory and excitatory circuits in dysplastic areas. Our group had similar histopathological and clinical characteristics. In all patients we found areas of cortical disorganization with dysplastic neurons and balloon cells. We studied distributions of glial cells with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and neurons with microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP-2). Gliosis was present in all cases, and GFAP stained also some balloon cells. Dysplastic neurons were darkly stained by MAP-2, and we also found balloon cells weakly stained with MAP-2 in the same areas where GFAP was positive, suggesting coexpression of neuronal and glial markers in some of these cells. There was an increased expression of glutamate receptors, especially GluR2/3, but also N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in dysplastic cortex. The inhibitory circuit does not seem to be decreased, rather we notice an increased amount of glutamate-decarboxylase-positive terminals around some of the big neurons. We discuss the possible role of these findings as mechanisms of epilepsy.
We determined whether age or seizure types were associated with hippocampal neuron loss, mossy fiber (MF) and GABAergic synaptic reorganizations or postsynaptic receptor densities. Children and adolescents were grouped into: (1) nonhippocampal sclerosis (non-HS; n = 11) and (2) hippocampal sclerosis (HS; n = 11). The most important results showed that: (1) regardless of the etiology of the seizures, there were greater cell losses in Ammon's horn with older ages in years; in the non-HS group, cell losses were greater with the older ages or with longer epilepsy durations; however, in the HS patients, the cell losses were not related to the patients' ages or epilepsy durations; (2) in both HS and non-HS, CA1 had greater cell losses than CA4; (3) in HS, CA1 and CA4 had greater cell losses than those in non-HS; (4) in non-HS, MF sprouting was greater with ages or with longer epilepsy durations; by contrast, in HS, MF sprouting was not related to the patients' age or epilepsy duration; (5) densities for AMPA GluR1, GABA-Abeta and for GABA axonal terminals were positively increased with age. These findings support the hypothesis that hippocampal cell losses and aberrant synaptic reorganizations are greater in the hippocampi of adolescents than in children, even for non-HS pathologies.
Delayed nonmatching to sample (DNMS) is used to test the recognition memory function dependent on the medial temporal lobe. Children cannot succeed on this task until about 21 months. Because robust recognition is present well before then, the late emergence of another ability must account for the late success on DNMS. Evidence is presented here that the critical late-maturing competence is the ability to grasp the relation between stimulus and reward--that is, to understand that the stimulus is a symbol or marker for the reward. Infants of 9 and 12 months were tested on 3 conditions of DNMS. A sample object was presented. After a delay, the sample and a novel object appeared; choice of the novel object was rewarded. In the standard task, the reward was in a well beneath the stimulus. In the verbal-reward condition the reward was not a separate object but was praise and applause. In the Velcro condition, the reward, although a separate and separable object, was attached to the base of the stimulus. Most infants at both ages succeeded in the verbal-reward and Velcro conditions but not in the standard condition.
Xlens1 is a novel Xenopus member of the fork head gene family, named for its nearly restricted expression in the anterior ectodermal placode, presumptive lens ectoderm (PLE), and anterior epithelium of the differentiated lens. The temporal and spatial restriction of its expression suggests that: (1) Xlens1 is transcribed initially at neural plate stages in response to putative signals from the anterior neural plate that transform lens-competent ectoderm to lens-biased ectoderm; (2) further steps in the process of lens-forming bias restrict Xlens1 expression to the presumptive lens ectoderm (PLE) during later neural plate stages; (3) interactions with the optic vesicle maintain Xlens1 expression in the lens placode; and (4) Xlens1 expression is downregulated as committed lens cells undergo terminal differentiation. Induction assays demonstrate that pax6 induces Xlens1 expression, but unlike pax6, Xlens1 cannot induce the expression of the lens differentiation marker beta-crystallin. In the whole embryo, overexpression of Xlens1 in the lens ectoderm causes it to thicken and maintain gene expression characteristics of the PLE. Also, this overexpression suppresses differentiation in the lens ectoderm, suggesting that Xlens1 functions to maintain specified lens ectoderm in an undifferentiated state. Misexpression of Xlens1 in other regions causes hypertrophy of restricted tissues but only occasionally leads ectopic sites of gamma-crystallin protein expression in select anterior head regions. These results indicate that Xlens1 expression alone does not specify lens ectoderm. Lens specification and differentiation likely depends on a combination of other gene products and an appropriate level of Xlens1 activity.
The migration of myogenic precursors to the vertebrate limb exemplifies a common problem in development - namely, how migratory cells that are committed to a specific lineage postpone terminal differentiation until they reach their destination. Here we show that in chicken embryos, expression of the Msx1 homeobox gene overlaps with Pax3 in migrating limb muscle precursors, which are committed myoblasts that do not express myogenic differentiation genes such as MyoD. We find that ectopic expression of Msx1 in the forelimb and somites of chicken embryos inhibits MyoD expression as well as muscle differentiation. Conversely, ectopic expression of Pax3 activates MyoD expression, while co-ectopic expression of Msx1 and Pax3 neutralizes their effects on MyoD. Moreover, we find that Msx1 represses and Pax3 activates MyoD regulatory elements in cell culture, while in combination, Msx1 and Pax3 oppose each other's trancriptional actions on MyoD. Finally, we show that the Msx1 protein interacts with Pax3 in vitro, thereby inhibiting DNA binding by Pax3. Thus, we propose that Msx1 antagonizes the myogenic activity of Pax3 in migrating limb muscle precursors via direct protein-protein interaction. Our results implicate functional antagonism through competitive protein-protein interactions as a mechanism for regulating the differentiation state of migrating cells.
An experimental analysis of neurogenesis requires a detailed understanding of wild-type neural development. Recent DiI cell lineage studies have begun to elucidate the family of neurons and glia produced by each Drosophila embryonic neural precursor (neuroblast). Here we use DiI labeling to extend and clarify previous studies, but our analysis differs from previous studies in four major features: we analyze and compare lineages of every known embryonic neuroblast; we use an in vivo landmark (engrailed-GFP) to increase the accuracy of neuroblast identification; we use confocal fluorescence and Nomarski microscopy to collect three-dimensional data in living embryos simultaneously for each DiI-labeled clone, the engrailed-GFP landmark, and the entire CNS and muscle target field (Nomarski images); and finally, we analyze clones very late in embryonic development, which reveals novel cell types and axon/dendrite complexity. We identify the parental neuroblasts for all the cell types of the embryonic CNS: motoneurons, intersegmental interneurons, local interneurons, glia and neurosecretory cells (whose origins had never been determined). We identify muscle contacts for every thoracic and abdominal motoneuron at stage 17. We define the parental neuroblasts for neurons or glia expressing well-known molecular markers or neurotransmitters. We correlate Drosophila cell lineage data with information derived from other insects. In addition, we make the following novel conclusions: (1) neuroblasts at similar dorsoventral positions, but not anteroposterior positions, often generate similar cell lineages, and (2) neuroblasts at similar dorsoventral positions often produce the same motoneuron subtype: ventral neuroblasts typically generate motoneurons with dorsal muscle targets, while dorsal neuroblasts produce motoneurons with ventral muscle targets. Lineage data and movies can be found at http://www.biologists. com/Development/movies/dev8623.html http://www.neuro.uoregon. edu/doelab/lineages/
The damaging effects of glucose on the cells which contribute to the development of diabetic complications are ill-understood. There are three major hypotheses - the sorbitol pathway, non-enzymatic glycation of proteins and increased oxidative stress - and many examples illustrate inter-connections between the three. It is suggested that these pathways, together with other biochemical anomalies arising from hyperglycaemia, can synergise by sharing the capacity to activate mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAP kinases) and that these enzymes in actual fact form glucose transducers. The more recent hypothesis, namely that activation of a specific isoform of protein kinase C (PKC) underpin damaging changes in retinopathy and neuropathy, can also be related because protein kinase C is an effective activator of mitogen-activated protein kinases. These latter kinases phosphorylate transcription factors, which in turn alter the balance of gene expression. In this way they can alter cellular phenotype, promote division or increase production of extracellular material. In short, mitogen-activated protein kinases have the capacity to trigger all the cellular events necessary for the development of diabetic nephropathy, retinopathy and neuropathy and it is suggested that their pharmacological modulation might provide therapeutic control of these conditions. [Diabetologia (1999) 42: 1271-1281]
Previous studies have demonstrated that conditioned stimuli can increase responding on a drug-associated lever after extinction from drug self-administration. The present study investigated singular stimuli (tone or light) or a compound stimulus (tone + light) for their ability to increase extinguished responding following chronic cocaine self-administration. Rats self-administered cocaine for 2 weeks on a fixed ratio (FR1) schedule of reinforcement, in which lever responding resulted in varied presentation of a tone, light, or tone + light combination. The rats were then exposed to 1 week of daily extinction sessions. Presentation of the tone + light on day 8 of extinction in the absence of cocaine reinforcement resulted in a significant increase in responding, while either stimulus component alone was much weaker or failed to produce any changes from extinction rates of responding. In addition, changing the duration of the single elements of the compound did not affect the magnitude of increased responding to the compound. Following three final extinction sessions, robust lever responding for cocaine infusions on day 12 of extinction was seen across all groups. These findings suggest that compound stimuli may be critical to fully activate drug-seeking behavior in conditions of craving and relapse following prolonged extinction.
Ligand-induced receptor oligomerization is a widely accepted mechanism for activation of cell-surface receptors. We investigated ligand-receptor interactions in the glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) receptor complex, formed by the c-Ret receptor tyrosine kinase and the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored subunit GDNF family receptor alpha-1 (GFRalpha1). As only GFRalpha1 can bind GDNF directly, receptor complex formation is thought to be initiated by GDNF binding to this receptor. Here we identify an interface in GDNF formed by exposed acidic and hydrophobic residues that is critical for binding to GFRalpha1. Unexpectedly, several GDNF mutants deficient in GFRalpha1 binding retained the ability to bind and activate c-Ret at normal levels. Although impaired in binding GFRalpha1 efficiently, these mutants still required GFRalpha1 for c-Ret activation. These findings support a role for c-Ret in ligand binding and indicate that GDNF does not initiate receptor complex formation, but rather interacts with a pre-assembled GFRalpha1- c-Ret complex.
