Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterised by degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Inflammation may be associated with the neuropathology of PD due to the following accumulating evidence: excessive microglial activation and increased levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumour necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta in the SNpc of patients with PD; the emergence of PD-like symptoms following influenza infection; the increased susceptibility to PD associated with bacterial vaginosis; the presence of inflammatory mediators and activators in animal models of PD; the ability of anti-inflammatory drugs to decrease susceptibility to PD; and the emerging possibility of the use of microglial activation inhibitors as a therapy in PD. In this review, we will discuss the role of inflammation in PD. We will focus on the influence of microglia in the pathogenesis of PD and discuss potential therapeutic interventions for PD, that target microglia.
Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) is central to the somatotropic (growth hormone) axis. It promotes tissue growth and continues to have anabolic effects in adulthood. Accumulating evidence from the last decade, however, reveals that circulating levels of IGF-I also significantly affects cognitive brain function. Specifically, the decline of serum IGF-I might be associated with the age-related cognitive decline in elderly people. Moreover, psychiatric and neurological conditions characterized by cognitive impairment may be characterized by altered levels of IGF-I. Some evidence is emerging that interventions that target the GH/IGF-I axis may improve cognitive functioning, at least in deficient states. As there is evidence linking high serum IGF-I levels with cancer risk, these interventions should be carefully evaluated. On a cellular and molecular level, IGF-I may be a crucial component of neural homeostasis since disturbed IGF-I input is inevitably linked to perturbed function. Consistent with this, all nerve cells are potential targets of IGF-I actions, including neurons, glia, endothelial, epithelial, and perivascular cells. Indeed, many key cellular processes in the brain are affected by IGF-I's neurotrophic and modulatory actions. We review the regulation by IGF-I of neurotransmission and neuronal plasticity and conclude that serum IGF-I is an important mediator of neuronal growth, survival and function throughout the lifespan. The role of IGF-I in synaptic plasticity render its neurotrophic potential a key target for remediating the cognitive impairment associated with a range of neurological conditions.
In schizophrenia, well-replicated findings support an attenuated niacin skin-flush response. We have previously reported a delayed skin-flush after niacin ingestion and also an association between niacin non-responding and electrodermal non-responding in schizophrenia. The stability of the niacin and electrodermal tests was now studied in a test-retest design. An additional aim was to assess the association previously found. Twenty-three patients with schizophrenia underwent two sessions 3 months apart during which an oral niacin test was conducted and electrodermal activity was measured. Despite similar values for niacin outcome variables at the group level, there was high intraindividual variation. Test-retest stability for the oral niacin test was thus low, although a trend toward correlation for the dichotomous response criterion was found. Most electrodermal measures correlated between baseline and retest. A significant association between the tests was again found; niacin non-responding implied electrodermal non-responding, providing further support for a common underlying aberration in schizophrenia.
Naming faces is a common area of study from a wide range of perspectives in social sciences, including cognitive psychology and several branches of cognitive neuroscience. This paper provides a comprehensive review of the cognitive models that have been proposed to explain the diverse aspects of face naming, taking into account face processing and language production models. In addition, a review of the neuroscientific data from event-related potential studies (when) and functional neuroimaging studies (where) is presented. Thus, an integrated view of the cognitive models and the data relating the different processes involved in naming faces to the brain activity is provided.



An abundance of evidence indicates that action selection is guided, at least in certain contexts, by anticipation of action outcomes. In one particularly clear demonstration of this principle, Bechara and colleagues, studying a gambling task, observed phasic skin conductance responses just prior to actions associated with a relatively high risk of monetary loss (Bechara et al. in J Neurosci 19:5473-5481, 1999; Bechara et al. in Science 275:1293-1295, 1997; Bechara et al. in Cereb Cortex 6:215-225, 1996). In the present work, we tested for the same effect in a paradigm where choices resulted not in differential monetary outcomes, but in differential requirements for subsequent mental effort. In two experiments, we observed an anticipatory skin conductance response prior to actions resulting in a high level of cognitive demand. This finding indicates that requirements for effortful cognitive control are anticipated during action selection. We argue, based on convergent evidence, that such anticipation may not only trigger preparation; it may also play a direct role in effort-based decision-making.

The research on thyroid hormones and personality traits is quite sparse and mainly focused on male forensic psychiatric populations in which the relationship between thyroid hormones and psychopathy and aggression-related personality traits has been reported. The suicidal temperament hypothesis suggests that certain personality traits such as aggression, anxiety proneness, impulsivity, and low socialization may render an individual vulnerable to the risk of suicide. The aim of this study was to investigate personality traits assessed by the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) in relation to hormones in the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis in 100 euthyroid suicide attempters. Standard multiple regression analyses were performed with TSH, T3, T4, and the T3/T4 ratio, respectively, as the dependent variable and KSP factors (Anxiety Proneness, Aggressiveness, and Impulsivity) and subscales (Detachment, Social Desirability, and Socialization) as independent variables. In men, but not in women, the regression model of the T3/T4 ratio was significant and the results suggested that high scores on Aggressiveness and low ones on Detachment were associated with a low T3/T4 ratio. These results indicate that HPT function may be related to Aggressiveness and Detachment in male suicide attempters.
Hippocampal (HC) function and morphology have been implicated in the pathophysiology of depression. Reduced HC volume has been observed in depressed humans, although the effect is not always significant. Studies of functional differentiation of the HC have revealed that the anterior portion is associated with emotional and anxiety-related functioning, and the posterior portion with memory processing. As such, measuring whole HC volume may mask differences seen only in the anterior or posterior HC. We used unbiased stereology to measure whole, anterior, and posterior HC volumes in 12 adult female cynomolgus macaques, half of which exhibited spontaneously occurring depressive behavior defined as a slumped/collapsed body posture with open eyes, and a relative lack of responsivity to environmental stimuli. The two groups were otherwise matched on circulating estradiol, progesterone, and cortisol levels, social status, estimated age, and body weight. Frozen postmortem HC tissue from depressed and nondepressed monkeys was serially sectioned and thionin-stained. According to established neuroanatomical guidelines and with the aid of Neurolucida software (MBF Bioscience), every 10th section throughout the extent of the HC was manually traced and used to reconstruct the 3D models used to determine volumes. Anterior and posterior HC were delineated by the presence or absence of the uncus. No significant differences were found between depressed and nondepressed monkeys for whole or posterior HC volume, although the average HC volume was 4% smaller in depressed than nondepressed monkeys. Anterior HC volumes were significantly smaller (15.4%) in depressed compared to nondepressed monkeys. These results indicate that reduced volume in the anterior HC, an area previously implicated in emotional functioning, may be associated with a depressive phenotype in female cynomolgus macaques.



Aging has been shown to increase sensory thresholds for a variety of exteroceptive and proprioceptive stimuli. However, the influence of aging on interoceptive awareness has received relatively little empirical attention. Here we report an inverse association between aging and interoception, as indexed by the ability to sense the heartbeat at rest. In a group of 59 participants ranging in age from 22 to 63 years, age inversely predicted heartbeat detection ability, both within and across several measurement sessions. On average, age accounted for 30% of the variance in heartbeat detection accuracy. Other attribute variables including body mass index and sex were not related to heartbeat detection ability. These findings provide clear empirical evidence that interoception, much like exteroception and proprioception, declines with age.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a heterogeneous and progressive neurodegenerative disorder. The recent Metal Hypothesis states that the interaction of Amyloid beta (Abeta, the main constituent of senile plaques) with transition metals is at the basis of AD neurodegeneration. This hypothesis is based on in vitro studies demonstrating that metals (copper, zinc) accelerate the aggregation and precipitation into plaques of Abeta, ultimately leading to synaptic dysfunction and accelerated amyloidogenesis. Recently, we have identified in AD patients a specific 'copper disease' marker, consisting in a serum-increase of copper not bound to ceruloplasmin, named 'free' copper. Several patents have been issued in the recent years and many clinical trials have been attempted in search of an anti-metal effect counteracting AD progression. Some of them have delivered very encouraging results. These anti-metal agents, however, have also shown adverse events. This work is aimed at reviewing 'old' and 'new' attitudes towards the use of anti-copper complexing agents or biological molecules which induce or maintain a state of copper malabsorption, such as zinc compounds, paying special attention to how such a rethinking of 'old' clinical trials might trace new routes in planning 'modern' ones.
Novel approaches in the understanding of the neurodegeneration observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD), involving neurochemical as well as biochemical techniques are being developed, opening up new possibilities in the direction of a metabolic degeneration. Indeed, brain lipids are closely involved in amyloid beta-related pathogenic pathways. An important modulator of lipid homeostasis is the pluripotent peptide leptin, which has been shown to reduce amyloid beta levels and tau-related pathological pathways, the major pathological hallmarks of AD. These data suggest that leptin holds promise as a novel therapeutic tool for AD. In this article, with some patent literature we will review here some of the most promising approaches involving leptin to cure and prevent, rather than to treat, AD symptoms.
The market for pain treatment is a major segment of nervous system pathologies. Despite this dynamism, the management of some pain conditions remains a clinical challenge. Neuropathic pain arises as a direct consequence of a lesion or disease affecting the somatosensory system. It is generally a chronic and disabling condition which is difficult to treat. Antidepressant drugs are recommended as one of the first line treatments, but they display noticeable side effects and are not effective on all patients. Using a murine model of neuropathy, we demonstrated that the stimulation of beta2-adrenergic receptors (beta2-AR) is not only necessary for antidepressant drugs to exert their antiallodynic action but that it is in fact sufficient to alleviate neuropathic allodynia. Chronic, but not acute, treatment with beta-mimetics such as terbutaline, salbutamol, fenoterol, salmeterol, ritodrine, isoprenaline (isoproterenol), metaproterenol (orciprenaline), procaterol, formoterol, clenbuterol or bambuterol, relieves allodynia. Agonists of beta2-ARs, and more generally any molecule stimulating beta2-ARs such as beta-mimetics, are thus proposed as potential new treatments for neuropathic pain. Clinical studies are now in preparation to confirm this potential in patients with neuropathic pain. This article reviews the findings leading to propose beta-mimetics for neuropathic pain treatment and other recent patents on the topic.
The loss of neural tissue underlies the symptomatology of several neurological insults of disparate etiology, including trauma, cerebrovascular insult and neurodegenerative disease. Restoration of damaged neural tissue through the use of exogenous or endogenous neural stem or progenitor cells is an enticing therapeutic option provided one can control their proliferation, migration and differentiation. Initial attempts at CNS tissue engineering relied on the intrinsic cellular properties of progenitor cells; however, it is now appreciated that the microenvironment surrounding the cells plays an indispensible role in regulating stem cell behavior. This article focuses on attempts to engineer the neural stem cell microenvironment by utilizing the major cellular components of the niche (endothelial cells, astrocytes and ependymal cells) and the extracellular matrix in which they are embedded.
We wanted to test the hypothesis that neuropsychiatric disorder (NPD) with language impairment (LI) is a more severe variant of NPD than NPD without LI, and that this variant can be easily picked up by a non-word repetition (NWR) task. We therefore tested 56 (mean 7.6, range 6.1-9.5 years) children divided into three subgroups: one with LI only (n=8), one with NPD only (n=16) and one with a combination of LI and NPD (n=32). We used a Swedish NWR test, a real word repetition test, the Verbal Comprehension and Freedom from Distractibility factor of the WISC-III. All three subgroups had difficulties with NWR and real word repetition compared to the norm, but the within-subgroup variations were considerable. The subgroup with NPD only performed best on both NWR and real word repetitions, but remarkably poorly given that they had never been noted for having language problems. NPD with LI consistently had the lowest scores. Of the three subgroups, only NPD with LI scored lower than the normal range on Verbal Comprehension and Freedom from Distractibility. Significant correlations were found between NWR on the one hand, and Freedom from Distractibility and Verbal Comprehension, on the other, indicating that poor results on a NWR test is probably not a &quot;clean&quot; measure of speech and language impairment, but also taps into other neuropsychological constructs, including executive dysfunction. In conclusion, the study confirmed the hypothesis that NPD with LI constitutes a more severe variant of NPD, and that this variant can easily be picked up by a quick and easy NWR screening test.
Although psychopathy has traditionally been cited as a disorder of personality, confusion arises as the term is used interchangeably with the terms antisocial personality disorder of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition, text revision (DSM-IV TR) or dissocial personality disorder, both of which are largely behaviorally based. This paper aims to provide a clinical and scientific overview of the literature on the topic of psychopathy, which examines this conundrum. This article begins with a wee bit of history about Hervey Cleckley's work, The Mask of Sanity, and then presents the definitions and nosography of psychopathy, focusing on the distinction between the antisocial psychopath and the successful psychopath. The discussion will then lead on the epidemiological aspects and diagnosis, especially psychometric and measurement tools used to assess psychopathy in the individual: Hare's Psychopathy Checklist-Revised (PCL-R), as this is the most frequently used and validated measure of psychopathy. The second section of the article reviews several studies dealing with structural and functional neuroimaging in psychopaths. The final part of this overview considers the treatment and interventions that are available to psychopathic offenders and the implications for future research, especially in terms of prevention. This review demonstrates that studies and further research are still required in psychopathy, particularly using functional neuroimaging techniques, as fMRI and magnetoencephalography, that can describe the functional neuroanatomy of human emotion. Today, cognitive and social neurosciences constitute one of the most promising way to study psychopathy.

In the last years, several experimental biotherapies have been developed to treat Parkinson's disease. Initially, fetal dopaminergic transplants were proposed. Although a proof of concept and encouraging results have been provided, limitations of this treatment emerged over the years and the failure of controlled trials have conducted to a pause in the development of strategies based on fetal cells. Alternative approaches such as the use of retinal pigmented cells recently provided disappointing results in patients and much hope has now been reported on other sources of dopaminergic neurons such as those originating from stem cells. This strategy is however not yet ready for clinical trials in patients. Eventually, gene therapy is a new original experimental technique which has elicited several trials in the last few years some of them being promising.
It is important to know the cellular properties of endoneurial microvascular endothelial cells (PnMECs) and microvascular pericytes which constitute blood-nerve barrier (BNB), since this barrier structure in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) may play pivotal pathophysiological roles in various disorders of the PNS including inflammatory neuropathies (i.e. Guillain-Barr syndrome), vasculitic neuropathies, hereditary neuropathies and diabetic neuropathy. However, in contrast to blood-brain barrier (BBB), very few studies have been directed to BNB and no adequate cell lines originating from BNB had been launched. In our laboratory, we successfully established human immortalized cell lines originating from BNB using temperature-sensitive SV40 large T antigen and the cellular properties of human cell lines are presented in this paper. Human PnMEC cell line showed high transendothelial electrical resistance and expressed tight junction components and various types of influx as well as efflux transporters that have been reported to function at BBB. Human pericyte cell line also possessed tight junction proteins except claudin-5 and secrete various cytokines and growth factors including bFGF, VEGF, GDNF, NGF, BDNF and angiopoietin-1. Co-culture with pericytes or pericyte-conditioned media strengthend barrier properties of PnMEC, suggesting that in the PNS, peripheral nerve pericytes support the BNB function and play the same role of astrocytes in the BBB. Future accumulation of the knowledge concerning the cellular properties of BNB-forming cells will open the door to novel therapeutic strategies for intractable peripheral neuropathies.
For the research on human higher brain functions, both neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies are useful, but each of these two methodologies has merits and demerits. In neuropsychological studies, damaged regions are necessary for the normal execution of cognitive functions underlying the symptoms that patients show. However, it is usually difficult to determine to what extent the lesion has affected a specific psychological subprocess amongst several subprocesses related to the symptoms. On the other hand, in neuroimaging studies, activated regions may not be necessary for but simply participate in a targeted higher brain function. However, if we can set up an adequate experimental design, it provides an opportunity to identify brain regions related to a specific psychological subprocess necessary for the targeted higher brain function. In this symposium, I talked about several neuroimaging studies using positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging. We can take advantage of neuroimaging techniques for the research on human brain functions, but it should be kept in mind that neuroimaging techniques are not the purpose of the research but simply one of the useful means.
Abnormal aggregation and deposition of misfolded proteins have been recognized as a common molecular pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and the polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases. The polyQ diseases, including Huntington's disease and various spinocerebellar ataxias, are caused by abnormal expansions of the polyQ stretch (&gt; 35-40) within disease-causative proteins, which are thought to trigger their misfolding and aggregation, leading to their deposition as inclusion bodies, and eventually resulting in neurodegeneration. We found that the expanded polyQ protein undergoes a conformational transition to a beta-sheet dominant structure in the monomeric state, triggering cytotoxicity, and subsequently resulting in formation of insoluble amyloid-like fibrillar aggregates. Targeting misfolding and aggregation of the expanded polyQ protein, we demonstrated that QBP1 (PolyQ-Binding Peptide 1: SNWKWWPGIFD) prevents the toxic beta-sheet transition and aggregation of the expanded polyQ protein in vitro and suppresses polyQ-induced neurodegeneration in Drosophila. From high-throughput screening of a chemical compound library (46,000), we have identified approximately 100 polyQ aggregate inhibitors as therapeutic candidates so far. We also found that 17-AAG, an HSF1-activating compound, suppresses polyQ-induced neurodegeneration in Drosophila through induction of endogenous molecular chaperones. We propose that our therapeutic strategy targeting protein misfolding and aggregation can also be applied to other neurodegenerative diseases.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is caused by the lack of dystrophin protein at the sarcolemma. Exon skipping by antisense oligonucleotides is a novel method to restore the reading frame of the mutated DMD gene, and rescue dystrophin production. We recently reported that systemic delivery of Morpholino antisense oligonucleotides targeting exon 6 and 8 of the canine DMD gene, efficiently recovered functional dystrophin proteins at the sarcolamma of dystrophic dogs, and improved performance of affected dogs without serious side effects (Yokota et al., Ann Neurol. 65 (6): 667-676, 2009). To optimize therapeutic antisense Morpholinos for more frequent mutations of the DMD gene, we designed antisense Morpholinos targeting exon 51 of the mouse DMD gene, and injected them separately or in combination into the muscles of mdx52 mice, in which exon 52 has been deleted by a gene targeting technique (Araki et al., 1997). We also tried systemic delivery of antisense Morpholino to skip exon 51 in mdx52 mice. It is important to verify the effectiveness and side effects of antisense Morpholino in experimental animal models such as dystrophic dogs or mdx52 mice, before clinical trials in DMD patients.
Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV), also called hereditary inclusion body myopathy, is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous missense mutations in GNE which encodes a protein with two enzymatic activities in sialic acid biosynthesis: UDP-GlcNAc 2-epimerase and ManNAc kinase. The disease starts from 1540 years and is slowly progressive. DMRV preferentially affects tibialis anterior and hamstrings muscles, and has characteristic findings in muscle pathology which include rimmed vacuoles, tubulofilamentous inclusions, deposition of amyloid, and phosphorylated tau. We generated DMRV mice (Gne -/- hGNE D176V-Tg) by crossmating Gne knock-out heterozygous mouse and human GNE p.D176V transgenic mouse. This model mouse recapitulates DMRV clinically, pathologically, and biochemically by developing muscle weakness and atrophy from 21 weeks, amyloid deposition from 31 weeks, and rimmed vacuoles and phosphorylated tau from 41 weeks while having lifelong hyposialylation. We gave three types of GNE metabolites, ManNAc, NeuAc and sialyllactose, to DMRV mice orally from 15 weeks until 55 weeks of age. Sialic acid supplementation almost completely precluded the disease and virtually no sign of DMRV was seen even at 55 weeks of age, indicating that decreased sialic acid is the cause of myopathic phenotype and sialic acid supplementation can prevent the disease process.
Several lines of evidence indicate that the production and deposition of amyloid-beta peptides (Abeta) contribute to the etiology of Alzheimer's disease. Inhibition or modulation of gamma-secretase, that is a responsible enzyme for the Abeta production, is one of the plausible therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease. However, the gamma-secretase is an unusual aspartic protease that cleaves the scissile bond within the transmembrane domain of several membrane protein including APP and Notch receptor. Thus, development of drugs that regulate the production of Abeta without affecting the Notch signaling is now demanding. Extensive drug screening and development allow that some secretase inhibitors and modulators have advanced into late-phase clinical trials, whereas the molecular mechanisms of Notch-sparing effect by these compounds effect still remain unknown. Identification of the molecular targets and mechanisms of these compounds using chemical biological approaches is currently underway. This review focuses on the recent development of inhibitors/modulators and provides a direction for the effective treatment of AD through inhibition/modulation of the gamma-secretase activity.
Emerging evidence suggests that misfolded proteins in the various neurodegenerative diseases can be targets for immunotherapy including vaccination antibody therapy. To date, vaccination strategies have been shown to be effective in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease and Prion disease. Interestingly, the subcellular localization of the target proteins varies, including cytosol, synaptosomes and extracellular spaces. We have documented that mutant SOD1 is secreted together with a neurosecretory protein chromogranin, and that vaccination against the SOD1 mutant is beneficial in delaying the onset and prolonging the lifespan. However, the mechanism of vaccination on the mutant SOD1 mice remains unclear. Moreover, vaccination induces diverse inflammatory reactions, which are reported to modify both the onset and the progression of ALS. Therefore, it is important to clarify the role of innate or acquired immunity in the pathogenesis of ALS to avoid the adverse reactions of the vaccination, and rather to apply it for amelioration. Passive immunization is also promising since only aberrant proteins can be targeted using a specific monoclonal antibody. The development of the current immunization techniques is very important for the future application, since key molecules for the sporadic ALS have emerged and are intensively investigated such as TDP-43.
Conscious awareness is the state in which external and internal stimuli are perceived and can be intentionally acted on. Although various investigations have provided new insights into the neural mechanisms of conscious awareness, its whole network in human remains to be solved. Anosognosia for visual dysfunction and unconscious processing of visual stimuli are good examples of dissociation between cognitive processes and conscious awareness. Anton syndrome, anosognosia for blind or deaf, could be observed in blindness caused by cerebral as well as ophthalmological diseases, when general cognitive function or attention is impaired. Unawareness of hemianopia is not an exception but a common phenomenon, which seems to be related to a completion phenomenon and macular sparing. Patients with visual agnosia are not consciously aware of the nature of their visual dysfunction but have a vague feeling of visual impairment. Blindsight, unconscious visual processing in the blind field, might be partly related to the dorso-dorsal visual stream that takes roles in the control of actions &quot;on line&quot; without awareness of spatial perception. In patients with unilateral spatial neglect, unconscious processing of visual stimuli on the neglected space was also observed. Better understanding of neural mechanisms of conscious awareness would provide insights into various neurological disorders and therapeutic approaches.
Recent advance of molecular biology reveals that quality control of intracellular environment takes an important role for maintaining the neuronal function. One is a quality control of protein and another is a quality control of nucleotide. Polyglutamine disease is a disease which caused by a failure of quality control of protein. Expanded polyglutamine repeats result in neurodegenerative disorders, but their cytotoxic structures remain to be elucidated. About the quality control of nucleotide in neuron, DNA single-strand breaks (SSBs) were continually produced by endogenous reactive oxygen species or exogenous genotoxic agents. These damaged ends posses damaged 3'-ends including 3'-phosphate, 3'-phosphoglycolate, or 3'-alpha, beta-unsaturated aldehyde ends, and should be restored to 3'-hydroxyl ends for subsequent repair processes. We have demonstrated by in vitro assay that aprataxin, the causative gene product for early-onset ataxia with ocular motor apraxia and hypoalbuminemia/ ataxia with oculomotor apraxia type 1 (EAOH/AOA1), specifically removes 3'-phosphoglycolate and 3'-phosphate ends at DNA 3'-ends, but not 3'-alpha, beta-unsaturated aldehyde ends. The findings indicate that aprataxin removes blocking molecules from 3'-ends, and that the accumulation of unrepaired SSBs with damaged 3'-ends underlies the pathogenesis of EAOH/AOA1. The findings will provide new insight into the mechanism underlying degeneration and DNA repair in neurons.
The Japanese Society of Neurology, founded in 1960, suffered an initial set back internationally primarily because of the language barrier. It gained a quick, and justifiable recognition after the 12th World Congress of Neurology held in Kyoto (1981), and now enjoys an indisputable reputation in the field of neuroscience. Clinical neurophysiology lead the world from the inception with the early formation of study group in 1951 as the predecessor of the current Japanese Society of Clinical Neurophysiology. In both fields, however, clinical training has fallen behind research achievements with limited resources and a shortage of teaching staff. On the occasion of 50th anniversary of our society, we must seek the sovereignty of neurology as an independent discipline as advocated by the World Federation of Neurology. We must also participate in global affairs with confidence despite a perceived language barrier to promote neurology world wide.
The major psychotic disorders schizophrenia and bipolar disorder are etiologically complex involving both heritable and nonheritable factors. The absence of consistently replicated major genetic effects, together with evidence for lasting changes in gene expression after environmental exposures, is consistent with the concept that the biologic underpinnings of these disorders are epigenetic in form rather than DNA sequence based. Psychosis-associated environmental exposures, particularly at key developmental stages, may result in long-lasting epigenetic alterations that impact on the neurobiological processes involved in pathology. Although direct evidence for epigenetic dysfunction in both schizophrenia and bipolar disorder is still limited, methodological technologies in epigenomic profiling have advanced. This means that we are at the exciting stage where it is feasible to start investigating molecular modifications to DNA and histones and examine the mechanisms by which environmental factors can act upon the genome to bring about epigenetic changes in gene expression involved in the etiology of these disorders. Given the dynamic nature of the epigenetic machinery and potential reversibility of epigenetic modifications, the understanding of such mechanisms is of key relevance for clinical psychiatry and for identifying new targets for prevention and/or intervention.
A critical research priority for our field is to develop treatments that enhance cognitive functioning in schizophrenia and thereby attenuate the functional losses associated with the illness. In this article, we describe such a treatment method that is grounded in emerging research on the widespread sensory processing impairments of schizophrenia, as described elsewhere in this special issue. We first present the rationale for this treatment approach, which consists of cognitive training exercises that make use of principles derived from the past 2 decades of basic science research in learning-induced neuroplasticity; these exercises explicitly target not only the higher order or &quot;top-down&quot; processes of cognition but also the content building blocks of accurate and efficient sensory representations to simultaneously achieve &quot;bottom-up&quot; remediation. We then summarize our experience to date and briefly review our behavioral and serum biomarker findings from a randomized controlled trial of this method in outpatients with long-term symptoms of schizophrenia. Finally, we present promising early psychophysiological evidence that supports the hypothesis that this cognitive training method induces changes in aspects of impaired bottom-up sensory processing in schizophrenia. We conclude with the observation that neuroplasticity-based cognitive training brings patients closer to physiological patterns seen in healthy participants, suggesting that it changes the brain in an adaptive manner in schizophrenia.


We recently reported that rodent hippocampal slices incubated with levetiracetam for 3h had altered responses to repetitive stimulation and reduced neurotransmitter release. However, our experiments failed to determine the actual time course of diminished transmission in individual slices followed over time. We have now been able to record from the same slices for up to 3h to determine the latency of the levetiracetam effect after the onset of exposure. Within 30 min of levetiracetam exposure, the later field potentials of a burst were reduced. Between 60 and 180 min the relative size of later field potentials remained stable. Similar time-dependent reductions were not seen in control slices or in slices exposed to the inactive levetiracetam isomer UCB L060. These new results establish a clear time dependence of the levetiracetam effect, even in vitro, and are best explained by levetiracetam acting within neurons to alter synaptic vesicle release.
An account of the pathology, pathogenesis, clinical features, diagnosis and management of cerebral vasculitis is presented.


In humans and rodents the adult spinal cord harbors neural stem cells located around the central canal. Their identity, precise location, and specific signaling are still ill-defined and controversial. We report here on a detailed analysis of this niche. Using microdissection and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgenic mice, we demonstrate that neural stem cells are mostly dorsally located GFAP(+) cells lying ependymally and subependymally that extend radial processes toward the pial surface. The niche also harbors doublecortin protein (Dcx)(+) Nkx6.1(+) neurons sending processes into the lumen. Cervical and lumbar spinal cord neural stem cells maintain expression of specific rostro-caudal Hox gene combinations and the niche shows high levels of signaling proteins (CD15, Jagged1, Hes1, differential screening-selected gene aberrative in neuroblastoma [DAN]). More surprisingly, the niche displays mesenchymal traits such as expression of epithelial-mesenchymal-transition zinc finger E-box-binding protein 1 (ZEB1) transcription factor and smooth muscle actin. We found ZEB1 to be essential for neural stem cell survival in vitro. Proliferation within the niche progressively ceases around 13 weeks when the spinal cord reaches its final size, suggesting an active role in postnatal development. In addition to hippocampus and subventricular zone niches, adult spinal cord constitutes a third central nervous system stem cell niche with specific signaling, cellular, and structural characteristics that could possibly be manipulated to alleviate spinal cord traumatic and degenerative diseases.
Neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes-the three major cell types that comprise the central nervous system-are generated from common multipotent neural precursor cells (NPCs). Members of the interleukin-6 family of cytokines, including leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), induce astrocyte differentiation of NPCs by activating the transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). We show here that retinoic acid (RA) facilitates LIF-induced astrocyte differentiation of NPCs. RA and LIF synergistically activate the promoter of gfap, which encodes the astrocytic marker glial fibrillary acidic protein, and a putative RA response element in the promoter was found to be critical for this activation. Histone H3 acetylation around the STAT-binding site in the gfap promoter was increased in NPCs treated with RA, allowing STAT3 to gain access to the promoter more efficiently. These results suggest that RA acts in concert with LIF to induce astrocyte differentiation of NPCs through an epigenetic mechanism that involves cross-talk between distinct signaling pathways.





We tested the hypothesis that increased dopaminergic sensitivity induced by olfactory bulbectomy is mediated by dysregulation of endocannabinoid signaling. Bilateral olfactory bulbectomy induces behavioral and neurobiological symptomatology related to increased dopaminergic sensitivity. Rats underwent olfactory bulbectomy or sham operations and were assessed 2 weeks later in two tests of hyperdopaminergic responsivity: locomotor response to novelty and locomotor sensitization to amphetamine. Amphetamine (1 mg/kg i.p.) was administered to rats once daily for 8 consecutive days to induce locomotor sensitization. URB597, an inhibitor of the anandamide hydrolyzing enzyme fatty-acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), was administered daily (0.3 mg/kg i.p.) to sham and olfactory bulbectomized (OBX) rats to investigate the impact of FAAH inhibition on locomotor sensitization to amphetamine. Pharmacological specificity was evaluated with the CB(1) antagonist/inverse agonist rimonabant (1 mg/kg i.p). OBX rats exhibited heightened locomotor activity in response to exposure either to a novel open field or to amphetamine administration relative to sham-operated rats. URB597 produced a CB(1)-mediated attenuation of amphetamine-induced locomotor sensitization in sham-operated rats. By contrast, URB597 failed to inhibit amphetamine sensitization in OBX rats. The present results demonstrate that enhanced endocannabinoid transmission attenuates development of amphetamine sensitization in intact animals but not in animals with OBX-induced dopaminergic dysfunction. Our data collectively suggest that the endocannabinoid system is compromised in olfactory bulbectomized rats.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA), the locus of mesolimbic dopamine cell bodies, contains dopamine. Experiments in brain slices have demonstrated that VTA dopamine can be released by local electrical stimulation. Measurements with both push-pull cannula and microdialysis in intact animals have also obtained evidence for releasable dopamine. Here we demonstrate that dopamine release in the VTA can be evoked by remote stimulations of the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) in the anesthetized rat. In initial experiments, the MFB was electrically stimulated while a carbon-fiber electrode was lowered to the VTA, with recording by fast-scan cyclic voltammetry. While release was not observed with the carbon fiber 4-6 mm below dura, a voltammetric response was observed at 6-8 mm below dura, but the voltammogram was poorly defined. At lower depths, in the VTA, dopamine release was evoked. Immunohistochemistry experiments with antibodies for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) confirmed that dopamine processes were primarily found below 8 mm. Similarly, tissue content determined by liquid chromatography revealed serotonin but not dopamine dorsal to 8 mm with both dopamine and serotonin at lower depths. Evaluation of the VTA signal by pharmacological means showed that it increased with inhibitors of dopamine uptake, but release was not altered by D2 agents. Dopamine release in the VTA was frequency dependent and could be exhausted by stimulations longer than 5 s. Thus, VTA dopamine release can be evoked in vivo by remote stimulations and it resembles release in terminal regions, possessing a similar uptake mechanism and a finite releasable storage pool.
During the last 15 years deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been established as a highly-effective therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). Patient selection, stereotactic implantation, postoperative stimulator programming and patient care requires a multi-disciplinary team including movement disorders specialists in neurology and functional neurosurgery. To treat medically refractory levodopa-induced motor complications or resistant tremor the preferred target for high-frequency DBS is the subthalamic nucleus (STN). STN-DBS results in significant reduction of dyskinesias and dopaminergic medication, improvement of all cardinal motor symptoms with sustained long-term benefits, and significant improvement of quality of life when compared with best medical treatment. These benefits have to be weighed against potential surgery-related adverse events, device-related complications, and stimulus-induced side effects. The mean disease duration before initiating DBS in PD is currently about 13 years. It is presently investigated whether the optimal timing for implantation may be at an earlier disease-stage to prevent psychosocial decline and to maintain quality of life for a longer period of time.
Thiazolidinediones (TZDs), such as troglitazone (TRO) and rosiglitazone (ROSI), improve insulin resistance by acting as ligands for the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma). TRO was withdrawn from the market because of reports of serious hepatotoxicity. A growing body of evidence suggests that TRO caused mitochondrial dysfunction and induction of apoptosis in human hepatocytes but its mechanisms of action remain unclear. We hypothesized that damage to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is an initiating event involved in TRO-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and hepatotoxicity. Primary human hepatocytes were exposed to TRO and ROSI. The results obtained revealed that TRO, but not ROSI at equimolar concentrations, caused a substantial increase in mtDNA damage and decreased ATP production and cellular viability. The reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenger, N-acetyl cystein (NAC), significantly diminished the TRO-induced cytotoxicity, suggesting involvement of ROS in TRO-induced hepatocyte cytotoxicity. The PPARgamma antagonist (GW9662) did not block the TRO-induced decrease in cell viability, indicating that the TRO-induced hepatotoxicity is PPARgamma-independent. Furthermore, TRO induced hepatocyte apoptosis, caspase-3 cleavage and cytochrome c release. Targeting of a DNA repair protein to mitochondria by protein transduction using a fusion protein containing the DNA repair enzyme Endonuclease III (EndoIII) from Escherichia coli, a mitochondrial translocation sequence (MTS) and the protein transduction domain (PTD) from HIV-1 TAT protein protected hepatocytes against TRO-induced toxicity. Overall, our results indicate that significant mtDNA damage caused by TRO is a prime initiator of the hepatoxicity caused by this drug.
Ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury is a commonly encountered clinical problem and occurs probably as a consequence of irreversible mitochondrial injury. The increased susceptibility of fatty livers to ischemic injury is associated with depletion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) content, which is preserved by preconditioning. Mitochondria being the main ATP production source for the cell, we aimed to evaluate whether ischemic preconditioning (IPC) of fatty livers prevents the impairment in mitochondrial function induced by I/R. Lean and steatotic animals were subjected to 90 min of hepatic warm ischemia and 12 h of reperfusion. IPC effect was tested in fatty livers. After reperfusion, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels were measured. Mitochondrial membrane potential, mitochondrial respiration and susceptibility to mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) were evaluated, as well as ATPase activity and adenine nucleotides. IPC of fatty livers decreased serum AST and ALT levels. Fatty animals subjected to I/R exhibited decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and a delay in the repolarization after a phosphorylation cycle, associated with increased state 4 respiration. Increased tolerance to MPT induction, preservation of F(1)F(o)-ATPsynthase activity and mitochondrial bioenergetics were observed in ischemic preconditioned fatty livers. Thus, IPC is an endogenous protecting mechanism that preserves mitochondrial function and bioenergetics in fatty livers.
When cells are exposed to hormones that act on cell surface receptors, information is processed through the plasma membrane into the cell interior via second messengers generated in the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane. Individual biochemical steps along this cascade have been characterized from ligand binding to receptors through to activation of guanine nucleotide binding proteins and their downstream effectors such as adenylate cyclase or phospholipase C. However, the complexity of temporal and spatial integration of these molecular events requires that they are studied in intact cells. The great expansion of fluorescent techniques and improved imaging technologies such as confocal and TIRF microscopy combined with genetically-engineered protein modules has provided a completely new approach to signal transduction research. Spatial definition of biochemical events followed with real-time temporal resolution has become a standard goal, and several new techniques are now breaking the resolution barrier of light microscopy.
Although mood has a direct impact on mental and physical health, our understanding of the mechanisms underlying mood regulation is limited. Here, I propose that there is a direct reciprocal relation between the cortical activation of associations and mood regulation, whereby positive mood promotes associative processing, and associative processing promotes positive mood. This relation might stem from an evolutionary pressure for learning and predicting. Along these lines, one can think of mood as a reward mechanism that guides individuals to use their brains in the most productive manner. The proposed framework has many implications, most notably for diagnosing and treating mood disorders such as depression; for elucidating the role of inhibition in the regulation of mood; for contextualizing adult hippocampal neurogenesis; and for a general, non-invasive improvement of well-being.
The pursuit of happiness is a preoccupation for many people. Yet only the pursuit can be promised, not happiness itself. Can science help? We focus on the most tractable ingredient, hedonia or positive affect. A step toward happiness might be gained by improving the pleasures and positive moods in daily life. The neuroscience of pleasure and reward provides relevant insights, and we discuss how specific hedonic mechanisms might relate to happiness or the lack thereof. Although the neuroscience of happiness is still in its infancy, further advances might be made through mapping overlap between brain networks of hedonic pleasure with others, such as the brain's default network, potentially involved in the other happiness ingredient, eudaimonia or life meaning and engagement.
Retinotopic mapping of functional magnetic resonance (fMRI) responses evoked by visual stimuli has resulted in the identification of many areas in human visual cortex and a description of the organization of the visual field representation in each of these areas. These methods have recently been employed in conjunction with tasks that involve higher-order cognitive processes such as spatial attention, working memory, and planning and execution of saccadic eye movements. This approach has led to the discovery of multiple areas in human parietal and frontal areas, each containing a topographic map of visual space. In this review, we summarize the anatomical locations, visual field organization, and functional specialization of these new parietal and frontal topographic cortical areas. The study of higher-order topographic cortex promises to yield unprecedented insights into the neural mechanisms of cognitive processes and, in conjunction with parallel studies in non-human primates, into the evolution of cognition.
Human societies are remarkably variable in terms of their size, complexity, social structure, marriage systems and norms. This diversity has sometimes been raised as an obstacle to taking an evolutionary approach to human behaviour. However, a substantial proportion of the variation between human societies might represent local adaptation to ecological conditions and would thus be very much amenable to evolutionary explanation. I review recent studies correlating inter-population differences in humans with ecological factors, specifically pathogen prevalence. Many questions remain unanswered, such as whether we correctly understand the causal pathways and what the mechanisms producing local adaptation are, but the strength of correlations between social and ecological parameters is striking.
The hypothalamus controls the release of hormones by the pituitary and is involved in control of food and water intake, sexual behavior, reproduction and daily cycles in physiological state and behavior, temperature regulation and emotional responses. Adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) and its metabolic products contribute to these functions, acting as agonists for adenosine and P2Y receptors and two-transmembrane domain P2X receptor channels. This review summarizes the recent findings on purinergic receptor expression and their roles in signaling and cellular function in secretory and supporting cells of the hypothalamopituitary system. ATP secretion by these tissues, the enzymes involved in ATP hydrolysis, and the relevance of this pathway for sequential activation of receptors and termination of signaling are also discussed.
Cognitive neuroscience research relies, in part, on homologies between the brains of human and non-human primates. A quandary therefore arises when presumed anatomical homologues exhibit different functional properties. Such a situation has recently arisen in the case of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). In humans, numerous studies suggest a role for ACC in detecting conflicts in information processing. Studies of macaque monkey ACC, in contrast, have failed to find conflict-related responses. We consider several interpretations of this discrepancy, including differences in research methodology and cross-species differences in functional neuroanatomy. New directions for future research are outlined, emphasizing the importance of distinguishing illusory cross-species differences from the true evolutionary differences that make our species unique.
Glioblastoma brain tumors harbor a small population of cancer stem cells that are resistant to conventional chemotherapeutic and radiation treatments, and are believed responsible for tumor recurrence and mortality. The identification of the epigenetic molecular mechanisms that control self-renewal of glioblastoma stem cells will foster development of targeted therapeutic approaches. The transcriptional repressor REST, best known for its role in controlling cell fate decisions in neural progenitor cells, may also be crucial for cancer stem cell self-renewal. Two novel mechanisms for regulating the stability of REST have recently been revealed: these involve the telomere-binding protein TRF2 and the ubiquitin E3 ligase SCFbeta-TrCP. Reduced TRF2 binding to REST, and increased SCFbeta-TrCP activity, target REST for proteasomal degradation and thereby inhibit cancer stem cell proliferation. Neurological side effects of treatments that target REST and TRF2 may be less severe than conventional brain tumor treatments because postmitotic neurons do not express REST and have relatively stable telomeres.
Glial activation participates in the mediation of pain including neuropathic pain, due to release of neuroexcitatory, proinflammatory products. Glial activation is now known to occur in response to opioids as well. Opioid-induced glial activation opposes opioid analgesia and enhances opioid tolerance, dependence, reward and respiratory depression. Such effects can occur, not via classical opioid receptors, but rather via non-stereoselective activation of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), a recently recognized key glial receptor participating in neuropathic pain as well. This discovery identifies a means for separating the beneficial actions of opioids (opioid receptor mediated) from the unwanted side-effects (TLR4/glial mediated) by pharmacologically targeting TLR4. Such a drug should be a stand-alone therapeutic for treating neuropathic pain as well. Excitingly, with newly-established clinical trials of two glial modulators for treating neuropathic pain and improving the utility of opioids, translation from rats-to-humans now begins with the promise of improved clinical pain control.
We compared the sensitivity of adults and children aged 3-10 years to first- and second-order motion and form. For first-order stimuli, at all ages sensitivity was better for motion than form, and motion thresholds were better at 6 Hz than at 1.5 Hz. For second-order stimuli, at all ages sensitivity was better for form than motion, and motion thresholds were better at 0.25 cyc/deg than at 1 cyc/deg. Thresholds became adult-like later for motion than for form and later for first-order than second-order stimuli. For first-order stimuli, the changes with age were larger and more protracted.
The vertebrate retina and hypothalamus, which emerge from adjacent regions of the ventral diencephalon, provide accessible experimental systems for analysis of the molecular mechanisms by which neuronal subtype diversity is specified, and how this neuronal subtype diversity regulates perception and behavior. Although the retina emerges as a lateral extension of the hypothalamus prior to the onset of neurogenesis, the retina and hypothalamus go on to eventually be comprised of almost entirely different cell types, and differ extensively in the spatial organization, function, and connectivity of these cells. Despite these differences in cell composition, there are a number of mechanistic and molecular similarities in the process of cell fate specification in both organs, including a stereotyped temporal sequence in which major cell types are generated. Although a handful of genes have been identified in both systems that direct cell fate specification, many more remain to be characterized, and large numbers of candidate genes have been identified in recent high-throughput screens, particularly in retina. Experimental challenges for the near future include functional analysis of the genes identified so far, and the use of the molecular pathways gained from analysis of the development of specific neuronal lineages to study the contribution of these cells to perception and behavior.
PICK1 (protein interacting with C kinase 1) contains a PDZ (PSD-95/Dlg/ZO1) domain and a BAR (Bin/amphiphysin/Rvs) domain. Via the PDZ domain, PICK1 interacts directly with more than 40 proteins. Among these interacting proteins, some are important for physiological and pathophysiological processes of central nervous system. In this review, recent findings about how PICK1 is associated with central nervous system diseases are summarize.
Glial scar formed by central nervous system (CNS) injury is the main inhibitory barrier of nerve regeneration. How to promote axonal regeneration after injury,how to accelerate neural network reconstruction and how to improve brain function recovery have become a hot problem to be solved in the field of neuroscience. This article focuses on the recent advances of therapeutic strategies for axonal regeneration.
Deep brain stimulation has drawn more and more concerns as a method to treat neuropsychological diseases. Compared with surgery and other methods using electrical stimulation, deep brain stimulation has advantages of clear targets, high selectivity, reversibility, titratability and non-ablation. A large body of clinical trials has shown that deep brain stimulation targeting various brain structures is able to alleviate the symptoms of Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, chronic pain and depression that are intractable with medicines and other methods, with few complications or side effects. Deep brain stimulation is now emerging as a promising approach for the treatment of resistant neuropsychological diseases.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNA and play an essential role in gene regulation. In this study, we investigated regulation of gene expression during neuronal differentiation of mouse P19 embryonic carcinoma cells and described a systematic pathway of gene regulation involving miRNAs. In the pathway, downregulation of Lin28 involved in blocking the let-7 maturation and upregulation of let-7 occur following induction of the differentiation, thereby triggering suppression of the downstream High Mobility Group A2 (Hmga2) gene expression via activation of gene silencing mediated by let-7. Our data further suggest that miR-9, as well as miR-125b, participate in the reduction of the Lin28 expression. The gene regulation involving miRNAs likely contributes to a rapid and programmed change in gene expression in neuronal differentiation of P19 cells.


The study of human behaviour ultimately requires the documentation of human movement. In some instances movements can be recorded through a simple button press on a computer input device. In other situations responses can be captured through questionnaire surveys. Nevertheless, there is a need within many neuroscience settings to capture how complex movements unfold over time (human kinematics). Current methods of measuring human kinematics range from accurate but multifarious laboratory configurations to portable but simplistic and time-consuming paper and pen methods. We describe a new system for recording the end-point of human movement that has the power of laboratory measures but the advantages of pen-and-paper tests: the Kinematic Assessment Tool. KAT provides a highly portable system capable of measuring human movement in configurable visual-spatial tasks. The usefulness of the system is shown in a study where 12 participants undertook a tracing and copying task using their preferred and non-preferred hand. The results show that it is possible to capture behaviour within complex tasks and quantify performance using objective measures automatically generated by the KAT system. The utility of these measures was indexed by our ability to distinguish the performance of the preferred and non-preferred hand using a single variable.
Tracing the centerline of the dendritic arbor of neurons is a powerful technique for analyzing neuronal morphology. In the various neuron tracing algorithms in use nowadays, the competing goals of computational efficiency and robustness are generally traded off against each other. We present a novel method for tracing the centerline of a neuron from confocal image stacks, which provides an optimal balance between these objectives. Using only local information, thin cross-sectional layers of voxels ('scoops') are iteratively carved out of the structure, and clustered based on connectivity. Each cluster contributes a node along the centerline, which is created by connecting successive nodes until all object voxels are exhausted. While data segmentation is independent of this algorithm, we illustrate the use of the ISODATA method to achieve dynamic (local) segmentation. Diameter estimation at each node is calculated using the Rayburst Sampling algorithm, and spurious end nodes caused by surface irregularities are then removed. On standard computing hardware the algorithm can process hundreds of thousands of voxels per second, easily handling the multi-gigabyte datasets resulting from high-resolution confocal microscopy imaging of neurons. This method provides an accurate and efficient means for centerline extraction that is suitable for interactive neuron tracing applications.
Two-dimensional (2-D) electrophoresis remains a primary resolving tool for proteomic analyses. The final number of proteins resolved by 2-D electrophoresis depends on their respective solubility, size, charge, and isoelectric point. While water-soluble cytosolic proteins have often been well represented in 2-D maps, the same is not true with membrane proteins. Highly hydrophobic in nature, membrane proteins are poorly resolved in 2-D gels due to problems associated primarily with sample preparation. This is of especial concern in neuroscience studies where many proteins of interest are membrane bound. In the current work, we present a substantially improved sample preparation protocol for membrane proteins utilizing the GLUT-1 glucose transporter from brain microvessels as an example of a typical membrane protein. GLUT-1 (SLC2A1; solute carrier family 2 (facilitated glucose transporter), member 1) is a 55kD glycoprotein that contains 12 membrane-spanning alpha helices that impart the protein its characteristic hydrophobicity. GLUT-1 based on its amino acid sequence has a theoretical isoelectric point (pI) of 8.94. Using a combination of the non-ionic detergents, n-dodecyl-beta-maltoside (DDM) and amido sulphobetaine-14 (ASB-14) for sample solubilization, and a modification of the Bio-Rad 2-D clean-up protocol involving trichloroacetic acid (TCA)/acetone, we obtained near complete solubilization of GLUT-1 and greater than 90% recovery of this membrane protein in 1-D and 2-D Western blots. The total number of proteins resolved also increased dramatically in Deep Purple total protein stains using our improved protocol.
For ultrastructural studies, it is of great interest to be able to combine anatomical tracer techniques with sensitive immunohistochemical methods. Fluorogold (FG) is a fluorescent and retrogradely transported anatomical tracer, which is commonly used to label neurons in the brain and spinal cord for light microscopic studies. We here describe a method for detecting FG-labeled somata in the electron microscope using a high resolution post-embedding immuno-gold method. For this purpose, spinal motoneurons were retrogradely labeled by an intraperitoneal injection of FG in the adult rat. The rats were intravascularly perfused with a fixative solution containing 2% paraformaldehyde and 1-2% glutaraldehyde. Vibratome sections of spinal cord tissues were cryo-protected in glycerol, freeze substituted in methanol containing uranyl acetate, and embedded in the Lowicryl HM20 resin at low temperatures. Electron microscopic analysis demonstrated atypical lysosome-like structures in the cytoplasm of FG-labeled motoneurons. Subsequent post-embedding immuno-gold labeling demonstrated prominent accumulation of FG in numerous lysosomes but not in other organelles or cytoplasmic compartments of the labeled neurons. The protocol is versatile and allows for combining anatomical tracing of neurons with, e.g., neuro-transmitter studies in the electron microscope. We suggest that the described method for sensitive detection of FG in the spinal cord may also have broad applicability to other areas of the central nervous system.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an increasingly used surgical therapy for a range of neurological disorders involving the long-term electrical stimulation of various regions of the human brain in a disorder specific manner. Despite being used for the last 20 years, the underlying mechanisms are still not known, and disputed. In particular, when the electrodes are implanted into the human brain, an interface is created with changing biophysical properties which may impact on stimulation. We previously defined the electrode-brain interface (EBI) as consisting of three structural elements: the quadripolar DBS electrode, the peri-electrode space and the surrounding brain tissue. In order to understand more about the nature of this EBI, we used structural computational models of this interface, and estimated the effects of stimulation using coupled axon models. These finite element models differ in complexity, each highlighting a different feature of the EBI's effect on the DBS-induced electric field. We show that the quasi-static models are sufficient to demonstrate the difference between the acute and chronic clinical stages post-implantation. However, the frequency-dependent models are necessary as the waveform shaping has a major influence on the activation of neuronal fibres. We also investigate anatomical effects on the electric field, by taking specific account of the ventricular system in the human brain. Taken together, these models allow us to visualise the static, dynamic and target specific properties of the DBS-induced field in the surrounding brain regions.
Powerline contamination of recorded signals represents a major source of noise in electrophysiology and impairs the use of recordings for research. In this article we present simple and effective method for cancelling 50 Hz (or 60 Hz) noise using a reference noise signal and average noise cycle subtraction. This method is capable of reliably removing not only the fundamental powerline frequency but also its harmonic frequencies. The efficiency of this method appears to be superior to other commonly used methods such as notch filtering or adaptive filtering. Our experience and results show that this method can be efficiently used with very low signal-to-noise ratios, while preserving original signal waveform.
Mutations in GTP-cyclohydrolase 1 (GCH1) cause autosomal dominant dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD), characterized by childhood-onset foot dystonia that later generalizes. DRD patients frequently present with associated Parkinsonism. Conversely, early-onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD) patients commonly display dystonia. Herein, we investigated the frequency of GCH1 mutations in a series of 53 familial EOPD patients (21 with dystonia) and screened them for mutations in PRKN, PINK1, and DJ-1. In addition, we examined a matched EOPD patient-control series for association of common variability at the GCH1 locus and EOPD susceptibility. No GCH1 coding change or copy-number abnormality was identified in familial EOPD patients. A novel 18-bp deletion was found in the proximal promoter (two patients, one control), which is expected to knock out two regulatory elements previously shown to regulate GCH1 transcription. No association was found between GCH1 variability and risk of EOPD. Fourteen (26.4%) familial EOPD patients had homozygous or compound heterozygous PRKN mutations. PRKN-positive patients were 10 years younger than PRKN-negative patients and had a twofold higher prevalence of dystonia. This study does not support a significant role for genetic variation at the GCH1 locus in EOPD. However, our results further highlight the relevance of PRKN screening in familial EOPD.
Recent studies suggest that cross-frequency coupling supports the integration of distinct neuronal oscillatory modes. In particular, spectral coupling between slow-wave delta and fast-wave beta oscillations may reflect subcortical-cortical interactions. Prior experiments have shown that delta-beta coupling appears to be sensitive to steroid hormone patterning. We attempted to extend this hypothesis by examining the relation between delta-beta EEG spectral coupling and endogenous testosterone measures in men. We collected resting regional brain electrical (EEG) activity and salivary testosterone from 34 healthy young adult males (M age=24 years). Males with high testosterone showed non-significant delta-beta coupling (delta-beta decoupling), while males with low testosterone exhibited significant delta-beta coupling. These relations were only found for the frontal brain region. There was also a significant group difference in the magnitude of coupling, but no differences in absolute delta and beta power. Findings are discussed in terms of emerging evidence relating steroid hormones to cross-frequency spectral coupling and directions for future work.

We aimed to assess the volume of the nucleus caudatus as a neuroanatomical substrate of fronto-subcortical circuits, in stroke patients with/without dementia, and the relationship to potential determinants of neural circuit integrity such as white matter hyperintensities (WMH) and stroke volume. Stroke only (Stroke) (n=19) and stroke with Vascular Dementia (VaD) (n=16) and healthy control (n=20) subjects, matched on demographic variables, underwent extensive neuropsychiatric assessments and manual MRI-based volumetric measurements for intracranial area (ICA), stroke volume, and bilateral caudate volume. WMH on MRI were quantified using an automated algorithm. Multivariate analysis of covariance (controlling for age and ICA), revealed that across the three groups, caudate volumes were significantly different. There was a significant difference in bilateral caudate nucleus volume between subjects by diagnosis (Stroke, VaD, control). The control group was largest in overall mean volume of the diagnostic groups, followed by the Stroke group (86% of controls), and finally, the VaD group (72%). There was a partial correlation between total caudate volume and the total volume of deep WMH including periventricular regions and brainstem, controlling for ICA; and for total stroke volume. Stroke patients with VaD have smaller caudate nuclei compared to those without dementia and healthy controls, with the stroke-only patients being intermediate in their caudate volume status. There was preliminary evidence of negative correlation of caudate volume with volume of deep WMH and total stroke volume, suggesting cerebrovascular disease contributes to caudate atrophy,which, in turn may disrupt fronto-subcortical circuits.
Cognitive dysfunction is a chronically disabling feature of schizophrenia, associated with limits in obtaining rehabilitation improvements. The purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness of intensive computer-aided cognitive remediation treatment (CRT) added to a standard rehabilitation treatment (SRT), in enhancing neuropsychological performances and daily functioning in patients with schizophrenia. A 12-week, randomized, controlled, single-blind trial of neurocognitive remediation was carried out on 86 patients with clinically stabilized DSM-IV schizophrenia. Patients were assessed on cognitive and daily functioning before and after either CRT or placebo training that had been added to their SRT. After 3 months the repeated measure ANOVA showed a significant time x treatment interaction for executive function and attention performances and in daily functioning assessment in favour of patients in the SRT+CRT treatment. Results confirmed that cognitive remediation added to the SRT of schizophrenia enhanced its neuropsychological effects and increased the effects of a long-term rehabilitation programme in terms of functional outcomes.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is an established technique in cognitive neuroscience which is used to interrupt processing in the brain, creating a brief 'virtual lesion'. Here, we review recent studies that have employed TMS to gain insight into the roles of frontal and parietal cortex in visuospatial attention control.
In this review we report novel sensitive imaging biomarkers for Parkinson's disease (PD) and its atypical variants. Diffusion tensor imaging and transcranial brain sonography are potentially promising techniques that can differentiate typical PD from atypical variants (multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy) and from benign tremor disorders. Non-motor symptoms, such as dementia, depression, and sleep disruption, are often more distressing to PD patients than their slowness and stiffness. Dopamine replacement treatment can also lead to complications such as dyskinesias, impulse control disorders, and psychosis. Recent positron emission tomography studies have helped to clarify the physiopathological mechanisms underlying dementia and compulsive gambling in PD and provide a rationale for therapeutic strategies.
Brainstem and midbrain areas engage descending facilitatory and inhibitory neurones to potentiate or suppress the passage of sensory inputs from spinal loci to the brain. The balance between descending controls, both excitatory and inhibitory, can be altered in various pain states and can critically determine the efficacy of certain analgesic drugs. There is good evidence for a prominent (2) adrenoceptor-mediated inhibitory system and for 5-HT(3) receptor-mediated excitatory control of spinal cord activity that originates in supraspinal areas. Given the multiple roles of these transmitters in pain and functions such as sleep, depression, and anxiety, the link between spinal and supraspinal processing of noxious inputs (via the monoamine transmitters) could be pivotal for linking the sensory and affective components of pain and their common co-morbidities, and also may potentially explain differences in pain scores and treatment outcomes in the patient population.
GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) is predominantly released by local interneurons in the cerebral cortex to particular subcellular domains of the target cells. This suggests that compartmentalized, synapse-specific action of GABA is required in cortical networks for phasic inhibition. However, GABA released at the synaptic cleft diffuses to receptors outside the postsynaptic density and thus tonically activates extrasynaptic GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors, which include subtypes of both receptor families especially sensitive to low concentrations of GABA. The synaptic and extrasynaptic action of GABA corroborates the idea that neurons of the brain use synaptic (or wiring) transmission and non-synaptic (or volume) transmission for communication. However, re-uptake mechanisms restrict the spatial extent of extrasynaptic GABA-mediated effects, and it has been proposed that the concerted action of several presynaptic interneurons, the sustained firing of individual cells or an increase in release-site density is required to reach ambient GABA levels sufficient to activate extrasynaptic receptors. Here we show that individual neurogliaform cells release enough GABA for volume transmission within the axonal cloud and, thus, that neurogliaform cells do not require synapses to produce inhibitory responses in the overwhelming majority of nearby neurons. Neurogliaform cells suppress connections between other neurons acting on presynaptic terminals that do not receive synapses at all in the cerebral cortex. They also reach extrasynaptic, delta-subunit-containing GABA(A) (GABA(Adelta)) receptors responsible for tonic inhibition. We show that GABA(Adelta) receptors are localized to neurogliaform cells preferentially among cortical interneurons. Neurosteroids, which are modulators of GABA(Adelta) receptors, alter unitary GABA-mediated effects between neurogliaform cells. In contrast to the specifically placed synapses formed by other interneurons, the output of neurosteroid-sensitive neurogliaform cells represents the ultimate form of the lack of spatial specificity in GABA-mediated systems, leading to long-lasting network hyperpolarization combined with widespread suppression of communication in the local circuit.

Theta oscillations are believed to play an important role in the coordination of neuronal firing in the entorhinal (EC)-hippocampal system but the underlying mechanisms are not known. We simultaneously recorded from neurons in multiple regions of the EC-hippocampal loop and examined their temporal relationships. Theta-coordinated synchronous spiking of EC neuronal populations predicted the timing of current sinks in target layers in the hippocampus. However, the temporal delays between population activities in successive anatomical stages were longer (typically by a half theta cycle) than expected from axon conduction velocities and passive synaptic integration of feed-forward excitatory inputs. We hypothesize that the temporal windows set by the theta cycles allow for local circuit interactions and thus a considerable degree of computational independence in subdivisions of the EC-hippocampal loop.
Modification of NMDA receptor function and trafficking contributes to the regulation of synaptic transmission and is important for several forms of synaptic plasticity. Here, we report that NMDA receptor subunits NR2A and NR2B have two distinct clusters of palmitoylation sites in their C-terminal region. Palmitoylation within the first cluster on a membrane-proximal region increases tyrosine phosphorylation of tyrosine-based internalization motifs by Src family protein tyrosine kinases, leading to enhanced stable surface expression of NMDA receptors. In addition, palmitoylation of these sites regulates constitutive internalization of the NMDA receptor in developing neurons. In marked contrast, palmitoylation of the second cluster in the middle of C terminus by distinct palmitoyl transferases causes receptors to accumulate in the Golgi apparatus and reduces receptor surface expression. These data suggest that regulated palmitoylation of NR2 subunits differentially modulates receptor trafficking and might be important for NMDA-receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity.
Despite advances in promoting axonal regeneration after acute spinal cord injury (SCI), elicitation of bridging axon regeneration after chronic SCI remains a formidable challenge. We report that combinatorial therapies administered 6 weeks, and as long as 15 months, after SCI promote axonal regeneration into and beyond a midcervical lesion site. Provision of peripheral nerve conditioning lesions, grafts of marrow stromal cells, and establishment of NT-3 gradients supports bridging regeneration. Controls receiving partial components of the full combination fail to exhibit bridging. Notably, intraneuronal molecular mechanisms recruited by delayed therapies mirror those of acute injury, including activation of transcriptional activators and regeneration-associated genes. Collectively, these findings provide evidence that regeneration is achievable at unprecedented postinjury time points.
Retinotopic maps form prior to the development of vision, when retinal waves serve as a robust source of correlated neural activity. Two recent studies provide critical insights into the features of retinal waves that may be instructive for the formation of retinotopic maps.
Regulation of nuclear movement is a critical event in neurogenesis and neuronal migration during brain development. In this issue of Neuron, Zhang et al. identify a role for SUN and the KASH-domain-containing nuclear membrane proteins as the long-sought linker between microtubules and the nucleus during brain development.


The performance of mice expressing PDAPP (+/+ or +/-) was studied in the Morris place navigation task. Different lines of questions were investigated using PDAPP+/- mice in which the activity of the cytokine Tumor Necrosing Factor alpha (TNFalpha) was attenuated by chronic treatment with anti-TNF or deleting TNFalpha (TNF-/-). Two different categories of behavior were analyzed in adult (6 months) and middle aged (15 months) subjects. Classically, the cognitive performance was assessed from the escape efficacy and quantitative bias toward the training position in a Morris water maze. Second, stereotyped circling was quantified, along with more qualitative behavioral impairments such as self-mutilation or increased reactivity. Our results can be summarized as follows. (1) All of the PDAPP mice expressed reduced cognitive performance in the Morris task, but only those with a clear-cut amyloid burden in the hippocampus showed behavioral abnormalities such as stereotyped circling. (2) Chronic treatment with anti-TNF prevented the development of pathological circling in the 6-month-old mice but not in the 15-month-old mice and had no significant effect on amyloid burden. (3) The absence of TNFalpha prevented the development of stereotyped circling in 6- and 15-month-old mice but increased amyloid burden after 15 months. These data indicate that PDAPP mice express cognitive impairments disregarding absence of TNF. The pathological behavioral anomalies related to the PDAPP mutation seem reduced by treatments interfering with TNFalpha.
In order to understand relationships between executive and structural deficits in the frontal cortex of patients within normal aging or Alzheimer's disease, we studied frontal pathological changes in young and old controls compared to cases with sporadic (AD) or familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). We performed a semi-automatic computer assisted analysis of the distribution of beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposits revealed by Abeta immunostaining as well as of neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) revealed by Gallyas silver staining in Brodman areas 10 (frontal polar), 12 (ventro-infero-median) and 24 (anterior cingular), using tissue samples from 5 FAD, 6 sporadic AD and 10 control brains. We also performed densitometric measurements of glial fibrillary acidic protein, principal compound of intermediate filaments of astrocytes, and of phosphorylated neurofilament H and M epitopes in areas 10 and 24. All regions studied seem almost completely spared in normal old controls, with only the oldest ones exhibiting a weak percentage of beta-amyloid deposit and hardly any NFT. On the contrary, all AD and FAD cases were severely damaged as shown by statistically significant increased percentages of beta-amyloid deposit, as well as by a high number of NFT. FAD cases (all from the same family) had statistically more beta-amyloid and GFAP than sporadic AD cases in both areas 10 and 24 and statistically more NFT only in area 24. The correlation between the percentage of beta-amyloid and the number of NFT was significant only for area 24. Altogether, these data suggest that the frontal cortex can be spared by AD type lesions in normal aging, but is severely damaged in sporadic and still more in familial Alzheimer's disease. The frontal regions appear to be differentially vulnerable, with area 12 having the less amyloid burden, area 24 the less NFT and area 10 having both more amyloid and more NFT. This pattern of damage in frontal regions may represent a strong neuroanatomical support for the deterioration of attention and cognitive capacities as well as for the presence of emotional and behavioral troubles in AD patients.
The presenilin-1 gene is mutated in early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease. The mutation Pro117Leu is implicated in a very severe form of the disease, with an onset of less than 30 years. The consequences of this mutation on neurogenesis in the hippocampus of adult transgenic mice have already been studied in situ. The survival of neural progenitor cells was impaired resulting in decreased neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus. Our intention was to verify if similar alterations could occur in vitro in progenitor cells from the murine ganglionic eminences isolated from embryos of this same transgenic mouse model. These cells were grown in culture as neurospheres and after differentiation the percentage of neurons generated as well as their morphology were analysed. The mutation results in a significant decrease in neurogenesis compared to the wild type mice and the neurons grow longer and more ramified neurites. A shift of differentiation towards gliogenesis was observed that could explain decreased neurogenesis despite increased proliferation of neural precursors in transgenic neurospheres. A diminished survival of the newly generated mutant neurons is also proposed. Our data raise the possibility that these alterations in embryonic development might contribute to increase the severity of the Alzheimer's disease phenotype later in adulthood.
Protein oxidation and ubiquitination of brain proteins are part of mechanisms that modulate protein function or that inactivate proteins and target misfolded proteins to degradation. In this study, we focused on brain aging and on mechanism involved in neurodegeneration such as events occurring in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The goal was to identify differences in nitrosylated proteins - at cysteine residues, and in the composition of ubiquinated proteins between aging and Alzheimer's samples by using a proteomic approach. A polyclonal anti-S-nitrosyl-cysteine, a mono- and a polyclonal anti-ubiquitin antibody were used for the detection of modified or ubiquitinated proteins in middle-aged and aged human entorhinal autopsy brains tissues of 14 subjects without neurological signs and 8 Alzheimer's patients. Proteins were separated by one- and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and analyzed by Coomassie blue and immuno-blot staining. We identified that the glial fibrillary acidic and tau proteins are more ubiquitinated in brain tissues of Alzheimer's patients. Furthermore, glial fibrillary proteins were also found in nitrosylated state and further characterized by 2D Western blots and identified. Since reactive astrocytes localized prominently around senile plaques one can speculate that elements of plaques such as beta-amyloid proteins may activate surrounding glial elements and proteins.
The apical dendrite of layer 2/3 pyramidal cells in the piriform cortex receives two spatially distinct inputs: one projecting onto the distal apical dendrite in sensory layer 1a, the other targeting the proximal apical dendrite in layer 1b. We observe an expression gradient of A-type K(+) channels that weakens the backpropagating action potential-mediated depolarization in layer 1a compared with layer 1b. We find that the pairing of presynaptic and postsynaptic firing leads to significantly smaller Ca(2+) signals in the distal dendritic spines in layer 1a compared with the proximal spines in layer 1b. The consequence is a selective failure to induce long-term potentiation (LTP) in layer 1a, which can be rescued by pharmacological enhancement of action potential backpropagation. In contrast, LTP induction by pairing presynaptic and postsynaptic firing is possible in layer 1b but requires bursting of the postsynaptic cell. This output mode strongly depends on the balance of excitation and inhibition in the piriform cortex. We show, on the single-spine level, how the plasticity of functionally distinct synapses is gated by the intrinsic electrical properties of piriform cortex layer 2 pyramidal cell dendrites and the cellular output mode.
Growth/differentiation factor-15 (GDF-15) is a widely expressed distant member of the TGF-beta superfamily with prominent neurotrophic effects on midbrain dopaminergic neurons. We show here that GDF-15-deficient mice exhibit progressive postnatal losses of spinal, facial, and trigeminal motoneurons. This deficit reaches a approximately 20% maximum at 6 months and is accompanied by losses of motor axons and significant impairment of rotarod skills. Similarly, sensory neurons in dorsal root ganglia (L4, L5) are reduced by 20%, whereas sympathetic neurons are not affected. GDF-15 is expressed and secreted by Schwann cells, retrogradely transported along adult sciatic nerve axons, and promotes survival of axotomized facial neurons as well as cultured motor, sensory, and sympathetic neurons. Despite striking similarities in the GDF-15 and CNTF knock-out phenotypes, expression levels of CNTF and other neurotrophic factors in the sciatic nerve were unaltered suggesting that GDF-15 is a genuine novel trophic factor for motor and sensory neurons.
A fundamental question in neuroscience concerns the relation between the spiking of individual neurons and the aggregate electrical activity of neuronal ensembles as seen in local field potentials (LFPs). Because LFPs reflect both spiking activity and subthreshold events, this question is not simply one of data aggregation. Recording from 20 neurosurgical patients, we directly examined the relation between LFPs and neuronal spiking. Examining 2030 neurons in widespread brain regions, we found that firing rates were positively correlated with broadband (2-150 Hz) shifts in the LFP power spectrum. In contrast, narrowband oscillations correlated both positively and negatively with firing rates at different recording sites. Broadband power shifts were a more reliable predictor of neuronal spiking than narrowband power shifts. These findings suggest that broadband LFP power provides valuable information concerning neuronal activity beyond that contained in narrowband oscillations.
Accumulation of the synaptic protein alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) is a hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD) and Lewy body disease (LBD), a heterogeneous group of disorders with dementia and parkinsonism, where Alzheimer's disease and PD interact. Accumulation of alpha-syn in these patients might be associated with alterations in the autophagy pathway. Therefore, we postulate that delivery of beclin 1, a regulator of the autophagy pathway, might constitute a strategy toward developing a therapy for LBD/PD. Overexpression of alpha-syn from lentivirus transduction in a neuronal cell line resulted in lysosomal accumulation and alterations in autophagy. Coexpression of beclin 1 activated autophagy, reduced accumulation of alpha-syn, and ameliorated associated neuritic alterations. The effects of beclin 1 overexpression on LC3 and alpha-syn accumulation were partially blocked by 3-MA and completely blocked by bafilomycin A1. In contrast, rapamycin enhanced the effects of beclin 1. To evaluate the potential effects of activating autophagy in vivo, a lentivirus expressing beclin 1 was delivered to the brain of a alpha-syn transgenic mouse. Neuropathological analysis demonstrated that beclin 1 injections ameliorated the synaptic and dendritic pathology in the tg mice and reduced the accumulation of alpha-syn in the limbic system without any significant deleterious effects. This was accompanied by enhanced lysosomal activation and reduced alterations in the autophagy pathway. Thus, beclin 1 plays an important role in the intracellular degradation of alpha-syn either directly or indirectly through the autophagy pathway and may present a novel therapeutic target for LBD/PD.
Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules have fundamental functions in the immune system. Recent studies have suggested that these molecules may also have non-immune functions in the nervous system, in particular related to synaptic function and plasticity. Because adult motoneurons express mRNAs for MHC class I molecules, we have examined their subcellular expression pattern in vivo and their role for the synaptic connectivity of these neurons. We observed immunoreactivity for classical MHC class I (Ia) protein in motoneuron somata, but the predominant expression was found in axons and presynaptically at neuromuscular junctions (NMJs). Peripheral nerve lesion induced a strong increase of motoneuron MHC class Ia (H2-K(b)/D(b)) mRNA, indicating a role for MHC class Ia molecules during regeneration. Accordingly, there was an accumulation of MHC class Ia proteins at the cut ends and in growth cones of motor axons after lesion. In K(b-/-)D(b-/-) mice (lacking MHC class Ia molecules), the time course for recovery of grip ability in reinnervated muscles was significantly delayed. Muscles from K(b-/-)D(b-/-) mice displayed an increased density and a disturbed distribution of NMJs and fewer terminal Schwann cells/NMJ compared with wild-type mice. A population of Schwann cells in sciatic nerves expressed the paired Ig receptor B, which binds to MHC class I molecules. These results provide the first evidence that neuronal MHC class Ia molecules are present in motor axons, that they are important for organization of NMJs and motor recovery after nerve lesion, and that their actions may be mediated via Schwann cells.
Viewing our interlocutor facilitates speech perception, unlike for instance when we telephone. Several neural routes and mechanisms could account for this phenomenon. Using magnetoencephalography, we show that when seeing the interlocutor, latencies of auditory responses (M100) are the shorter the more predictable speech is from visual input, whether the auditory signal was congruent or not. Incongruence of auditory and visual input affected auditory responses approximately 20 ms after latency shortening was detected, indicating that initial content-dependent auditory facilitation by vision is followed by a feedback signal that reflects the error between expected and received auditory input (prediction error). We then used functional magnetic resonance imaging and confirmed that distinct routes of visual information to auditory processing underlie these two functional mechanisms. Functional connectivity between visual motion and auditory areas depended on the degree of visual predictability, whereas connectivity between the superior temporal sulcus and both auditory and visual motion areas was driven by audiovisual (AV) incongruence. These results establish two distinct mechanisms by which the brain uses potentially predictive visual information to improve auditory perception. A fast direct corticocortical pathway conveys visual motion parameters to auditory cortex, and a slower and indirect feedback pathway signals the error between visual prediction and auditory input.

The integrity of the rodent anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is essential for various aspects of instrumental behavior, but it is not clear if the ACC is important for the acquisition of a simple instrumental response. Here, it was demonstrated that post-session infusions of anisomycin into the rat ACC completely prevented the acquisition of instrumental responding. The experimental use of post-session intracranial infusions of plasticity inhibitors is assumed to affect local consolidation of plasticity, but not behavioral task performance. However, in associative appetitive conditioning, post-session intracranial infusion of pharmaco-active compounds could actually interfere with subsequent task performance indirectly through retrospective effects on the valuation of ingested rewards. Thus, it was subsequently demonstrated that the intracranial infusion of anisomycin into the ACC after sucrose pellet consumption significantly reduced subsequent pellet consumption, suggesting that the infusion of anisomycin into the ACC produced conditioned taste avoidance. In the third experiment, an innovative procedure was introduced that dissociated the effects of intracranial infusions after conditioning sessions on task-learning and unconditioned stimulus valuation. With this procedure, the infusion of anisomycin into the ACC after instrumental sessions did not affect instrumental reinforcer valuation or the acquisition of instrumental responding, suggesting that plasticity in the ACC is not necessary for the acquisition of instrumental behavior.
Although the amygdala seems to be essential to the formation and storage of fear memories, it might store only some aspects of the aversive event and facilitate the storage of more specific sensory aspects in cortical areas. We addressed the time course of amygdala and cortical activation in the context of odor fear conditioning in rats. Using high temporal resolution (1-min sampling) intracerebral microdialysis, we investigated the dynamics of glutamate and GABA fluctuations simultaneously in basolateral amygdala (BLA) and posterior piriform cortex (pPCx) during the course of the acquisition session, which consisted of six odor (conditioned stimulus)-footshock (unconditioned stimulus) pairings. In BLA, we observed a transient increase in amino acid concentrations following the first odor-shock pairing, after which concentrations returned to baseline levels or slightly below. In pPCx, transient increases were seen after each pairing and were also observed after the last odor-shock pairing, corresponding to the predicted times of anticipated trials. Furthermore, we observed that for the first pairing, the increase in BLA occurred earlier than the increase in pPCx. These data suggest that the amygdala is engaged early during acquisition and precedes the activation of the olfactory cortex, which is maintained until the end of the session. In addition, our data raise the challenging idea that the olfactory cortex might store certain aspects of fear conditioning related to the timing of the associations.
The exact contribution of Broca's area to motor cognition is still controversial. Here we used repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (5 Hz, five pulses) to interfere transiently with the function of left BA44 in 13 healthy individuals; the task consisted of reordering human actions or nonbiological events based on three pictures presented on a computer screen and extracted from a video showing the entire sequence beforehand. We found that a virtual lesion of left BA44 impairs individual performance only for biological actions, and more specifically for object-oriented syntactic actions. Our finding provides evidence that Broca's area plays a crucial role in encoding complex human movements, a process which may be crucial for understanding and/or programming actions.
Herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1) infection of human brain cells induces changes in gene expression favorable to the propagation of the infecting agent and detrimental to the function of the host cells. We report that infection of human primary neural cells with a high phenotypic reactivator HSV-1 (17syn+) induces upregulation of a brain-enriched microRNA (miRNA)-146a that is associated with proinflammatory signaling in stressed brain cells and Alzheimer's disease. Expression of cytoplasmic phospholipase A2, the inducible prostaglandin synthase cyclooxygenase-2, and the neuroinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta were each upregulated. A known miRNA-146a target in the brain, complement factor H, was downregulated. These data suggest a role for HSV-1-induced miRNA-146a in the evasion of HSV-1 from the complement system, and the activation of key elements of the arachidonic acid cascade known to contribute to Alzheimer-type neuropathological change.
Schedule of exposure to similar stimuli contributes to the degree of perceptual learning over and above the amount of exposure in a variety of species and stimuli. In an event-related functional MRI study, investigating schedule and stimulus effects in perceptual learning, we found that intermixed presentation (A, B, A, B ...) resulted in better subsequent discrimination than blocked presentation (C, C ... D, D ...) for face and checkerboard stimuli, despite being matched for the number of exposures. Exposure schedule resulted in differential activation in the same early visual regions in both types of stimuli. There was evidence of material-specific activation in the fusiform face area for faces but not for checkerboards, suggesting that material-specific mechanisms are recruited alongside more material-independent mechanisms in perceptual learning.
Two reactive oxygen species (ROS), nitric oxide (NO(.)) and superoxide ((.)O2), contribute to persistent pain. Using three different animal models where ROS mediate pain, this study examined whether NO(.) and (.)O2 converge to peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) or whether each has an independent signaling pathway to produce hyperalgesia. The hyperalgesia after spinal nerve ligation was attenuated by removing (.)O2 by TEMPOL or inhibiting NO(.) production by L-NAME, but not by removing peroxynitrite with FeTMPyP. Nitric oxide-induced hyperalgesia was not affected by removing (.)O2 but was reduced by a guanyl cyclase inhibitor. Superoxide-induced hyperalgesia was not affected by inhibiting NO(.) production but was suppressed by a protein kinase C inhibitor. The data suggest that NO(.) and (.)O2 operate independently to generate pain.
The inflammatory response in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is well documented but the underlying cellular mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. We report that microglia isolated from the mutant human superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) G93A transgenic mouse model of ALS have an increased response to the inflammatory stimulus, lipopolysaccharide. Cell surface area and F4/80 surface marker, both indicators of cell activation, are increased relative to transgenic wild-type human SOD1 microglia. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, known to be increased in ALS, is produced at three-fold higher levels by SOD1 G93A than by wild-type human SOD1 microglia, under activating conditions. This novel finding implicates ALS microglia as a source of the increased monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 levels detected in ALS patients and in the ALS mouse model.
Contextual fear memory is attenuated by reexposure of animals to a context alone without pairing it with an unconditioned stimulus, a phenomenon referred to as fear extinction. Here, we report that Fyn tyrosine kinase in the hippocampus is involved in the extinction of contextual fear. We inhibited Src-family tyrosine kinases in the dorsal hippocampus by stereotaxic injection of an inhibitor, PP2, and observed facilitation of extinction. We then biochemically analyzed dorsal hippocampal tissue during extinction training, and found that activated Fyn was significantly downregulated among the Src-family tyrosine kinases examined. These findings suggest that downregulation of Fyn activity facilitates the extinction of contextual fear.
This article has been withdrawn at the request of the author(s) and/or editor. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at (http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy.

The consumption of drinking water rich in fluoride has toxic effects on the central nervous system. In cell biology research, fluoride is currently used as a phosphatase inhibitor. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of fluoride on different physiological processes in GH4C1 pituitary tumour cells. We used a range of different fluoride concentrations, from levels below normal human serum concentrations (0.23 and 1.2 micromol/L) to those observed in chronically exposed persons (10.7 micromol/L) and above (107 and 1072 micromol/L). Treatment of 10.7 micromol/L fluoride resulted in a discrete induction of DNA synthesis, without a change in cell number. Cell migration, a behaviour stimulated by growth factors, was increased in cells treated with 2.4 micromol/L. At this fluoride concentration, changes in phosphorylation status of both cytoskeletal and cytosolic protein fractions, as well as in actin cytoskeletal arrangements were observed. The GH4C1 fluoride treated cells had significantly less cellular protein than control cells, suggesting an effect of fluoride on hormone secretion and protein synthesis in this endocrine cell. The bioreduction of MTT was significantly increased with a wide range of fluoride concentrations. With the highest fluoride concentration, 1072 micromol/L, all of the analysed parameters were significantly reduced, suggesting that this dose is highly toxic in GH4C1 cells. Our results show that biologically relevant concentrations of fluoride are capable of increasing cell migration in tumour cells, suggesting that exposure to fluoride could stimulate tumour invasion.
Glypicans are cell-surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans that influence Wnt, hedgehog, decapentaplegic, and fibroblast growth factor activity via their heparan sulfate chains. However, recent studies have shown that glypican core proteins also have a role in growth factor signaling. Here, we expressed secreted recombinant human glypican-1 in eukaryotic cells. Recombinant glypican-1 was expressed as two glycoforms, one as proteoglycan substituted with heparan sulfate chains and one as the core protein devoid of glycosaminoglycans. Far-UV circular dichroism (CD) analysis of glypican-1 isolated under native conditions showed that the glypican-1 core protein is predominantly alpha-helical in structure, with identical spectra for the core protein and the proteoglycan form. The conformational stability of glypican-1 core protein to urea and guanidine hydrochloride denaturation was monitored by CD and fluorescence spectroscopy and showed a single unfolding transition at high concentrations of the denaturant (5.8 and 2.6 M, respectively). Renaturation from guanidine hydrochloride gave far-UV CD and fluorescence spectra identical to the spectra of native glypican-1. Thermal denaturation monitored by CD and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) showed a single structural transition at a temperature of approximately 70 degrees C. Refolding of the heat-denatured glypican-1 core protein was dependent on protein concentration, suggesting that intermolecular interactions are involved in irreversible denaturation. However, refolding was concentration-independent for the proteoglycan form, suggesting that O-glycosylation protects the protein from irreversible aggregation. In summary, we have shown that the glypican-1 core protein is a stable alpha-helical protein and that the proteoglycan form of glypican-1 is protected from heat-induced aggregation.

Although epidemiological studies have shown that long-term treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may protect against Alzheimer's disease (AD), the mechanism(s) by which NSAIDs reduce the risk of AD remain to be determined. As C. elegans possess neither inflammatory cells nor the arachidonate cascade, we could evaluate the effects of NSAIDs on amyloid beta (Abeta) deposition in the absence of immune cells using Abeta-transgenic C. elegans. For this purpose, we established a strain of Abeta-transgenic C. elegans in which thioflavin S-reactive deposits are reproducibly detectable by confocal microscopy. Among the NSAIDs examined, ibuprofen and naproxen reduced the number of thioflavin S-reactive deposits. Furthermore, ibuprofen and naproxen neither affect the thioflavin S binding to Abeta nor Abeta expression in transgenic C. elegans. These data suggest that ibuprofen and naproxen, the most frequently used NSAIDs for the treatment of AD, have an inhibitory effect on Abeta deposition that is independent of the arachidonate cascade and cellular immune systems.
Validation of gait analysis has the potential to bridge the gap between data from animal pain models and clinical observations. The goal of these studies was to compare alterations in gait due to inflammation or nerve injury to traditional pain measurements in animals. Pharmacological experiments determined whether gait alterations were related to enhanced nociception, edema, or motor nerve dysfunction. Gait was analyzed using an automated system (DigiGait) after injection of an inflammatory agent (carrageenan; CARR or FCA; Freund's complete adjuvant) or nerve injury (axotomy; AXO, partial sciatic nerve ligation; PSNL, spinal nerve ligation; SNL or chronic constriction injury; CCI). All models caused significant alterations in gait and thermal (inflammatory) or mechanical (nerve injury) hyperalgesia. Both indomethacin and morphine were able to block or reverse thermal hyperalgesia and normalize gait in the CARR model. Indomethacin partially blocked and did not reverse paw edema, suggesting that gait alterations must be primarily driven by enhanced nociception. In nerve injury models, AXO, PSNL, CCI, and SNL caused changes to the largest number of gait indices with the rank order being AXO&gt;PSNL=CCI &gt; SNL. Gabapentin and duloxetine reversed mechanical hyperalgesia but did not normalize gait in any nerve injury model. Collectively, these data suggest that pain is the primary driver of abnormal gait in models of inflammatory but not nerve injury-related pain and suggests that, in the latter, disruption in gait is due to perturbation to the motor system. Gait may therefore constitute an alternative and potentially clinically relevant measure of pain due to inflammation.
Leptin, acting as a measure of metabolic fuel availability, exerts a powerful permissive influence on neurogenic thermogenesis. During starvation and an absence of leptin, animals cannot produce thermogenic reactions to cold stress. However, thermogenesis is rescued by restoring leptin. We have previously observed (Hermann, G.E., Barnes, M.J., Rogers, R.C., 2006. Leptin and thyrotropin-releasing hormone: cooperative action in the hindbrain to activate brown adipose thermogenesis. Brain Res. 1117, 118-124.) a highly cooperative interaction between leptin and thyrotropin-releasing hormone [TRH] to activate hindbrain generated thermogenic responses. Specifically, exposure to both leptin and TRH elicited a 3.5 degrees C increase in brown adipose tissue [BAT] thermogenesis, while leptin alone did not evoke any change, and TRH alone caused only approximately 1 degrees C increase. The present study shows that the leptin-TRH synergy in controlling brown adipose [BAT] thermogenesis is order-specific and dependent on the feeding status of the animal. That is, fourth ventricular [4V] application of leptin to the food-deprived animal, before TRH injection, yields a substantial increase in BAT; while the reverse order yields a significantly smaller effect. If the animal were fed within minutes of anesthesia, then exogenous leptin was not necessary for TRH to yield a large increase in BAT temperature. The leptin-TRH synergy was uncoupled by pretreatment with the phosphoinositol-tris phosphate kinase [PI3K] inhibitor, wortmannin and the Src-SH2 antagonist, PP2. The TRH transduction mechanism utilizes phospholipase C [PLC] potently regulated by the SH2 site. Previous work in culture systems suggests that the product of PI3K activity [PIP3] potently upregulates PLC by activating the SH2 domain of the PLC complex. Perhaps leptin &quot;gates&quot; the thermogenic action of TRH in the hindbrain by invoking this same mechanism.

The hypothesis that amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides are the primary cause of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains the best supported theory of AD pathogenesis. Yet, many observations are inconsistent with the hypothesis. Abeta peptides are generated when amyloid precursor protein (APP) is cleaved by presenilins, a process that also produces APP intracellular domain (AICD). We previously generated AICD-overexpressing transgenic mice that showed abnormal activation of GSK-3beta, a pathological feature of AD. We now report that these mice exhibit additional AD-like characteristics, including hyperphosphorylation and aggregation of tau, neurodegeneration and working memory deficits that are prevented by treatment with lithium, a GSK-3beta inhibitor. Consistent with its potential role in AD pathogenesis, we find AICD levels to be elevated in brains from AD patients. The in vivo findings that AICD can contribute to AD pathology independently of Abeta have important therapeutic implications and may explain some observations that are discordant with the amyloid hypothesis.
In functional brain imaging there is controversy over which hemodynamic signal best represents neural activity. Intrinsic signal optical imaging (ISOI) suggests that the best signal is the early darkening observed at wavelengths absorbed preferentially by deoxyhemoglobin (HbR). It is assumed that this darkening or &quot;initial dip&quot; reports local conversion of oxyhemoglobin (HbO) to HbR, i.e., oxygen consumption caused by local neural activity, thus giving the most specific measure of such activity. The blood volume signal, by contrast, is believed to be more delayed and less specific. Here, we used multiwavelength ISOI to simultaneously map oxygenation and blood volume [i.e., total hemoglobin (HbT)] in primary visual cortex (V1) of the alert macaque. We found that the hemodynamic &quot;point spread,&quot; i.e., impulse response to a minimal visual stimulus, was as rapid and retinotopically specific when imaged by using blood volume as when using the initial dip. Quantitative separation of the imaged signal into HbR, HbO, and HbT showed, moreover, that the initial dip was dominated by a fast local increase in HbT, with no increase in HbR. We found only a delayed HbR decrease that was broader in retinotopic spread than HbO or HbT. Further, we show that the multiphasic time course of typical ISOI signals and the strength of the initial dip may reflect the temporal interplay of monophasic HbO, HbR, and HbT signals. Characterizing the hemodynamic response is important for understanding neurovascular coupling and elucidating the physiological basis of imaging techniques such as fMRI.
Very realistic human-looking robots or computer avatars tend to elicit negative feelings in human observers. This phenomenon is known as the &quot;uncanny valley&quot; response. It is hypothesized that this uncanny feeling is because the realistic synthetic characters elicit the concept of &quot;human,&quot; but fail to live up to it. That is, this failure generates feelings of unease due to character traits falling outside the expected spectrum of everyday social experience. These unsettling emotions are thought to have an evolutionary origin, but tests of this hypothesis have not been forthcoming. To bridge this gap, we presented monkeys with unrealistic and realistic synthetic monkey faces, as well as real monkey faces, and measured whether they preferred looking at one type versus the others (using looking time as a measure of preference). To our surprise, monkey visual behavior fell into the uncanny valley: They looked longer at real faces and unrealistic synthetic faces than at realistic synthetic faces.
The endocannabinoids anandamide (AEA) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) are metabolised by cells by hydrolysis to arachidonic acid followed by esterification into phospholipids. Here, we report that nitric oxide (NO) donors significantly increase the amount of tritium accumulated in the cell membranes of RBL2H3 rat basophilic cells, 3T3-L1 mouse fibroblast cells and b.End5 mouse brain endothelioma cells following incubation of the intact cells with AEA labelled in the arachidonate part of the molecule. Similar results were seen with 2-AG and with arachidonic acid, whilst the NO donors reduced the accumulation of tritium after incubation of RBL2H3 cells with AEA labelled in the ethanolamine part of the molecule. Pretreatment of intact cells with NO donors did not increase the activity of the enzyme mainly responsible for metabolism of AEA, fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). Furthermore, inhibition of FAAH completely blocked the effect produced by NO donors in cells with a large FAAH component, suggesting that for AEA, the effects were downstream of the enzyme. These data raise the possibility that the cellular processing of endocannabinoids following its uptake can be regulated by nitric oxide.
Taurine neuroinhibitory features have suggested its potential for neuroprotection. The aim of the present study was to assess whether it prevents or counteracts brain ischemia and reperfusion-induced cell injury. Rat brain cortical slices were subjected to oxygen/glucose deprivation and reperfusion. Tissue damage was assessed by measuring the release of glutamate and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) during reperfusion and by determining final tissue water gain, taken as an index of cell swelling. When added during the reperfusion period taurine did not significantly affect oxygen/glucose deprivation-induced LDH and glutamate release, while it antagonised tissue water gain in a concentration-dependent manner (IC(50)=46.5 microM). The latter effect was antagonised by 50% when a taurine transport inhibitor, 2-(guanidino)ethanesulphonic acid (GES), or a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline, was added together with taurine, while it was completely abolished when both GES and bicuculline or the volume-sensitive outwardly rectifying (VSOR) Cl(-) channel blocker, 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino)benzoic acid (NPPB), was used. On the contrary, when present throughout the entire experiment, taurine significantly reduced oxygen/glucose deprivation-induced LDH and glutamate release with a maximal effect (45% reduction) between 5 and 20 mM. Taurine antagonised also tissue water gain according to a &quot;U-shaped&quot; concentration-response curve, which was significant within the range of 0.01-1.0 mM concentration. This effect was partially counteracted by GES as well as by bicuculline and fully reverted by NPPB. In conclusion, since brain edema is a major contributing factor to morbidity and mortality in stroke, the present findings give the rational basis for assessing taurine efficacy in reducing brain edema in vivo.
We compared visual evoked oscillatory responses of subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD) (n=22) to healthy elderly controls (n=19) elicited by simple light stimuli. The visual evoked oscillatory responses in AD subjects without cholinergic treatment (n=11) show significant differences (df=2.38, F=4.957, P=0.012) from the controls and the AD subjects treated with a cholinesterase inhibitor (n=11). Higher theta oscillatory responses in untreated AD subjects are seen on the electrode locations over bi-parietal and right occipital regions after simple light stimuli with less, if any, cognitive load. These changes were restricted to the theta frequency range only and are related to location, frequency bands and drug effects. In our previous work we observed that visual event related oscillations elicited after the visual stimuli with a higher cognitive load, i.e. an oddball target, display lower amplitudes: between controls and AD subjects in delta frequency band without a drug effect, over the left and mid-central region. These differences between the visual evoked oscillations and the visual event related oscillations imply that there are at least two different cognitive circuits that are activated upon visual stimuli in AD patients.
Optic neuritis is an acute inflammatory demyelinating syndrome of the central nervous system (CNS) that often occurs in multiple sclerosis (MS). Since it can cause irreversible visual loss, especially in the optic-spinal form of MS or neuromyelitis optica (NMO), the present study was conducted to assess the effects of geranylgeranylacetone (GGA) on optic neuritis in the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) mouse model of MS. Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-induced EAE mice received oral administration of GGA at 500 mg/kg or vehicle once daily for 22 days. The effects of GGA on the severity of optic neuritis were examined by morphological analysis on day 22. Visual functions were measured by the multifocal electroretinograms (mfERG). In addition, the effects of GGA on severity of myelitis were monitored both on clinical signs and morphological aspects. The visual function, as assessed by the second-kernel of mfERG, was significantly improved in GGA-treated mice compared with vehicle-treated mice. GGA treatment decreased the number of degenerating axons in the optic nerve and prevented cell loss in the retinal ganglion cell layer. However, the severity of demyelination in the spinal cord remained unaffected with the treatment of GGA. These results suggest that oral GGA administration has beneficial effect on the treatment for optic neuritis in the EAE mouse model of MS.
When locally infused, the potent vasoconstrictor, endothelin-1 (ET-1) produces partial ischemic damage in many regions of the brain, including the hippocampus. The hippocampus is known for a high density of glucocorticoid receptors and for the potent actions of stress and corticosterone to modulate function. The current experiment evaluates the effects of stress and corticosterone on the severity of memory impairment and anatomical pathology produced by hippocampal mini-stroke. Rats with ET-1-induced mini-stroke were exposed to mild restraint stress (1 h/day) or oral corticosterone (0.5 mg/kg) for 16 consecutive days. Spatial memory was then tested in the Morris water task (MWT) and the ziggurat task (ZT). The groups ET-1+stress and ET-1+corticosterone performed significantly better in both tasks than the ET-1-only group. This suggests that increasing corticosteroid levels alleviates the hippocampal stroke-induced memory deficits. Hippocampal volumetric assessment also revealed that both the post-stroke stress and corticosteroid treatment significantly decreased the volume of hippocampal damage. The findings support the view that elevated levels of corticosterone may exert neuroprotective effects in the hippocampus following stroke.
Intracortical circuit excitability of the human motor cortex has been studied by measuring effects of some conditioning TMS stimulus on the succeeding test TMS stimulus in the motor cortex, such as short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF). A single-pulse TMS was used as a conditioning stimulus (CS) in these techniques, but a train of several TMS pulses might induce some intracortical changes in the motor cortex more effectively. For nine healthy volunteers, we compared the SICI and ICF induced by a single conditioning biphasic TMS pulse with those induced by a train of 10 biphasic TMS pulses of the same intensity. As a conditioning stimulus, we delivered a subthreshold single biphasic pulse (CS1) or 10, 10-Hz biphasic pulses (CS10) before a suprathreshold monophasic test stimulus at several interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of 3-40 ms over the hand motor area. The CS intensity was 50-100% of the active motor threshold (AMT). We compared the motor cortical excitability after the conditioning stimulus (single pulse or a train of ten pulses) at the intervals for SICI and ICF. A train of ten 10-Hz pulses elicited greater inhibition at short ISIs than a single conditioning pulse did. The facilitation at ISIs around 10 ms corresponding to the ICF was evoked by CS1 only at an intensity of 80% AMT; CS10 evoked no ICF. Furthermore, CS10 evoked MEP inhibition at longer intervals. Results show that a train of high-frequency, low-intensity, biphasic TMS pulses can have a strong inhibitory effect on the motor cortex.
Memory encoding and memory retrieval are two important processes of the memory. The main results of studies on the neural basis of the memory encoding and memory retrieval by functional magnetic resonance image (fMRI) technique were summarized in this review. The neural basis of memory encoding and retrieval phases varies with different materials, memory types, and age stages. It means that the neural networks of these memory activities are separate. The functional locations of the activated brain areas during memory encoding and during memory retrieval phases are overlapped with distinction. The activated brain areas of memory encoding mainly locate in the prefrontal lobe, the temporal lobe, the parietal lobe, the anterior hippocampus, the thalamus, and the basal ganglia (including the striatum and the marginal division of the striatum). The activated brain areas of memory retrieval mainly locate in the prefrontal lobe, the temporal lobe, the entorhinal cortex, the perirhinal cortex, the posterior hippocampus, the thalamus, and the basal ganglia. The anterior hippocampus is mainly activated during the encoding phase, whereas posterior hippocampus is mainly activated during the retrieval phase. The intensity of the activated cerebral cortex regions during the encoding phase is stronger than that during the retrieval phase, whereas the opposite activated pattern is found in the subcortical structures, mainly the basal ganglia and thalamus, during the two phases. It seems that the stimulation might activate certain cerebral cortex areas during the memory encoding phase, then the information is transported to the subcortical structures and comes back to the cerebral cortex to complete the memory retrieval phase. The encoding and retrieval phases of the memory are supposed to be accomplished by a neural circuit among the cerebral cortex, basal ganglia, thalamus and cerebral cortex, rather than the cerebral cortex only.
Effects of diet on longevity are complex because acquired resources are shared among growth, reproduction and somatic maintenance. We simplify these axes by examining how dietary restriction and competitive contexts affect longevity using semelparous males of the Australian redback spider (Latrodectus hasselti). Plastic development of L. hasselti males results in trade-offs of body condition against faster development if females are present, facilitating scramble competition. In the absence of females, males develop slowly as high body condition adults, and are better equipped for mate searching. Here we focus on effects of diet and competitive context on body condition and longevity. Although male survival depended on body condition and exercise, contrary to studies in a wide range of taxa, dietary restriction did not increase longevity. However, there was an interactive effect of diet and competitive context on lifespan, because high-diet males reared in the absence of females lived longer than males reared in the presence of females. Thus males near females pay a survival cost of developing rapidly. This shows that life-history trade-offs affected by competitive context can impose longevity costs independent of the direct energy expenditure of searching, courtship, competition or reproduction.
gamma-Secretase is a proteolytic membrane complex that processes a variety of substrates including the amyloid precursor protein and the Notch receptor. Earlier we showed that one of the components of this complex, nicastrin (NCT), functions as a receptor for gamma-secretase substrates. A recent report challenged this, arguing instead that the Glu-333 residue of NCT predicted to participate in substrate recognition only participates in gamma-secretase complex maturation and not in activity per se. Here, we present evidence that Glu-333 directly participates in gamma-secretase activity. By normalizing to the active pool of gamma-secretase with two separate methods, we establish that gamma-secretase complexes containing NCT-E333A are indeed deficient in intrinsic activity. We also demonstrate that the NCT-E333A mutant is deficient in its binding to substrates. Moreover, we find that the cleavage of substrates by gamma-secretase activity requires a free N-terminal amine but no minimal length of the extracellular N-terminal stub. Taken together, these studies provide further evidence supporting the role of NCT in substrate recognition. Finally, because gamma-secretase cleaves itself during its maturation and because NCT-E333A also shows defects in gamma-secretase complex maturation, we present a model whereby Glu-333 can serve a dual role via similar mechanisms in the recruitment of both Type 1 membrane proteins for activity and the presenilin intracellular loop during complex maturation.
We studied the dynamics of fingertip displacement series in human pole balancing using recurrence quantification analysis (RQA). The purpose of this research was to determine how the dynamical structure of fingertip fluctuations evolved with learning. Learning was accompanied by increased stability of movement trajectories in spite of a reduced tendency for movement trajectories to recur. Task manipulations, on the other hand, resulted in more intermittent fingertip dynamics, which suggests that individuals were more tolerant of random fingertip displacements when the task was performed while sitting relative to standing. Such a strategy would minimize the computational burden associated with maintaining pole stability.
Formaldehyde (FA) exposure is known to be toxic to central nervous system of mammals. In this paper, we evaluated the aggressive behavior after repetitive inhalative FA exposure to male SD rats, and explored the potential mechanism. The rats, ranging from 160 to 180 g, were randomly designated into the orchiectomized (ORX) group, the control and the inhalative FA treatment groups. Eight rats underwent orchiectomy surgery. Three days after the orchiectomy surgery, the inhalative FA (monitored to be 13.5+/-1.5 ppm) treatment began. We found that the male SD rats, those were exposed to FA showed more aggressive behavior compared to the control. And the ORX rats exhibited less aggressive behavior than the control. Furthermore, the dopamine increased and 5-HT decreased significantly in frontal cortex synaptosome after inhalative FA treatment. It is the first to evaluate aggressive behavior and identified monoamines disturbances in the frontal cortex synaptosome after the repetitive inhalative FA exposure to rodents.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) present a barrier to axon regeneration. However, no specific receptor for the inhibitory effect of CSPGs has been identified. We showed that a transmembrane protein tyrosine phosphatase, PTPsigma, binds with high affinity to neural CSPGs. Binding involves the chondroitin sulfate chains and a specific site on the first immunoglobulin-like domain of PTPsigma. In culture, PTPsigma(-/-) neurons show reduced inhibition by CSPG. A PTPsigma fusion protein probe can detect cognate ligands that are up-regulated specifically at neural lesion sites. After spinal cord injury, PTPsigma gene disruption enhanced the ability of axons to penetrate regions containing CSPG. These results indicate that PTPsigma can act as a receptor for CSPGs and may provide new therapeutic approaches to neural regeneration.

The mammalian cochlea is innervated by two classes of sensory neurons. Type I neurons make up 90-95% of the cochlear nerve and contact single inner hair cells to provide acoustic analysis as we know it. In contrast, the far less numerous type II neurons arborize extensively among outer hair cells (OHCs) and supporting cells. Their scarcity and smaller calibre axons have made them the subject of much speculation, but little experimental progress for the past 50 years. Here we record from type II fibres near their terminal arbors under OHCs to show that they receive excitatory glutamatergic synaptic input. The type II peripheral arbor conducts action potentials, but the small and infrequent glutamatergic excitation indicates a requirement for strong acoustic stimulation. Furthermore, we show that type II neurons are excited by ATP. Exogenous ATP depolarized type II neurons, both directly and by evoking glutamatergic synaptic input. These results prove that type II neurons function as cochlear afferents, and can be modulated by ATP. The lesser magnitude of synaptic drive dictates a fundamentally different role in auditory signalling from that of type I afferents.
Millions of people regularly obtain insufficient sleep. Given the effect of sleep deprivation on our lives, understanding the cellular and molecular pathways affected by sleep deprivation is clearly of social and clinical importance. One of the major effects of sleep deprivation on the brain is to produce memory deficits in learning models that are dependent on the hippocampus. Here we have identified a molecular mechanism by which brief sleep deprivation alters hippocampal function. Sleep deprivation selectively impaired 3', 5'-cyclic AMP (cAMP)- and protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent forms of synaptic plasticity in the mouse hippocampus, reduced cAMP signalling, and increased activity and protein levels of phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4), an enzyme that degrades cAMP. Treatment of mice with phosphodiesterase inhibitors rescued the sleep-deprivation-induced deficits in cAMP signalling, synaptic plasticity and hippocampus-dependent memory. These findings demonstrate that brief sleep deprivation disrupts hippocampal function by interfering with cAMP signalling through increased PDE4 activity. Thus, drugs that enhance cAMP signalling may provide a new therapeutic approach to counteract the cognitive effects of sleep deprivation.

The present study delineates the cellular responses of dorsal pallium to targeted genetic ablation of the principal preplate neurons of the neocortex. Ganciclovir treatment during prenatal development (E11-E13; where E is embryonic day) of mice selectively killed cells with shared S-phase vulnerability and targeted expression of a GPT [golli promoter transgene, linked to HSV-TK (herpes simplex virus-thymidine kinase), -eGFP (-enhanced green fluorescent protein) and lacZ (lacZ galactosidase) reporters] localized in preplate neurons. Morphogenetic fates of attacked neurons and neuroblasts, and their successors, were assessed by multiple labelling in time-series comparisons between ablated (HSV-TK+/0) and control (HSV-TK0/0) littermates. During ablation generation, neocortical growth was suppressed, and compensatory reorganization of non-GPT ventricular zone progenitors of dorsal pallium produced replacements for killed GPT neuroblasts. Replacement and surviving GPT neuroblasts then produced replacements for killed GPT neurons. Near-normal restoration of their complement delayed the settlement of GPT neurons into the reconstituted preplate, which curtailed the outgrowth of pioneer corticofugal axons. Based on this evidence, we conclude that specific cell killing in ablated mice can eliminate a major fraction of GPT neurons, with insignificant bystander killing. Also, replacement GPT neurons in ablated mice originate exclusively by proliferation from intermediate progenitor GPT neuroblasts, whose complement is maintained by non-GPT progenitors for inductive regulation of the total complement of GPT neurons. Finally, GPT neurons in both normal and ablated mice meet all morphogenetic criteria, including the 'outside-in' vertical gradient of settlement, presently used to identify principal preplate neurons. In ablated mice, delayed organization of these neurons desynchronizes and isolates developing neocortex from the rest of the brain, and permanently impairs its connectivity.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common neurologic disease of young adults. In the recent years, our understanding on disease pathomechanisms has considerably improved and new therapies have emerged. Yet a cure for this devastating disorder is still a far cry away and human resources on ex vivo specimens are limited. More than 70 years after its first description, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) remains an important tool to understand concepts of T cell mediated autoimmunity as well as the roles of the innate and the humoral immune systems. Some EAE models also well reflect mechanisms of tissue damage including demyelination, axonal injury and also cortical changes. A limitation of the classical EAE model is a neglect of CD8 T cell mediated immune mechanisms. Moreover, well characterized models for primary progressive MS or demyelination patterns involving primary oligodendrocyte dystrophy are still not available. Yet many current therapeutic concepts including glatiramer acetate or natalizumab stem from their successful first application in EAE models. New strategies include the widespread use of conditional knockout mice to understand the cell-type specific function of single genes, innovative approaches to establish models on the roles of B cells and CD8 T cells as well as on the relation of inflammation to primary degeneration. In summary, EAE models continue to play an important role in neuroimmunology thereby also stimulating research in other fields of the neurosciences and immunobiology.
Pure NMDA receptor (NMDAr)-mediated EPSCs, thought to correspond to &quot;silent&quot; glutamatergic synapses that lack AMPA receptors (AMPArs), have been observed in superficial spinal dorsal horn of neonatal but not adult rats. Recent anatomical studies suggest that AMPArs are present at virtually all glutamatergic synapses in this region in adults. We used antigen retrieval to examine colocalization of AMPArs and PSD-95 (a marker for glutamatergic synapses) in laminae I-II of neonatal and adult rats. We found a high degree of colocalization in all cases, which suggests that AMPArs are present in the great majority of glutamatergic synapses even in neonatal animals. We therefore reexamined evidence for silent synapses by performing blind whole-cell recordings from superficial dorsal horn neurons in slices from neonatal or adult rats, with focal stimulation to activate glutamatergic synapses. On some occasions in both neonatal (10 of 109, 9%) and adult (9 of 77, 12%) slices, NMDAr-mediated EPSCs were observed when the holding potential was raised to +50 mV at a stimulus strength that had failed to evoke AMPAr-mediated EPSCs. However, in all cases tested, AMPAr-mediated EPSCs were then observed when the cell was returned to -70 mV; this and other properties of the EPSCs suggest that they do not represent genuine silent synapses. When compared with previous findings, our results indicate that the appearance of silent synapses depends on experimental protocol. This suggests that pure NMDAr-mediated EPSCs seen in previous studies do not correspond to AMPAr-lacking synapses but result from another mechanism, for example, loss of labile AMPArs from recently formed synapses.
Peripheral tissue injury is associated with changes in protein expression in sensory neurons that may contribute to abnormal nociceptive processing. We used cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons as a model of axotomized neurons to investigate early changes in protein expression after nerve injury. Comparing protein levels immediately after DRG dissociation and 24 h later by proteomic differential expression analysis, we found a substantial increase in the levels of the neurotrophin-inducible protein VGF (nonacronymic), a putative neuropeptide precursor. In a rodent model of nerve injury, VGF levels were increased within 24 h in both injured and uninjured DRG neurons, and the increase persisted for at least 7 d. VGF was also upregulated 24 h after hindpaw inflammation. To determine whether peptides derived from proteolytic processing of VGF participate in nociceptive signaling, we examined the spinal effects of AQEE-30 and LQEQ-19, potential proteolytic products shown previously to be bioactive. Each peptide evoked dose-dependent thermal hyperalgesia that required activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase p38. In addition, LQEQ-19 induced p38 phosphorylation in spinal microglia when injected intrathecally and in the BV-2 microglial cell line when applied in vitro. In summary, our results demonstrate rapid upregulation of VGF in sensory neurons after nerve injury and inflammation and activation of microglial p38 by VGF peptides. Therefore, VGF peptides released from sensory neurons may participate in activation of spinal microglia after peripheral tissue injury.
While the synaptic mechanisms involved in the generation of in vitro network oscillations have been widely studied, little is known about the importance of voltage-gated currents during such activity. Here we study the role of the M-current (I(M)) in the modulation of network oscillations in the gamma-frequency range (20-80 Hz). Kv7/KCNQ subunits, the molecular correlates of I(M), are abundantly expressed in CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neurons, and I(M) is an important modulator of pyramidal neuron firing. Using hippocampal slices, we recorded field activity and pyramidal neuron action potential timing during kainate-induced gamma oscillations. Application of the specific I(M) blocker XE991 causes a significant reduction of gamma oscillation amplitude with no significant change in oscillation frequency. Concomitant CA3 pyramidal neuron recordings show a significant increase in action potential frequency during ongoing gamma oscillations after the application of XE991. This increase is associated with a significant loss of periodicity of pyramidal neuron action potentials relative to the phase of the gamma oscillations. Using dynamic clamp, we show that I(M) acts to improve the periodicity of action potential timing and to decrease action potential frequency. We further validate these results in a compartmental model of a pyramidal neuron. Our work suggests that I(M) modulates gamma oscillations by regulating the phasing of action potential firing in pyramidal neurons.
Molecular details of ion channel interactions with modulatory subunits have been investigated widely in transfected cells, but the physiological roles of ion channel modulatory protein complexes in native neurons remain largely unexplored. The Drosophila large-conductance calcium-activated potassium channel (dSlo) binds to and is modulated by its binding partner Slob. We have constructed flies in which Slob expression is manipulated by P-element mutagenesis, or by transgenic expression of Slob protein or Slob-RNAi. In vivo recordings of both macroscopic and single dSlo channel currents in identified neurosecretory neurons in the pars intercerebralis (PI) region of the Drosophila brain reveal that whole-cell potassium current and properties of single dSlo channels are modulated by Slob expression level. Furthermore, Slob genotype influences action potential duration in vivo. This unprecedented combination of current-clamp, macroscopic-current, and single-channel recordings from neurons in brains of living flies defines a critical role for an ion channel modulatory protein complex in the control of neuronal excitability. We show further that Slob-null flies exhibit significantly longer lifespan than controls under conditions of complete food deprivation. Crosses with deficiency lines demonstrate that this enhanced resistance to starvation-induced death maps close to the slob locus. Together, these results indicate that Slob may serve a novel regulatory function in feeding behavior, possibly by influencing the excitability of the PI neurons.
To understand the intrinsic operation of spinal networks generating locomotion, we need to not only characterize the constituent neurons and their connectivity, but also determine the role of intrinsic modulation in shaping the final motor output. We have focused on the effects of nitric oxide (NO) on the locomotor frequency and the underlying synaptic mechanisms in the lamprey spinal cord. To identify the source of NO, we used NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry and nNOS immunocytochemistry. Gray matter and sensory neurons were positively labeled using both methods. Preparations preincubated with NO synthase inhibitors displayed slower locomotor frequency that increased upon washout of the inhibitors, suggesting that NO is an endogenous neuromodulator in the spinal cord. Application of NO donors increased the locomotor frequency that was blocked by an NO scavenger and partially reduced by an inhibitor of sGC. To analyze the synaptic modulation underlying the NO-induced increase of the locomotor frequency we performed intracellular recordings from motoneurons and interneurons. The NO-induced increase in locomotor frequency was associated with a decrease in the midcycle inhibition and an increase in on-cycle excitation. To determine the site of action of NO, we examined the effect of NO donors on miniature PSCs. NO increased both the frequency and amplitude of mEPSCs while it only decreased the frequency of mIPSCs, suggesting the increased excitation is mediated by both presynaptic and postsynaptic mechanisms, while the decrease in inhibition involves only presynaptic mechanisms. Our results demonstrate a significant role of NO in adult vertebrate motor control which, via modulation of both excitatory and inhibitory transmission, increases the locomotor burst frequency.
Prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) mediates the masculinization of adult sex behavior in rats in response to the surge in serum testosterone at approximately birth. Measures of behavioral masculinization correlate with a twofold increase in spinophilin protein and the density of dendritic spines in the medial preoptic area (POA). Of the four receptors for PGE(2), EP(2) and EP(4) are required for the masculinization of behavior by PGE(2). EP(2) and EP(4) couple to G(s)-proteins, activating protein kinase A (PKA). By using H89 (N-[2-(p-bromo-cinnamylamino)-ethyl]-5-isoquinoline-sulfon-amide 2HCl) and Ht31, disruptors of PKA signaling, we have determined that PKA signaling is required for the masculinization of behavior by PGE(2). Glutamatergic signaling often mediates PGE(2) signaling; therefore, we tested whether inhibition of AMPA/kainate and metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) signaling prevents PGE(2)-induced behavioral masculinization and whether activation of glutamate receptors mimics PGE(2). Females treated neonatally with NBQX (2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfonyl-benzo[f]quinoxaline) plus LY341495 [(2S)-2-amino-2-[(1S,2S)-2-carboxycycloprop-1-yl]-3-(xanth-9-yl) propanoic acid] combined (AMPA/kainate and mGluR inhibitors, respectively) before PGE(2) did not exhibit as many mounts or intromission-like behaviors or initiate these behaviors as quickly as animals treated with PGE(2) alone. Animals neonatally treated with kainate, (+/-)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid (ACPD) (type I mGluR agonist), or the two combined mounted as frequently and initiated mounting behavior as quickly as those given PGE(2). Ht31 does not prevent the masculinization of behavior by ACPD plus kainate cotreatment; rather, the coadministration of NBQX plus LY341495 prevents the forskolin-induced formation of POA dendritic spine-like processes. We conclude that PKA, AMPA/kainate, and metabotropic glutamate receptor signaling are necessary for the effects of PGE(2), that each receptor individually suffices to organize behavior, and that PKA is upstream of the glutamate receptors.
Coactivation of spinal alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors (ARs) and opioid receptors produces antinociceptive synergy. Antinociceptive synergy between intrathecally administered alpha(2)AR and opioid agonists is well documented, but the mechanism underlying this synergy remains unclear. The delta-opioid receptor (DOP) and the alpha(2A)ARs are coexpressed on the terminals of primary afferent fibers in the spinal cord where they may mediate this phenomenon. We evaluated the ability of the DOP-selective agonist deltorphin II (DELT), the alpha(2)AR agonist clonidine (CLON) or their combination to inhibit calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) release from spinal cord slices. We then examined the possible underlying signaling mechanisms involved through coadministration of inhibitors of phospholipase C (PLC), protein kinase C (PKC) or protein kinase A (PKA). Potassium-evoked depolarization of spinal cord slices caused concentration-dependent release of CGRP. Coadministration of DELT and CLON inhibited the release of CGRP in a synergistic manner as confirmed statistically by isobolograpic analysis. Synergy was dependent on the activation of PLC and PKC, but not PKA, whereas the effect of agonist administration alone was only dependent on PLC. The importance of these findings was confirmed in vivo, using a thermal nociceptive test, demonstrating the PKC dependence of CLON-DELT antinociceptive synergy in mice. That inhibition of CGRP release by the combination was maintained in the presence of tetrodotoxin in spinal cord slices suggests that synergy does not rely on interneuronal signaling and may occur within single subcellular compartments. The present study reveals a novel signaling pathway underlying the synergistic analgesic interaction between DOP and alpha(2)AR agonists in the spinal cord.
Many factors contribute to nervous system dysfunction and failure to regenerate after injury or disease. Here, we describe a previously unrecognized mechanism for nervous system injury. We show that neuronal injury causes rapid, irreversible, and preferential proteolysis of the axon initial segment (AIS) cytoskeleton independently of cell death or axon degeneration, leading to loss of both ion channel clusters and neuronal polarity. Furthermore, we show this is caused by proteolysis of the AIS cytoskeletal proteins ankyrinG and betaIV spectrin by the calcium-dependent cysteine protease calpain. Importantly, calpain inhibition is sufficient to preserve the molecular organization of the AIS both in vitro and in vivo. We conclude that loss of AIS ion channel clusters and neuronal polarity are important contributors to neuronal dysfunction after injury, and that strategies to facilitate recovery must preserve or repair the AIS cytoskeleton.
Homeostatic regulation of synaptic strength in response to persistent changes of neuronal activity plays an important role in maintaining the overall level of circuit activity within a normal range. Absence of miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs) for a few hours is known to cause upregulation of excitatory synaptic strength, suggesting that mEPSCs contribute to the maintenance of excitatory synaptic functions. In the present study, we found that the absence of mEPSCs for 1-3 h also resulted in homeostatic suppression of presynaptic functions of inhibitory synapses in acute cortical slices from juvenile rats, as suggested by the reduced frequency (but not amplitude) of miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs) as well as the reduced amplitude of IPSCs. This homeostatic regulation depended on endocannabinoid (eCB) signaling, because blockade of either the activation of cannabinoid type-1 receptors (CB1Rs) or the synthesis of its endogenous ligand 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) abolished the suppression of inhibitory synapses caused by the absence of mEPSCs. Blockade of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR-I) also abolished the suppression of inhibitory synapses, consistent with the mGluR-I requirement for eCB synthesis and release in cortical synapses. Furthermore, this homeostatic regulation also required eukaryotic elongation factor-2 (eEF2)-dependent protein synthesis, but not gene transcription. Activation of eEF2 alone was sufficient to suppress the mIPSC frequency, an effect abolished by inhibiting CB1Rs. Thus, mEPSCs contribute to the maintenance of inhibitory synaptic function and the absence of mEPSCs results in presynaptic suppression of inhibitory synapses via protein synthesis-dependent elevation of eCB signaling.
The Mas-related G-protein-coupled receptor D (Mrgprd) marks a distinct subset of sensory neurons that transmit polymodal nociceptive information from the skin epidermis to the substantia gelatinosa (SG, lamina II) of the spinal cord. Moreover, Mrgprd-expressing (Mrgprd(+)) neurons are required for the full expression of mechanical but not thermal nociception. While such anatomical and functional specificity suggests Mrgprd(+) neurons might synapse with specific postsynaptic targets in the SG, precisely how Mrgprd(+) neurons interface with spinal circuits is currently unknown. To study circuit connectivity, we genetically targeted the light-activated ion channel Channelrhodopsin-2-Venus (ChR2-Venus) to the Mrgprd locus. In these knock-in mice, ChR2-Venus was localized to nonpeptidergic Mrgprd(+) neurons and axons, while peptidergic CGRP(+) neurons were not significantly labeled. Dissociated Mrgprd(+) DRG neurons from mice expressing one or two copies of ChR2-Venus could be activated in vitro as evidenced by light-evoked currents and action potentials. In addition, illumination of Mrgprd-ChR2-Venus(+) axon terminals in spinal cord slices evoked EPSCs in half of all SG neurons. Within this subset, Mrgprd(+) neurons were monosynaptically connected to most known classes of SG neurons, including radial, tonic central, transient central, vertical, and antenna cells. This cellular diversity ruled out the possibility that Mrgprd(+) neurons innervate a dedicated class of SG neuron. Our findings set broad constraints on the types of spinal neurons that process afferent input from Mrgprd(+) polymodal nociceptors.
In cases of neuronal injury when regeneration is restricted, functional recovery can occur through reorganization of the remaining neural circuitry. We found an example of such recovery in the central pattern generator (CPG) for the escape swim of the mollusc Tritonia diomedea. The CPG neurons are bilaterally represented and each neuron projects an axon through one of two pedal commissures. Cutting the posterior pedal commissure [pedal nerve 6 (PdN6)] in the animal or in the isolated brain caused a deficit in the swim behavior and in the fictive motor pattern, respectively, each of which recovered over the course of 20 h. Locally blocking spiking activity in PdN6 with sodium-free saline and/or tetrodotoxin disrupted the motor pattern in a reversible manner. Maintained blockade of PdN6 led to a functional recovery of the swim motor pattern similar to that observed in response to cutting the commissure. Among the CPG neurons, cerebral neuron 2 (C2) makes functional connection onto the ventral swim interneuron-B (VSI) in both pedal ganglia. Cutting or blocking PdN6 eliminated C2-evoked excitation of VSI in the pedal ganglion distal to the lesion. Associated with the recovery of the swim motor pattern, the synaptic action of C2 onto VSI in the proximal pedal ganglion changed from being predominantly inhibitory to being predominantly excitatory. These results show that the Tritonia swim CPG undergoes adaptive plasticity in response to the loss of critical synaptic connections; reversal of synaptic action in the CPG may be at least partially responsible for this functional recovery.



Some claim that symptom-based Rome criteria are diagnostic and enhance clinical practice and choice of therapy for patients presenting with gastrointestinal symptoms. This overview focuses on lower gastrointestinal symptoms: constipation, diarrhea, pain and bloating. The main con arguments for using such criteria for diagnosis are: insufficient specificity, overlap of symptom-based categories or disorders, insufficient and therefore non-specific characterization of pain in the criteria, inability to differentiate the &quot;mimics&quot; of IBS-C and IBS-D, and inability to optimize treatment for IBS-M or bloating in the absence of objective measurements. While doctors may not land in trouble using &quot;symptom diagnosis&quot; of IBS, this should not deter them from optimizing diagnosis and treatment of diseases associated with gastrointestinal dysfunction.
Beta arrestins are molecular scaffolds that can bring together three-component mitogen-activated protein kinase signalling modules to promote signal compartmentalisation. We use peptide array technology to define novel interfaces between components within the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/beta arrestin signalling complex. We show that beta arrestin 1 and beta arrestin 2 associate with JNK3 via the kinase N-terminal domain in a region that, surprisingly, does not harbour a known 'common docking' motif. In the N-domain and C-terminus of beta arrestin 1 and beta arrestin 2 we identify two novel apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 binding sites and in the N-domain of the beta arrestin 1 and beta arrestin 2 we identify a novel MKK4 docking site.

To investigate the neural basis for functional recovery of the cerebral cortex following spinal cord injury, we measured the expression of growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43), which is involved in the process of synaptic sprouting. We determined the GAP-43 mRNA expression levels in the sensorimotor cortical areas of macaque monkeys with a unilateral lesion of the lateral corticospinal tract (l-CST) at the C4/C5 level of the cervical cord and compared them with the levels in the corresponding regions of intact monkeys. Lesioned monkeys recovered finger dexterity during the first months after surgery, and the GAP-43 mRNA levels increased in layers II-III in primary motor areas (M1), bilaterally. Double-labeling analysis of the lesioned monkeys showed that GAP-43 mRNA was expressed strongly in excitatory neurons but only rarely in inhibitory interneurons. Expression also increased in the medium-sized (area, 500-1,000 microm(2)) and large pyramidal cells (area, &gt;1,000 microm(2)) in layer V of the bilateral M1. The increased expression of GAP-43 mRNA in the M1 contralateral to the lesion was more prominent during the early recovery stage than during the late recovery stage. In addition, GAP-43 mRNA increased in layers II-III of both the contralesional ventral premotor area and the primary somatosensory area. These results suggest that GAP-43 is involved in time-dependent and brain region-specific plastic changes after l-CST lesioning. The expression patterns imply that plastic changes occur not only in M1 but also in the broad associative cortical network, including the ventral premotor and primary sensory areas.
Viruses have substantial value as vehicles for transporting transgenes into neurons. Each virus has its own set of attributes for addressing neuroscience-related questions. Here we review some of the advantages and limitations of herpes, pseudorabies, rabies, adeno-associated, lentivirus, and others to study the brain. We then explore a novel recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus (dG-VSV) with the G-gene deleted and transgenes engineered into the first position of the RNA genome, which replicates only in the first brain cell infected, as corroborated with ultrastructural analysis, eliminating spread of virus. Because of its ability to replicate rapidly and to express multiple mRNA copies and additional templates for more copies, reporter gene expression is amplified substantially, over 500-fold in 6 hours, allowing detailed imaging of dendrites, dendritic spines, axons, and axon terminal fields within a few hours to a few days after inoculation. Green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression is first detected within 1 hour of inoculation. The virus generates a Golgi-like appearance in all neurons or glia of regions of the brain tested. Whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology, calcium digital imaging with fura-2, and time-lapse digital imaging showed that neurons appeared physiologically normal after expressing viral transgenes. The virus has a wide range of species applicability, including mouse, rat, hamster, human, and Drosophila cells. By using dG-VSV, we show efferent projections from the suprachiasmatic nucleus terminating in the periventricular region immediately dorsal to the nucleus. DG-VSVs with genes coding for different color reporters allow multicolor visualization of neurons wherever applied.



Considerable evidence suggests that in instrumental conditioning rats learn the relationship between actions and their consequences, or outcomes. Such goal-directed actions are sensitive to changes in outcome value. The present study assessed the role of the endogenous opioid system in goal-directed reward learning. In two experiments, rats were trained to lever press for food pellets either under vehicle or naloxone-induced opioid receptor blockade. Specific satiety procedures were used for outcome devaluation, and the effect of this devaluation on instrumental responding was then tested in extinction. In Experiment 1 outcome devaluation resulted in a reduction in lever pressing in rats that were trained after vehicle injections, indicating that actions in these rats were goal-directed. In contrast, actions in rats trained under naloxone were insensitive to outcome devaluation when tested off drug, suggesting that lever pressing had become habitual in these rats. Interestingly, in Experiment 2 naloxone-induced habitual behavior was shown to be specific to the context in which the training occurred under naloxone; rats showed normal sensitivity to outcome devaluation when tested in an alternate vehicle-trained context. Additionally, in Experiment 2 we found that the acute administration of naloxone on test had no effect in itself, indicating that opioid receptor-related processes contribute to the acquisition of goal-directed actions and not to their general performance. These data suggest that an intact endogenous opioid system is necessary for normal goal-directed learning and more importantly, reveal that a compromised endogenous opioid system during learning enhances the habitual control of actions.
Human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection may produce neurological deficits, such as cognitive decline, that may be worsened by concurrent ethanol (EtOH) abuse. Among the many biochemical cascades likely mediating HIV-1-associated neuronal injury is enhancement of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor function and progression to excitotoxicity, an effect that may be directly or indirectly related to accumulation in brain of the HIV-1 trans-activator of transcription (Tat) factor. The present studies were designed to examine the hypothesis that binge-like EtOH pre-exposure would enhance effects of Tat on NMDA receptor function. These studies employed a modified in vivo binge EtOH exposure regimen designed to produce peak blood EtOH levels (BEL) of &lt;200 mg/dl in adult male rats and were designed to examine effects of intra-hippocampal injection of Tat (0.5 microl/500 pM/2 min) on EtOH withdrawal-related behavior, spatial learning, and histological measures. Unilateral cannulae were implanted into the cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) pyramidal cell layer of animals prior to beginning a 4-day binge EtOH regimen. EtOH was administered via intragastric intubation ( approximately 3.0-5.0 g/kg) with dose determined by behavioral ratings of intoxication daily for 4 days (at 08:00, 16:00, and 24:00 h). EtOH withdrawal behaviors were monitored 12 h after the last administration of EtOH. Morris water maze learning was assessed during the following 4 days, at which times brains were harvested for autoradiographic measurement of NMDA receptor density and neuroinflammation. Maximal BELs of 187.69 mg/dl were observed 60 min after EtOH administration on day 2 of the regimen. In contrast, peak BELs of approximately 100 mg/dl were observed 60 min after EtOH administration on day 4 of the regimen, suggesting development of metabolic tolerance. Significant behavioral abnormalities were observed in EtOH withdrawn animals, including tremor and seizures. Intra-CA1 region injection of Tat significantly potentiated EtOH withdrawal behavioral abnormalities, an effect that was reduced by MK-801 pre-exposure. While EtOH withdrawn animals showed learning similar to control animals, EtOH withdrawn animals that received intra-CA1 Tat injection demonstrated persisting deficits in spatial learning on days 3 and 4 of training, effects that were markedly reduced by administration of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 30 min prior to Tat injection. No changes in [(3)H]MK-801 binding were observed. Binding density of [(3)H]PK11195, a ligand for peripheral benzodiazepine receptors expressed on activated microglia, was elevated proximal to cannula tracks in all animals, but was not altered by EtOH or Tat exposure. These findings suggest that EtOH abuse and/or dependence in HIV-positive individuals may promote HIV-1-associated cognitive deficits by altering NMDA receptor function in the absence of microglial activation or neuroinflammation.
Lithium is an efficacious drug for the treatment of mood disorders, and its application is also considered a potential therapy for brain damage. However, the mechanisms underlying lithium's therapeutic action and toxic effects in the nervous system remain largely elusive. Here we report on the use of a versatile genetic model, the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, to discover novel molecular components involved in the lithium-responsive neurobiological process. We previously identified CG15088, which encodes a putative nutrient amino acid transporter of the solute carrier 6 (SLC6) family, as one of the genes most significantly upregulated in response to lithium treatment. This gene was the only SLC6 gene induced by lithium, and was thus designated as Lithium-inducible SLC6 transporter or List. Either RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated knockdown or complete deletion of List resulted in a remarkable increase in the susceptibility of adult flies to lithium's toxic effects, whereas transgenic expression of wild-type List significantly suppressed the lithium hypersensitive phenotype of List-deficient flies. Other ions such as sodium, potassium and chloride did not induce List upregulation, nor did they affect the viability of flies with suppressed List expression. These results indicate that lithium's biochemical or physical properties, rather than general osmotic responses, are responsible for the lithium-induced upregulation of List, as well as for the lithium-susceptible phenotype observed in List knockdown flies. Interestingly, flies became significantly more susceptible to lithium toxicity when List RNAi was specifically expressed in glia than when it was expressed in neurons or muscles, which is consistent with potential glial expression of List. These results show that the List transporter confers resistance to lithium toxicity, possibly as a consequence of its amino acid transporter activity in CNS glia. Our results have provided a new avenue of investigation toward a better understanding of the molecular and cellular mechanisms that underlie lithium-responsive neurobiological process.
In order to elucidate the roles of aquaporins (AQPs) in astroglial responses, we investigated AQP expressions in the experimental epileptic hippocampus. In control animals, AQP1 protein expression was restricted to the ventricular-facing surface of the choroid plexus. AQP4 was expressed in astrocyte foot processes near blood vessels and in ependymal and pial surfaces in contact with cerebrospinal fluid. AQP9 protein has been detected in cells lining the cerebral ventricles, and in astrocytes. Six to eight weeks after status epilepticus (SE), AQP1 expression was mainly, but not all, detected in vacuolized astrocytes, which were localized in the stratum radiatum of the CA1 region. AQP4 was negligible in vacuolized CA1 astrocytes, although AQP4 immunoreactivity in non-vacuolized astrocytes was increased as compared to control level. AQP9 expression was shown to be mainly induced in non-vacuolized CA1 astrocytes. Therefore, our findings suggest that AQP subunits may play differential roles in various astroglial responses (including astroglial swelling and astroglial loss) in the chronic epileptic hippocampus.
The central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) is an important neuroanatomical substrate of emotional processes that are critically involved in addictive behaviors. Glutamate and opioid systems in the CeA play significant roles in neural plasticity and addictive processes, however the cellular sites of interaction between agonists of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and mu-opioid receptors (muOR) in the CeA are unknown. Dual labeling immunocytochemistry was used to determine the ultrastructural relationship between the essential NMDA-NR1 receptor subunit and muOR in the CeA. It was found that over 80% of NR1-labeled profiles were dendrites while less than 10% were axons. In the case of muOR-labeled profiles, approximately 60% were dendritic, and over 35% were axons. Despite their somewhat distinctive patterns of cellular location, numerous dual-labeled profiles were observed. Approximately 80% of these were dendritic, and less than 10% were axonal. Moreover, many dual-labeled dendritic profiles were contacted by axon terminals receiving asymmetric-type synapses indicative of excitatory signaling. These results indicate that NMDA and muORs are strategically localized in dendrites, including those receiving excitatory synapses, of central amygdala neurons. Thus, postsynaptic co-modulation of central amygdala neurons may be a key cellular substrate mediating glutamate and opioid interaction on neural signaling and plasticity associated with normal and pathological emotional processes associated with addictive behaviors.
Recent literature indicates that low-dose Methylene Blue (MB), an autoxidizable dye with powerful antioxidant and metabolic enhancing properties, might prevent neurotoxin-induced neural damage and associated functional deficits. This study evaluated whether local MB may counteract the anatomical and functional effects of the intrastriatal infusion of the neurotoxin rotenone (Rot) in the rat. To this end, stereological analyses of striatal lesion volumes were performed and changes in oxidative energy metabolism in the striatum and related motor regions were mapped using cytochrome oxidase histochemistry. The influence of MB on striatal levels of oxidative stress induced by Rot was determined, and behavioral tests were used to investigate the effect of unilateral MB coadministration on motor asymmetry. Rot induced large anatomical lesions resembling &quot;metabolic strokes,&quot; whose size was greatly reduced in MB-treated rats. Moreover, MB prevented the decrease in cytochrome oxidase activity and the perilesional increase in oxidative stress associated with Rot infusion in the striatum. MB also prevented the indirect effects of the Rot-induced lesion on cytochrome oxidase activity in related motor regions, such as the striatal regions rostral and caudal to the lesion, the substantia nigra compacta and reticulata, and the pedunculopontine nucleus. At a network level, MB maintained a global strengthening of functional connectivity in basal ganglia-thalamocortical motor circuits, as opposed to the functional decoupling observed in Rot-alone subjects. Finally, MB partially prevented the behavioral sensorimotor asymmetries elicited by Rot. These results are consistent with protective effects of MB against neurotoxic damage in the brain parenchyma. This study provides the first demonstration of the anatomical, metabolic and behavioral neuroprotective effects of MB in the striatum in vivo, and supports the notion that MB could be a valuable intervention against neural damage associated with oxidative stress and energy hypometabolism.
Activity-dependent modulation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors containing selective NR2 subunits has been implicated in plastic processes in developing and adult sensory cortex. Aiming to reveal differential sensitivity of NR2 subunits to sustained changes in sensory activity, we utilized four paradigms that blocked, reinstated, or initiated sensory visual activity. Laminar prevalence of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit 2A- (NR2A)- and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit 2B- (NR2B)-containing synapses in visual cortex of postnatal and adult ferrets was assessed using quantitative electron microscopy. Light-deprivation at all ages resulted in a downregulation of NR2A, while recovery from deprivation resulted in an upregulation. Furthermore, premature eyelid opening caused a precocious increase of NR2A. Thus, transitions between periods of dark and light rapidly and bidirectionally regulate NR2A, regardless of cortical layer or age. In contrast, NR2B regulation is layer- and age-dependent. Only in layer IV, NR2B prevalence displays a one-time decline about 3 weeks after the initiation of sensory activity upon normal or premature eyelid opening, or upon termination of dark-rearing. Incongruity in patterns of NR2A and NR2B modulation by activity is consistent with involvement of these subunits in two distinct, yet partially co-occurring processes: developmental plasticity with a critical period, and lifelong plasticity that is established in early developmental ages.
Several studies have shown fatty acid supplementation to be efficacious in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder/autism spectrum disorder (ADHD/ASD) and epilepsy. Interestingly, rats bred to be seizure-prone (Fast), unlike those bred for seizure-resistance (Slow), naturally exhibit behaviors and physiology reminiscent of ADHD/ASD in humans, suggesting a fundamental link between seizure disposition and these developmental disorders. To determine whether chronic omega-3 supplementation might ameliorate ADHD-like behaviors in the seizure-prone rat strain and/or alter natural predispositions for or against seizure in either strain, Fast and Slow weanlings were maintained on a control or omega-3-supplemented diet. As adults, rats were tested in paradigms known to elicit ADHD-like behaviors from Fast rats and then kindled from the amygdala to assess relative seizure disposition. While omega-3 supplementation did not significantly alter the relative hyperactivity, learning deficits or heightened seizure sensitivity naturally exhibited by Fast rats, it dramatically reduced their impulsivity to Slow-like levels. In contrast, typical behavioral patterns in Slow rats were largely unaffected by omega-3 supplementation yet their proclivity for seizure was greatly increased. This heightened vulnerability to seizure in Slow rats was paralleled by a drop in circulating plasma non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) to match levels normally observed in Fast rats. These findings suggest a delicate balance between seizure predisposition and ADHD-like behaviors that can be influenced by omega-3 treatment. Further, a relationship between circulating NEFA levels and seizure susceptibility has surfaced that advocates caution when treating different genetic backgrounds with omega-3 fatty acids.
The senescence-accelerated mouse prone-8 (SAMP8) is characterized by early onset of learning and memory deficits along with spontaneous overproduction of soluble beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) in the brain. In our study, 4 month old male SAMP8 mice were orally administered 0.05% and 0.1% green tea catechins (GTC, w/v) in drinking water for 6 months. We found that a supplementation with 0.05% or 0.1% GTC prevented spatial learning and memory impairments of mice in the Morris water maze. Better performance of GTC-treated mice was associated with decreased levels of Abeta(1-42) oligomers in the hippocampus. The activity of the protein kinase A/cAMP-response element binding protein (PKA/CREB) pathway, one of the molecular targets of Abeta oligomers which is crucial for late long-term potentiation and long-term memory formation, was significantly increased after GTC administration. We also found that chronic 0.05% or 0.1% GTC consumption prevented the reductions of three representative proteins of synaptic function and synaptic structure, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor(BDNF), post-synaptic density protein-95 (PSD95) and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). These results demonstrated that long-term 0.05% or 0.1% green tea catechin administration may prevent spatial learning and memory decline of SAMP8 mice by decreasing Abeta(1-42) oligomers and upregulating synaptic plasticity-related proteins in the hippocampus.
Previous data demonstrate that L-type voltage-gated calcium channel (VGCC) blockers, which bind to alpha(1) subunits of VGCC to suppress Ca(2+) entry into cells, inhibit the development of psychological dependence on drugs of abuse, suggesting the upregulation of L-type VGCC in the development of psychological dependence. However, there are few available data on changes of the auxiliary subunit alpha(2)/delta modifying L-type VGCC under such conditions. We therefore investigated here the role of alpha(2)/delta subunits of VGCCs in the brain of mouse after repeated treatment with morphine. The treatment with morphine increased alpha(2)/delta subunit expression in the frontal cortex and the limbic forebrain of mice showing rewarding effect and sensitization to hyperlocomotion by morphine. The morphine-induced behavioral sensitization and place preference were also suppressed by gabapentin, which binds to an exofacial epitope of the alpha(2)/delta auxiliary subunits of VGCCs. These findings indicate that the upregulation of alpha(2)/delta subunit as well as alpha(1) subunits of VGCC in the frontal cortex and the limbic forebrain plays a critical role in development of morphine-induced rewarding effect and behavioral sensitization following neuronal plasticity.
Previous studies suggested that Group I metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors play a role in mechanotransduction processes of slowly adapting type I mechanoreceptors. Using an isolated rat sinus hair follicle preparation we tested a range of compounds. Surprisingly, only non-competitive mGlu1 receptor antagonists produced profound and long-lasting depression of mechanically evoked firing. 6-Amino-N-cyclohexyl-N,3-dimethylthiazolo[3,2-alpha]benzimidazole-2-carboxamide hydrochloride (YM-298198) had an IC(50) of 8.7 muM (95% CI 5.7 to 13.2 microM), representing the most potent known blocker of type I mechanoreceptors. The derivative 6-amino-N-cyclohexyl-3-methylthiazolo[3,2-alpha]benzimidazole-2-carboxamide hydrochloride (desmethyl YM-298198) had a comparable potency. Another compound 7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester (CPCCOEt) had a similar depressant effect, although it was less potent with an approximate IC(50) of 100 microM. Between three and seven times the concentration of CPCCOEt and YM-298198 respectively was required to produce similar depressions in slowly adapting type II units. No depression, and some weak excitatory effects, were observed using the following ligands: the competitive mGlu1 receptor antagonist alpha-amino-5-carboxy-3-methyl-2-thiopheneacetic acid (3-MATIDA) (300 microM), the phosphoserine phosphatase inhibitor dl-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid (dl-AP3) (2 mM), non-competitive mGlu5 receptor antagonists 3-((2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl)pyridine; (S)-3,5-DHPG, (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (MTEP) (10 microM) and 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine hydrochloride (MPEP) (100 microM), the mGlu1 receptor agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine ((S)-3,5-DHPG) (500 microM), and the mGlu5 receptor agonist (RS)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG) (1 mM). The results suggest that the non-competitive mGlu1 receptor antagonists are not acting at conventional mGlu1 receptors but at other binding sites, possibly those directly associated with mechanogated channels or on any of a number of indirect biochemical pathways. YM-298198 and related compounds may prove to be useful ligands to identify mechanosensitive channel proteins. The selective interference of type I units may provide further evidence that Merkel cells are mechanotransducers. Finally such compounds may deliver insights or treatments for Merkel cell carcinoma.
Since Hodgkin's first description of three classes of excitability in crustacean nerve axons (1948), theoretical studies have used mathematical models to demonstrate that small changes in the parameters describing ionic currents could result in transitions between classes of membrane excitability. However, these transitions have rarely been investigated experimentally. Here, we show that states of excitability in rat mesencephalic V (Mes V) neurons can be classified into three groups, with manipulations of the 4-aminopyridine sensitive K(+) current (I(4-AP)) or persistent Na(+) current (I(NaP)) leading to the corresponding transitions. However, alterations in the hyperpolarization-activated cation current (I(h)), tetraethylammonium (TEA)-sensitive K(+) current, or Cd(2+)-sensitive Ca(2+) current were ineffective in causing these transitions. These results provide experimental evidence for the excitability transitions predicted by Hodgkin and characterize their ionic mechanisms in Mes V neurons.
The aim of this study in the biparental rodent Octodon degus was to assess the impact of paternal deprivation on neuronal and synaptic development in the orbitofrontal cortex, a prefrontal region which is essential for emotional and cognitive function. On the behavioral level the quantitative comparison of parental behaviors in biparental and single-mother families revealed that (i) degu fathers significantly participate in parental care and (ii) single-mothers do not increase their maternal care to compensate the lack of paternal care. On the brain structural level we show in three-week-old father-deprived animals that layer II/III pyramidal neurons in the orbitofrontal cortex displayed significantly lower spine densities on apical and basal dendrites. Whereas biparentally raised animals have reached adult spine density values at postnatal day 21, fatherless animals seem &quot;to catch up&quot; by a delayed increase of spine density until reaching similar values as biparentally raised animals in adulthood. However, in adulthood reduced apical spine numbers together with shorter apical dendrites were observed in father-deprived animals, which indicates that dendritic growth and synapse formation (seen in biparental animals between postnatal day 21 and adulthood) were significantly suppressed. These results demonstrate that paternal deprivation delays and partly suppresses the development of orbitofrontal circuits. The retarded dendritic and synaptic development of the apical dendrites of layer II/III pyramidal neurons in the orbitofrontal cortex of adult fatherless animals may reflect a reduced excitatory connectivity of this cortical subregion.
The neurosteroid allopregnanolone (AP) is a GABAergic agonist that suppresses central nervous system (CNS) activity in the adult brain, and by reducing excitotoxicity is considered to be neuroprotective. A role for neurosteroids in the developing brain, particularly in late gestation, is still debated. The aim of this study was to investigate effects on proliferation and cell death in the brain of late gestation fetal sheep after inhibition of AP synthesis using finasteride, a 5alpha-reductase type 2 (5alpha-R2) inhibitor. Catheters were implanted in fetal sheep at approximately 125 days of gestation. At 3-4 days postsurgery, fetuses received infusions of either finasteride (20 mg/kg/h; n=5), the AP analogue alfaxalone (5 mg/kg/h; n=5), or finasteride and alfaxalone together (n=5). Brains were obtained at 24 h after infusion to determine cell death (apoptotic or necrotic) and cell proliferation in the hippocampus and cerebellum, areas known to be susceptible to excitotoxic damage. Finasteride treatment significantly increased apoptosis (activated caspase-3 expression) in hippocampal CA3 and CA1, and cerebellar molecular and granular layers, an effect abolished by co-infusion of alfaxalone and finasteride. Double-label immunohistochemistry showed that both neurons and astrocytes were caspase-3 positive. Finasteride treatment also increased the number of dead (pyknotic) cells in the hippocampus and cerebellum (Purkinje cells), but not when finasteride+alfaxalone was infused. Cell proliferation (Ki-67-immunoreactivity) increased after finasteride treatment; double-labeling showed the majority of Ki-67-positive cells were astrocytes. Thus, steroids such as AP appear to influence the constitutive rate of apoptosis and proliferation in the hippocampus and cerebellum of the fetal brain, and suggest an important role for neurosteroids in the development of the brain.
The level of excitability of cortical neurons depends on the balance between their excitatory and inhibitory inputs (excitation/inhibition [E/I] balance). In the cortex, the E/I balance received by a neuron is dynamically maintained through a coordinated regulation of the strength of these inputs, described in term of homeostatic plasticity. Using a method allowing the determination of the E/I balance in rat cortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons (L5-PNs, the main output stage of the cortex), while keeping the interactions between excitatory and inhibitory networks functional, we examined the effects of high or low frequency of stimulation (HFS or LFS) protocols in layer 4 (in order to mimic thalamo-cortical entries) on the E-I level of the neuronal network. We previously showed that the E/I balance of L5-PNs remains stable due to a dual potentiation or dual depression of E and I after HFS or LFS protocols. Here, using a specific neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) inhibitor, we show that the related potentiation or depression of E and I (underlying homeostatic plasticity processes) required nNOS activation. We also show that application of an unspecific blocker of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) or a nitric oxide (NO) scavenger induces an increase of the E/I balance suggesting a role for a tonic NO synthesis in the regulation of the network activity. It is concluded that, in the cortex, a phasic NO effect (due to activation of nNOS) is required for the induction of homeostatic plasticity processes whereas a tonic NO signal is involved in the regulation of a set-point value for the E/I balance.
Rehabilitation therapy is known to drive motor improvement in stroke patients. However, the interplay of functional recovery and compensation in postischemic motor behavior is poorly understood. This study focused on the time course of functional recovery versus motor compensation in skilled forelimb movements after cerebral ischemia in rats. Young adult male rats underwent a focal cerebral ischemia by unilateral photothrombotic lesion of the motor cortex related to the preferred forelimb. In a first set of experiments animals were exposed to small cortical lesions comprising the forelimb motor cortex (n=8) or to larger lesions additionally extending into the hind limb motor area (n=8). In a second set of experiments animals with large lesion were either housed in standard (n=10) or enriched environment (n=14). Skilled reaching was assessed for 25 to 28 days postischemia. This task allows the distinction between recovery and compensation by parallel quantitative (reaching success) and qualitative (movement pattern) analysis. The results reveal that lesion size determines the initial magnitude of motor deficits, but not the degree of chronic impairments in movement pattern in all experimental groups. Compensatory movements represent the major mechanism of functional improvement and were accompanied by a partial functional restitution. Enriched environment facilitates effective compensation in skilled reaching, while it does not promote restitution of function. In particular, rotating movements of the forelimb during reaching were permanently impaired and required functional compensation through intensified use of the upper body. We conclude an activity dependent postischemic restoration of movement success. Enriched environment provides benefit by increased motor activity mainly due to compensation. Furthermore, these findings emphasize the power of comprehensive movement analysis to gain insight into recovery processes after stroke.
Ivane Beritashvili (&quot;Beritoff&quot; in Russian, and often in Western languages) was a major figure in 20th-century neuroscience. Mastering the string galvanometer, he founded the electrophysiology of spinal cord reflexes, showing that inhibition is a distinctly different process from excitation, contrary to the concepts of his famous mentor, Wedensky. Work on postural reflexes with Magnus was cut short by World War I, but he later demonstrated that navigation in two-dimensional space without vision is a function solely of the vestibular system rather than of muscle proprioception. Persevering in his experiments despite postwar turmoil he founded an enduring Physiology Institute in Tbilisi, where he pursued an ingenious and extensive investigation of comparative memory in vertebrates. This revealed the unique nature of mammalian memory processes, which he forthrightly called &quot;image driven,&quot; and distinguished them unequivocally from those underlying conditional reflexes. For some 30 years the Stalinist terror confined his publications to the Russian language. Work with his colleague, Chichinadze, discovering that memory confined to one cerebral hemisphere could be accessed by the other via a specific forebrain commissure, did reach the West, and ultimately led to recognition of the fascinating &quot;split brain&quot; condition. In the 1950s he was removed from his professorial position for 5 years as being &quot;anti-Pavlovian.&quot; Restored to favor, he was honorary president of the &quot;Moscow Colloquium&quot; that saw the foundation of the International Brain Research Organization.
Modification of synapses in the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) is believed to underlie pheromonal memory that enables mate recognition in mice. The memory, which is acquired with single-trial learning, forms only with coincident noradrenergic and glutamatergic inputs to the AOB. The mechanisms by which glutamate and norepinephrine (NE) alter the AOB synapses are not well understood. Here we present results that not only reconcile the earlier, seemingly contradictory, observations on the role of glutamate and NE in changing the AOB synapses, but also reveal novel mechanisms of plasticity. Our studies suggest that initially, glutamate acting at Group II metabotropic receptors and NE acting at alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors inhibit N-type and R-type Ca(2+) channels in mitral cells via a G-protein. The N-type and R-type Ca(2+) channel inhibition is reversed by activation of alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors and protein kinase Calpha (PKCalpha). Based on these results, we propose a hypothetical model for a new kind of synaptic plasticity in the AOB that accounts for the previous behavioral data on pheromonal memory. According to this model, initial inhibition of the Ca(2+) channels suppresses the GABAergic inhibitory feedback to mitral cells, causing disinhibition and Ca(2+) influx. NE also activates phospholipase C (PLC) through alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors generating inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol (DAG). Calcium and DAG together activate PKCalpha which switches the disinhibition to increased inhibition of mitral cells. Thus, PKCalpha is likely to be a coincidence detector integrating glutamate and NE input in the AOB and bridging the short-term signaling to long-term structural changes resulting in enhanced inhibition of mitral cells that is thought to underlie memory formation.
Since mild thermal stress seems to exert neuroprotection via induction of heat-shock protein 70 kDa (hsp70), we tested whether hsp70 would preserve striatal bioelectrical activity under conditions of mitochondrial impairment. Corticostriatal slices from rats that had undergone mild thermal stress were exposed to either rotenone or 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), that selectively inhibits mitochondrial complex I and complex II, respectively. Rotenone is utilized to obtain an experimental model of Parkinson's disease while 3-NP replicates Huntington's disease phenotype in experimental animals. The cerebral hsp70 increase did not alter field potential amplitude of the slices but partially protected them against rotenone-induced neurotoxicity. Similarly, induction of hsp70 had also a partial neuroprotective effect on the neurotoxicity caused by 3-NP on striatal field potential. Since rotenone and 3-NP treatments mimic the mitochondrial impairment and oxidative stress that contribute to development of Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease, these data suggest that induction of hsp70 might represent a possible neuroprotective mechanism against the pathophysiological chain of events implicated in these neurodegenerative disorders.
This study was done to determine whether social and environmental factors alter cocaine reward and proteins implicated in mediating drug reward in rats during early adolescence. On postnatal day (PND) 23, rats were housed under conditions where both social (number of rats per cage) and environmental (availability of toys) factors were manipulated. Socially isolated rats were housed alone impoverished with no toys (II) or enriched with toys (IE). Social rats were housed two rats/cage with no toys (SI2) or with toys (SE2), or three/cage with (SE3) or without (SI3) toys. On PND 43, cocaine conditioned place preference (CPP) sessions began with the post-test done on PND 47. Cocaine CPP was established in response to 5 or 10 mg/kg cocaine in II rats, and CPP was decreased with the addition of cage mates or toys. No CPP was seen to any dose in SI3 or SE3 rats. Enriched housing (SE3) increased dopamine transporter (DAT) protein in the nucleus accumbens compared to II. There also were differential effects of cocaine on tyrosine hydroxylase and DAT depending on housing, with both increased by cocaine in II but not SE3 rats. DARPP-32 was unchanged by housing or cocaine, while phospho-Thr(34)-DARPP-32 was increased by cocaine treatment across conditions. Thus, both social and environmental enrichment decrease cocaine CPP during adolescence and different housing alters proteins that regulate dopaminergic neurotransmission in a manner that may account for the observed differences in cocaine-induced reward.
Sex hormones contribute to modulating brain functions throughout the life span. It has been suggested that estrogen prevents neuronal loss in different areas of the CNS such as the hippocampus. However there are less consistent data on its effects on the amygdala. Kainic acid (KA) is used to produce seizures that mimic those of temporal lobe epilepsy in humans. At high doses in animal models, KA induces neurotoxicity, particularly in the medial amygdaloid nuclei (MeA). It is uncertain whether the gonadal hormones are protective or not against this neurotoxicity in the MeA. Here we show that a single dose of KA induces neurodegeneration in the subnuclei of the MeA of rats with different degrees of intensity in males and females. A differential neuroprotective effect of the gonadal hormones was also observed. In diestrous rats, massive neuronal death similar to that in the ovariectomized females was detected. MeA neurons of proestrous rats, like the ovariectomized treated with estrogen, were significantly less affected by the KA. Testosterone produced a mild neuroprotective action, but dihydrotestosterone did not protect. A similar pattern was observed in all male groups. Together, the results indicate that estrogen protects MeA neurons from KA neurotoxicity. Androgens are only partially neuroprotective, with this effect being found only in testosterone, probably through its conversion to estrogen by aromatase.
The synthesis enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65 or GAD67) identifies neurons as GABAergic. Recent studies have characterized the physiological properties of spinal cord GABAergic interneurons using lines of GAD67-green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgenic mice. A more complete characterization of their phenotype is required to better understand the role of this population of inhibitory neurons in spinal cord function. Here, we characterize the distribution of lumbar spinal cord GAD67-GFP neurons at postnatal days (P) 0, 7, and 14, and adult based on their co-expression with GABA and determine the molecular phenotype of GAD67-GFP neurons at P14 based on the expression of various neuropeptides, calcium binding proteins, and other markers. At all ages &gt;67% of GFP(+) neurons were also GABA(+). With increasing age; (i) GFP(+) and GABA(+) cell numbers declined, (ii) ventral horn GFP(+) and GABA(+) neurons vanished, and (iii) somatic labeling was reduced while terminal labeling increased. At P14, vasoactive intestinal peptide and bombesin were expressed in approximately 63% and approximately 35% of GFP(+) cells, respectively. Somatostatin was found in a small number of neurons, whereas calcitonin gene-related peptide never co-localized with GFP. Moderate co-expression was found for all the Ca(2+) binding proteins examined. Notably, most laminae I-II parvalbumin(+) neurons were also GFP(+). Neurogranin, a protein kinase C substrate, was found in approximately 1/2 of GFP(+) cells. Lastly, while only 7% of GFP(+) cells contain nitric oxide synthase (NOS), these cells represent a large fraction of all NOS(+) cells. We conclude that GAD67-GFP neurons represent the majority of spinal GABAergic neurons and that mouse dorsal horn GAD67-GFP(+) neurons comprise a phenotypically diverse population.
Interactions of glutamatergic and purinergic actions in the medulla regulate important cardiovascular functions. The glutamatergic action in dorsal facial area (DFA) of the medulla increases blood flow of common carotid artery (CCA) in cats. We hypothesized that interactions of glutamatergic and purinergic actions in the DFA may regulate the CCA blood flow. Purinergic and glutamatergic agonists and antagonists were microinjected into the DFA through a four-barrel tubing in anesthetized cats. Drug effects were evaluated by changes in the CCA blood flow. Microinjection with 20 nmol ATP or alpha,beta-methyleneATP (alpha,beta-MeATP, a P2 purinergic receptor agonist) induced an increase of the CCA blood flow. This increase was dose-dependently reduced by prior administration with 1,3-dipropyl-8-p-sulfophenylxanthine (DPSPX, a specific P1 purinergic receptor antagonist), or pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS, a selective P2 purinergic receptor antagonist) as well as with MK-801 (a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist) or glutamate diethyl ester (GDEE, a competitive AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist). It was almost completely blocked by administrations with combined maximal doses of P1 and P2 receptor antagonists as well as NMDA and AMPA receptor antagonists. Nevertheless, P1 receptor agonist induced only mild and poorly reproducible increase in the CCA blood flow. In conclusion, prominent P2 and minor P1 purinergic receptors appear to be present in the DFA; the purinergic activation can mediate a release of glutamate that stimulates NMDA and AMPA to induce the increase of the CCA blood flows. These findings may provide important information for developing therapeutic strategy for diseases involving the CCA blood flow, such as hypertensive disease and cerebral ischemia.
Temporal-difference (TD) algorithms have been proposed as models of reinforcement learning (RL). We examine two issues of distributed representation in these TD algorithms: distributed representations of belief and distributed discounting factors. Distributed representation of belief allows the believed state of the world to distribute across sets of equivalent states. Distributed exponential discounting factors produce hyperbolic discounting in the behavior of the agent itself. We examine these issues in the context of a TD RL model in which state-belief is distributed over a set of exponentially-discounting &quot;micro-Agents&quot;, each of which has a separate discounting factor (gamma). Each microAgent maintains an independent hypothesis about the state of the world, and a separate value-estimate of taking actions within that hypothesized state. The overall agent thus instantiates a flexible representation of an evolving world-state. As with other TD models, the value-error (delta) signal within the model matches dopamine signals recorded from animals in standard conditioning reward-paradigms. The distributed representation of belief provides an explanation for the decrease in dopamine at the conditioned stimulus seen in overtrained animals, for the differences between trace and delay conditioning, and for transient bursts of dopamine seen at movement initiation. Because each microAgent also includes its own exponential discounting factor, the overall agent shows hyperbolic discounting, consistent with behavioral experiments.
Perceptual learning is required for olfactory function to adapt appropriately to changing odor environments. We here show that newborn neurons in the olfactory bulb are not only involved in, but necessary for, olfactory perceptual learning. First, the discrimination of perceptually similar odorants improves in mice after repeated exposure to the odorants. Second, this improved discrimination is accompanied by an elevated survival rate of newborn inhibitory neurons, preferentially involved in processing of the learned odor, within the olfactory bulb. Finally, blocking neurogenesis before and during the odorant exposure period prevents this learned improvement in discrimination. Olfactory perceptual learning is thus mediated by the reinforcement of functional inhibition in the olfactory bulb by adult neurogenesis.
Large islands of extrastriate cortex that are enriched for color-tuned neurons have recently been described in alert macaque using a combination of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and single-unit recording. These millimeter-sized islands, dubbed &quot;globs,&quot; are scattered throughout the posterior inferior temporal cortex (PIT), a swath of brain anterior to area V3, including areas V4, PITd, and posterior TEO. We investigated the micro-organization of neurons within the globs. We used fMRI to identify the globs and then used MRI-guided microelectrodes to test the color properties of single glob cells. We used color stimuli that sample the CIELUV perceptual color space at regular intervals to test the color tuning of single units, and make two observations. First, color-tuned neurons of various color preferences were found within single globs. Second, adjacent glob cells tended to have the same color tuning, demonstrating that glob cells are clustered by color preference and suggesting that they are arranged in color columns. Neurons separated by 50 microm, measured parallel to the cortical sheet, had more similar color tuning than neurons separated by 100 microm, suggesting that the scale of the color columns is &lt;100 microm. These results show that color-tuned neurons in PIT are organized by color preference on a finer scale than the scale of single globs. Moreover, the color preferences of neurons recorded sequentially along a given electrode penetration shifted gradually in many penetrations, suggesting that the color columns are arranged according to a chromotopic map reflecting perceptual color space.
Natriuretic peptides (NPs) are a family of cardiac- and vascular-derived hormones that are well known for regulating blood pressure, but their expression in the brain poses an intriguing yet unanswered question concerning their roles in the nervous system. Here, we report several unique activities of these hormones in regulating axonal development of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in the spinal cord. First, the C-type NP (CNP) is expressed in a restricted area of the dorsal spinal cord and provides a cue that is necessary for bifurcation of central sensory afferents. Second, in the culture of embryonic DRG neurons, CNP stimulates branch formation, induces axon outgrowth, and attracts growth cones. Furthermore, these activities are mediated by cyclic guanosine-3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) signaling and can be elicited by other members of NP hormones. Thus, NPs represent a new class of extracellular factors that regulate key axonal processes during development. Because their receptors are present in many regions of the embryonic and adult brain, we propose that these hormones have wide influence on the development and function of the nervous system.
Expression of halorhodopsin (NpHR), a light-driven microbial chloride pump, enables optical control of membrane potential and reversible silencing of targeted neurons. We generated transgenic zebrafish expressing enhanced NpHR under control of the Gal4/UAS system. Electrophysiological recordings showed that eNpHR stimulation effectively suppressed spiking of single neurons in vivo. Applying light through thin optic fibers positioned above the head of a semi-restrained zebrafish larva enabled us to target groups of neurons and to simultaneously test the effect of their silencing on behavior. The photostimulated volume of the zebrafish brain could be marked by subsequent photoconversion of co-expressed Kaede or Dendra. These techniques were used to localize swim command circuitry to a small hindbrain region, just rostral to the commissura infima Halleri. The kinetics of the hindbrain-generated swim command was investigated by combined and separate photo-activation of NpHR and Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2), a light-gated cation channel, in the same neurons. Together this &quot;optogenetic toolkit&quot; allows loss-of-function and gain-of-function analyses of neural circuitry at high spatial and temporal resolution in a behaving vertebrate.
The spontaneous tendency to synchronize our facial expressions with those of others is often termed emotional contagion. It is unclear, however, whether emotional contagion depends on visual awareness of the eliciting stimulus and which processes underlie the unfolding of expressive reactions in the observer. It has been suggested either that emotional contagion is driven by motor imitation (i.e., mimicry), or that it is one observable aspect of the emotional state arising when we see the corresponding emotion in others. Emotional contagion reactions to different classes of consciously seen and &quot;unseen&quot; stimuli were compared by presenting pictures of facial or bodily expressions either to the intact or blind visual field of two patients with unilateral destruction of the visual cortex and ensuing phenomenal blindness. Facial reactions were recorded using electromyography, and arousal responses were measured with pupil dilatation. Passive exposure to unseen expressions evoked faster facial reactions and higher arousal compared with seen stimuli, therefore indicating that emotional contagion occurs also when the triggering stimulus cannot be consciously perceived because of cortical blindness. Furthermore, stimuli that are very different in their visual characteristics, such as facial and bodily gestures, induced highly similar expressive responses. This shows that the patients did not simply imitate the motor pattern observed in the stimuli, but resonated to their affective meaning. Emotional contagion thus represents an instance of truly affective reactions that may be mediated by visual pathways of old evolutionary origin bypassing cortical vision while still providing a cornerstone for emotion communication and affect sharing.
This week Science and Science Signaling turn the spotlight on neuroscience, with Science highlighting how advances in methodology are providing insight into the organization and regulation of neural circuits and the behavior of neurons. Science Signaling features unexpected connections between signaling processes and diseases affecting the brain.
Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 has been shown to contribute to blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, infarct formation, and hemorrhagic transformation after ischemic stroke. The cellular source of MMP-9 detectable in the ischemic brain remains controversial since extracellular molecules in the brain may be derived from blood. We here demonstrate that bone marrow-derived cells are the major source of MMP-9 in the ischemic brain. We made bone marrow chimeric mice with MMP-9 null and wild-type as donor and recipient. After 90 min of transient focal cerebral ischemia, MMP-9 null mice receiving wild-type bone marrow showed comparable outcomes to wild-type in brain MMP-9 levels and BBB disruption (endogenous albumin extravasation) at 1 h post-reperfusion and infarct size at 24 h post-reperfusion. In contrast, wild-type animals replaced with MMP-9 null bone marrow showed barely detectable levels of MMP-9 in the ischemic brain, with attenuations in BBB disruption and infarct size. MMP-9 null mice receiving wild-type bone marrow showed enhanced Evans blue extravasation as early as 1 h post-reperfusion compared to wild-type mice replaced with MMP-9 null bone marrow. These findings suggest that MMP-9 released from bone marrow-derived cells influences the progression of BBB disruption in the ischemic brain.
In the present study, we used a modification of the rabbit small clot embolic stroke model (RSCEM), a multiple infarct ischemia model to achieve reperfusion (REP) through the internal carotid artery (ICA) following small clot embolization. We determined if increasing regional cortical blood flow (RCBF) following an embolic stroke is beneficial to neurological outcome. We compared this to cerebral reperfusion induced by the administration of the thrombolytic Tenecteplase (TNK, 1.5 mg/kg, IV bolus) in the presence or absence of REP. In this study, we also measured the incidence of ICH following REP and thrombolytic treatment. Following embolization, RCBF was reduced to 48-55% of baseline. When REP was induced by removal of a CCA ligature, RCBF initially increased to 185% of baseline. REP (P(50)=1.18+/-0.43 mg) had no effect on embolization-induced behavior measured 24 h following embolization compared to control (P(50)=1.01+/-0.48 mg). However, TNK treatment (2-hours post-embolization) in the absence or presence of REP (initiated 2 h following embolization) significantly (p&lt;0.05) increased the group P(50) to 2.92+/-0.55 mg and 2.42+/-0.40 mg, respectively. In addition, ICH was increased in the REP (42%, p&lt;0.05) and REP-TNK (35%, p&gt;0.05) group compared to either the control group (5.5%) or TNK group (10%). This study show that reperfusion of ICA can increase RCBF following embolization, but this is not associated with improved neurological outcome measured using quantal analysis. However, TNK administration significantly increased behavioral outcome when given 2 h following embolization; an increase that is not affected by combining TNK with REP.
Preconditioning by excitatory stimuli such as N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) offers good neuroprotection against excitotoxic insults, but is potentially limited by the risk of damage associated with the treatment. We report here the potential of an alternative strategy, tested on rat neonatal cerebellar granule neurons, which involves a 48-hour preconditioning step using the potassium channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), at a low (50 microM) and at a higher (2500 microM) concentration (in the presence or absence of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline). 4-Aminopyridine gave extensive protection against a number of stressors (glutamate, NMDA and 3-nitropropionic acid) applied 24 h following the end of the preconditioning period. Blockade of neuronal depolarisation by tetrodotoxin during preconditioning attenuated but did not eliminate protection, whilst co-application with the NMDA receptor blocker MK-801 increased protection. Western blot analysis showed that CREB phosphorylation was significantly increased by the 4-AP preconditioning, although bcl-2 expression was not stimulated. Glutamate induced cell death without significant activation of caspase-3, suggesting that 4-AP preconditioning is effective primarily against necrotic excitotoxicity. Since 4-AP preconditioning affords extensive protection against a range of neurotoxic insults we propose that it could provide the basis for a novel neuroprotective therapy worthy of further investigation.
Obstructive sleep apnea is primarily characterized by hypoxemia due to frequent apneic episodes and fragmentation of sleep due to the brief arousals that terminate the apneic episodes. Though neurobehavioral deficits frequently accompany sleep apnea, the relative roles of hypoxia versus sleep fragmentation are difficult to separate in apneic patients. Here, we assessed cognitive function as measured by water maze in the Fischer/Brown Norway (FBN) rat, comparing 24 h of sleep interruption (SI) to 24 h of intermittent hypoxia (IH), in order to dissociate their relative contributions to cognitive impairment. For SI, automated treadmills were used to induce brief ambulation in rats every 2 min, either prior to, or after, initial water maze acquisition training. IH was simulated by cycling environmental oxygen levels between 6% and 19% every 2 min, again either prior to, or after, acquisition. Twenty-four hours of IH exposure had no significant effect on either acquisition or retention, irrespective of whether IH occurred prior to, or after, acquisition. To replicate previous work, another group of rats, exposed to 3 days of IH (10 h/day) prior to acquisition, had impaired performance during acquisition. A comparison of the 24 h IH and 3 day IH findings suggests that a minimum amount of IH exposure is necessary to produce detectable spatial memory impairments. Although SI before acquisition had no effect on acquisition or later retention of the hidden platform location, SI after acquisition robustly impaired retention, indicating that spatial memory consolidation is more susceptible to the effects of sleep disruption than is the acquisition (learning) of spatial information.
Neural communication between the temporal and frontal cortex underlies mature declarative memory skills. The integrity of white matter pathways connecting these regions is likely critical in supporting this communication. Little is known about the relationship between white matter and declarative memory in older children and adolescents, an age period when advanced function in this domain is established. We acquired diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) data for 22 participants (9-15 years). Multiple DTI indices were calculated for the uncinate fasciculus - the major white matter tract connecting temporal and prefrontal regions. Indices were also calculated for compartments of lobar and posterior fossa white matter. Measures of visual-perceptual and auditory-verbal memory were administered. Correlation analyses were used to examine the relations between age, DTI indices, and memory. Voxel-wise analyses were also conducted. Age-related increases in FA were evident for frontal, parietal, and temporal hemispheric white matter. Proficiency in auditory-verbal memory was related to white matter integrity in the left uncinate fasciculus as well as parietal and cerebellar white matter. Proficiency in recall of a complex design was related to integrity within parietal and temporal regions. Our findings support the role of white matter in facilitating connectivity between cerebral regions important for declarative memory.
Here we use the steady-state visual evoked potential (SSVEP) to study attentive versus non-attentive processing of simple texture-defined shapes. By &quot;tagging&quot; the figure and background regions with different temporal frequencies, the method isolates response components associated with the figure region, the background region, and with non-linear spatio-temporal interactions between regions. Each of these response classes has a distinct scalp topography that is preserved under differing attentional task demands. In one task, attention was directed to discrimination of shape changes in the figure region. In the other task, a difficult letter discrimination was used to divert attentive processing resources away from the texture-defined form. Larger task-dependent effects were observed for figure responses and for the figure/background interaction than for the background responses. The figure region responses were delayed in occipital areas in the shape versus letter task conditions, while the region interactions were enhanced, especially in frontal areas. While a basic differentiation of figure from background processing occurred independent of task, attentive processing of elementary shapes recruited later occipital activity for figure processing and sustained non-linear figure/background interaction in frontal areas. Collectively, these results indicate that basic aspects of scene segmentation proceed pre-attentively, but that directed attention to the object shape engages a widely distributed network of brain areas including frontal and occipital regions.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) participates in the control of both motivation and addiction. To test the possibility that opioids in the NAc can cause rats to select ethanol in preference to food, Sprague-Dawley rats with ethanol, food, and water available, were injected with two doses each of morphine, the mu-receptor agonist [D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]-Enkephalin (DAMGO), the delta-receptor agonist D-Ala-Gly-Phe-Met-NH2 (DALA), the k-receptor agonist (+/-)-trans-U-50488 methanesulfonate (U-50,488H), or the opioid antagonist naloxone methiodide (m-naloxone). As an anatomical control for drug reflux, injections were also made 2mm above the NAc. The main result was that morphine in the NAc significantly increased ethanol and food intake, whereas m-naloxone reduced ethanol intake without affecting food or water intake. Of the selective receptor agonists, DALA in the NAc increased ethanol intake in preference to food. This is in contrast to DAMGO, which stimulated food but not ethanol intake, and the k-agonist U-50,488H, which had no effect on intake. When injected in the anatomical control site 2mm dorsal to the NAc, the opioids had no effects on ethanol intake. These results demonstrate that ethanol intake produced by morphine in the NAc is driven in large part by the delta-receptor. In light of other studies showing ethanol intake to increase enkephalin expression in the NAc, the present finding of enkephalin-induced ethanol intake suggests the existence of a positive feedback loop that fosters alcohol abuse. Naltrexone therapy for alcohol abuse may then act, in part, in the NAc by blocking this opioid-triggered cycle of alcohol intake.
Exercise is well known to result in changes of brain cortical activity measured by EEG. The aim of this study was (1) to localise exercise induced changes in brain cortical activity using a distributed source localisation algorithm and (2) to show that the effects of exercise are linked to participants' physical exercise preferences. Electrocortical activity (5 min) and metabolical parameters (heart rate, lactate, peak oxygen uptake) of eleven recreational runners were recorded before and after incremental treadmill, arm crank and bicycle ergometry. Electroencephalographic activity was localised using standardised low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (sLORETA). Results revealed an increase in frontal alpha activity immediately post exercise whereas increases after bike exercise were found to be localised in parietal regions. All three kinds of exercise resulted in an increase of beta activity in Brodmann area 7. Fifteen and thirty minutes post exercise a specific activation pattern (decrease in frontal brain activity-increase in occipital regions) was noticeable for treadmill and bike but not arm crank exercise. We conclude that specific brain activation patterns are linked to different kinds of exercise and participants' physical exercise preferences.
Female songbirds display preferences for certain song characteristics, but the neural and hormonal mechanisms mediating these preferences are not fully clear. The present study sought to further explore the role of estradiol, as well as assess potential roles of dopaminergic systems, on behavioral responses to song. Adult female zebra finches were treated with estradiol and exposed to tutored or untutored song or silence. Behavior was quantified and neurochemistry of the nucleus accumbens and striatum was examined with high performance liquid chromatography. As a control, the responses of these two systems to treatment with raclopride, a specific D2 receptor antagonist, were also evaluated. This manipulation did not affect dopamine (DA), but did increase DOPAC and the DOPAC/DA ratio. Estradiol reduced the display of two behaviors, distance calls and visual scanning, but had no effect on dopaminergic responses. Auditory stimulus exposure affected other vocalizations, but song presentation did not modulate the levels of DA or its metabolite, DOPAC in the nucleus accumbens or striatum. Collectively, the results suggest that both estradiol and auditory stimuli can modify the behavioral responses of adult zebra finches, but they may not change DA concentration or turnover in striatal dopamine neurons.
The ability of an experimental agent to support conditioned taste/flavor avoidance (CT/FA) in rats often is interpreted as sufficient evidence that the agent produced a state of malaise or nausea. Paradoxically, however, CT/FA also is induced by certain drugs that support conditioned preferences in rats, suggesting that CT/FA is insufficient to reveal a negative hedonic state. The present study tested the hypothesis that the anti-nausea drug ondansetron (OND) would block the ability of nauseogenic lithium chloride (LiCl) to support conditioned place avoidance (CPA), without attenuating LiCl-induced CT/FA. After pre-treatment with either OND or vehicle, rats were conditioned with i.p. injection of 0.15 M LiCl containing 2% saccharin (LiCl+sac) on conditioning day 1, and with 0.15 M NaCl alone on conditioning day 2. Rats were confined to a distinct chamber of a CPA apparatus after each conditioning injection. In other rats, OND or vehicle pre-treatment was followed by NaCl+sac on conditioning day 1, and LiCl alone on day 2. Subsequent testing revealed that OND blocked the ability of LiCl to support CPA. Conversely, in the same rats, OND did not alter the ability of LiCl to condition avoidance of 0.2% sac solution during a 60 min bottle test. In a separate experiment, a sensitive 2-bottle choice test was used to confirm that OND pre-treatment does not reduce the ability of LiCl to support CT/FA. These results support the view that CPA is an additional useful tool to reveal the experience of malaise and nausea in rats, whereas CT/FA demonstrated in bottle intake tests is insufficient for this purpose.
Regulation of proteolytic cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein by the aspartic protease BACE may occur by alternative splicing and the generation of enzymatically inactive forms. In fact, the presence of exonic donor and acceptor sites for intron 3 generates the two deficient variants BACE457 and BACE476. In HEK293 cells, when introns are inserted separately in the BACE cDNA, we found that whilst introns 2 and 4 are efficiently spliced out, intron 3 is not removed. On the other hand, splicing to wild-type BACE is restored when intron 3 is flanked by the two other introns. The presence of all three introns also leads to alternative splicing of intron 3 and the generation of BACE476. In contrast, BACE457 expression takes place only after mutating the donor splice site of intron 3, indicating that additional regulatory elements are necessary for the use of the splicing site within exon 4. Overall, our data demonstrate that a complex splicing of intron 3 regulates the maturation of the BACE mRNA. This appears orchestrated by domains present in the exons and introns flanking intron 3. Excessive BACE activity is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease, therefore this complex regulation might guarantee low neuronal BACE activity and disease prevention.
The cytoplasmic tail of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) contains two putatively cytotoxic peptides, Jcasp and C31, derived by caspase cleavage of APP. Jcasp is a fragment starting from the epsilon-secretase site to position 664, while C31 is a fragment from position 665 to the C-terminus. Our studies now showed that compared to C31, Jcasp appeared to play a minor role in cytotoxicity. In particular, inhibition of Jcasp generation by treatment of gamma-secretase inhibitor did not lead to any attenuation of C31-induced toxicity. Secondly, because C31 toxicity is largely absent in cells lacking endogenous APP, we determined, using a split beta-galactosidase complementary assay to monitor protein-protein interactions, the presence of APP associated complexes. Our results demonstrated that both APP homomeric and C31/APP heteromeric complexes were correlated with cell death, indicating that C31 complexes with APP to recruit the interacting partners that initiate the signals related to cellular toxicity.
Seeing begins in the photoreceptors, where light is absorbed and signaled to the nervous system. Throughout the animal kingdom, photoreceptors are diverse in design and purpose. Nonetheless, phototransduction-the mechanism by which absorbed photons are converted into an electrical response-is highly conserved and based almost exclusively on a single class of photoproteins, the opsins. In this Review, we survey the G protein-coupled signaling cascades downstream from opsins in photoreceptors across vertebrate and invertebrate species, noting their similarities as well as differences.
Examining different aspects of learning and memory, Claridge-Chang et al. (2009) and Krashes et al. (2009) converge on the same set of neurons in the protocerebral posterior lateral 1 (PPL1) cluster in Drosophila melanogaster. The different roles attributed to PPL1 neurons demonstrate heterogeneity of function in small neuronal subsets of the Drosophila brain.
The amyloid precursor protein (APP) plays a central role in Alzheimer disease (AD) pathogenesis because sequential cleavages by beta- and gamma-secretase lead to the generation of the amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide, a key constituent in the amyloid plaques present in brains of AD individuals. In several studies APP has recently been shown to form homodimers, and this event appears to influence Abeta generation. However, these studies have relied on APP mutations within the Abeta sequence itself that may affect APP processing by interfering with secretase cleavages independent of dimerization. Therefore, the impact of APP dimerization on Abeta production remains unclear. To address this question, we compared the approach of constitutive cysteine-induced APP dimerization with a regulatable dimerization system that does not require the introduction of mutations within the Abeta sequence. To this end we generated an APP chimeric molecule by fusing a domain of the FK506-binding protein (FKBP) to the C terminus of APP. The addition of the synthetic membrane-permeant drug AP20187 induces rapid dimerization of the APP-FKBP chimera. Using this system we were able to induce up to 70% APP dimers. Our results showed that controlled homodimerization of APP-FKBP leads to a 50% reduction in total Abeta levels in transfected N2a cells. Similar results were obtained with the direct precursor of beta-secretase cleavage, C99/SPA4CT-FKBP. Furthermore, there was no modulation of different Abeta peptide species after APP dimerization in this system. Taken together, our results suggest that APP dimerization can directly affect gamma-secretase processing and that dimerization is not required for Abeta production.

Carbonated beverages are commonly available and immensely popular, but little is known about the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the perception of carbonation in the mouth. In mammals, carbonation elicits both somatosensory and chemosensory responses, including activation of taste neurons. We have identified the cellular and molecular substrates for the taste of carbonation. By targeted genetic ablation and the silencing of synapses in defined populations of taste receptor cells, we demonstrated that the sour-sensing cells act as the taste sensors for carbonation, and showed that carbonic anhydrase 4, a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored enzyme, functions as the principal CO2 taste sensor. Together, these studies reveal the basis of the taste of carbonation as well as the contribution of taste cells in the orosensory response to CO2.
Placebo analgesia is a prime example of the impact that psychological factors have on pain perception. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging of the human spinal cord to test the hypothesis that placebo analgesia results in a reduction of nociceptive processing in the spinal cord. In line with behavioral data that show decreased pain responses under placebo, pain-related activity in the spinal cord is strongly reduced under placebo. These results provide direct evidence for spinal inhibition as one mechanism of placebo analgesia and highlight that psychological factors can act on the earliest stages of pain processing in the central nervous system.
In this, the 21st century, human-brain mapping celebrates 21 years of cognitive activation studies. This review looks at imaging neuroscience and key ideas it has pursued; some ideas portend exciting developments, and others have failed gloriously. In terms of achievements, there is much to celebrate, in the sense that it is difficult to imagine modern neuroscience without brain imaging. I will look at recent advances from the perspectives of functional segregation and integration in the brain, paying special attention to approaches that deal with the distributed and integrated nature of neuronal processing and the questions they address.
An emerging set of methods enables an experimental dialogue with biological systems composed of many interacting cell types--in particular, with neural circuits in the brain. These methods are sometimes called &quot;optogenetic&quot; because they use light-responsive proteins (&quot;opto-&quot;) encoded in DNA (&quot;-genetic&quot;). Optogenetic devices can be introduced into tissues or whole organisms by genetic manipulation and be expressed in anatomically or functionally defined groups of cells. Two kinds of devices perform complementary functions: Light-driven actuators control electrochemical signals, while light-emitting sensors report them. Actuators pose questions by delivering targeted perturbations; sensors (and other measurements) signal answers. These catechisms are beginning to yield previously unattainable insight into the organization of neural circuits, the regulation of their collective dynamics, and the causal relationships between cellular activity patterns and behavior.









The relationship between methylene blue (MB) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) has recently attracted increasing scientific attention since it has been suggested that MB may slow down the progression of this disease. In fact, MB, in addition to its well characterized inhibitory actions on the cGMP pathway, affects numerous cellular and molecular events closely related to the progression of AD. Currently, MB has been shown to attenuate the formations of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, and to partially repair impairments in mitochondrial function and cellular metabolism. Furthermore, various neurotransmitter systems (cholinergic, serotonergic and glutamatergic), believed to play important roles in the pathogenesis of AD and other cognitive disorders, are also influenced by MB. Recent studies suggest that the combination of diverse actions of MB on these cellular functions is likely to mediate potential beneficial effects of MB. This has lead to attempts to develop novel MB-based treatment modalities for AD. In this review article, actions of MB on neurotransmitter systems and multiple cellular and molecular targets are summarized with regard to their relevance to AD.



A series of novel iodinated benzimidazoles have been prepared by iodination of respective benzimidazole with iodine and periodic acid in sulfuric acid solution. Additionally several 2-substituted- and N-1-carboxymethyl-substituted derivatives of 4,5,6,7-tetraiodobenzimidazole (TIBI) were obtained. For sake of comparison, some new 4,5,6,7-tetrabromobenzimidazoles were also synthesized. The ability of the new compounds to inhibit protein kinase CK2 has been evaluated. The results show that 4,5,6,7-tetraiodobenzimidazoles are more powerful inhibitors of CK2 than their tetrabrominated analogs. Molecular modeling supports the experimental data showing that tetraiodobenzimidazole moiety fills better the binding pocket than respective tetrabromo and tetrachlorocompounds. To note that 4,5,6,7-tetraiodobenzimidazole (TIBI) is one of the most efficient CK2 inhibitors (K(i)=23 nM) described to date.
Post-translation modification through the SUMO pathway is cell cycle regulated, with specific SUMO conjugates accumulating in mitotic cells. The basis for this regulation, however, and its functional significance remain poorly understood. We present evidence that in budding yeast sumoylation during mitosis may be controlled through the SUMO deconjugating enzyme Smt4/Ulp2. We isolated the polo kinase Cdc5 as an Ulp2-interacting protein, and find a C-terminal region of Ulp2 is phosphorylated during mitosis in a Cdc5-dependent manner. cdc5 mutants display reduced levels of mitotic SUMO conjugates, suggesting Cdc5 may negatively regulate Ulp2 to promote sumoylation. Previously, we found one phenotype associated with ulp2 mutants is an inability to maintain chromatid cohesion at centromere-proximal chromosomal regions. We now show this defect is rescued by inactivating Cdc5, indicating Ulp2 maintains cohesion by counter-acting Cdc5 activity. The cohesinregulator Pds5 is a likely target of this pathway, as Cdc5 overproduction forces Pds5 dissociation from chromosomes and Pds5 overproduction restores cohesion in ulp2 mutants. Overall, these observations reveal Cdc5 is a novel regulator of the SUMO pathway and suggest the outlines of a broader circuitry in which Ulp2 and Cdc5 act in a mutually antagonistic fashion to modulate maintenance and dissolution of cohesion at centromeres.
The long-term objective of this study is to use MALDI MS and MS/MS to study the fragmentation pattern of in vitro nitrotyrosine-containing peptides in order to assist the interpretation of MS-identification of endogenous nitroproteins in human tissues and fluids. The short-term objective is to study synthetic leucine enkephalin, nitro-Tyr-leucine enkephalin, and d(5)-Phe-nitro-Tyr-leucine enkephalin with a vacuum matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization linear ion-trap mass spectrometer (vMALDI-LTQ). The results demonstrated the UV laser-induced photochemical decomposition of the nitro group. Although photochemical decomposition decreased the ion intensity and complicated the MS spectrum, the recognition of that unique decomposition pattern unambiguously identified a nitrotyrosine. The a(4)- and b(4)-ions were the most-intense fragment ions found in the MS/MS spectra for those three synthetic peptides. Compared to the unmodified peptides, more collision energy optimized the fragmentation of the nitropeptide, increased the intensity of the a(4)-ion, and decreased the intensity of the b(4)-ion. Optimized laser fluence maximized the fragmentation of the nitropeptide. MS(3) analysis confirmed the MS(2)-derived amino acid sequence, but required much more sample. To detect a nitropeptide, the sensitivity of vMALDI-LTQ is 1 fmol for MS detection and 10 fmol for MS(2) detection; the S/N ratio was ca. 50:1 in those studies. Those data are important for an analysis of low-abundance endogenous nitroproteins, where preferential enrichment of nitroproteins and optimized mass spectrometry parameters are used.
Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins (GPI-APs) represent an interesting amalgamation of the three basic kinds of cellular macromolecules viz. proteins, carbohydrates and lipids. An unusually hybrid moiety, the GPI-anchor is expressed in a diverse range of organisms from parasites to mammalian cells and serves to anchor a large number of functionally diverse proteins and has been the center of attention in scientific debate for some time now. Membrane organization of GPI-APs into laterally-organized cholesterol-sphingolipid ordered membrane domains or &quot;rafts&quot; and endocytosis of GPI-APs has been intensely debated. Inclusion into or exclusion from these membrane domains seems to be the critical factor in determining the endocytic mechanisms and intracellular destinations of GPI-APs. The intracellular signaling as well as endocytic trafficking of GPI-APs is critically dependent upon the cell surface organization of GPI-APs, and the associations with these lipid rafts play a vital role during these processes. The mechanism of endocytosis for GPI-APs may differ from other cellular endocytic pathways, such as those mediated by clathrin-coated pits (caveolae), and is necessary for unique biological functions. Numerous intracellular factors are involved in and regulate the endocytosis of GPI-APs, and these may be variably dependent on cell-type. The central focus of this article is to describe the significance of the endocytosis of GPI-APs on a multitude of biological processes, ranging from nutrient-uptake to more complex immune responses. Ultimately, a thorough elucidation of GPI-AP mediated signaling pathways and their regulatory elements will enhance our understanding of essential biological processes and benefit as components of disease intervention strategies.
Angiogenin (ANG) is a potent angiogenic factor. The purposes of this study were to observe the change of the expression level of ANG and to identify the cell types that express ANG in the focal ischemic rat brain. The rat brain ischemia-reperfusion model was produced by a 2 h occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery with a nylon thread followed by reperfusion for 1 day, 3 days, 7 days or 14 days. The expression levels of ANG in the rat brain at each time points were determined by western blotting. The co-staining of ANG with NeuN was observed using double immunofluorescent labeling combined with confocal laser scanning microscope. We found that the expression level of ANG increased significantly in the rat brain 1 day, 3 days, and 7 days after ischemia (P&lt;0.05), and peaked 3 days after ischemia. Double immunofluorescent labeling showed that ANG positive cells were mostly co-stained with NeuN. Our observations suggest that the level of ANG increased significantly in the rat brain after ischemia. The upregulated ANG was mostly expressed by neurons.
Radiation therapy is used widely to treat primary and metastatic brain tumors, but also can lead to delayed neurological complications. Since maintenance of myelin integrity is important for cognitive function, the present study used a rat model that demonstrates spatial learning and memory impairment 12 months following fractionated whole-brain irradiation (WBI) at middle age to investigate WBI-induced myelin changes. In this model, 12-month Fischer 344 x Brown Norway rats received 9 fractions of 5 Gy delivered over 4.5 weeks (WBI rats); Sham-IR rats received anesthesia only. Twelve months later, the brains were collected and measures of white matter integrity were quantified. Qualitative observation did not reveal white matter necrosis one year post-WBI. In addition, the size of major forebrain commissures, the number of oligodendrocytes, the size and number of myelinated axons, and the thickness of myelin sheaths did not differ between the two groups. In summary, both the gross morphology and the structural integrity of myelin were preserved one year following fractionated WBI in a rodent model of radiation-induced cognitive impairment. Imaging studies with advanced techniques including diffusion tensor imaging may be required to elucidate the neurobiological changes associated with the cognitive impairment in this model.
We report a patient with Susac's disease presenting classically in a young female with an encephalopathy and visual disturbance with later deafness and tinnitus. Her encephalopathy settled, but subsequent serial fluorescein angiograms allowed sensitive monitoring of continuing sub-clinical disease activity, and provide evidence of a clear therapeutic response to immune suppression with tacrolimus (but not steroids alone)--and of a lack of efficacy of nimodipine and aspirin. We believe this single case study has both pathogenetic and useful practical implications: the apparently favourable response to immunosuppression lends support to the hypothesis that Susac's Syndrome is an immune-mediated disease; while the presence during symptomatic clinical remission of sporadic, multi-focal episodes of hyper-fluorescence, suggestive of breakthrough vasculopathy despite treatment, underlines the fact that the natural history of this rare condition is still not fully understood. Fluorescein angiography is proposed as a sensitive and important approach to the monitoring of sub-clinical disease activity, and so optimising immune suppressive treatment.
Family history is a known non-modifiable risk factor of stroke. We aimed to compare the frequency of a family history of vascular disease between ethnic South Asian and Chinese stroke patients. We studied consecutive ethnic South Asian and Chinese ischaemic stroke patients matched for age, gender and presence of diabetes. Among the 152 matched pairs, ethnic South Asian ischaemic stroke patients had a higher frequency of vascular family history (IHD OR 3.465 p&lt;0.001; CVD OR 1.754 p=0.059; and either IHD or CVD OR 2.169 p=0.003) compared to matched ethnic Chinese patients, independent of past IHD history and stroke subtype. In the ethnic South Asian cohort, patients &lt; or = 60 years old had a higher frequency of a family history of IHD (37% vs 13%, p&lt;0.001), CVD (34% vs 15%, p=0.005) and either IHD or CVD (52% vs 25%, p&lt;0.001) compared to those &gt;60 years. Family history of vascular disease is common among ethnic South Asian ischaemic stroke patients, particularly among those &lt; or = 60 years old. We postulate that the higher frequency of a vascular family history among ethnic South Asians compared to ethnic Chinese may be explained by genetic, environmental and lifestyle influences, or interactions between these factors.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is one of the most frequent forms of muscular dystrophy. The aims of this study were: 1) to evaluate the prevalence of sleep disordered breathing (SDB) in patients with FSHD; 2) to define the sleep-related respiratory patterns in FSHD patients with SDB; and 3) to find the clinical predictors of SDB. Fifty-one consecutive FSHD patients were enrolled, 23 women, mean age 45.7+/-12.3 years (range: 26-72). The diagnosis of FSHD was confirmed by genetic tests. All patients underwent medical and neurological evaluations, subjective evaluation of sleep and full-night laboratory-based polysomnography. Twenty patients presented SDB: 13 presented obstructive apneas, four presented REM related oxygen desaturations and three showed a mixed pattern. Three patients needed positive airways pressure. SDB was not related to the severity of the disease. Body mass index, neck circumference and daytime sleepiness did not allow prediction of SDB. In conclusion, the results suggest a high prevalence of SDB in patients with FSHD. The presence of SDB does not depend on the clinical severity of the disease. SDB is often asymptomatic, and no clinical or physical measure can reliably predict its occurrence. A screening of SDB should be included in the clinical assessment of FSHD.
Determination of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamate (Glu) and glutamine (Gln) in animal models has been important to understand the normal function and clinical aspects of some neurological diseases. Quantification of these amino acid transmitters has conventionally been performed by using a high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) system. This paper describes an improved HPLC method with electrochemical detection for glutamate, glutamine and GABA determination in brain homogenates. The protocol is based on a precolumn derivatization of amino acids with o-phthalaldehyde and sodium sulfite, a separation through a C18, 5 microm particle size column and an isocratic elution. Several modifications of previous works on methanol percentage, pH, temperature, flow rate and derivatization solution concentration were done to obtain a suitable protocol for amino acid quantification in brain homogenate samples. Total elution time is 35 min approximately. Technical requirements and laboratory expenses of this new protocol are minimal. This technique showed high linearity, repeatability and accuracy.
Neuroinflammation is a common facet of both acute and chronic neurodegenerative conditions, exemplified by stroke and by Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, and the presence of elevated levels of the proinflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), has been documented in each. Although initial TNF-alpha generation is associated with a protective compensatory response, its unregulated chronic elevation is generally detrimental and can drive the disease process. In such circumstances, therapeutic strategies that can both gain access to the brain and target the production of TNF-alpha are predicted to be of clinical benefit. An in vitro mouse macrophage-like cellular screen, utilizing RAW 264.7 cells, was hence developed to identify novel TNF-alpha lowering agents incorporating lipophilic physicochemical characteristics predicted to allow penetration of the blood-brain barrier. Cultured RAW 264.7 cells exposed to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced a rapid, marked and concentration-dependent cellular release of TNF-alpha into the cell culture media, which was readily detected by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The effects of four characterized thalidomide-based TNF-alpha lowering agents were assessed alongside 10 novel uncharacterized compounds synthesized on the same backbone. One of these new analogs possessed activity of sufficient magnitude to warrant further investigation. Activity determined in the cellular model translated to an in vivo rodent model of acute LPS-induced TNF-alpha elevation. The utility of the TNF-alpha cellular assay lies in its simplicity and robust nature, providing a tool for initial pharmacological screening to allow for the rapid identification novel TNF-alpha lowering agents.
We present a stereotaxic procedure enabling MRI-guided isocentric stereotaxy in pigs. The procedure is based on the Leksell stereotaxic arch principle, and a stereotaxic localizer box with an incorporated fiducial marking system (sideplates) defining a stereotaxic space similar to the clinical Leksell system. The obtained MRIs can be imported for 3D-reconstruction and coordinate calculation in the clinical stereotaxic software planning system (Leksell SurgiPlan, Elekta AB, Sweden). After MRI the sideplates are replaced by a modified Leksell arch accommodating clinical standard manipulators for isocentric placement of DBS-electrodes, neural tracers and therapeutics in the calculated target coordinates. The mechanical accuracy of the device was within 0.3-0.5 mm. Stereotaxic MRIs were imported to the stereotaxic software planning system with a mean error of 0.4-0.5 mm and a max error of 0.8-0.9 mm. Application accuracy measured on a phantom and on inserted skull markers in nine pigs was within 1 mm in all planes. The intracerebral application accuracy found after placement of 10 manganese trajectories within the full extent of the intracerebral stereotaxic space in two minipigs was equally randomly distributed and within 0.7+/-0.4; 0.5+/-0.4; and 0.7+/-0.3mm in the X, Y, and Z plane. Injection of neural tracers in the subgenual gyrus of three minipigs and placement of encapsulated gene-modified cells in four minipigs confirmed the accuracy and functionality of the described procedure. We conclude that the devised technique and instrumentation enable high-precision stereotaxic procedures in pigs that may benefit future large animal neuroscience research and outline the technical considerations for a similar stereotaxic methodology in other animals.
The chronic intrathecal catheterization of the subarachnoid space in the rat is a very useful model in the research of neuroscience, anesthesiology, neurotoxicity, and etc. To avoid high postoperative mortality and neurological impairment, the catheterization from the lumbar interspace has been widely used in recent years. But one of the most discouraging disadvantages is that the external portion of the chronic indwelling catheters is easily damaged by rats. Besides, the short length of catheter left in the subarachnoid space in addition to its slimness makes it difficult for proper fixation. To improve the abovementioned situations, we designed a protector to protect the external portion of the catheters and developed a simple method for better fixation. Results suggest that this is an excellent method for protecting and fixing the lumbar catheters placed in the subarachnoid space of rats, and this method did not affect the sensory and motor function of the rat. The general conditions of the rats were unswayed.

Motor cortical plasticity induced by repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) sometimes depends on the prior history of neuronal activity. These effects of preceding stimulation on subsequent rTMS-induced plasticity have been suggested to share a similar mechanism to that of metaplasticity, a homeostatic regulation of synaptic plasticity. To explore metaplasticity in humans, many investigations have used designs in which both priming and conditioning are applied over the primary motor cortex (M1), but the effects of priming stimulation over other motor-related cortical areas have not been well documented. Since the supplementary motor area (SMA) has anatomical and functional cortico-cortical connections with M1, here we studied the homeostatic effects of priming stimulation over the SMA on subsequent rTMS-induced plasticity of M1. For priming and subsequent conditioning, we employed a new rTMS protocol, quadripulse stimulation (QPS), which produces a broad range of motor cortical plasticity depending on the interval of the pulses within a burst. The plastic changes induced by QPS at various intervals were altered by priming stimulation over the SMA, which did not change motor-evoked potential sizes on its own but specifically modulated the excitatory I-wave circuits. The data support the view that the homeostatic changes are mediated via mechanisms of metaplasticity and highlight an important interplay between M1 and SMA regarding homeostatic plasticity in humans.
Patients with focal dystonia exhibit proprioception abnormalities that can lead to kinematic deficits. Proprioceptive abnormalities are present in both symptomatic and asymptomatic body parts of dystonic patients. To ascertain whether in patients with idiopathic cervical dystonia (CD) movements performed with nondystonic segments display kinematic abnormalities, we studied trajectory formation of out and back arm reaching movements in 10 patients with CD (before and 3 weeks after treatment with Botulinum toxin) and in 10 age-matched controls. Before treatment, patients with CD showed significant trajectory abnormalities when compared with normal controls. Patients' trajectories were more curved with asymmetrical temporal velocity profiles as well as increased hand path areas, and had longer reversal lags between the out and back segments. Treatment with botulinum toxin improved all the kinematic parameters. These results suggest that in patients with CD, movements performed with nondystonic segments are abnormal. The kinematic abnormalities are likely to derive from long-standing defective integration of the proprioceptive input, which, in turn, causes general changes in the internal models of limb dynamics. It is plausible that treatment with botulinum toxin partially restores proprioceptive processing and thus, such internal models.
Hippocampal place cells encode spatial information in rate and temporal codes. To examine the mechanisms underlying hippocampal coding, here we measured the intracellular dynamics of place cells by combining in vivo whole-cell recordings with a virtual-reality system. Head-restrained mice, running on a spherical treadmill, interacted with a computer-generated visual environment to perform spatial behaviours. Robust place-cell activity was present during movement along a virtual linear track. From whole-cell recordings, we identified three subthreshold signatures of place fields: an asymmetric ramp-like depolarization of the baseline membrane potential, an increase in the amplitude of intracellular theta oscillations, and a phase precession of the intracellular theta oscillation relative to the extracellularly recorded theta rhythm. These intracellular dynamics underlie the primary features of place-cell rate and temporal codes. The virtual-reality system developed here will enable new experimental approaches to study the neural circuits underlying navigation.
Electrophysiology, the 'gold standard' for investigating neuronal signalling, is being challenged by a new generation of optical probes. Together with new forms of microscopy, these probes allow us to measure and control neuronal signals with spatial resolution and genetic specificity that already greatly surpass those of electrophysiology. We predict that the photon will progressively replace the electron for probing neuronal function, particularly for targeted stimulation and silencing of neuronal populations. Although electrophysiological characterization of channels, cells and neural circuits will remain necessary, new combinations of electrophysiology and imaging should lead to transformational discoveries in neuroscience.
Advances in genetics and genomics have fuelled a revolution in discovery-based, or hypothesis-generating, research that provides a powerful complement to the more directly hypothesis-driven molecular, cellular and systems neuroscience. Genetic and functional genomic studies have already yielded important insights into neuronal diversity and function, as well as disease. One of the most exciting and challenging frontiers in neuroscience involves harnessing the power of large-scale genetic, genomic and phenotypic data sets, and the development of tools for data integration and mining. Methods for network analysis and systems biology offer the promise of integrating these multiple levels of data, connecting molecular pathways to nervous system function.
Brain function emerges from the morphologies, spatial organization and patterns of connectivity established between diverse sets of neurons. Historically, the notion that neuronal structure predicts function stemmed from classic histological staining and neuronal tracing methods. Recent advances in molecular genetics and imaging technologies have begun to reveal previously unattainable details about patterns of functional circuit connectivity and the subcellular organization of synapses in the living brain. This sophisticated molecular and genetic 'toolbox', coupled with new methods in optical and electron microscopy, provides an expanding array of techniques for probing neural anatomy and function.





The emotional significance of objects and events depends on the context in which they occur. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we examined the modulation of neural responses to monetary outcomes while subjects performed a decision-making task in a positive and a negative economic context. Neural responses indicated a relative regional specialization in the neural coding of outcome valence and followed three distinct patterns. The nucleus accumbens (NAc) and orbital frontal cortex (OFC) appeared to code the most extreme outcome in each context, with a potentiated response for favorable outcomes by a positive context. The amygdala and insula appeared to also code highly salient outcomes, but showed a potentiated response to unfavorable outcomes occurring in a negative context. The medial prefrontal cortex (medPFC), on the other hand, only coded favorable responses occurring in a positive context. Moreover, the medPFC showed large inter-individual variability when responding to outcomes in a negative context, suggesting that its role in a negative context may depend on a number of individual factors. The results of this work provide evidence of complex valence-based regional dissociations that are influenced by contextual factors.
The suppression of neuronal responses to a repeated event is a ubiquitous phenomenon in neuroscience. However, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unexplored. The aim of this study was to examine the temporal evolution of experience-dependent changes in connectivity induced by repeated stimuli. We recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) during frequency changes of a repeating tone. Bayesian inversion of dynamic causal models (DCM) of ERPs revealed systematic repetition-dependent changes in both intrinsic and extrinsic connections, within a hierarchical cortical network. Critically, these changes occurred very quickly, over inter-stimulus intervals that implicate short-term synaptic plasticity. Furthermore, intrinsic (within-source) connections showed biphasic changes that were much faster than changes in extrinsic (between-source) connections, which decreased monotonically with repetition. This study shows that auditory perceptual learning is associated with repetition-dependent plasticity in the human brain. It is remarkable that distinct changes in intrinsic and extrinsic connections could be quantified so reliably and non-invasively using EEG.
The early detection of stimuli signalling threat to an organism is a crucial evolutionary advantage. For example, the perception of aversive bodily sensations such as dyspnea and pain strongly motivates fast adaptive behaviour to ensure survival. Their similarly threatening and motivating characters led to the speculation that both sensations are mediated by common brain areas, which has also been suggested by neuroimaging studies on either dyspnea or pain. By using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we formally tested this hypothesis and compared the cortical processing of perceived heat pain and resistive load induced dyspnea in the same group of participants. Here we show that the perception of both aversive sensations is processed in similar brain areas including the insula, dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, amygdala and medial thalamus. These areas have a documented role in the processing of emotions such as fear and anxiety. Thus, the current study highlights the role of a common emotion-related human brain network which underlies the perception of aversive bodily sensations such as dyspnea and pain. This network seems crucial for translating the threatening character of different bodily signals into behavioural consequences that promote survival.
The use of antiretroviral therapy has reduced mortality and increased the quality of life of HIV-1-infected people, particularly in more developed countries where access to treatment is more widespread. However, morbidities continue, which include HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND). Subtle cognitive abnormalities and low-level viral replication underlie disease. The balance between robust antiviral adaptive immunity, neuronal homeostatic mechanisms, and neuroprotective factors on one hand and toxicities afforded by dysregulated immune activities on the other govern disease. New insights into the pathobiological processes for neuroimmune-linked disease and ways to modulate such activities for therapeutic gain are discussed. Better understanding of the complexities of immune regulation during HAND can improve diagnosis and disease outcomes but is also relevant for the pathogenesis of a broad range of neurodegenerative disorders.
The systemic immune system has the ability to modulate multiple brain functions, including autonomic responses, glial reactivity following neural injuries, and neuronal excitability. Immune stimuli also influence microglia subpopulations originating from blood progenitors, and neuroprotective and reparative capacities of blood-derived microglia were recently described in mouse models of spinal cord injury and brain disorders. Furthermore, reparative roles for various immune subsets have been recognized, such as in inducing myelin repair. Nonetheless, uncontrolled and excessive activation of immune responses can be detrimental. The development of strategies to stimulate the systemic immune system safely to protect or repair brain disorders remains a major challenge ahead, but important inroads have been made. We discuss here some of the mechanisms underlying the neuroprotective and reparative effects of the systemic immune system and the most promising immunotherapies tested in mouse models of injuries and diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and multiple sclerosis.
Parallel advances in neuroscience and immunology established the anatomical and cellular basis for bidirectional interactions between the nervous and immune systems. Like other physiological systems, the immune system--and the development of immunity--is modulated by neural reflexes. A prototypical example is the inflammatory reflex, comprised of an afferent arm that senses inflammation and an efferent arm, the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway, that inhibits innate immune responses. This mechanism is dependent on the alpha7 subunit of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, which inhibits NF-kappaB nuclear translocation and suppresses cytokine release by monocytes and macrophages. Here we summarize evidence showing that innate immunity is reflexive. Future advances will come from applying an integrative physiology approach that utilizes methods adapted from neuroscience and immunology.
Immune dysfunction, a well-established feature of neuroinflammatory disease, is increasingly recognized in neurodegenerative conditions. Its role is emerging as an early and active participant in neuropathology. Inflammation could be modified, with disease-slowing effects, by targeted interventions; it is also readily detectable and could serve as a source of valuable biomarkers.
For the past 60 years, the central nervous system has been considered immunologically privileged. Yet results from diverse fields show clear and convincing evidence of bidirectional communication between the nervous and immune systems.
Alotamide A (1), a structurally intriguing cyclic depsipeptide, was isolated from the marine mat-forming cyanobacterium Lyngbya bouillonii collected in Papua New Guinea. It features three contiguous peptidic residues and an unsaturated heptaketide with oxidations and methylations unlike those found in any other marine cyanobacterial metabolite. Pure alotamide A (1) displays an unusual calcium influx activation profile in murine cerebrocortical neurons with an EC50 of 4.18 microM.
Exposure to persistent organic pollutants, such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), can lead to chronic inflammation and the development of vascular diseases. Because cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) of the cerebrovascular endothelium regulate infiltration of inflammatory cells into the brain, we have explored the molecular mechanisms by which ortho-substituted polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), such as PCB153, can upregulate CAMs in brain endothelial cells. Exposure to PCB153 increased expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), as well as elevated adhesion of leukocytes to brain endothelial cells. These effects were impeded by inhibitors of EGFR, JAKs, or Src activity. In addition, pharmacological inhibition of NADPH oxidase or disruption of lipid rafts by cholesterol depleting agents blocked PCB153-induced phosphorylation of JAK and Src kinases and upregulation of CAMs. In contrast, silencing of caveolin-1 by siRNA interference did not affect upregulation of ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 in brain endothelial cells stimulated by PCB153. Results of the present study indicate that lipid raft-dependent NADPH oxidase/JAK/EGFR signaling mechanisms regulate the expression of CAMs in brain endothelial cells and adhesion of leukocytes to endothelial monolayers. Due to its role in leukocyte infiltration, induction of CAMs may contribute to PCB-induced cerebrovascular disorders and neurotoxic effects in the CNS.
Music is becoming more and more of an issue in the cognitive neurosciences. A major finding in this research area is that musical practice is associated with structural and functional plasticity of the brain. In this brief review, I will give an overview of the most recent findings of this research area.
This article has been withdrawn at the request of the author(s) and/or editor. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy.
Extracts of kidney beans ( Phaseolus vulgaris ) are known to reduce food intake and glycemia in rodents and humans. This study evaluated the effect of a novel extract of P. vulgaris on food (regular food pellets, starch-enriched diet, and chocolate-flavored beverage) intake, body weight, and glycemia in rats. The effect of the combination of the colecistokinin (CCK) receptor antagonist, lorglumide, and P. vulgaris dry extract on food intake was also investigated. Administration of doses of P. vulgaris dry extract devoid of any behavioral toxicity dose-dependently decreased food intake (irrespective of the diet), body weight gain, and glycemia. Pretreatment with lorglumide blocked the reducing effect of P. vulgaris dry extract on food intake. The capacity of this P. vulgaris dry extract to reduce food intake, body weight, and glycemia in rats may be due to (a) inhibition of alpha-amylase, (b) stimulation of CCK release from the intestinal brush border cells, and/or (c) interference with the central mechanism(s) regulating appetite, food intake, and food palatability.
Auditory neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) show remarkable selectively in that they can distinguish between complex sounds that have identical spectral energy but different temporal structure, such as frequency modulations (FMs) that sweep either upward or downward. Extracellular recordings show that blocking inhibition locally reduces or eliminates response selectivity, suggesting that selectivity is created de novo in the IC, with inhibition playing a prominent role. However, these studies can only infer underlying mechanisms based on spike counts. Using in vivo whole-cell recordings, we examine the mechanisms underlying FM directional selectivity in the IC. We first report that spike threshold can strongly amplify directional selectivity in that the spike directionality was on average more than twice as large as the directionality of the postsynaptic potentials (PSPs). We then show that, in our sample of IC cells, PSP directional selectivity is not created de novo. Rather, we found that the preferred and null FMs evoked synaptic conductances of different magnitudes, indicating that the presynaptic neurons were directionally selective. Combining conductance data with modeling, we show that directionally dependent magnitude differences, not temporal differences, underlie PSP directionality. Modeling also shows that our results are consistent with extracellular studies in which blocking inhibition reduces or eliminates directionality. Our findings suggest that some IC cells use a rate code in their inputs rather than a time code and that highly selective discharge properties can be created by only minor adjustments in the synaptic strengths evoked by different signals.
Retinotopic mapping is a basic feature of visual system organization, but its role in processing visual information is unknown. Mutant mice lacking the beta2 subunit of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor have imprecise maps in both visual cortex (V1) and the superior colliculus (SC) due to the disruption of spontaneous retinal activity during development. Here, we use behavioral and physiological approaches to study their visual functions. We find that beta2-/- mice fail to track visual stimuli moving along the nasotemporal axis in a subcortical optomotor behavior, but track normally along the dorsoventral axis. In contrast, these mice display normal acuity along both axes in the visual water task, a behavioral test of cortical functions. Consistent with the behavioral results, we find that V1 neurons in beta2-/- mice have normal response properties, while SC neurons have disrupted receptive fields, including enlarged structure and decreased direction and orientation selectivity along the nasotemporal axis. The subcortical-specific deficits indicate that retinotopic map disruption has different impacts on the development of functional properties in V1 and the SC.
Neural circuits and behavior are shaped during developmental phases of maximal plasticity known as sensitive or critical periods. Neural correlates of sensory critical periods have been identified, but their roles remain unclear. Factors that define critical periods in sensorimotor circuits and behavior are not known. Birdsong learning in the zebra finch occurs during a sensitive period similar to that for human speech. We now show that perineuronal nets, which correlate with sensory critical periods, surround parvalbumin-positive neurons in brain areas that are dedicated to singing. The percentage of both total and parvalbumin-positive neurons with perineuronal nets increased with development. In HVC (this acronym is the proper name), a song area important for sensorimotor integration, the percentage of parvalbumin neurons with perineuronal nets correlated with song maturity. Shifting the vocal critical period with tutor song deprivation decreased the percentage of neurons that were parvalbumin positive and the relative staining intensity of both parvalbumin and a component of perineuronal nets. Developmental song learning shares key characteristics with sensory critical periods, suggesting shared underlying mechanisms.

This mini-symposium aims to integrate recent insights from anatomy, behavior, and neurophysiology, highlighting the anatomical organization, behavioral significance, and information-processing mechanisms of corticostriatal interactions. In this summary of topics, which is not meant to provide a comprehensive survey, we will first review the anatomy of corticostriatal circuits, comparing different ways by which &quot;loops&quot; of cortical-basal ganglia circuits communicate. Next, we will address the causal importance and systems-neurophysiological mechanisms of corticostriatal interactions for memory, emphasizing the communication between hippocampus and ventral striatum during contextual conditioning. Furthermore, ensemble recording techniques have been applied to compare information processing in the dorsal and ventral striatum to predictions from reinforcement learning theory. We will next discuss how neural activity develops in corticostriatal areas when habits are learned. Finally, we will evaluate the role of GABAergic interneurons in dynamically transforming cortical inputs into striatal output during learning and decision making.
Circadian research has spent considerable effort in the determining clock output pathways, including identifying both physiological and behavioral processes that demonstrate significant time-of-day variation. Memory formation and consolidation represent notable processes shaped by endogenous circadian oscillators. To date, very few studies on memory mechanisms have considered potential confounding effects of time-of-day and the organism's innate activity cycles (e.g., nocturnal, diurnal, or crepuscular). The following studies highlight recent work describing this interactive role of circadian rhythms and memory formation, and were presented at a mini-symposium at the 2009 annual meeting of the Society for Neuroscience. The studies illustrate these time-of-day observations in a variety of behavioral paradigms and model organisms, including olfactory avoidance conditioning in Drosophila, long-term sensitization in Aplysia, active-avoidance conditioning in Zebrafish, and classical fear conditioning in rodents, suggesting that the circadian influence on memory behavior is highly conserved across species. Evidence also exists for a conserved mechanistic relationship between specific cycling molecules and memory formation, and the extent to which proper circadian cycling of these molecules is necessary for optimal cognitive performance. Studies describe the involvement of the core clock gene period, as well as vasoactive intestinal peptide, melatonin, and the cAMP/MAPK (cAMP/mitogen-activated protein kinase) cascade. Finally, studies in humans describe evidence for alterations in cognitive performance based on an interaction between sleep-wake homeostasis and the internal circadian clock. Conservation of a functional relationship between circadian rhythms with learning and memory formation across species provides a critical framework for future analysis of molecular mechanisms underlying complex behavior.
Epigenetic changes in the nervous system are emerging as a critical component of enduring effects induced by early life experience, hormonal exposure, trauma and injury, or learning and memory. Sex differences in the brain are largely determined by steroid hormone exposure during a perinatal sensitive period that alters subsequent hormonal and nonhormonal responses throughout the lifespan. Steroid receptors are members of a nuclear receptor transcription factor superfamily and recruit multiple proteins that possess enzymatic activity relevant to epigenetic changes such as acetylation and methylation. Thus steroid hormones are uniquely poised to exert epigenetic effects on the developing nervous system to dictate adult sex differences in brain and behavior. Sex differences in the methylation pattern in the promoter of estrogen and progesterone receptor genes are evident in newborns and persist in adults but with a different pattern. Changes in response to injury and in methyl-binding proteins and steroid receptor coregulatory proteins are also reported. Many steroid-induced epigenetic changes are opportunistic and restricted to a single lifespan, but new evidence suggests endocrine-disrupting compounds can exert multigenerational effects. Similarly, maternal diet also induces transgenerational effects, but the impact is sex specific. The study of epigenetics of sex differences is in its earliest stages, with needed advances in understanding of the hormonal regulation of enzymes controlling acetylation and methylation, coregulatory proteins, transient versus stable DNA methylation patterns, and sex differences across the epigenome to fully understand sex differences in brain and behavior.
The beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide is the major constituent of amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain and is likely to play a central role in the pathogenesis of this devastating neurodegenerative disorder. The beta-secretase, beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme (BACE1; also called Asp2, memapsin 2), is the enzyme responsible for initiating Abeta generation. Thus, BACE is a prime drug target for the therapeutic inhibition of Abeta production in AD. Since its discovery 10 years ago, much has been learned about BACE. This review summarizes BACE properties, describes BACE translation dysregulation in AD, and discusses BACE physiological functions in sodium current, synaptic transmission, myelination, and schizophrenia. The therapeutic potential of BACE will also be considered. This is a summary of topics covered at a symposium held at the 39th annual meeting of the Society for Neuroscience and is not meant to be a comprehensive review of BACE.
The biology of schizophrenia is complex with multiple hypotheses (dopamine, glutamate, neurodevelopmental) well supported to underlie the disease. Pathways centered on the risk factor &quot;disrupted in schizophrenia 1&quot; (DISC1) may be able to explain and unite these disparate hypotheses and will be the topic of this mini-symposium preview. Nearly a decade after its original identification at the center of a translocation breakpoint in a large Scottish family that was associated with major psychiatric disease, we are starting to obtain credible insights into its function and role in disease etiology. This preview will highlight a number of exciting areas of current DISC1 research that are revealing roles for DISC1 during normal brain development and also in the disease state. Together these different threads will provide a timely and exciting overview of the DISC1 field and its potential in furthering our understanding of psychiatric diseases and in developing new therapies.
BDNF has pleiotropic effects on neuronal development and synaptic plasticity that underlie circuit formation and cognitive function. Recent breakthroughs reveal that neuronal activity regulates BDNF cell biology, including Bdnf transcription, dendritic targeting and trafficking of BDNF mRNA and protein, and secretion and extracellular conversion of proBDNF to mature BDNF. Defects in these mechanisms contribute differentially to cognitive dysfunction and anxiety-like behaviors. Here we review recent studies, presented at a symposium at Neuroscience 2009, that describe regulatory mechanisms that permit rapid and dynamic refinement of BDNF actions in neurons.
GABA is the principal inhibitory neurotransmitter in the CNS and acts via GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors. Recently, a novel form of GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition, termed &quot;tonic&quot; inhibition, has been described. Whereas synaptic GABA(A) receptors underlie classical &quot;phasic&quot; GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition (inhibitory postsynaptic currents), tonic GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition results from the activation of extrasynaptic receptors by low concentrations of ambient GABA. Extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors are composed of receptor subunits that convey biophysical properties ideally suited to the generation of persistent inhibition and are pharmacologically and functionally distinct from their synaptic counterparts. This mini-symposium review highlights ongoing work examining the properties of recombinant and native extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors and their preferential targeting by endogenous and clinically relevant agents. In addition, it emphasizes the important role of extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors in GABAergic inhibition throughout the CNS and identifies them as a major player in both physiological and pathophysiological processes.
In the forty years since the Society for Neuroscience was founded, our understanding of the biology of memory has progressed dramatically. From a historical perspective, one can discern four distinct periods of growth in neurobiological research during that time. Here I use that chronology to chart a personalized and selective course through forty years of extraordinary advances in our understanding of the biology of memory storage.


The past four decades have witnessed extraordinary advances in the molecular understanding of neurotransmitters, their receptors, and second messengers. This essay highlights a selected group of particular notable discoveries, emphasizing seminal findings that have transformed thinking in the field.

The introduction of L-dopa (L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine) therapy 40 years ago was a revolution in the treatment of patients with Parkinson s disease (PD). With time, however, the shortcomings of oral L-dopa medication became apparent, in particular the appearance of troublesome side effects, expressed as involuntary movements (dyskinesias) that developed over time in many patients. A gene therapy approach, aimed at restoring dopamine synthesis in the affected brain by viral vector delivery of genes that encode the dopamine-synthesizing enzymes, may offer a solution to this problem. Now, a team of French and UK researchers reports promising results in a nonhuman primate model of PD, paving the way for clinical trials of this enzyme-replacement approach.
The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is a transcription factor which regulates glucocorticoid-mediated negative feed-back of the HPA axis. In this study, we have investigated the dose-dependent effects of corticosterone on nuclear GR and GR-DNA binding in the brain and pituitary of adult adrenalectomized male rats. Rats were injected with either saline (1 ml/kg, i.p.) or corticosterone (0.1, 0.3, and 1 mg/kg, i.p.). Nuclear GR and GR-DNA binding were measured in nuclear extracts from hippocampus, hypothalamus, prefrontal cortex, amygdala and pituitary using Western immunoblotting and ELISA, respectively. We found that the dose-dependent effects of corticosterone on nuclear GR and GR-DNA binding are similar across all the areas we analyzed, although at lower levels of corticosterone changes were observed only in the hippocampus. These data have important implications for our understanding of tissue specificity of glucocorticoid action including the corticosteroid-mediated negative feed-back response of the HPA axis.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) has been implicated as a site of dysfunction and abnormal morphology in major depressive disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder, two illnesses that can be brought on by exposure to stress. In animal models, stress has long been shown to induce impairments in tasks known to be mediated by the mPFC, and recent work has demonstrated that chronic stress can lead to morphological changes in mPFC pyramidal cells. This review explores the current literature on stress-induced dendritic remodeling in the mPFC, with particular focus on new findings that illuminate modulators of these effects.

Neurons have a striking tendency to engage in oscillatory activities. One important type of oscillatory activity prevalent in the motor system occurs in the beta frequency band, at about 20 Hz. It is manifest during the maintenance of tonic contractions and is suppressed prior to and during voluntary movement. This and other correlative evidence suggests that beta activity might promote tonic contraction, while impairing motor processing related to new movements. Hence, bursts of beta activity in the cortex are associated with a strengthening of the motor effects of sensory feedback during tonic contraction and with reductions in the velocity of voluntary movements. Moreover, beta activity is increased when movement has to be resisted or voluntarily suppressed. Here we use imperceptible transcranial alternating-current stimulation to entrain cortical activity at 20 Hz in healthy subjects and show that this slows voluntary movement. The present findings are the first direct evidence of causality between any physiological oscillatory brain activity and concurrent motor behavior in the healthy human and help explain how the exaggerated beta activity found in Parkinson's disease can lead to motor slowing in this illness.
Contact chemosensation is required for several behaviors that promote insect survival. These include evasive behaviors such as suppression of feeding on repellent compounds, known as antifeedants, and inhibition of male-to-male courtship. However, the gustatory receptors (GRs) required for responding to nonvolatile avoidance chemicals are largely unknown. Exceptions include Drosophila GR66a and GR93a, which are required to prevent ingestion of caffeine, and GR32a, which is necessary for inhibiting male-to-male courtship. However, GR32a is dispensable for normal taste. Thus, distinct GRs may function in sensing avoidance pheromones and antifeedants. Here, we describe the requirements for GR33a, which is expressed widely in gustatory receptor neurons (GRNs) that respond to aversive chemicals. Gr33a mutant flies were impaired in avoiding all nonvolatile repellents tested, ranging from quinine to denatonium, lobeline, and caffeine. Gr33a mutant males also displayed increased male-to-male courtship, implying that it functioned in the detection of a repulsive male pheromone. In contrast to the broadly required olfactory receptor (OR) OR83b, which is essential for trafficking other ORs, GR66a and GR93a are localized normally in Gr33a mutant GRNs. Thus, rather than regulating GR trafficking, GR33a may be a coreceptor required for sensing all nonvolatile repulsive chemicals, including tastants and pheromones.

The strength of synaptic inhibition depends partly on the number of GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) found at synaptic sites. The trafficking of GABA(A)Rs within the endocytic pathway is a key determinant of surface GABA(A)R number and is altered in neuropathologies, such as cerebral ischemia. However, the molecular mechanisms and signaling pathways that regulate this trafficking are poorly understood. Here, we report the subunit specific lysosomal targeting of synaptic GABA(A)Rs. We demonstrate that the targeting of synaptic GABA(A)Rs into the degradation pathway is facilitated by ubiquitination of a motif within the intracellular domain of the gamma2 subunit. Blockade of lysosomal activity or disruption of the trafficking of ubiquitinated cargo to lysosomes specifically increases the efficacy of synaptic inhibition without altering excitatory currents. Moreover, mutation of the ubiquitination site within the gamma2 subunit retards the lysosomal targeting of GABA(A)Rs and is sufficient to block the loss of synaptic GABA(A)Rs after anoxic insult. Together, our results establish a previously unknown mechanism for influencing inhibitory transmission under normal and pathological conditions.
Neurons are highly polarized cells that extend a single axon and several dendrites. Studies with cultured neurons indicate that the proximal portion of the axon, denoted as the axon initial segment (AIS), maintains neuronal polarity in vitro. The membrane-adaptor protein ankyrinG (ankG) is an essential component of the AIS. To determine the relevance of ankG for neuronal polarity in vivo, we studied mice with a cerebellum-specific ankG deficiency. Strikingly, ankG-depleted axons develop protrusions closely resembling dendritic spines. Such axonal spines are enriched with postsynaptic proteins, including ProSAP1/Shank2 and ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. In addition, immunofluorescence indicated that axonal spines are contacted by presynaptic glutamatergic boutons. For further analysis, double mutants were obtained by crossbreeding ankG(-/-) mice with L7/Purkinje cell-specific promoter 2 (PCP2) mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) in Purkinje cells (PCs). This approach allowed precise confocal microscopic mapping of EGFP-positive spiny axons and their subsequent identification at the electron microscopic level. Ultrastructurally, axonal spines contained a typical postsynaptic density and established asymmetric excitatory synapses with presynaptic boutons containing synaptic vesicles. In the shaft of spiny axons, typical ultrastructural features of the AIS, including the membrane-associated dense undercoating and cytoplasmic bundles of microtubules, were absent. Finally, using time-lapse imaging of organotypic cerebellar slice cultures, we demonstrate that nonspiny PC axons of EGFP-positive/ankG(-/-) mice acquire a spiny phenotype within a time range of only 3 days. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that axons of ankG-deficient mice acquire hallmark features of dendrites. AnkG thus is important for maintaining appropriate axo-dendritic polarity in vivo.


Amyloid is deposited in the walls of arteries and capillaries as cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) in the brains of older individuals and of those with Alzheimer disease (AD). CAA in AD reflects an age-related failure of elimination of amyloid-beta (Abeta) from the brain along perivascular lymphatic drainage pathways. In the absence of conventional lymphatic vessel in the brain, interstitial fluid and solutes drain from the brain to cervical lymph nodes along narrow basement membranes in the walls of capillaries and arteries, a pathway that is largely separate from the cerebrospinal fluid. In this review we focus on the pathology and pathogenesis of CAA, its role in the aetiology of AD and its impact on immunotherapy for AD. The motive force for lymphatic drainage of the brain appears to be generated by arterial pulsations. Failure of elimination of Abeta along perivascular pathways coincides with a reduction in enzymic degradation of Abeta, reduced absorption of Abeta into the blood and age-related stiffening of artery walls that appears to reduce the motive force for lymphatic drainage. Reduced clearances of Abeta and CAA are associated with the accumulation of insoluble and soluble Abetas in the brain in AD and the probable loss of homeostasis of the neuronal environment due to retention of soluble metabolites within the brain. Tau metabolism may also be affected. Immunotherapy has been successful in removing insoluble plaques of Abeta from the brain in AD but with little effect on cognitive decline. One major problem is the increase in CAA in immunised patients that probably prevents the complete removal of Abeta from the brain. Increased knowledge of the physiology and structural and genetic aspects of the lymphatic drainage of Abeta from the brain will stimulate the development of therapeutic strategies for the prevention and treatment of AD.
Chronic stress induces dendritic atrophy in the inferior colliculus (IC, auditory mesencephalon) and impairs auditory avoidance conditioning. The aim of this study was to determine in Golgi preparations and in cued fear conditioning whether stress affects other auditory components, like the thalamic medial geniculate nucleus (MG) or the posterior thalamic nucleus (PO), in Sprague-Dawley rats. Chronic restraint stress produced a significant dendritic atrophy in the MG (stress: 407+/-55 microm; control: 808+/-120 microm; p&lt;0.01) but did not affect auditory fear conditioning. The last result was in apparent contrast with the fact that stress impairs both the acquisition of auditory avoidance conditioned responses and the dendritic structure in two major nuclei of the auditory system. In order to analyze this disagreement, we investigated whether the stress-related freezing to tone occurring in the fear conditioning protocol corresponded to a conditioned or an unconditioned fear response, using changes in tone instead of light throughout conditioning trials. Chronic stress significantly enhanced visual fear conditioning in stressed animals compared to controls (stress: 58.9+/-8.42%, control: 23.31+/-8.01%; p&lt;0.05), but this fear enhancement was related to unconditioned fear. Conversely, chronic stress did not affect the morphology of the PO (subserving both auditory and somatosensory information) or the corresponding auditory and somatosensory unconditioned responses (acoustic startle response and escape behavior). Our results suggest that the auditory conditioned stimulus can be processed in part independently of the IC and MG in the stressed animals, and sent to the amygdala via the PO inducing unconditioned fear. Comparable alterations could be produced in major depression.
The forced swimming test (FST) is a widely used tool in the assessment of behavioral despair and prediction of response to antidepressants. However, the neural mechanisms underlying behavioral changes between pretest and test sessions of the FST remain unclear. In this study, we investigated changes in rat brain activity during the FST using [F-18]Fluorodeoxyglucose micro PET. In both pretest and test sessions, the activity of the cerebellum and striatum increased, whereas significant deactivation was observed in the hippocampus, inferior colliculus, orbital cortex, and insula. The periaqueductal gray (PAG) region activated markedly in the pretest session, but did not activate in the test session. There was a significant increase in immobility and a decrease in climbing during the behavioral analysis test session. These results suggest that the PAG region may play an important role in the modulation of FST coping strategies subsequent to failure of the escape response during the pretest session.
Adolescent exposure to anabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS) produces alterations to various neurochemical systems resulting in an elevated aggressive response. Both the GABAergic and dopaminergic neural systems are implicated in aggression control and are altered in the presence of AAS. The present studies provide a detailed report of the interaction between D2 receptors and GABAergic neurons in the lateral subdivision of the anterior hypothalamus (LAH), a brain region at the center of aggression control. Male Syrian hamsters were administered AAS throughout adolescence and their brains were processed for double-label immunofluorescence of GAD67 and D2 receptors. Results indicate an increase in the number of D2-ir and GAD67-ir cells in the LAH of AAS-treated animals. Although there were several cells in the LAH colocalized with both GAD67 and D2 receptors, there were no significant increases in the number of double-labeled GAD67/D2-ir neurons. Together, the data suggest the possibility of multiple GABAergic systems in the LAH allowing for differential inhibition of various neural systems. Given these changes in the number of GABAergic cells, it is likely that adolescent AAS exposure also alters the expression of GABAA receptors in brain areas innervated by the LAH. Thus, hamster brains were processed for immunohistochemistry and quantified for changes in GABAA-ir. Interestingly, adolescent exposure to AAS produced a significant decrease in the number of GABAA-ir elements in the LAH of aggressive hamsters. Taken together, results from the current studies provide a putative mechanism whereby dopamine stimulates aggression through removal of GABA inhibition in the LAH of AAS-treated animals.
Colour vision allows animals to reliably distinguish differences in the distributions of spectral energies reaching the eye. Although not universal, a capacity for colour vision is sufficiently widespread across the animal kingdom to provide prima facie evidence of its importance as a tool for analysing and interpreting the visual environment. The basic biological mechanisms on which vertebrate colour vision ultimately rests, the cone opsin genes and the photopigments they specify, are highly conserved. Within that constraint, however, the utilization of these basic elements varies in striking ways in that they appear, disappear and emerge in altered form during the course of evolution. These changes, along with other alterations in the visual system, have led to profound variations in the nature and salience of colour vision among the vertebrates. This article concerns the evolution of colour vision among the mammals, viewing that process in the context of relevant biological mechanisms, of variations in mammalian colour vision, and of the utility of colour vision.
Vertebrate cones and rods in several cases use separate but related components for their signal transduction (opsins, G-proteins, ion channels, etc.). Some of these proteins are also used differentially in other cell types in the retina. Because cones, rods and other retinal cell types originated in early vertebrate evolution, it is of interest to see if their specific genes arose in the extensive gene duplications that took place in the ancestor of the jawed vertebrates (gnathostomes) by two tetraploidizations (genome doublings). The ancestor of teleost fishes subsequently underwent a third tetraploidization. Our previously reported analyses showed that several gene families in the vertebrate visual phototransduction cascade received new members in the basal tetraploidizations. We here expand these data with studies of additional gene families and vertebrate species. We conclude that no less than 10 of the 13 studied phototransduction gene families received additional members in the two basal vertebrate tetraploidizations. Also the remaining three families seem to have undergone duplications during the same time period but it is unclear if this happened as a result of the tetraploidizations. The implications of the many early vertebrate gene duplications for functional specialization of specific retinal cell types, particularly cones and rods, are discussed.
Prosopagnosia is a deficit in recognizing people from their faces. Acquired prosopagnosia results after brain damage, developmental or congenital prosopagnosia (CP) is not caused by brain lesion, but has presumably been present from early childhood onwards. Since other sensory, perceptual, and cognitive abilities are largely spared, CP is considered to be a stimulus-specific deficit, limited to face processing. Given that recent behavioral and imaging studies indicate a close relationship of face and biological-motion perception in healthy adults, we hypothesized that biological motion processing should be impaired in CP. Five individuals with CP and ten matched healthy controls were tested with diverse biological-motion stimuli and tasks. Four of the CP individuals showed severe deficits in biological-motion processing, while one performed within the lower range of the controls. A discriminant analysis classified all participants correctly with a very high probability for each participant. These findings demonstrate that in CP, impaired perception of faces can be accompanied by impaired biological-motion perception. We discuss implications for dedicated and shared mechanisms involved in the perception of faces and biological motion.

Gamma-secretase is a membrane protein complex that catalyzes intramembrane proteolysis of a variety of substrates including the amyloid beta precursor protein of Alzheimer disease. Nicastrin (NCT), a single-pass membrane glycoprotein that harbors a large extracellular domain, is an essential component of the gamma-secretase complex. Here we report that overexpression of a single chain variable fragment (scFv) against NCT as an intrabody suppressed the gamma-secretase activity. Biochemical analyses revealed that the scFv disrupted the proper folding and the appropriate glycosyl maturation of the endogenous NCT, which are required for the stability of the gamma-secretase complex and the intrinsic proteolytic activity, respectively, implicating the dual role of NCT in the gamma-secretase complex. Our results also highlight the importance of the calnexin cycle in the functional maturation of the gamma-secretase complex. The engineered intrabodies may serve as rationally designed, molecular targeting tools for the discovery of novel actions of the membrane proteins.
The acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) open in response to extracellular acidic pH, and individual subunits display differential sensitivity to protons and calcium. ASIC1a acts as a high affinity proton sensor, whereas ASIC2a requires substantially greater proton concentrations to activate. Using chimeras composed of ASIC1a and ASIC2a, we determined that two regions of the extracellular domain (residues 87-197 and 323-431) specify the high affinity proton response of ASIC1a. These two regions appear to undergo intersubunit interactions within the multimeric channel to specify proton sensitivity. Single amino acid mutations revealed that amino acids around Asp(357) play a prominent role in determining the pH dose response of ASIC1a. Within the same region, mutation F352L abolished PcTx1 modulation of ASIC1a. Surprisingly, we determined that another area of the extracellular domain was required for calcium-dependent regulation of ASIC1a activation, and this region functioned independently of high affinity proton sensing. These results indicate that specific regions play overlapping roles in pH-dependent gating and PcTx1-dependent modulation of ASIC1a activity, whereas a distinct region determines the calcium dependence of ASIC1a activation.



We report the synthesis and SAR of a series of novel azaindole CB(2) agonists. 6-Azaindole 18 showed activity in an acute pain model but was inactive in a chronic model. 18 is a Pgp substrate with low brain penetration. The template was redesigned, and the resulting 5-azaindole 36 was a potent CB(2) agonist with high CNS penetration. This compound was efficacious in the acute model and the chronic joint pain model.
The time needed to search for an object in a complex environment increases with the number of distracting stimuli, a phenomenon known as the &quot;set-size effect.&quot; This observation has led to the view that, during visual search, several attentional shifts are performed, suggesting that visual information is processed serially. In an attempt to find direct evidence for such attentional shifts, we implemented several dual tasks combining a covert visual search (CVS) task or a cued target detection task with a character reporting task which allowed us to determine, a posteriori, the attentional allocation. We found that, in the cueing task, subjects preferentially reported characters displayed at different locations, demonstrating that the attention spotlight actually shifted in this condition. In contrast, in both feature and conjunction CVS, subjects predominantly reported several characters flashed at the same location, whatever the delay between their presentations, indicating that, despite a clear &quot;set-size effect,&quot; attention remained static. These results demonstrate that CVS can be performed without shifting attention and that the &quot;set-size effect&quot; does not necessarily attest that visual information is processed serially. The present study therefore supports the hypothesis that parallel mechanisms are involved in visual information processing during visual search, in agreement with previous theoretical studies.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most malignant glioma type with diffuse borders due to extensive tumor cell infiltration. Therefore, understanding the mechanism of GBM cell dispersal is critical for developing effective therapies to limit infiltration. We identified neuropilin-1 as a mediator of cancer cell invasion by a functional proteomic screen and showed its role in GBM cells. Neuropilin-1 is a receptor for semaphorin3A (Sema3A), a secreted chemorepellent that facilitates axon guidance during neural development. Although neuropilin-1 expression in GBMs was previously shown, its role as a Sema3A receptor remained elusive. Using fluorophore-assisted light inactivation and RNA interference , we showed that neuropilin-1 is required for GBM cell migration. We also showed that GBM cells secrete Sema3A endogenously, and RNA interference-mediated downregulation of Sema3A inhibits migration and alters cell morphology that is dependent on Rac1 activity. Sema3A depletion also reduces dispersal, which is recovered by supplying Sema3A exogenously. Extracellular application of Sema3A decreases cell-substrate adhesion in a neuropilin-1-dependent manner. Using immunohistochemistry, we showed that Sema3A is overexpressed in a subset of human GBMs compared with the non-neoplastic brain. Together, these findings implicate Sema3A as an autocrine signal for neuropilin-1 to promote GBM dispersal by modulating substrate adhesion and suggest that targeting Sema3A-neuropilin-1 signaling may limit GBM infiltration.




The planning of goal-directed movements requires sensory, temporal, and contextual information to be combined. Sensorimotor functions are embedded in large neuronal networks, but it is unclear how networks organize their activity in space and time to optimize behavior. Temporal coordination of activity in many neurons within a network, e.g., spike synchrony, might be complementary to a firing rate code, allowing efficient computation with overall less population activity. Here we asked the question whether intensive practice induces long-term modifications in the temporal structure of synchrony and firing rate at the population level. Three monkeys were trained in a delayed pointing task in which the selection of movement direction depended on correct time estimation. The synchronous firing among pairs of simultaneously recorded neurons in motor cortex was analyzed using the &quot;unitary event&quot; technique. The evolution of synchrony in both time, within the trial, and temporal precision was then quantified at the level of an entire population of neurons by using two different quantification techniques and compared with the population firing rate. We find that the task timing was represented in the temporal structure of significant spike synchronization at the population level. During practice, the temporal structure of synchrony was shaped, with synchrony becoming stronger and more localized in time during late experimental sessions, in parallel with an improvement in behavioral performance. Concurrently, the average population firing rate mainly decreased. Performance optimization through practice might therefore be achieved by boosting the computational contribution of spike synchrony, allowing an overall reduction in population activity.
The integrity of the hippocampus is critical for both spatial navigation and episodic memory, but how its neuronal firing patterns underlie those functions is not well understood. In particular, the modality by which hippocampal place cells contribute to spatial memory is debated. We found that administration of the cannabinoid receptor agonist CP55940 (2-[(1S,2R,5S)-5-hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxypropyl)cyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol) induced a profound and reversible behavioral deficit in the hippocampus-dependent delayed spatial alternation task. On the one hand, despite severe memory impairment, the location-dependent firing of CA1 hippocampal place cells remained mostly intact. On the other hand, both spike-timing coordination between place cells at the theta timescale and theta phase precession of spikes were reversibly reduced. These results raise the possibility that cannabinoids impair memory primarily by altering short-term temporal dynamics of hippocampal neurons. We hypothesize that precise temporal coordination of hippocampal neurons is necessary for guiding behavior in spatial memory tasks.
Decision making under risk is central to human behavior. Economic decision theory suggests that value, risk, and risk aversion influence choice behavior. Although previous studies identified neural correlates of decision parameters, the contribution of these correlates to actual choices is unknown. In two different experiments, participants chose between risky and safe options. We identified discrete blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) correlates of value and risk in the ventral striatum and anterior cingulate, respectively. Notably, increasing inferior frontal gyrus activity to low risk and safe options correlated with higher risk aversion. Importantly, the combination of these BOLD responses effectively decoded the behavioral choice. Striatal value and cingulate risk responses increased the probability of a risky choice, whereas inferior frontal gyrus responses showed the inverse relationship. These findings suggest that the BOLD correlates of decision factors are appropriate for an ideal observer to detect behavioral choices. More generally, these biological data contribute to the validity of the theoretical decision parameters for actual decisions under risk.
Dopaminergic neurons in the mesodiencephalon (mdDA neurons) make precise synaptic connections with targets in the forebrain via the mesostriatal, mesolimbic, and mesoprefrontal pathways. Because of the functional importance of these remarkably complex ascending axon pathways and their implication in human disease, the mechanisms underlying the development of these connections are of considerable interest. Despite extensive in vitro studies, the molecular determinants that ensure the perfect formation of these pathways in vivo remain mostly unknown. Here, we determine the embryonic origin and ontogeny of the mouse mesoprefrontal pathway and use these data to reveal an unexpected requirement for semaphorin 3F (Sema3F) and its receptor neuropilin-2 (Npn-2) during mdDA pathway development using tissue culture approaches and analysis of sema3F(-/-), npn-2(-/-), and npn-2(-/-);TH-Cre mice. We show that Sema3F is a bifunctional guidance cue for mdDA axons, some of which have the remarkable ability to regulate their responsiveness to Sema3F as they develop. During early developmental stages, Sema3F chemorepulsion controls previously uncharacterized aspects of mdDA pathway development through both Npn-2-dependent (axon fasciculation and channeling) and Npn-2-independent (rostral growth) mechanisms. Later on, chemoattraction mediated by Sema3F and Npn-2 is required to orient mdDA axon projections in the cortical plate of the medial prefrontal cortex. This latter finding demonstrates that regulation of axon orientation in the target field occurs by chemoattractive mechanisms, and this is likely to also apply to other neural systems. In all, this study provides a framework for additional dissection of the molecular basis of mdDA pathway development and disease.
Recent evidence suggests that abnormal activation of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) is a critical prodeath signal in stroke. However, the mechanism(s) by which cdk5 promotes death is unclear. Complicating the role of cdk5 are the observations that cdk5 can exist in multiple cellular regions and possess both prosurvival and prodeath characteristics. In particular, the critical role of cytoplasmic or nuclear cdk5 in neuronal jury, in vivo, is unclear. Therefore, we determined where cdk5 was activated in models of ischemia and how manipulation of cdk5 in differing compartments may affect neuronal death. Here, we show a critical function for cytoplasmic cdk5 in both focal and global models of stroke, in vivo. Cdk5 is activated in the cytoplasm and expression of DNcdk5 localized to the cytoplasm is protective. Importantly, we also demonstrate the antioxidant enzyme Prx2 (peroxiredoxin 2) as a critical cytoplasmic target of cdk5. In contrast, the role of cdk5 in the nucleus is context-dependent. Following focal ischemia, nuclear cdk5 is activated and functionally relevant while there is no evidence for such activation following global ischemia. Importantly, myocyte enhancer factor 2D (MEF2D), a previously described nuclear target of cdk5 in vitro, is also phosphorylated by cdk5 following focal ischemia. In addition, MEF2D expression in this paradigm ameliorates death. Together, our results address the critical issue of cdk5 activity compartmentalization, as well as define critical substrates for both cytoplasmic and nuclear cdk5 activity in adult models of stroke.
Posttranscriptional regulation is an important control mechanism governing gene expression in neurons. We recently demonstrated that VCX-A, a protein implicated in X-linked mental retardation, is an RNA-binding protein that specifically binds the 5' end of capped mRNAs to prevent their decapping and decay. Previously, expression of VCX-A was reported to be testes restricted. Consistent with a role in cognitive function, we demonstrate that VCX-A is ubiquitously expressed in human tissues including the brain. Moreover, retinoic acid-induced differentiation of human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells promoted the accumulation of VCX-A in distinct cytoplasmic foci within neurites that colocalize with staufen1-containing RNA granules, suggesting a role in translational suppression and/or mRNA transport. Exogenous expression of VCX-A in rat primary hippocampal neurons, which normally do not express the primate-restricted VCX proteins, promoted neurite arborization, and shRNA-directed knockdown of the VCX genes in SH-SY5Y cells resulted in a reduction of both primary and secondary neurite projections upon differentiation. We propose that the cap-binding property of VCX-A reflects a role of this protein in mRNA translational regulation. In support of this hypothesized role, we demonstrate that VCX-A can specifically bind a subset of mRNAs involved in neuritogenesis and is also capable of promoting translational silencing. Thus, VCX-A contains the capacity to modulate the stability and translation of a subset of target mRNAs involved in neuronal differentiation and arborization. It is plausible that defects of these functions in the absence of the VCX genes could contribute to a mental retardation phenotype.
Neuroscience studies on the social sharing of observed or imagined pain focused on whether empathic pain resonance is linked to affective or sensory nodes of the pain matrix. However, empathy, like other complex cognitive processes, is inherently linked to the activation of functional networks rather than of separate brain areas. Here, we used magnetoencephalography (MEG) to explore the relationship between empathy and functional coupling of neuronal activity in primary somatosensory (SI) and motor (MI) cortices. MEG recording was performed while healthy participants observed movie-clips depicting the static hand of a stranger model, the same hand deeply penetrated by a needle, or gently touched by a Q-tip. Subjects were asked to rate the movie-derived sensations attributed to self or to the model. For each type of clip observation, we analyzed spectral power and coherence values in alpha, beta, and gamma frequency bands. While spectral power indexes separate neural activity in SI and MI, coherence values index functional cross-talk between these two areas. No power changes of SI or MI sources were induced by observation conditions in any of the frequency bands. Crucially, gamma-band coherence values were significantly higher during needle-in-hand than touch and static hand observation and correlated with self-and other-referred pain ratings derived from needle-in-hand movies observation. Thus, observation of others' pain increases neuronal synchronization and cross-talk between the onlookers' sensory and motor cortices, indicating that empathic resonance relies upon the activity of functional networks more than of single areas.

The fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, displays a scale-free behavior in foraging, i.e., the dwell time on food exhibits a power law distribution. The scaling exponent is generally believed to be stable and the significance of the exponent itself with respect to the scale-free behavior remains elusive. We propose a model whereby the scaling exponent of the scale-free behavior of an animal depends on the memory of the individual. The proposed model is based on the premise that animal behaviors are associated with internal states of the animal. The changes in the scaling exponent are derived by considering losing memory as increasing uncertainty, which is expressed in terms of information entropy of the internal states. Predicted model behaviors agree with experimental results of foraging behavior in wild-type and learning/memory Drosophila mutants. The concept of changes in the scaling exponent due to the amount of memory provides a novel insight into the emergence of a scale-free behavior and the meaning of the scaling exponent.
We tested 26 school-aged children born preterm at a gestational age below 34 weeks, 13 with and 13 without periventricular brain damage, with four different visual stimuli assessing perception of pure global motion (optic flow), with some form information (segregated translational motion) and form-defined static stimuli. Results were compared with a group of age-matched healthy term-born controls. Preterm children with brain damage showed significantly lower sensitivities relative to full-term controls in all four tests, whereas those without brain damage were significantly worse than controls only for the pure motion stimuli. Furthermore, when form information was embedded in the stimulus, preterm children with brain lesions scored significantly worse than those without lesions. These results suggest that in preterm children dorsal stream-related functions are impaired irrespective of the presence of brain damage, whereas deficits of the ventral stream are more related to the presence of periventricular brain damage.
Functional MRI was used to test predictions from a theory of the origin of human language. The gradual theory suggests that human language and tool-use skills have a similar hierarchical structure, and proposes that tool-manipulation skills are related to the origin and evolution of human language. Our results show an overlap of brain activity for perceiving language and using tools in Broca's area. The location of this overlap suggests that language and tool use share computational principles for processing complex hierarchical structures common to these two abilities. The involvement of monkeys' homologous region during tool use suggests that neural processes for computation of complex hierarchical structures exist in primates without language, and could have been exapted to support human grammatical ability.
A HEK-293 cell line that stably expresses mouse 5-HT(3A)Rs containing a C-terminal extension that confers high-affinity binding of alpha-bungarotoxin (alphaBgTx) was established (alphaBgTx-5-HT(3A)Rs) and used to purify alphaBgTx-5-HT(3A)Rs in a lipid environment for use in structural studies using photoaffinity labeling. alphaBgTx-5-HT(3A)Rs were expressed robustly (60 pmol of [(3)H]BRL-43694 binding sites (approximately 3 microg of receptor) per milligram of protein) and displayed the same functional properties as wild-type receptors (serotonin EC(50) = 5.3 +/- 0.04 microM). While [(125)I]alphaBgTx bound to the alphaBgTx-5-HT(3A)Rs with high affinity (K(d) = 11 nM), application of nonradioactive alphaBgTx (up to 300 microM) had no effect on serotonin-induced current responses. alphaBgTx-5-HT(3A)Rs were purified on an alphaBgTx-derivatized affinity column from detergent extracts in milligram quantities and at approximately 25% purity. The hydrophobic photolabel 3-trifluoromethyl-3-(m-[(125)I]iodophenyl)diazirine ([(125)I]TID) was used to identify the amino acids at the lipid-protein interface of purified and lipid-reconstituted alphaBgTx-5-HT(3A)Rs. [(125)I]TID photoincorporation into the alphaBgTx-5-HT(3A)R subunit was initially mapped to subunit proteolytic fragments of 8 kDa, containing the M4 transmembrane segment and approximately 60% of incorporated (125)I, and 17 kDa, containing the M1-M3 transmembrane segments. Within the M4 segment, [(125)I]TID labeled Ser(451), equivalent to the [(125)I]TID-labeled residue Thr(422) at the lipid-exposed face of the Torpedo nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) alpha1M4 alpha-helix. These results provide a first definition of the surface of the 5-HT(3A)R M4 helix that is exposed to lipid and establish that this surface is equivalent to the surface exposed to lipid in the Torpedo nAChR.
It has been consistently shown that ecstasy users display impairments in learning and memory performance. In addition, working memory processing in ecstasy users has been shown to be associated with neural alterations in hippocampal and/or cortical regions as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Using functional imaging and a face-learning task, we investigated neural correlates of encoding and recalling face-name associations in 20 recreational drug users whose predominant drug use was ecstasy and 20 controls. To address the potential confounding effects of the cannabis use of the ecstasy using group, a second analysis included 14 previously tested cannabis users (Nestor, L., Roberts, G., Garavan, H., Hester, R., 2008. Deficits in learning and memory: parahippocampal hyperactivity and frontocortical hypoactivity in cannabis users. Neuroimage 40, 1328-1339). Ecstasy users performed significantly worse in learning and memory compared to controls and cannabis users. A conjunction analysis of the encode and recall phases of the task revealed ecstasy-specific hyperactivity in bilateral frontal regions, left temporal, right parietal, bilateral temporal, and bilateral occipital brain regions. Ecstasy-specific hypoactivity was evident in the right dorsal anterior cingulated cortex (ACC) and left posterior cingulated cortex. In both ecstasy and cannabis groups brain activation was decreased in the right medial frontal gyrus, left parahippocampal gyrus, left dorsal cingulate gyrus, and left caudate. These results elucidated ecstasy-related deficits, only some of which might be attributed to cannabis use. These ecstasy-specific effects may be related to the vulnerability of isocortical and allocortical regions to the neurotoxic effects of ecstasy.
Aberrant activation of the Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway contributes to many forms of cancer. Primary cilia are Hh signal transduction centers. Two papers in a recent issue of Nature Medicine (Han et al., 2009; Wong et al., 2009) show that mutating cilia can increase or reduce the rates of tumorigenesis depending on how the Hh pathway is disrupted.

Effects of thalidomide administration on vascular remodeling, gliosis and neuronal viability have been studied in excitotoxin-injected rat striatum. Intrastriatal injection of quinolinic acid (QUIN) caused time-dependent changes (durations of 6 h, 1 and 7 d post-injection) in vascular remodeling. QUIN excitotoxic insult was associated with increased numbers of vessels (laminin or collagen IV markers) demonstrating considerable abnormalities in morphology, including short fragments and vascular loops. Non-lesioned striatum, with injection of phosphate buffer solution (PBS) as a vehicle, showed no evidence for vascular remodeling. A maximal extent of vascular remodeling was measured at 1 d post-QUIN and was correlated with marked increases in microgliosis (ED1 marker) and astrogliosis (glial fibrillary acidic protein [GFAP] marker) relative to control PBS injection. Double staining of laminin with ED1 and GFAP demonstrated areas of close association of glial cells with blood vessels. Treatment of QUIN-injected animals with the anti-inflammatory compound, thalidomide significantly inhibited vascular remodeling (by 43%) and reduced microgliosis (by 33%) but was ineffective in modifying extents of astrogliosis. Intrastriatal QUIN injection was associated with a marked loss of striatal neurons relative to non-lesioned control with thalidomide treatment exhibiting a significant degree of neuroprotection (24% recovery) against QUIN-induced neurotoxicity. These results suggest close links between microglial-mediated inflammatory responses and vascular remodeling, with inflammatory reactivity associated with, and contributing to, neuronal damage in excitotoxically-lesioned striatum.
An acute injury to brain or spinal cord produces profound metabolic perturbation that extends and exacerbates tissue damage. Recent clinical interventions to treat this condition with i.v. Mg(2+) to stabilize its extracellular concentration provided disappointing results. The present study used an in vitro spinal cord model from the neonatal rat to investigate the role of extracellular Mg(2+) in the lesion evoked by a pathological medium mimicking the metabolic perturbation (hypoxia, aglycemia, oxidative stress, and acid pH) occurring in vivo. Damage was measured by taking as outcome locomotor network activity for up to 24 h after the primary insult. Pathological medium in 1 mM Mg(2+) solution (1 h) largely depressed spinal reflexes and suppressed fictive locomotion on the same and the following day. Conversely, pathological medium in either Mg(2+)-free or 5 mM Mg(2+) solution evoked temporary network depression and enabled fictive locomotion the day after. While global cell death was similar regardless of extracellular Mg(2+) solution, white matter was particularly affected. In ventral horn the number of surviving neurons was the highest in Mg(2+) free solution and the lowest in 1 mM Mg(2+), while motoneurons were unaffected. Although the excitotoxic damage elicited by kainate was insensitive to extracellular Mg(2+), 1 mM Mg(2+) potentiated the effect of combining pathological medium with kainate at low concentrations. These results indicate that preserving Mg(2+) homeostasis rendered experimental spinal injury more severe. Furthermore, analyzing ventral horn neuron numbers in relation to fictive locomotion expression might provide a first estimate of the minimal size of the functional locomotor network.
Retinal bipolar cells relay visual information from photoreceptors to third-order retinal neurons. Bipolar cells, comprising multiple types, play an essential role in segregating visual information into multiple parallel pathways in the retina. The identification of molecular markers that can label specific retinal bipolar cells could facilitate the investigation of bipolar cell functions in the retina. Transgenic mice with specific cell type(s) labeled with green fluorescent protein (GFP) have become a powerful tool for morphological and functional studies of neurons in the CNS, including the retina. In this study, we report a 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2a (5-HTR2a) transgenic mouse line in which expression of GFP was observed in two populations of bipolar cells in the retina. Based on the terminal stratification and immunostaining, all the strongly GFP-labeled bipolar cells were found to be type 4 cone bipolar cells. A small population of weakly labeled bipolar cells was also observed, which may represent type 8 or 9 cone bipolar cells. GFP expression in retinal cone bipolar cells was seen as early as postnatal day 5. In addition, despite severe retinal degeneration due to the presence of the rd1 mutation in this transgenic line, the density of GFP-labeled cone bipolar cells remained stable up to at least 6 months of age. This transgenic mouse line will be a useful tool for the study of type 4 cone bipolar cells in the retina under both normal and disease conditions.
Rnd proteins are a family of small GTPases that have been involved in axon path finding and CNS development by their control of actin cytoskeleton dynamics. Rnd proteins are constitutively activated and, subsequently, their functions determined by their localization and expression levels. In this work we have analyzed by Western blot and immunohistochemistry the levels and localization of Rnd3/RhoE during mouse postnatal development. CNS was found to be the main tissue for RhoE protein expression, which was detected in all regions of the adult brain and spinal cord, with the highest levels in the olfactory bulb and cortex. RhoE protein levels were considerably higher in all the regions of the CNS the first 2-3 weeks of postnatal development, undergoing later a decrease that led to low levels in the adult. Immunohistochemical detection of RhoE at postnatal day 21 showed an intense and widespread labelling throughout the CNS. RhoE immunoreactivity was detected in the granular and mitral cells and anterior olfactory nuclei of the olfactory bulb and in all cerebral layers. In the striatum, diencephalon, mesencephalon, pons, medulla oblongata and spinal cord, RhoE was widely distributed with higher intensity in the motoneurones and in some brainstem nuclei such as the red nucleus or the reticulotegmental nucleus. The pyramidal cells of CA1-3 and the polymorph layer, but not the granular cells of the dentate gyrus in the hippocampus were strongly labelled. At earlier stages the labelling was nearly similar; however, a prominent labelling was detected in the cells of the rostral migratory stream and in the external granule cells of the cerebellum. Our results suggest that RhoE can play important roles in the postnatal development and maturation of the CNS, especially in the migratory processes affecting the neurones.
Creatine (Cr) is required to maintain ATP levels in the brain. The transport of Cr across the blood-brain barrier and into neurones requires a specific creatine transporter (CRT). Mutations in the CRT gene (SLC6A8) result in a novel form of X-linked mental retardation, characterised by developmental delays, seizures and a complete absence of Cr from the brain. To identify cell types and regions that depend on Cr for energy metabolism we have determined the regional and cellular localisation of CRT protein in the rat brain using immunohistochemical techniques with a highly specific, affinity-purified, CRT antibody. The results show high levels of CRT localisation is associated with specific brain regions and certain cell types. The CRT is predominantly found in neurones. CRT immunoreactivity is particularly abundant in the olfactory bulb, granule cells of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, pyramidal neurones of the cerebral cortex, Purkinje cells of the cerebellum, motor and sensory cranial nerve nuclei in the brainstem and the dorsal and ventral horns of the spinal cord. Low levels of CRT were seen in the basal ganglia and white matter. Overall, CRT was found to show high intensities of labelling in the major motor and sensory regions of the forebrain, brainstem and spinal cord and forebrain regions associated with learning, memory and limbic functions. It is hypothesised that regions with high CRT expression are likely to have high metabolic ATP requirements and that areas with low CRT levels are those regions which are particularly vulnerable in neurodegenerative diseases.
Acute tryptophan depletion (ATD) decreases the 5-HT precursor tryptophan (TRP) in blood and is used both clinically and preclinically to investigate the involvement of 5-HT in the development of depressive symptomatology. Depression is associated with both central 5-HT dysfunction and abnormalities in the normal relationship between regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) and glucose metabolism (CMRG). In this study, ATD was applied in Wistar rats to investigate the cerebrovascular effects of acute changes in peripheral TRP. Rats were orally fed with a protein-carbohydrate mixture, either containing or lacking TRP. Four hours later, CBF or CMRG was measured by quantitative autoradiographic imaging in 43 brain regions of interest (ROI). In plasma, ATD resulted in a 40% reduction in the ratio of TRP to the sum of other large neutral amino acids, but had no measurable effect upon TRP or 5-HT levels in hippocampus or prefrontal cortex. Nevertheless, ATD significantly reduced local CBF in 11 of the 43 brain ROIs, while local CMRG remained unchanged. Global analysis of all 43 ROIs revealed a close correlation between CBF and CMRG within both treatment groups. However, the overall ratio (=slope) after ATD (m=1.07) was significantly decreased compared to the control group (m=1.27), indicating a state of relative cerebral oligaemia. Since ATD induced a significant lowering of peripheral TRP, without affecting central TRP or 5-HT concentrations, the decrease in CBF and global change in the flow-metabolism relationship cannot be directly attributed to decreases in brain TRP availability. This could be explained if the raphe were selectively vulnerable to ATD, but the exact mechanism remains unknown. Nevertheless, these data suggest that cerebrovascular disturbances should be considered as a potential contributory factor in studies of serotonergic dysfunction, including depression, with important implications for imaging studies that use CBF alone as a measure of neuronal function.
The ezrin-radixin-moesin (ERM) proteins are a family of widely distributed membrane-associated proteins and have been implicated not only in cell-shape determination but also in signaling pathway. The nucleus accumbens (NAcc) is an important neuronal substrate mediating the effects of drugs of abuse. However, it has not been determined yet how ERM proteins are regulated in this site by drugs of abuse. Here we show in rat that the phosphorylation levels of ERM protein are dose- and time-dependently decreased in the NAcc by a single injection of cocaine (15 or 30 mg/kg i.p.). Further, we show that the amount of active RhoA, a small GTPase protein, is significantly reduced in the NAcc by cocaine, while the phosphorylation levels of ERM protein are also decreased by bilateral microinjections in this site of the Rho kinase inhibitors. Together, these results suggest that cocaine reduces phosphorylated ERM levels in the NAcc by making downregulation of RhoA-Rho kinase signaling, which may importantly contribute to initiate synaptic changes in this site leading to drug addiction.
Exposure of normal adult rats of a variety of species to trains of light flashes leads to acquisition of an enduring high amplitude visual cortical response [Uhlrich DJ, Manning KA, O'Laughlin ML, Lytton WW (2005) Photic-induced sensitization: acquisition of an augmenting spike-wave response in the adult rat through repeated strobe exposure. J Neurophysiol 94:3925-3937]. The photically-induced sensitized response exhibits epileptiform characteristics, including spike-wave morphology, tendency to generalize across the brain, and sensitivity to the anti-epileptic drug ethosuximide. These findings and anecdotal clinical reports raise the possibility that certain sensory stimulation could induce neural plastic changes that affect seizures in some individuals. We hypothesize that photic-induced sensitization can prime seizure-related neural circuitry, resulting in exacerbation of seizures. To test this we compared seizure kindling rates using the pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) model of epileptogenesis in sensitized and unsensitized adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Experimental group rats were sensitized by exposure to repetitive stroboscopic stimulation over 4-6 days until the sensitized photic response fully developed and response magnitude stabilized at its highest plateau. Rats then received a sub-convulsive injection of PTZ (24 mg/kg i.p.) every other day until they attained class 5 seizures. Control rats were not strobed or sensitized, but were otherwise treated identically. Chronic electrodes overlying the dura in occipital cortex recorded the primary visual response. Similar electrodes near the border of somatosensory and motor cortex (SM) were used to record spread of the sensitized response to a patently non-visual region. Rat behavior was monitored by direct observation and digital audio/video recording. All control rats and seven of 14 photically sensitized rats kindled seizures at rates consistent with those reported previously. However, the seven other photically sensitized rats displayed markedly accelerated seizure kindling. Rats with accelerated kindling showed greater spread of the sensitized visual response to somato-motor cortex and, when tested in a post hoc experiment, exhibited a higher likelihood of photo-triggered seizures. These results indicate that photic-induced sensitization in susceptible individuals can prime neural circuitry involved in the generation of PTZ-kindled seizures.
Neurogenesis is a possible substrate through which antidepressants alleviate symptoms of depression. In adult male rodents and primates, chronic treatment with fluoxetine increases neurogenesis in the hippocampal formation. Little is known about the effects of the antidepressant on neurogenesis during puberty or in female animals at any age. Therefore we examined the effects of chronic fluoxetine treatment on cell proliferation and survival in male and female rats during puberty and adulthood. Adult and peri-pubescent male and female rats were treated chronically with fluoxetine (Prozac, 5 mg/kg) or saline. Subsequently rats received a single injection of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU; 200 mg/kg) to label DNA synthesis. Rats were sacrificed 2 h, 24 h, or 28 days after BrdU injection to examine cell proliferation, survival and cell fate. Fluoxetine increased cell proliferation in adult male rats but not in peri-pubescent males or female rats of any age or stage of the estrous cycle. Treatment did not alter the number of surviving cells in the male hippocampus but decreased survival in the female hippocampus. Thus, fluoxetine has distinctive effects on neurogenesis as a function of age and sex. Circulating levels of the stress hormone corticosterone were also examined. Treatment of female rats with fluoxetine during puberty decreased circulating levels of corticosterone in adults, even in the absence of the drug suggesting disruption of maturation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Deep diving mammals have developed strategies to cope with limited oxygen availability when submerged. These adaptations are associated with an increased neuronal hypoxia tolerance. Brain neurons of the hooded seal Cystophora cristata remain much longer active in hypoxic conditions than those of mice. To understand the cellular basis of neuronal hypoxia tolerance, we studied neuroglobin and cytochrome c in C. cristata brain. Neuroglobin, a respiratory protein typically found in vertebrate neurons, displays three unique amino acid substitutions in hooded seal. However, these substitutions unlikely contribute to a modulation of O(2) affinity. Moreover, there is no significant difference in total neuroglobin protein levels in mouse, rat and seal brains. However, in terrestrial mammals neuroglobin resided exclusively in neurons, whereas in seals neuroglobin is mainly located in astrocytes. This unusual localization of neuroglobin is accompanied by a shift in the distribution of cytochrome c. In seals, this marker for oxidative metabolism is mainly localized in astrocytes, whereas in terrestrial mammals it is essentially found in neurons. Our results indicate that in seals aerobic ATP production depends significantly on astrocytes, while neurons rely less on aerobic energy metabolism. This adaptation may imbue seal neurons with an increased tolerance to hypoxia and potentially also to reactive oxygen species, and may explain in part the ability of deep diving mammals to sustain neuronal activity during prolonged dives.
Morphine sensitization is a model of latent, functionally inducible increase in dopamine D(1) receptor-mediated transmission, which may be unmasked by an external stimulus. Morphine-sensitized rats present dopamine D(1) receptor-dependent stereotypies upon morphine challenge and resilience to unavoidable stress-induced behavioral deficits. This tonic increase in dopamine D(1) dopaminergic transmission is counter-adaptive to an enhanced mu-opioid receptor-dependent signaling in striatal areas. Control and sensitized rats show a similar dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of M(r) 32 kDa (DARPP-32) phosphorylation pattern in striatal areas. Acute morphine administration induced an early increase and delayed decrease in phospho-threonine (Thr)34 DARPP-32 levels accompanied by a delayed increase in phospho-Thr75 DARPP-32 levels in the nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen of sensitized rats, while it had no effects in control animals. The administration of a selective dopamine D(1) receptor antagonist (SCH 23390) before morphine challenge prevented the behavioral and neurochemical modifications in sensitized rats. 6-Methyl-2-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine, a selective metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR(5)) antagonist, administered 1 h after morphine challenge, prevented the delayed phosphorylation changes, but it had no effect when administered before challenge. Moreover, the DARPP-32 phosphorylation pattern in the caudate-putamen of sensitized rats after unavoidable stress exposure was studied. The stress-induced neurochemical modifications and their sensitivity to receptor antagonists were similar to those observed after acute morphine administration. In conclusion, these results suggest that in the experimental conditions used an increase in dopamine output in striatal areas is followed by a complex neurochemical pattern, in which the initial stimulation of dopamine D(1) receptors triggers a sequence of signaling events that lead to an mGluR(5)-mediated increase in phospho-Thr75 DARPP-32 levels. Since DARPP-32 phosphorylated in Thr75 inhibits cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) activity, the final result is a decrease in the dopamine D(1) receptor-dependent phosphorylation events.
Protein phosphorylation is an important mechanism for the posttranslational modulation of ionotropic glutamate receptors and is subject to regulation by changing synaptic inputs. In this study, we investigated the regulation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor GluR1 subunit phosphorylation by cocaine exposure in the rat dorsal striatum in vivo. We found that acute cocaine challenge followed by 6 days of repeated systemic injections of cocaine (20 mg/kg once daily) enhanced the sensitivity of the GluR1 subunit in its phosphorylation at serine 831 (Ser831) in the dorsal striatum. This enhancement of the sensitivity of Ser831 phosphorylation was reduced, at the receptor and ion channel level, by blocking (1) group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), (2) N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, and (3) L-type voltage-operated Ca(2+) channels. Similar reduction of the enhancement was also induced, at the protein kinase level, by inhibiting (1) protein kinase C, (2) calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases, and (3) c-Jun N-terminal kinases. In addition, inhibition of protein phosphatase 1/2A or calcineurin increased GluR1-Ser831 phosphorylation in the dorsal striatum of normal rats, whereas inhibition of these phosphatases did not further enhance the Ser831 phosphorylation in rats pretreated with 7 daily injections of cocaine. These data suggest that the phosphorylation of AMPA receptor GluR1 subunits at Ser831 is subject to upregulation by acute and repeated cocaine administration. Complex signaling integrations among glutamate receptors, Ca(2+) channels, protein kinases, and protein phosphatases participate in this upregulation.
Gender influences brain function including serotonergic neurotransmission, which may play a role in the well-known gender variations in vulnerability to mood and anxiety disorders. Even though hormonal replacement therapy in menopause is associated with globally increased cerebral 5-HT(2A) receptor binding it is not clear if gender or use of hormonal contraception exhibits associations with 5-HT(2A) receptor binding. We found no significant effect of gender on cortical 5-HT(2A) receptor binding (P=0.15, n=132). When adjusting for the personality trait neuroticism, known to be positively correlated to frontolimbic 5-HT(2A) receptor binding and to be more pronounced in women, again, the effect of gender was not significant (P=0.42, n=127). Also, the use of hormonal contraception (n=14) within the group of pre-menopausal women (total n=29) was not associated with cortical 5-HT(2A) receptor binding (P=0.31). In conclusion, neither gender, nor the use of hormonal contraception in premenopausal women was associated with cortical 5-HT(2A) receptor binding.
Autosomal dominant mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of late-onset Parkinson's disease. However, the regulators/effectors contributing to the (patho-)physiological functions of LRRK2 remain poorly defined. Here we show that human LRRK2 co-purifies/co-immunoprecipitates with elongation factor 1-alpha (EF1A). Co-incubation of recombinant LRRK2 and EF1A significantly reduces the kinase activity of LRRK2, whereas its GTPase activity remains unchanged. In addition to its canonical role in mRNA translation, EF1A maintains stability of the microtubule cytoskeleton. In the present study, EF1A promotes microtubule assembly in an in vitro tubulin polymerization assay which is impaired by co-incubation with LRRK2 at sub-stoichiometric concentrations. These findings suggest that the interaction between LRRK2 and EF1A may reciprocally modulate their physiological function.
Little is known about the G protein-coupled receptor desensitization process during pregnancy. Wistar pregnant rats were treated with (-)N(6)-phenylisopropyladenosine (R-PIA), an adenosine A(1) receptor (A(1)R) agonist, in their drinking water during pregnancy, and the effect on A(1)R/adenylyl cyclase system was studied in both maternal and fetal brain. In maternal brain, binding assays revealed a significant decrease in total receptor numbers in plasma membranes (27%, P&lt;0.05), with no significant changes in receptor affinity. The effect of R-PIA on plasma membranes from fetal brains was more marked, with approximately 42% (P&lt;0.05) of the total receptors detected in control fetuses. Real time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analyses showed that chronic R-PIA treatment during the whole gestational period only decreased significantly mRNA level coding A(1)R in maternal brain (P&lt;0.05). alpha Gi(1,2) and alpha Gi(3) subunits were not affected in mothers or fetuses as revealed by immunoblotting. mRNA levels coding these subunits were also unaffected in mothers and fetuses. On the other hand, forskolin- and forskolin-plus guanosine-5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (GTP gamma S)-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity was decreased in maternal (P&lt;.01) and fetal brain (P&lt;.001). Furthermore, adenylyl cyclase inhibition elicited by N(6)-cyclohexyladenosine (CHA), a selective A(1)R agonist, was significantly decreased in both maternal (P&lt;0.05) and fetal brain (P&lt;.01), suggesting a desensitization of the A(1)R/adenylyl cyclase pathway. Therefore, these results suggest that R-PIA intake during pregnancy causes desensitization of the A(1)R-mediated inhibitory transduction pathway in both maternal and fetal brain, probably due to the decreased density of A(1)R at the cell surface.
Dysfunctions of the brain 5-HT system are often associated with affective disorders, such as depression. The raphe nuclei target the limbic system and most forebrain areas and constitute the main source of 5-HT in the brain. All 5-HT neurons express tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH2), the brain specific, rate-limiting enzyme for 5-HT synthesis. Estrogen receptor (ER) beta agonists have been shown to attenuate anxiety- and despair-like behaviors in rodent models. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that ER beta may contribute to the regulation of gene expression in 5-HT neurons of the dorsal raphe nuclei (DRN) by examining the effects of systemic and local application of the selective ER beta agonist diarylpropionitrile (DPN) on tph2 mRNA expression. Ovariectomized (OVX) female rats were injected s.c. with DPN or vehicle once daily for 8 days. In situ hybridization revealed that systemic DPN-treatment elevated basal tph2 mRNA expression in the caudal and mid-dorsal DRN. Behavioral testing of all animals in the open field (OF) and on the elevated plus maze (EPM) on days 6 and 7 of treatment confirmed the anxiolytic nature of ER beta activation. Another cohort of female OVX rats was stereotaxically implanted bilaterally with hormone-containing wax pellets flanking the DRN. Pellets contained 17-beta-estradiol (E), DPN, or no hormone. Both DPN and E significantly enhanced tph2 mRNA expression in the mid-dorsal DRN. DPN also increased tph2 mRNA in the caudal DRN. DPN- and E-treated rats displayed a more active stress-coping behavior in the forced-swim test (FST). No behavioral differences were found in the OF or on the EPM. These data indicate that ER beta acts at the level of the rat DRN to modulate tph2 mRNA expression and thereby influence 5-HT synthesis in DRN subregions. Our results also suggest that local activation of ER beta neurons in the DRN may be sufficient to decrease despair-like behavior, but not anxiolytic behaviors.
Increasing age is associated with a poor prognosis following traumatic brain injury (TBI). CNS axons may recover poorly following TBI due to expression of myelin-derived inhibitors to axonal outgrowth such as Nogo-A. To study the role of Nogo-A/B in the pathophysiological response of the elderly to TBI, 1-year-old mice deficient in Nogo-A/B (Nogo-A/B homozygous(-/-) mice), Nogo-A/B heterozygous(-/+) mice, and age-matched wild-type (WT) littermate controls were subjected to a controlled cortical impact (CCI) TBI. Sham-injured WT mice (7 months old) and 12 month old nave Nogo-A/B(-/-) and Nogo-A/B(-/+) served as controls. Neurological motor function was evaluated up to 3 weeks, and cognitive function, hemispheric tissue loss, myelin staining and hippocampal beta-amyloid (A beta) immunohistochemistry were evaluated at 4 weeks post-injury. In WT littermates, TBI significantly impaired learning ability at 4 weeks and neurological motor function up to 2 weeks post-injury and caused a significant loss of hemispheric tissue. Following TBI, Nogo-A/B(-/-) mice showed significantly less recovery from neurological motor and cognitive deficits compared to brain-injured WT mice. Nave Nogo-A/B(-/-) and Nogo-A/B(-/+) mice quickly learned the MWM task in contrast to brain-injured Nogo-A/B(-/-) mice who failed to learn the MWM task at 4 weeks post-injury. Hemispheric tissue loss and cortical lesion volume were similar among the brain-injured genotypes. Neither TBI nor the absence of NogoA/B caused an increased A beta expression. Myelin staining showed a reduced area and density in the corpus callosum in brain-injured Nogo-A/B(-/-) animals compared to their littermate controls. These novel and unexpected behavioral results demonstrate that the absence of Nogo-A/B may negatively influence outcome, possibly related to hypomyelination, following TBI in mice and suggest a complex role for this myelin-associated axonal growth inhibitor following TBI.
Transforming growth factors beta (TGFbeta) regulate multiple biological activities. TGFbeta activation of the Smad pathway results in activation of genes encoding extracellular matrix molecules, proteases, protease activators and protease inhibitors. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), TGFbeta protein and mRNA levels are raised, which would be expected to be neuroprotective. However, recent observations suggest that TGFbeta-Smad signalling is disrupted by the hyperphosphorylation of tau, the primary component of neurofibrillary tangles: phosphorylated Smad2/3 (pSmad 2/3) co-localises with phosphorylated tau in the neuronal cytoplasm and levels are reduced in the nucleus. We have investigated whether in vitro induction of tau hyperphosphorylation influences pSmad 2/3 localisation in rat primary cortical cells. Treatment with okadaic acid, a protein phosphatase 1 and 2A inhibitor caused hyperphosphorylation of tau at epitopes hyperphosphorylated in AD and disrupted pSmad 2/3 translocation into the nucleus. The disruptive effect of tau phosphorylation on pSmad 2/3 translocation was confirmed by treatment of primary cortical cells with synthetic oligomeric A beta(1-42), a more physiologically relevant model of AD. Our findings suggest that despite the increased level of TGFbeta in AD, the TGFbeta-Smad signalling pathway is impeded within neurones due to sequestration of pSmad 2/3 by hyperphosphorylated tau. This may compromise neuroprotective actions of TGFbeta and contribute to neurodegeneration in AD.
Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) activity is known to mediate the tone of endogenous fatty acid amides including the endocannabinoid anandamide. FAAH is a potential therapeutic target because genetic or pharmacological ablation of FAAH promotes analgesia and anxiolytic effects without disrupting motor coordination. Little is known about the endogenous temporal fluctuations of brain FAAH activity. This is the first comprehensive study examining temporal fluctuations in mouse brain FAAH activity. Regional mouse brain homogenates were generated at the midpoint of the light (&quot;noon&quot;) and dark (&quot;midnight&quot;) cycles. While immunoblots revealed no significant changes (P&gt;0.05) in regional activity between these two time points, in vitro activity assays detected a subtle 10% reduction (P&lt;0.05) in cerebellar FAAH activity at midnight. A novel ex vivo autoradiography technique permitted the study of 11 different brain regions, many of which cannot be studied using traditional in vitro methods. The cerebellum and the periaqueductal gray both exhibited significant (P&lt;0.05) reductions in regional FAAH activity in &quot;midnight&quot; brains. These data confirm the need to account for temporal changes in FAAH activity when therapeutically targeting FAAH.
Mouse models have been developed to simulate several relevant human traits associated with alcohol use and dependence. However, the neurophysiological substrates regulating these traits remain to be completely elucidated. We have previously demonstrated that differences in the event-related potential (ERP) responses can be found that distinguish high-alcohol preferring from low alcohol preferring mice that resemble differences seen in human studies of individuals with high and low risk for alcohol dependence. Recently, evidence of genes that affect event-related oscillations (EROs) and the risk for alcohol dependence has emerged, however, to date EROs have not been evaluated in genetic mouse models of high and low alcohol preference. Therefore, the objective of the present study was to characterize EROs in mouse models of high (C57BL/6 [B6] and high alcohol preference 1 [HAP-1] mice) and low (DBA/2J [D2] and low alcohol preference-1 [LAP-1] mice) alcohol preference. A time-frequency representation method was used to determine delta, theta and alpha/beta ERO energy and the degree of phase variation in these mouse models. The present results suggest that the decrease in P3 amplitudes previously shown in B6 mice, compared to D2 mice, is related to reductions in evoked delta ERO energy and delta and theta phase locking. In contrast, the increase in P1 amplitudes reported in HAP-1 mice, compared to LAP-1 mice, is associated with increases in evoked theta ERO energy. These studies suggest that differences in delta and theta ERO measures in mice mirror changes observed between groups at high- and low-risk for alcoholism where changes in EROs were found to be more significant than group differences in P3 amplitudes, further suggesting that ERO measures are more stable endophenotypes in the study of alcohol dependence. Further studies are needed to determine the relationship between expression of these neurophysiological endophenotypes and the genetic profile of these mouse models.
Epoxide hydrolases comprise a family of enzymes important in detoxification and conversion of lipid signaling molecules, namely epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs), to their supposedly less active form, dihydroxyeicosatrienoic acids (DHETs). EETs control cerebral blood flow, exert analgesic, anti-inflammatory and angiogenic effects and protect against ischemia. Although the role of soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) in EET metabolism is well established, knowledge on its detailed distribution in rodent brain is rather limited. Here, we analyzed the expression pattern of sEH and of another important member of the EH family, microsomal epoxide hydrolase (mEH), in mouse brain by immunohistochemistry. To investigate the functional relevance of these enzymes in brain, we explored their individual contribution to EET metabolism in acutely isolated brain cells from respective EH -/- mice and wild type littermates by mass spectrometry. We find sEH immunoreactivity almost exclusively in astrocytes throughout the brain, except in the central amygdala, where neurons are also positive for sEH. mEH immunoreactivity is abundant in brain vascular cells (endothelial and smooth muscle cells) and in choroid plexus epithelial cells. In addition, mEH immunoreactivity is present in specific neuronal populations of the hippocampus, striatum, amygdala, and cerebellum, as well as in a fraction of astrocytes. In freshly isolated cells from hippocampus, where both enzymes are expressed, sEH mediates the bulk of EET metabolism. Yet we observe a significant contribution of mEH, pointing to a novel role of this enzyme in the regulation of physiological processes. Furthermore, our findings indicate the presence of additional, hitherto unknown cerebral epoxide hydrolases. Taken together, cerebral EET metabolism is driven by several epoxide hydrolases, a fact important in view of the present targeting of sEH as a potential therapeutic target. Our findings suggest that these different enzymes have individual, possibly quite distinct roles in brain function and cerebral EET metabolism.
Symptomatic ischemia following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is common but poorly understood and inadequately treated. Severe constriction of the major arteries at the base of the brain, termed vasospasm, traditionally has been thought to be a proximal event underlying these ischemias, although microvascular changes also have been described. The vast majority of studies aimed at understanding the pathogenesis of ischemic deficits, and vasospasm have focused on the interaction of the &quot;spasmogen&quot; of the extravasated blood with the smooth muscle and endothelium of the arteries. This has led to a comparative neglect of the contribution of the CNS to the maintenance of cerebral perfusion. In the present study, we focused on the role of the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) in modulating cerebral perfusion at rest and following an experimental SAH in the rat. Changes in cerebral blood flow (CBF) were measured using laser-Doppler flowmetry and three-dimensional optical microangiography. Focal application of a GABA(A) receptor agonist and antagonist was used to respectively inactivate and activate the RVM. We show here that the RVM modulates cerebral blood flow under resting conditions, and further, contributes to restoration of cerebral perfusion following a high-grade SAH. Failure of this brainstem compensatory mechanism could be significant for acute perfusion deficits seen in patients following subarachnoid hemorrhage.

The formation of cortical columns is often conceptualized as a local process in which synaptic microcircuits confined to the volume of the emerging column are established and selectively refined. Many neurons, however, while wiring up locally are simultaneously building macroscopic circuits spanning widely distributed brain regions, such as different cortical areas or the two brain hemispheres. Thus, it is conceivable that interareal interactions shape the local column layout. Here we show that the columnar architectures of different areas of the cat visual cortex in fact develop in a coordinated manner, not adequately described as a local process. This is revealed by comparing the layouts of orientation columns (i) in left/right pairs of brain hemispheres and (ii) in areas V1 and V2 of individual brain hemispheres. Whereas the size of columns varied strongly within all areas considered, columns in different areas were typically closely matched in size if they were mutually connected. During development, we find that such mutually connected columns progressively become better matched in size as the late phase of the critical period unfolds. Our results suggest that one function of critical-period plasticity is to progressively coordinate the functional architectures of different cortical areas--even across hemispheres.
The use of genome wide genotyping arrays has the potential to assess entire groups of genetic disorders in one application and has begun to emerge as an aid to diagnosis in clinical practice. Recessive families may suffer from diseases because of homozygosity of recessive alleles; homozygosity tracks can be easily identified by using these high throughput SNPs arrays, allowing the rapid mapping of autozygous segments that may be associated with the disease. According to this, we performed homozygosity mapping using genome wide SNP arrays in a North Indian family with an autosomal recessive disorder of ataxia, epilepsy, cognitive decline and visual problems. In this kindred, a large number of homozygous regions were identified. In silico analysis was also carried out. The COL18A1 gene found in one of the homozygous tracks has genetic defects previously reported with a similar phenotype as our family. Hence, it was the most likely candidate gene and at large the first to be analyzed. A homozygous COL18A1 two base pair deletio segregating with the disease was identified; expanding the spectrum of disease seen in COL18A1 and proving that the genetic lesion underlying recessive disorders can rapidly identify by employing genotyping arrays along with detailed candidate gene analysis.
The mammalian sympathetic prevertebral ganglia regulate various visceral functions and in particular the digestive tract motility. Several integrative properties of these ganglia have been described: convergence of central inputs, projection of visceral inputs at the pre- and post synaptic level and pacemaker activity of the neurones. This review presents the results obtained on another integrative property which has been widely studied over the last 10 years: the modulation of the fast central inputs by neuromodulators such as nitric oxide, ceramide and GABA. These substances facilitate or inhibit the fast central inputs through complex interrelated actions. We also present striking results recently obtained during the study of a regulatory reflex of the digestive tract motility organized by the prevertebral ganglia: the gastro-duodenal inhibitory reflex. During this reflex, the neurotransmitter released by the visceral afferent fibres to activate the ganglionic neurones is gaseous: nitric oxide. Moreover, the mechanism conducting the excitation along the afferent and efferent fibres is independent of action potentials. This mechanism requires the integrity of the membrane lipid rafts and the activation in cascade of the following second messenger sequence: ceramide, calcium, nitric oxide and guanosine 3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate. The existence of this mechanism gives grounds for rethinking one of the central dogmas in neuroscience according to which excitation is only conducted along nerves by an electrical phenomenon, the action potential. All these results strengthen the role of the prevertebral ganglia as a model for the study of neuronal networks and basic neuronal properties.
The participation of acetylcholine-activated potassium current (I(K,ACh)) and hyperpolarization-activated pacemaker current (I(f)) in vagal bradycardia were examined using vagally-innervated preparations of guinea-pig atria. Preparations were maintained in Krebs-Henseleit solution (36 degrees C). Before treatment, trains of vagal stimuli (10 s at 2, 5 and 10 Hz) produced graded bradycardias displaying rapid onset and offset. Tertiapin-Q (300 nM), which blocks I(K,ACh), had no effect on baseline atrial rate. In tertiapin-Q, vagal bradycardia displayed a gradual onset and offset, with a peak response ~50% of that recorded in control conditions. Cumulative addition of 1 mM ZD7288 (blocker of I(f)) caused atrial rate to fall by ~60%, but had no further effect on the amplitude of the vagal bradycardia, while response onset and offset became slightly faster. From these observations, we argue that (i) vagal bradycardia was attributable primarily to activation of I(K,ACh), (ii) vagal modulation of I(f) had a minor influence on the rate of onset and offset of bradycardia, and (iii) removal of the influence of I(K,ACh) unmasked a slow response, of undetermined origin, to vagal stimulation. In a separate set of experiments we compared the effects of 1 mM Ba(2+) and 300 nM tertiapin-Q on vagal bradycardia. Ba(2+) reduced baseline atrial rate and the response to vagal stimulation. Subsequent cumulative addition of tertiapin-Q had no additional effect on baseline atrial rate, but caused further reduction in the amplitude of vagal bradycardia, suggesting that 1 mM Ba(2+) did not achieve a complete block of I(K,ACh) in this preparation.
Microneurography has been used in humans to study sympathetic activity supplying targets within skeletal muscle and skin. Comparable animal studies are relatively few, probably due to the technical demands of traditional fibre picking techniques. Here we apply a simple suction electrode technique to record cutaneous (CVC) and muscle (MVC) vasoconstrictor activities and describe and investigate the basis of the frequency dependence of lung inflation related modulation. Hindlimb MVC and CVC activities were recorded concurrently. The magnitude of MVC and CVC activities at the lung inflation cycle frequency was significantly less at 2.0 Hz than at lung inflation cycle frequencies &lt; or =1.0 Hz. As lung inflation cycle frequency was increased the coherence between lung inflation cycle or BP and MVC or CVC waveforms decreased. Consistent with the hypothesis that much of the coherence between lung inflation cycle and nerve activity waveforms is secondary to oscillating baroreceptor activity attributable to BP waves, partialization with the BP waveform significantly decreased the coherence between lung inflation cycle and nerve waveforms, and there was an absence of coherence between these waveforms following sinus and aortic denervation. Our data extend findings from other laboratories and establish the value of a suction electrode technique for recording MVC and CVC activities. Furthermore, our observations describe the rates of positive pressure ventilation that avoid strong and regular gating of sympathetic activity.

Loss of spectrin or ankyrin in the presynaptic motoneuron disrupts the synaptic microtubule cytoskeleton and leads to disassembly of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Here, we demonstrate that NMJ disassembly after loss of alpha-spectrin can be suppressed by expression of a Wld(S) transgene, providing evidence for a Wallerian-type degenerative mechanism. We then identify a second signaling system. Enhanced MAPK-JNK-Fos signaling suppresses NMJ disassembly despite loss of presynaptic alpha-spectrin or ankyrin2-L. This signaling system is activated after an acute cytoskeletal disruption, suggesting an endogenous role during neurological stress. This signaling system also includes delayed, negative feedback via the JNK phosphatase puckered, which inhibits JNK-Fos to allow NMJ disassembly in the presence of persistent cytoskeletal stress. Finally, the MAPK-JNK pathway is not required for baseline NMJ stabilization during normal NMJ growth. We present a model in which signaling via JNK-Fos functions as a stress response system that is transiently activated after cytoskeletal disruption to enhance NMJ stability, and is then shut off allowing NMJ disassembly during persistent cytoskeletal disruption.
Human ability to simultaneously track multiple items declines with set size. This effect is commonly attributed to a fixed limit on the number of items that can be attended to, a notion that is formalized in limited-capacity and slot models. Instead, we propose that observers are constrained by stimulus uncertainty that increases with the number of items but use Bayesian inference to achieve optimal performance. We model five data sets from published deviation discrimination experiments that varied set size, number of deviations, and magnitude of deviation. A constrained Bayesian observer better explains each data set than do the traditional limited-capacity model, the recently proposed slots-plus-averaging model, a fixed-uncertainty Bayesian model, a Bayesian model with capacity limit, and a simple averaging model. This indicates that the notion of limited capacity in attentional tracking needs to be revised. Moreover, it supports the idea that Bayesian optimality of human perception extends to high-level perceptual computations.
GABAergic interneurons are key elements in neural coding, but the mechanisms that assemble inhibitory circuits remain unclear. In the spinal cord, the transfer of sensory signals to motor neurons is filtered by GABAergic interneurons that act presynaptically to inhibit sensory transmitter release and postsynaptically to inhibit motor neuron excitability. We show here that the connectivity and synaptic differentiation of GABAergic interneurons that mediate presynaptic inhibition is directed by their sensory targets. In the absence of sensory terminals these GABAergic neurons shun other available targets, fail to undergo presynaptic differentiation, and withdraw axons from the ventral spinal cord. A sensory-specific source of brain derived neurotrophic factor induces synaptic expression of the GABA synthetic enzyme GAD65--a defining biochemical feature of this set of interneurons. The organization of a GABAergic circuit that mediates presynaptic inhibition in the mammalian CNS is therefore controlled by a stringent program of sensory recognition and signaling.
Sex hormones are essential for neural circuit development and sex-specific behaviors. Male behaviors require both testosterone and estrogen, but it is unclear how the two hormonal pathways intersect. Circulating testosterone activates the androgen receptor (AR) and is also converted into estrogen in the brain via aromatase. We demonstrate extensive sexual dimorphism in the number and projections of aromatase-expressing neurons. The masculinization of these cells is independent of AR but can be induced in females by either testosterone or estrogen, indicating a role for aromatase in sexual differentiation of these neurons. We provide evidence suggesting that aromatase is also important in activating male-specific aggression and urine marking because these behaviors can be elicited by testosterone in males mutant for AR and in females subjected to neonatal estrogen exposure. Our results suggest that aromatization of testosterone into estrogen is important for the development and activation of neural circuits that control male territorial behaviors.
Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is an important regulator of neuronal development and functions. Although it was reported recently that mTOR signaling is critical for neuronal polarity, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Here, we describe the molecular pathway of mTOR-dependent axon specification, in which the collapsing response mediator protein 2 (CRMP2) and Tau are major downstream targets. The activity of mTOR effector 70-kDa ribosomal protein S6 kinase (p70S6K) specifically increases in the axon during neuronal polarity formation. The mTOR inhibitor rapamycin suppresses the translation of some neuronal polarity proteins, including CRMP2 and Tau, thereby inhibiting axon formation. In contrast, constitutively active p70S6K up-regulates the translation of these molecules, thus inducing multiple axons. Exogenous CRMP2 and Tau facilitate axon formation, even in the presence of rapamycin. In the 5'-untranslated region of Tau and CRMP2 mRNAs, we identified a 5'-terminal oligopyrimidine tract, which mediates mTOR-governed protein synthesis. The 5'-terminal oligopyrimidine tract sequences of CRMP2 and Tau mRNAs strongly contribute to the up-regulation of their translation in the axon in response to the axonal activation of the mTOR-p70S6K pathway. Taken together, we conclude that the local translation of CRMP2 and Tau, regulated by mTOR-p70S6K, is critical for the specification of neuronal polarity.
Environment enrichment (EE) has an important role in brain plasticity. Previous research has shown that EE increases the response strength of auditory cortical neurons, but it remains unknown whether EE can affect the directional selectivity of auditory neurons. In this study, rats were exposed to EE conditions during the developmental critical period (EE1) or after the critical period (EE2). By in vivo extracellular recording, we found that EE enhanced the directional selectivity of primary auditory cortical neurons in EE1 rats, which showed a sharper azimuth selectivity curve of auditory cortical neurons compared with normal rats. However, there was no significant difference in directional selectivity between the EE2 rats and age-matched control rats. Our findings indicate that early exposure to EE enhances the directional sensitivity of primary auditory cortical neurons. These results provide an insight into developmental plasticity in the auditory system.
Cholinergic projections originating in the basal forebrain (BF) play important roles in the heterosynaptic facilitation of synaptic strength in various sensory cortices, including the primary visual cortex (V1). Here, using urethane-anesthetized rats, we find that pairing burst stimulation of the BF with single pulse stimulation of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) does not consistently increase field postsynaptic potentials (fPSPs) in V1 elicited by ipsilateral LGN stimulation. However, longer latency fPSPs recorded in V1 in response to stimulation of the contralateral LGN, reflecting crossed, polysynaptic inputs, show significant potentiation when paired with preceding BF stimulation. This synaptic enhancement requires relatively short time intervals between paired BF burst and LGN pulse stimulation (40 ms) and is abolished by systemic or local V1 muscarinic receptor blockade (scopolamine), while systemic nicotinic receptor blockade (mecamylamine) is ineffective. Together, these data provide evidence for a differential capacity for cholinergic/muscarinic-dependent plasticity induction among different signals in V1, with inputs reaching V1 from the contralateral LGN exhibiting potentiation in the face of stable strength in ipsilateral LGN-V1 projections. This preferential readiness for potentiation in crossed fiber systems could serve to amplify binocular responses in V1 elicited by synchronized excitation of ipsi- and contralateral LGN neurons.
Dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD) is a familial childhood-onset disease characterized by fluctuating dystonia, associated with tremor and parkinsonism in some patients. In most families the disease displays autosomal dominant inheritance due to mutations in the GTP cyclohydrolase 1 gene (GCH1). Penetrance and symptom severity display strong female predominance for which gender-specific GCH1 expression has been hypothesized. In this study, GCH1 mRNA expression was measured in cerebellar tissue from 66 healthy human subjects (30 women), and in cerebellar and nigral tissue from eight individuals. No significant difference was found between men and women with small effect sizes observed. Although the correlation between cerebellar and nigral GCH1 expression remains to be further examined, this exploratory study does not support gender-specific GCH1 expression being the basis for the skewed gender distribution observed in DRD patients.





The role of microglial cells in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) neurodegeneration is unknown. Although several works suggest that chronic neuroinflammation caused by activated microglia contributes to neurofibrillary degeneration, anti-inflammatory drugs do not prevent or reverse neuronal tau pathology. This raises the question if indeed microglial activation occurs in the human brain at sites of neurofibrillary degeneration. In view of the recent work demonstrating presence of dystrophic (senescent) microglia in aged human brain, the purpose of this study was to investigate microglial cells in situ and at high resolution in the immediate vicinity of tau-positive structures in order to determine conclusively whether degenerating neuronal structures are associated with activated or with dystrophic microglia. We used a newly optimized immunohistochemical method for visualizing microglial cells in human archival brain together with Braak staging of neurofibrillary pathology to ascertain the morphology of microglia in the vicinity of tau-positive structures. We now report histopathological findings from 19 humans covering the spectrum from none to severe AD pathology, including patients with Down's syndrome, showing that degenerating neuronal structures positive for tau (neuropil threads, neurofibrillary tangles, neuritic plaques) are invariably colocalized with severely dystrophic (fragmented) rather than with activated microglial cells. Using Braak staging of Alzheimer neuropathology we demonstrate that microglial dystrophy precedes the spread of tau pathology. Deposits of amyloid-beta protein (Abeta) devoid of tau-positive structures were found to be colocalized with non-activated, ramified microglia, suggesting that Abeta does not trigger microglial activation. Our findings also indicate that when microglial activation does occur in the absence of an identifiable acute central nervous system insult, it is likely to be the result of systemic infectious disease. The findings reported here strongly argue against the hypothesis that neuroinflammatory changes contribute to AD dementia. Instead, they offer an alternative hypothesis of AD pathogenesis that takes into consideration: (1) the notion that microglia are neuron-supporting cells and neuroprotective; (2) the fact that development of non-familial, sporadic AD is inextricably linked to aging. They support the idea that progressive, aging-related microglial degeneration and loss of microglial neuroprotection rather than induction of microglial activation contributes to the onset of sporadic Alzheimer's disease. The results have far-reaching implications in terms of reevaluating current treatment approaches towards AD.
Arteriovenous malformation of the head and neck is a rare vascular anomaly but when present is persistent and progressive in nature and can represent a lethal benign disease. An unusual case is presented of an arteriovenous malformation of the base of tongue in a 32-year-old primigravida at 23.2 weeks of gestation with a history of haemoptysis. The patient was admitted to hospital with 10.7 g/dl of haemoglobin and 32.1% of haematocrit but due to recurrent massive haemoptysis, in the next few days, dropped to 6.7 g/dl of haemoglobin and 20.2% of haematocrit which required immediate blood transfusions. To maintain the upper airways patent the patient underwent tracheostomy; during angiography, showing an arteriovenous malformation with its feeding arteries (lingual artery, internal maxillary artery, and maxillary artery) embolization was made without a significant blood flow reduction. After surgical ligation of the external carotid artery, on the right side, the patient was readmitted for further angiographic evaluation, which confirmed complete occlusion of the carotid artery but, at the same time, revealed the integrity of the arteriovenous malformation perfusion on account of a new feeding artery (left lingual artery). A new superselective catheterization of the lingual artery was performed but due to the effect of progesterone, which causes smooth muscle relaxation and leads to arteriovenous malformation dilatation and rupture, the primigravida again presented haemoptysis. In agreement with the gynaecologists, the patient was given betamethasone to induce foetal lung maturation, and induction of labour was planned at 26 weeks, and a healthy baby was delivered naturally. Over the following days, the patient had no further haemoptysis and so far clinical examination showed no evidence of the original mass (slight haemorrhagic suffusion of the right anterior amygdala region).



What mental representations give us the sense of our body as a unique object in the world? We investigated this issue in the context of the rubber hand illusion (RHI), an illusion of body image in which a prosthetic hand brushed synchronously, but not asynchronously, with one's own hand is perceived as actually being one's hand. We conducted a large-scale study of the RHI, and used psychometric analysis to reveal the structure of the subjective experience of embodiment [Longo et al. (2008). What is embodiment? A psychometric approach. Cognition,107, 978-998]. Here, we use this dataset to investigate the relation between incorporation of a rubber hand into the body image and the perceived similarity between the participant's hand and the rubber hand. Objective similarity (as measured by skin luminance, hand shape, and third-person similarity ratings) did not appear to influence participants' experience of the RHI. Conversely, incorporation of the rubber hand into the body image did affect the similarity that participants perceived between their own hand and the rubber hand. Participants who had experienced the RHI perceived their hand and the rubber hand as significantly more similar than participants who had not experienced the illusion. That is, embodiment leads to perceived similarity, but perceived similarity does not lead to embodiment. Furthermore, similarity ratings following the illusion were selectively correlated with some components of embodiment, but not with others. These results suggest an important role of a mental body image in the perception of the relation between the self and others.








Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has recommended integrating behavioral interventions into medical care settings for persons living with HIV. Delivering an intensive, family-based intervention for mothers living with HIV (MLH) (n = 173) and their adolescent children (n = 116) integrated into medical care was problematic. Despite the fact that nearly half of MLH were recruited at HIV/AIDS clinics, community centers and children's hospitals were the most popular and most successful sites for the delivery of the intervention. We provide recommendations for how to integrate intensive interventions into medical care, given the needs of MLH, their adolescents, and the organizations serving them.
HIV/AIDS is widely recognized as a chronic illness within HIV care, but is often excluded from chronic disease lists outside the field. Similar to other chronic diseases, HIV requires lifetime changes in physical health, psychological functioning, social relations, and adoption of disease-specific regimens. The shift from acute to chronic illness requires a self-management model in which patients assume an active and informed role in healthcare decision making to change behaviors and social relations to optimize health and proactively address predictable challenges of chronic diseases generally and HIV specifically. This article reviews literature on chronic disease self-management to identify factors common across chronic diseases, highlight HIV-specific challenges, and review recent developments in self-management interventions for people living with HIV (PLH) and other chronic diseases. An integrated framework of common elements or tasks in chronic disease self-management is presented that outlines 14 elements in three broad categories: physical health; psychological functioning; and social relationships. Common elements for physical health include: a framework for understanding illness and wellness; health promoting behaviors; treatment adherence; self-monitoring of physical status; accessing appropriate treatment and services; and preventing transmission. Elements related to psychological functioning include: self-efficacy and empowerment; cognitive skills; reducing negative emotional states; and managing identity shifts. Social relationship elements include: collaborative relationships with healthcare providers; social support; disclosure and stigma management; and positive social and family relationships. There is a global need to scale up chronic disease self-management services, including for HIV, but there are significant challenges related to healthcare system and provider capacities, and stigma is a significant barrier to HIV-identified service utilization. Recognizing that self-management of HIV has more in common with all chronic diseases than differences suggests that the design and delivery of HIV support services can be incorporated into combined or integrated prevention and wellness services.




Here, we describe the generation and characterization of a novel tau transgenic mouse model (mTau) that overexpresses wild-type murine tau protein by twofold compared with endogenous levels. Transgenic tau expression was driven by a BAC transgene containing the entire wild-type mouse tau locus, including the endogenous promoter and the regulatory elements associated with the tau gene. The mTau model therefore differs from other tau models in that regulation of the genomic mouse transgene mimics that of the endogenous gene, including normal exon splicing regulation. Biochemical data from the mTau mice demonstrated that modest elevation of mouse tau leads to tau hyperphosphorylation at multiple pathologically relevant epitopes and accumulation of sarkosyl-insoluble tau. The mTau mice show a progressive increase in hyperphosphorylated tau pathology with age up to 15 to 18 months, which is accompanied by gliosis and vacuolization. In contrast, older mice show a decrease in tau pathology levels, which may represent hippocampal neuronal loss occurring in this wild-type model. Collectively, these results describe a novel model of tauopathy that develops pathological changes reminiscent of early stage Alzheimer's disease and other related neurodegenerative diseases, achieved without overexpression of a mutant human tau transgene. This model will provide an important tool for understanding the early events leading to the development of tau pathology and a model for analysis of potential therapeutic targets for sporadic tauopathies.
During brain trauma, white matter experiences shear and stretch forces that, without severing axons, nevertheless trigger their secondary degeneration. In central nervous system (CNS) trauma models, voltage-gated sodium channel (Nav) blockers are neuroprotective. This, plus the rapid tetrodotoxin-sensitive Ca2+ overload of stretch-traumatized axons, points to &quot;leaky&quot; Nav channels as a pivotal early lesion in brain trauma. Direct effects of mechanical trauma on neuronal Nav channels have not, however, been tested. Here, we monitor immediate responses of recombinant neuronal Nav channels to stretch, using patch-clamp and Na+-dye approaches. Trauma constituted either bleb-inducing aspiration of cell-attached oocyte patches or abrupt uniaxial stretch of cells on an extensible substrate. Nav1.6 channel transient current displayed irreversible hyperpolarizing shifts of steady-state inactivation [availability(V)] and of activation [g(V)] and, thus, of window current. Left shift increased progressively with trauma intensity. For moderately intense patch trauma, a approximately 20-mV hyperpolarizing shift was registered. Nav1.6 voltage sensors evidently see lower energy barriers posttrauma, probably because of the different bilayer mechanics of blebbed versus intact membrane. Na+ dye-loaded human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells stably transfected with alphaNav1.6 were subjected to traumatic brain injury-like stretch. Cytoplasmic Na+ levels abruptly increased and the trauma-induced influx had a significant tetrodotoxin-sensitive component. Nav1.6 channel responses to cell and membrane trauma are therefore consistent with the hypothesis that mechanically induced Nav channel leak is a primary lesion in traumatic brain injury. Nav1.6 is the CNS node of Ranvier Nav isoform. When, during head trauma, nodes experienced bleb-inducing membrane damage of varying intensities, nodal Nav1.6 channels should immediately &quot;leak&quot; over a broadly left-smeared window current range.
Here we show that stimulation of protein kinase C (PKC) by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) treatment induces a time-dependent decrease in glutamate transport activity due to relocalization of the excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1) glutamate transporter from the apical surface of polarized epithelial Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells to intracellular compartments. The PKC-induced internalization of EAAC1 is negatively regulated by the calcineurin inhibitor cyclosporine A and by the expression of a dominant-negative mutant of the endocytic protein dynamin 1, a well-known target of the phosphatase activity of calcineurin. Using 32P-metabolic labeling experiments, we found unchanged levels of phosphorylated EAAC1, indicating that EAAC1 relocalization does not depend on PKC and calcineurin modification of the transporter, while we found that a target of these modifications was the serine778 residue of dynamin, a calcineurin substrate that in its dephosphorylated form activates the endocytic functions of dynamin. These data suggest that PMA stimulates endogenous dynamin and that this activation is required to mediate internalization of EAAC1 in MDCK cells. By immunofluorescence experiments with endosomal markers we demonstrated that internalized EAAC1 accumulates in endosomes also containing the basolateral betaine-GABA transporter BGT1 and activated PKCalpha. The sustained activation of PKC was required to maintain the transporters in the endosomal compartment, while a posttreatment with a PKC-specific inhibitor induced the recycling of the transporters to their appropriate surfaces. Taken together, our data indicate that PKC activity regulates EAAC1 surface density in MDCK cells by inducing its internalization and retention in PKCalpha-labeled recycling endosomes common to apical and basolateral proteins.
Gastrointestinal (GI) neoplasms are among many manifestations of the genetic disease neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). However, the physiological and pathological functions of the Nf1 gene in the GI system have not been fully studied, possibly because of a lack of mouse models. In this study, we generated conditional knockout mice with Nf1 deficiency in the GI tract. These mice develop gastric epithelial hyperplasia and inflammation together with increased cell proliferation and apoptosis. The gastric phenotypes observed in these mutant mice seem to be the consequence of loss of Nf1 in gastric fibroblasts, resulting in paracrine hyperactivation of the ERK pathway in the gastric epithelium. These mice provide a useful model to study the pathogenesis of GI lesions in a subset of patients with NF1 and to investigate the role of the Nf1 gene in the development of GI neoplasms.
Paradoxically, bilateral transection of the chorda tympani nerve (CTX) raises the taste discrimination threshold for the free fatty acid, linoleic acid (LA), yet the chorda tympani nerve (CT) is unresponsive to lingual application of LA alone. LA may require a background of saliva to activate taste cells, since CTX decreases saliva production through denervation of the submaxillary and sublingual salivary glands. To assess the role of saliva, we measured LA taste discrimination thresholds for animals whose submaxillary and sublingual salivary glands were removed and also recorded CT responses to LA mixed in artificial saliva. Partial desalivation shifted LA discrimination thresholds from between 5.5 and 11 microM to between 11 and 22 microM. However, this effect was not as pronounced as previously seen with CTX animals. Surprisingly, the CT was unresponsive to LA mixed with artificial saliva, suggesting that artificial saliva may lack components necessary for LA taste. Additionally, fats may primarily enhance other tastes. We previously reported that LA increases CT responses to monosodium glutamate (MSG). Thus we also recorded CT whole nerve responses to taste mixtures of LA and sodium chloride (NaCl), sucrose (SUC), citric acid (CA), or quinine hydrochloride (QHCl) in anesthetized rats. We found that LA increased CT responses to NaCl but did not alter CT responses to SUC, CA, and QHCl. Thus CT recordings either lack the sensitivity to detect small changes to SUC, CA, and QHCl or LA may affect CT responses to MSG and NaCl only, perhaps by specifically modulating gustatory processing of Na(+).


Both increased and decreased nitric oxide (NO) synthesis have been reported in patients treated with interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha). Animal studies showed that IFN-alpha administration results in increased levels of biogenic amines, subsequent activation of monoamine oxidases (MAOs), and finally in a change in NO production due to the H(2)O(2) generated by MAOs. We examined the potential relationship between NO production in plasma and MAO-B activity in platelets of 43 cancer patients during 8 weeks of treatment with IFN-alpha. NO synthesis was quantitated by measuring both the ratio of citrulline and arginine (CIT/ARG-ratio) and total nitrite/nitrate (NOx) levels. Compared to baseline, MAO activity and NOx increased, while the CIT/ARG-ratio decreased. No associations were found between NOx, MAO and CIT/ARG-ratio. Only few associations were observed between changes in the biochemical parameters and changes in psychopathology induced by IFN-alpha, of which the association between changes in CIT and lassitude was the most consistent. The results suggest that peripheral NO production and MAO activity are unrelated to each other, and that peripheral changes in these biochemical parameters induced by IFN-alpha are unlikely to contribute to definite psychiatric disturbance.
Hypocretin (orexin) neurotransmission is not only crucially involved in the regulation of sleep and wake, but serves in multiple autonomic and cognitive functions as well. This is reflected in the widespread connections between the hypothalamic hypocretin neurons and the rest of the brain, such as dense projections to the frontal cortex. Both frontal cognitive impairment and autonomic disturbances have been described in ALS. Furthermore, in some ALS patients there may be sleep disturbances other than sleep related breathing disorders, including REM sleep behaviour disorder. In addition, a role for the hypocretin system in the regulation of motor functions has been suggested. Hypocretin defects have been described in several neurodegenerative disorders. We therefore speculated that the hypocretin system is also involved in ALS and measured hypocretin-1 levels in cerebrospinal fluid samples from 20 patients. All results were well within the normal range (&gt;200 pg/ml) and individual values showed no correlation with age, gender and disease duration. We conclude that it is unlikely that the hypocretin system is involved in the degenerative process of ALS.
A genome-wide association study (GWAS) using pooled DNA samples from 386 sporadic ALS patients and 542 controls from the USA, identified genetic variation in FGGY (FLJ10986) as a risk factor, as well as 66 additional candidate SNPs. Considering the large number of hypotheses that are tested in GWAS, independent replication of associations is crucial for identifying true-positive genetic risk factors for disease. The primary aim of this study was to study the association between FGGY and sporadic ALS in large, homogeneous populations from northern Europe. Genotyping experiments were performed using Illumina Beadchips, Sequenom iPLEX assays and Taqman technology on large case-control series from The Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden and Ireland (total: 1883 sporadic ALS patients and 2063 controls). No significant association between sporadic ALS and the six previously reported associated SNPs in FGGY was observed: rs6700125 (p =0.56), rs6690993 (p =0.30), rs10493256 (p =0.68), rs6587852 (p =0.64), rs1470407 (p =0.28) and rs333662 (p =0.44). Screening of the additional candidate loci did not yield significant associations either, with the lowest p-value in joint analysis for rs7772593 (p =0.14). We concluded that common genetic variation in FGGY is not associated with susceptibility to sporadic ALS in genetically homogeneous populations from northern Europe.
We have performed a systematic review to summarize current knowledge concerning factors related to survival in ALS and to evaluate the implications of these data for clinical trials design. The median survival time from onset to death ranges from 20 to 48 months, but 10-20% of ALS patients have a survival longer than 10 years. Older age and bulbar onset are consistently reported to have a worse outcome. There are conflicting data on gender, diagnostic delay and El Escorial criteria. The rate of symptom progression was revealed to be an independent prognostic factor. Psychosocial factors, FTD, nutritional status, and respiratory function are also related to ALS outcome. The effect of enteral nutrition on survival is still unclear, while NIPPV has been found to improve survival. There are no well established biological markers of progression, although some are likely to emerge in the near future. These findings have relevant implications for the design of future trials. Randomization, besides the type of onset, should take into account age, respiratory status at entry, and a measure of disease progression pre-entry. Alternative trial designs can include the use of natural history controls, the so-called minimization method for treatment allocation, and the futility approach.
Occupational and environmental exposures may contribute to the risk of developing sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). To summarize the available evidence, a systematic review of the literature on occupation as a potential determinant of ALS was performed according to the MOOSE guidelines. From MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, and Cochrane databases, selected studies were methodologically appraised according to Armon's classification system for ALS risk factor studies. Each occupation studied was reclassified according to the International Standard Classification of Occupations (ISCO-88). The vote-counting method was applied to summarize the data. Of 3773 potentially relevant studies, 51 were initially included. Of these, 12 studies provided risk estimates for individual occupations--one case-control, two register-based case-control, and nine register-based cohort studies. All studies fell into Armon's level of evidence class IV, indicating methodological limitations. Due to the heterogeneity of study methodology, data could not be pooled. The vote-counting method revealed several candidate occupations: veterinarians and other health workers, athletes, hairdressers, power-production plant, electrical and military workers. However, well designed studies with standardized assessment of occupation are needed to provide a more definitive answer about exogenous risk factors of ALS.
With non-invasive functional imaging techniques, neuroscience has reached a new era of connecting anatomy and function. Although other techniques bear the advantage of either higher temporal or spatial resolution, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is the most widely used non-invasive brain imaging technique. fMRI provides an acceptable balance between low patient load and high information capacity with good spatial resolution, making it ideal for clinical research in patients with physical restrictions like those with ALS. Most fMRI studies have provided evidence of a spatial shift of function in motor and extramotor areas in ALS patients. Furthermore, MRI-based functional imaging has supported the clinical findings of frontal cortical involvement not only in patients with ALS/dementia complex but also in patients with ALS and sub-clinical cognitive impairment. Functional MRI will identify the preserved but non-executable functions in ALS patients in the end stage and will set the direction for a new way of thinking on the functional capacities of these patients which will have a major impact on our way of thinking about end-of-life decisions.
With the exception of its most proximal segment, the human umbilical cord lacks innervation. It might be expected, therefore, that a paracrine effect through the direct contact between the smooth muscle cells and the endothelium may be particularly important in the control of the fetoplacental circulation. In this study, electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry were applied to examine umbilical veins immediately after full-term and pre-term delivery. The smooth muscle cells in the upper layer of the tunica media exhibited long, foot-like processes with c-kit immunoreactivity. In the umbilical vein of full-term neonates more than 50% of these cell processes display a normal ultrastructure and they were closely associated with the lamina elastica interna. Whereas in pre-term infants more than 60% of these cell processes exhibit signs of severe shrinkage and detachedness from the lamina elastica interna. At the same time, the high level of immunoreactivity of the endothelial cells as regards the proapoptotic gene product Bax in pre-term infants is indicative of an enhanced apoptotic process in these cells.
Preparation of tests and student's assessment by the instructor are time consuming. We address these two tasks in neuroanatomy education by employing a digital media application with a three-dimensional (3D), interactive, fully segmented, and labeled brain atlas. The anatomical and vascular models in the atlas are linked to Terminologia Anatomica. Because the cerebral models are fully segmented and labeled, our approach enables automatic and random atlas-derived generation of questions to test location and naming of cerebral structures. This is done in four steps: test individualization by the instructor, test taking by the students at their convenience, automatic student assessment by the application, and communication of the individual assessment to the instructor. A computer-based application with an interactive 3D atlas and a preliminary mobile-based application were developed to realize this approach. The application works in two test modes: instructor and student. In the instructor mode, the instructor customizes the test by setting the scope of testing and student performance criteria, which takes a few seconds. In the student mode, the student is tested and automatically assessed. Self-testing is also feasible at any time and pace. Our approach is automatic both with respect to test generation and student assessment. It is also objective, rapid, and customizable. We believe that this approach is novel from computer-based, mobile-based, and atlas-assisted standpoints.

Although gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are uncommon, they represent the most frequent mesenchymal neoplasms of the gastrointestinal tract. During recent years, considerable information has been published about the pathogenesis, molecular biology, histological criteria, surgery, and adjuvant pharmacological treatment of GISTs, but there have been few reports about the cytologic diagnosis of GISTs, particularly in effusions; in such specimens these neoplasms cause a wide range of potential pitfalls. In this case report, we show that by combining morphological and immunocytochemical studies on thin layer slide preparations, the cytologic diagnosis of GISTs can be both accurate and efficient.
THE EPIDEMIOLOGY OF MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS HAS BEEN EXTENSIVELY INVESTIGATED AND TWO FEATURES HAVE CONSISTENTLY EMERGED: marked geographical variation in prevalence and substantial familial clustering. At first sight, geographic variation would seem to imply an environmental cause for the disease, while familial clustering would seem to suggest that genetic factors have the predominant etiological effect. However, given that geographic variation in prevalence could result from variation in the frequency of genetic risk alleles and that familial clustering might result from shared environmental exposure rather than shared genetic risk alleles, it is clear that these crude inferences are unreliable. Epidemiologists have been resourceful in their attempts to resolve this apparent conflict between &quot;nurture and nature&quot; and have employed a whole variety of sophisticated methods to try and untangle the etiology of multiple sclerosis. The body of evidence that has emerged from these efforts has formed the foundation for decades of research seeking to identify relevant genes and this is the obvious place to start any consideration of the genetics of multiple sclerosis.
Parkinson's (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD) are chronic neurodegenerative conditions of the brain with a variety of clinical presentations including a disorder of movement and a range of nonmotor deficits. HD is genetic in origin and the causative gene and protein known, namely mutant Huntingtin, which leads to widespread early neuronal dysfunction and death throughout the brain. In contrast, the etiology of sporadic PD is unknown, and the pathology targets the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons with the formation of alpha-synuclein positive Lewy bodies. In both diseases, the ability to accurately diagnose the disease in the early stages and monitor progression over time remains a major challenge given the majority of the pathology is sited deep within the CNS. This challenge has gained extra significance as the development of disease-modifying drugs starts to emerge into the clinic. To this end, there is a need to find biomarkers that will help in the accurate diagnosis of the disease and/or prediction of its clinical onset as well as biomarkers that are able to faithfully track disease progression independent of any symptomatic effects of any therapies. In addition, these same markers may also help stratify each of these heterogeneous disorders into specific subtypes that share particular clinical and pathological characteristics.
Intense research during the last decades has resulted in an unprecedented accumulation of knowledge regarding the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Primarily, the focus has been directed toward amyloid and tau pathology and their relations to synaptic and neuronal loss. However, as the complexity of the disease becomes increasingly evident, the importance of other factors, such as inflammation, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial dysfunction, grow apparent. Here, we review available CSF biomarkers for these pathological processes. We also consider their usability in clinical practice and in clinical trials.
Cancer is a disease of genomic aberration. The hypoxic microenvironment is believed to promote tumor progression via the induction of genetic instability. To understand how hypoxia drives tumor progression, we have shown recently that the hypoxia-inducible transcription factor, HIF-1alpha, is critical for transcriptional repression of DNA repair genes by a noncanonical mode of action referred to as the &quot;HIF-1alpha-c-Myc axis.&quot; HIF-1alpha action via the HIF-1alpha-c-Myc axis is independent of its DNA-binding and transactivation domains; instead it requires the PAS-B domain to displace the transcription activator c-Myc from the target gene promoter for gene repression. Owing to the functional compromise on DNA repair, tumor cells with activated HIF-1alpha-c-Myc axis display persistent DNA damage, genetic alterations, and malignant progression. However, apoptosis-proficient cells are resistant to such changes. These findings argue that the hypoxic microenvironment plays a critical role in driving genetic alterations especially in apoptosis-deficient cells for malignant progression.
Trastuzumab, an epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor, is used in the treatment of both early-stage and metastatic breast cancer. In general it is well tolerated, with a flu-like syndrome occurring frequently a few hours after administration, including symptoms such as fever, sweating, skin rash, nausea and headache. A migraineous headache however has never been described as an adverse event. Here we present a patient in whom a strong relationship between trastuzumab infusion and a migraineous headache syndrome was present, without evidence of metastatic disease. Treatment with corticosteroids for the infusion-related complaints resulted in significant pain relief.
In a naturalistic study, we investigated the influence of gender, group size and gender composition of groups of eaters on food selected for lunch and dinner (converted to total calories per meal) of 469 individuals (198 groups) in three large university cafeterias. In dyads, women observed eating with a male companion chose foods of significantly lower caloric value than those observed eating with another woman. Overall, group size was not a significant predictor of calories, but women's calories were negatively predicted by numbers of men in the group, while the numbers of women in the group had a marginally significant positive impact on calorie estimates. Men's calorie totals were not affected by total numbers of men or women. This study supports previous investigations, but is unique in making naturalistic observations.




Entertainment venues in China are associated with risky sexual behavior. Most previous studies related to entertainment venues in China have focused on sex workers and commercial sex, but this study addressed sexual health in a sample of the general urban population. A randomly selected sample of market vendors (n = 4,510) from an eastern city was recruited and assessed to examine relationships between entertainment venue visits and sexual risk. Both behavioral (self-reports of unprotected sex) and biomedical (STD test results) measures were used. About 18% of the sample (26.8% of men and 9% of women) reported visiting entertainment venues in the past 30 days. Those who visited entertainment venues were more likely to be male, younger, single, with higher education, and to have more discretionary income. For both men and women, visiting entertainment venues was a significant predictor for unprotected sex and STD infection. Gender differences were observed in predicting unprotected sex and STD infections. Entertainment venues could be potential sites for place-based intervention programs and outreach for the general population.

1 Here I put forth the hypothesis that noradrenaline (NA), which is a signalling molecule in the brain and sympathetic nervous system (SNS), is an aetiological factor in a number of diseases. 2 In a previous paper (Fitzgerald, Int. J. Cancer, 124, 2009, 257), I examined evidence that elevated NA is a factor in various types of cancer. Here I extend the argument to several other diseases, including diabetes mellitus, open-angle glaucoma, osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis and asthma. 3 The principal hypothesis is that, largely as a result of genetics, elevated noradrenergic tone in the SNS predisposes a large number of individuals to a broad range of diseases. 4 For each of the above five diseases, I briefly examine the following four lines of evidence to assess the hypothesis: i) whether pharmacological studies in rodents that manipulate NA levels or receptors affect these diseases; ii) whether pharmacological manipulation of NA in humans affects these diseases; iii) whether bipolar disorder, excessive body weight, and hypertension, which may all three involve elevated NA, tend to be comorbid with these diseases and iv) whether psychological stressors tend to cause or exacerbate these conditions, since psychological stress is associated with increased release of NA. 5 The four lines of evidence tend to support the hypothesis.
In many species, interval timing behavior is accurate-appropriate estimated durations-and scalar-errors vary linearly with estimated durations. Whereas accuracy has been previously examined, scalar timing has not been clearly demonstrated in house mice (Mus musculus), raising concerns about mouse models of human disease. The authors estimated timing accuracy and precision in C57BL/6 mice, the most used background strain for genetic models of human disease, in a peak-interval procedure with multiple intervals. Both when timing 2 intervals (Experiment 1) or 3 intervals (Experiment 2), C57BL/6 mice demonstrated varying degrees of timing accuracy. An important finding was that, both at the individual and group levels, their precision varied linearly with the subjective estimated duration. Further evidence for scalar timing was obtained using an intraclass correlation statistic. This is the first report of consistent, reliable scalar timing in a sizable sample of house mice, thus validating the peak-interval procedure as a valuable technique, the intraclass correlation statistic as a powerful test of the scalar property, and the C57BL/6 strain as a suitable background for behavioral investigations of genetically engineered mice modeling disorders of interval timing.
Prelimbic-infralimbic cortex (PL-IL) and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) influence behavioral flexibility in the rat. The authors tested the effects of PL-IL or OFC infusion with the GABA agonist muscimol in the context of 2 flexible responding tasks: strategy switching and reversal. Muscimol infusion into PL-IL impaired retention of strategy switches but not reversals, whereas muscimol infusion into OFC impaired retention of reversals but not switches. However, whereas training in repeated reversals did not remove the requirement of PL-IL for switch retention (E. L. Rich &amp; M. L. Shapiro, 2007), training in repeated switches did remove the requirement of OFC for reversal retention. Thus, activity during strategy switches was sufficient to initiate learning and remove the requirement of OFC in later reversals.
The present study examined odorant communication during acute illness provoked by injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 100 microg/kg) and how these effects vary between prepubertal and adult conspecifics. Exposure to odor of LPS-treated adult male rats produced increased avoidance in both sexes of adults and prepubertal male partners. This response was not found when they were exposed to odor of LPS-treated prepubertal males. Even a 2.5-fold higher load of LPS in prepubertal males failed to produce aversive odor cues, suggesting that the difference in the odor is not a simple issue of dose/body volume. Both estradiol benzoate (20 microg/kg) and testosterone propionate (500 microg/kg), but not dihydrotestosterone (500 microg/kg) pretreatment in prepubertal males administered LPS restored the expression of aversive odor. These hormone treatments per se did not influence odor properties of prepubertal males, indicating that estrogen receptors may play a key regulatory role in the expression of aversive odor in LPS-treated prepubertal rats. These data suggest that the expression of sickness-related odor emerges through puberty, and likely involves a complex interaction between inflammation and sex steroids across development.
This study examined whether activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) contributes to the increased open-arm time observed in the elevated plus maze (EPM) during opioid withdrawal. We applied SL327, a selective ERK kinase (MEK) inhibitor, to specific limbic areas and examined the effect on EPM behaviors of controls and during naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal. We next confirmed that ERK activation increased in limbic areas of mice undergoing naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal. Direct injection of SL327 into the amygdala blocked the withdrawal-induced increase in open-arm time; however, injecting SL327 into the septum had no effect. Consistent with these results, both 0.2 and 2mg/kg naloxone increased ERK activation in the central amygdala of morphine-dependent mice. In drug-naive mice, 2mg/kg naloxone, but not 0.2mg/kg, increased ERK activation in the central amygdala. During withdrawal, increased ERK activation was also observed in the lateral septum. In the locus coeruleus, a significant increase was observed only in morphine-dependent mice receiving 2mg/kg, but not 0.2mg/kg naloxone. In conclusion, ERK activation in limbic areas is likely involved in both the aversive properties of naloxone and in the affective/emotional symptoms of opioid withdrawal, including mediating EPM behaviors.
The aim was to establish if the memory bias for sad faces, reported in clinically depressed patients (Gilboa-Schechtman, Erhard Weiss, &amp; Jeczemien, 2002; Ridout, Astell, Reid, Glen, &amp; O'Carroll, 2003) generalizes to sub-clinical depression (dysphoria) and experimentally induced sadness. Study 1: dysphoric (n=24) and non-dysphoric (n=20) participants were presented with facial stimuli, asked to identify the emotion portrayed and then given a recognition memory test for these faces. At encoding, dysphoric participants (DP) exhibited impaired identification of sadness and neutral affect relative to the non-dysphoric group (ND). At memory testing, DP exhibited superior memory for sad faces relative to happy and neutral. They also exhibited enhanced memory for sad faces and impaired memory for happy relative to the ND. Study 2: non-depressed participants underwent a positive (n=24) or negative (n=24) mood induction (MI) and were assessed on the same tests as Study 1. At encoding, negative MI participants showed superior identification of sadness, relative to neutral affect and compared to the positive MI group. At memory testing, the negative MI group exhibited enhanced memory for the sad faces relative to happy or neutral and compared to the positive MI group. Conclusion: MCM bias for sad faces generalizes from clinical depression to these sub-clinical affective states.
AZD0328, a novel spirofuropyridine neuronal nicotinic receptor partial agonist, was used to investigate the role of alpha7 neuronal nicotinic receptor (NNR) activation in the modulation of midbrain dopamine neuron function, cortical dopamine release and on two behavioral tasks known to be dependent on optimal levels of cortical dopamine. In vivo recordings from area 10 (ventral tegmental area) in rat brain showed an increased firing of putative dopamine neurons in response to low (0.00138 mg/kg) doses of AZD0328. Bursting patterns of dopamine neuron activity remained largely unchanged by application of AZD0328. In vivo microdialysis in awake rats showed an increase in extracellular prefrontal cortical dopamine in response to low doses of AZD0328. Compound-stimulated dopamine release showed an inverted dose effect relation that was maximal at the lowest dose tested (0.00178 mg/kg). Peak extracellular dopamine levels were reached 2h after dosing with AZD0328. Acquisition of operant responding with delayed reinforcement in rats was dose dependently enhanced by AZD0328 with a plateau effect measured at 0.003 mg/kg. This effect was blocked by pre-treatment of animals with the selective alpha7 antagonist methyllycaconitine. AZD0328 improved novel object recognition in mice over a broad range of doses (0.00178-1.78 mg/kg) and the compound effect was found to be absent in homozygous alpha7 KO animals. Together, these data indicate that selective interaction with alpha7 NNRs by AZD0328 selectively enhances midbrain dopaminergic neuronal activity causing an enhancement of cortical dopamine levels; these neurochemical changes likely, underlie the positive behavioral responses observed in two different animal models. Our results suggest selective alpha7 NNR agonists may have significant therapeutic utility in neurologic and psychiatric indications where cognitive deficits and dopamine neuron dysfunction co-exist.
alpha4beta2 neuronal nicotinic receptors (nAChRs) can exist in high and low sensitivity states possibly due to distinct stoichiometries during subunit assembly: (alpha4)(2)(beta2)(3) pentamer (high sensitivity, HS) and (alpha4)(3)(beta2)(2) pentamer (low sensitivity, LS). To determine if there is a linkage between HS or LS states and receptor-mediated responses in brain, we profiled several clinically studied alpha4beta2* nAChR agonists for the displacement of radioligand binding to alpha4beta2 [(3)H]-cytisine sites in rat brain membranes, effects on stimulation of [(3)H]-dopamine release from slices of rat prefrontal cortex and striatum, and activation of HS and LS human alpha4beta2 nAChRs expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Binding affinities (pK(i)) and potency (pEC(50)) values for [(3)H]-dopamine release closely correlated with a rank order: varenicline&gt;(-)-nicotine&gt;AZD3480&gt;dianicline congruent with ABT-089. Further, a good correlation was observed between [(3)H]-dopamine release and HS alpha4beta2 pEC(50) values, but not between [(3)H]-dopamine release and LS alpha4beta2. The relative efficacies of the agonists ranged from full to partial agonists. Varenicline behaved as a partial agonist in stimulating [(3)H]-dopamine release and activating both HS and LS alpha4beta2 nAChRs expressed in oocytes. Conversely, ABT-089, AZD3480 and dianicline exhibited little efficacy at LS alpha4beta2 (&lt;5%), were more effective at HS alpha4beta2 nAChRs, and in stimulating cortical and striatal [(3)H]-dopamine release &gt;or=30%. In the presence of alpha-conotoxin MII to block alpha6beta2* nAChRs, the alpha4beta2* alpha-conotoxin-insensitive [(3)H]-dopamine release stimulated by these ligands correlates well with their interactions at HS, but not LS. In summary, this study provides support for HS alpha4beta2* nAChR involvement in neurotransmitter release.
Despite tobacco being highly addictive, it is unclear if nicotine has significant affective properties. To address this, we studied taste reactions to gustatory stimuli, palatable sucrose and unpalatable quinine, which are believed to reflect ongoing affective state. Taste reactivity was assessed during chronic nicotine administration and spontaneous withdrawal and the role of the endogenous cannabinoids was also investigated. C57BL6J mice were implanted with intraoral fistula to allow passive administration of solutions. In the first study, taste reactivity was tracked throughout chronic vehicle or nicotine (12 mg/kg/day) infusion via osmotic minipumps and spontaneous withdrawal following removal of minipumps. In the second study, the endocannabinoid CB1-receptor antagonist AM251 (1, 3 and 10mg/kg, intraperitoneal) or vehicle was acutely administered before taste reactivity measurement during chronic nicotine administration. Chronic nicotine treatment and spontaneous withdrawal did not influence taste reactions to sucrose or quinine. AM251 decreased positive reactions to sucrose and increased negative reactions to quinine. The effects of AM251 were respectively attenuated and enhanced in nicotine infused mice. These results suggest chronic nicotine exposure and withdrawal has no apparent affective sequelae, as probed by taste reactivity, and thus may not explain the difficulty tobacco-users have in achieving abstinence. In contrast, endocannabinoids elevate affective state in drug-nave animals and changes in endogenous endocannabinoid tone may underlie compensations in affective state during chronic nicotine exposure.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are members of the Cys-loop family of neurotransmitter-gated ion channels, a family that also includes receptors for gamma-aminobutyric acid, glycine and 5-hydroxytryptamine. In humans, nAChRs have been implicated in several neurological and psychiatric disorders and are major targets for pharmaceutical drug discovery. In addition, nAChRs are important targets for neuroactive pesticides in insects and in other invertebrates. Historically, nAChRs have been one of the most intensively studied families of neurotransmitter receptors. They were the first neurotransmitter receptors to be biochemically purified and the first to be characterized by molecular cloning and heterologous expression. Although much has been learnt from studies of native nAChRs, the expression of recombinant nAChRs has provided dramatic advances in the characterization of these important receptors. This review will provide a brief history of the characterization of nAChRs by heterologous expression. It will focus, in particular, upon studies of recombinant nAChRs, work that has been conducted by many hundreds of scientists during a period of almost 30 years since the molecular cloning of nAChR subunits in the early 1980s.
The pharmacological properties and pharmacokinetic profile of the alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) partial agonist varenicline provide an advantageous combination of free brain levels and functional potencies at the target receptor that for a large part explain its efficacy as a smoking cessation aid. Since alpha4beta2 and other nAChR subtypes play important roles in mediating central processes that control reward, mood, cognition and attention, there is interest in examining the effects of selective nAChR ligands such as varenicline in preclinical animal models that assess these behaviors. Here we describe results from studies on varenicline's effects in animal models of addiction, depression, cognition and attention and discuss these in the context of recently published preclinical and preliminary clinical studies that collected data on varenicline's effects on mood, cognition and alcohol abuse disorder. Taken together, the preclinical and the limited clinical data show beneficial effects of varenicline, but further clinical studies are needed to evaluate whether the preclinical effects observed in animal models are translatable to the clinic.
Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are a family of ligand-gated ion channels present in the central and peripheral nervous systems, that are permeable to mono- and divalent cations. They share a common basic structure but their pharmacological and functional properties arise from the wide range of different subunit combinations making up distinctive subtypes. nAChRs are involved in many physiological functions in the central and peripheral nervous systems, and are the targets of the widely used drug of abuse nicotine. In addition to tobacco dependence, changes in their number and/or function are associated with neuropsychiatric disorders, ranging from epilepsy to dementia. Although some of the neural circuits involved in the acute and chronic effects of nicotine have been identified, much less is known about which native nAChR subtypes are involved in specific physiological functions and pathophysiological conditions. We briefly review some recent findings concerning the structure and function of native nAChRs, focusing on the subtypes identified in the mesostriatal and habenulo-interpeduncular pathways, two systems involved in nicotine reinforcement and withdrawal. We also discuss recent findings concerning the effect of chronic nicotine on the expression of native subtypes.
The dopamine (DA) system of the ventral midbrain plays a critical role as mammals learn adaptive behaviors driven by environmental salience and reward. Addictive drugs, including nicotine, exert powerful influences over the mesolimbic DA system by activating and desensitizing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in a subtype-dependent manner. Nicotine induces synaptic plasticity at excitatory synapses onto DA neurons, thereby sending elevated DA signals that participate during the reinforcement of addictive behaviors. While humans and animals of any developmental age are potentially vulnerable to these drug-induced effects, evidence from clinical and epidemiological studies indicates that adolescents have an increased risk of addiction. Although this risk arises from a complex set of variables including societal and psychosocial influences, a contributing factor involves age dependent sensitivity to addictive drugs. One aspect of that sensitivity is drug-induced synaptic plasticity at excitatory synapses onto the dopamine neurons in the ventral midbrain. A single, acute exposure to addictive drugs, including nicotine, produces long-term potentiation (LTP) that can be quantified by measuring the shift in the subtypes of ionotropic glutamate receptors mediating evoked synaptic transmission. This change in glutamatergic transmission is expressed as an increased ratio of AMPA receptors to NMDA receptors at glutamatergic synapses. Age-related differences in the excitability and the nicotine sensitivity within the midbrain dopamine system may contribute to the greater risk of nicotine addiction in adolescent animals and humans.
Nicotine enhances cognitive performance in humans and laboratory animals. The immediate positive actions of nicotine on learning, memory and attention are well-documented. Several brain areas involved in cognition, such as the prefrontal cortex, have been implicated. Besides acute effects on these brain areas and on brain function, a picture is emerging showing that long-term consequences of nicotine exposure during adolescence can be detrimental for cognitive performance. The majority of adult smokers started the habit during adolescence. Our knowledge on the types of nicotinic receptors in the brain areas that are candidates for mediating nicotine's effects is increasing. However, much less is known about the underlying cellular mechanisms. A series of recent studies have uncovered exciting features of the mechanisms by which nicotine alters prefrontal cortex neuronal activity, synaptic plasticity, gene expression and cognitive function, and how these changes may have a lasting effect on the developing brain. In this review, we discuss these exciting findings and identify several common principles by which nicotinic receptor activation modulates cortical circuits involved in cognition. Understanding how nicotine induces long-term changes in neuronal circuits and alters plasticity in the prefrontal cortex is essential to determining how these mechanisms interact to alter cognition.
The identification and characterization of drugs for the treatment of cognitive disorders has been hampered by the absence of comprehensive hypotheses. Such hypotheses consist of (a) a precisely defined cognitive operation that fundamentally underlies a range of cognitive abilities and capacities and, if impaired, contributes to the manifestation of diverse cognitive symptoms; (b) defined neuronal mechanisms proposed to mediate the cognitive operation of interest; (c) evidence indicating that the putative cognition enhancer facilitates these neuronal mechanisms; (d) and evidence indicating that the cognition enhancer facilitates cognitive performance by modulating these underlying neuronal mechanisms. The evidence on the neuronal and attentional effects of nAChR agonists, specifically agonists selective for alpha4beta2* nAChRs, has begun to support such a hypothesis. nAChR agonists facilitate the detection of signals by augmenting the transient increases in prefrontal cholinergic activity that are necessary for a signal to gain control over behavior in attentional contexts. The prefrontal microcircuitry mediating these effects include alpha4beta2* nAChRs situated on the terminals of thalamic inputs and the glutamatergic stimulation of cholinergic terminals via ionotropic glutamate receptors. Collectively, this evidence forms the basis for hypothesis-guided development and characterization of cognition enhancers.
Phosphoinositide signalling regulates a series of important neuronal processes that are thought to be altered in mood disorders. Furthermore, mood-stabilizing drugs inhibit key enzymes that regulate phosphoinositide production and alter neuronal growth cone morphology in an inositol-reversible manner. Inositol is taken up by neurons from the extracellular fluid, presumably via membrane transporters; it can also be synthesized by the enzyme MIP-synthase (myo-inositol-1-phosphate synthase) and, in addition, it is generated by inositol phospholipid hydrolysis. The neuronal-specific HMIT (H(+)-myo-inositol transporter) represents a potential regulator of inositol signalling in neurons that warrants further investigation.
Prs [PRPP (phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate) synthetase] catalyses the transfer of pyrophosphate from ATP to ribose 5-phosphate, thereby activating the pentose sugar for incorporation into purine and pyrimidine nucleotides. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome contains five genes, PRS1-PRS5, whose products display characteristic PRPP and bivalent-cation-binding sites of Prs polypeptides. Deletion of one or more of the five PRS genes has far-reaching and unexpected consequences, e.g. impaired cell integrity, temperature-sensitivity and sensitivity to VPA (valproic acid) and LiCl. CTP pools in prs1Delta and prs3Delta are reduced to 12 and 31% of the wild-type respectively, resulting in an imbalance in phospholipid metabolism which may have an impact on the intracellular inositol pool which is affected by the administration of either VPA or LiCl. Overexpression of CTP synthetase in prs1Delta prs3Delta strains partially reverses the VPA-sensitive phenotype. Yeast two-hybrid screening revealed that Prs3 and the yeast orthologue of GSK3 (glycogen synthase kinase 3), Rim11, a serine/threonine kinase involved in several signalling pathways, interact with each other. Furthermore, Prs5, an essential partner of Prs3, which also interacts with GSK3 contains three neighbouring phosphorylation sites, typical of GSK3 activation. These studies on yeast PRPP synthetases bring together and expand the current theories for the mood-stabilizing effects of VPA and LiCl in bipolar disorder.
Although the pathogenesis of bipolar disorder is still not completely understood, there is evidence from imaging studies that abnormalities in inter-hemispheric communication may play a major role in the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder. In the present review, we discuss the most consistent findings from diffusion imaging studies exploring corpus callosum integrity in bipolar disorder.
Bipolar disorder is a debilitating disorder of the brain with a lifetime prevalence of 1.0% for bipolar I, 1.1% for bipolar II disorder and 2.4-4.7% for subthreshold bipolar disorder. Medications, including lithium, have demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of bipolar disorder, but their molecular targets and mode of action are largely unknown. A few studies have begun to shed light on potential targets of lithium treatment that may be involved in lithium's therapeutic effect. We have recently conducted a microarray study of rat frontal cortex following chronic treatment (21 days) with lithium. Chronic treatment with lithium led to a significant (at least 1.5-fold) down-regulation of 151 genes and up-regulation of 57 genes. We discuss our results in the context of previous microarray studies involving lithium and gene-association studies to identify key genes associated with chronic lithium treatment. A number of genes associated with bipolar disorder, including Comt (catechol-O-methyltransferase), Vapa (vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein A), Dtnb (dystrobrevin beta) and Pkd1 (polycystic kidney disease 1), were significantly altered in our microarray dataset along with genes associated with synaptic transmission, apoptosis and transport among other functions.
One strategy to understand bipolar disorder is to study the mechanism of action of mood-stabilizing drugs, such as valproic acid and lithium. This approach has implicated a number of intracellular signalling elements, such as GSK3beta (glycogen synthase kinase 3beta), ERK (extracellular-signal-regulated kinase)/MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) or protein kinase C. However, lamotrigine does not seem to modulate any of these targets, which is intriguing given that its profile in the clinic differs from that of valproic acid or lithium, with greater efficacy to prevent episodes of depression than mania. The primary target of lamotrigine is the voltage-gated sodium channel, but it is unclear why inhibition of these channels might confer antidepressant efficacy. In healthy volunteers, we found that lamotrigine had a facilitatory effect on the BOLD (blood-oxygen-level-dependent) response to TMS (transcranial magnetic stimulation) of the prefrontal cortex. This effect was in contrast with an inhibitory effect of lamotrigine when TMS was applied over the motor cortex. In a follow-up study, a similar prefrontal specific facilitatory effect was observed in a larger cohort of healthy subjects, whereas valproic acid inhibited motor and prefrontal cortical TMS-induced BOLD response. In vitro, we found that lamotrigine (3-10 microM) enhanced the power of gamma frequency network oscillations induced by kainic acid in the rat hippocampus, an effect that was not observed with valproic acid (100 microM). These data suggest that lamotrigine has a positive effect on corticolimbic network function that may differentiate it from other mood stabilizers. The results are also consistent with the notion of corticolimbic network dysfunction in bipolar disorder.
Iron imbalances in the brain, including excess accumulation and deficiency, are associated with neurological disease and dysfunction; yet, their origins are poorly understood. Using systems genetics analysis, we have learned that large individual differences exist in brain iron concentrations, even in the absence of neurological disease. Much of the individual differences can be tied to the genetic makeup of the individual. This genetic-based differential regulation can be modeled in genetic reference populations of rodents. The work in our laboratory centers on iron regulation in the brain and our animal model consists of 25 BXD/Ty recombinant inbred mouse strains. By studying naturally occurring variation in iron phenotypes, such as tissue iron concentration, we can tie that variability to one or more genes by way of quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis. Moreover, we can conduct genetic correlation analyses between our phenotypes and others previously measured in the BXD/Ty strains. We have observed several suggestive QTL related to ventral midbrain iron content, including one on chromosome 17 that contains btbd9, a gene that in humans has been associated with restless legs syndrome and serum ferritin. We have also observed gene expression correlations with ventral midbrain iron, including btbd9 expression and dopamine receptor expression. In addition, we have observed significant correlations between ventral midbrain iron content and dopamine-related phenotypes. The following is a discussion of iron regulation in the brain and the contributions a systems genetics approach can make toward understanding the genetic underpinnings and relation to neurological disease.
We have applied a non-contact method for studying the temperature changes produced by radiofrequency (RF) radiation specifically to small biological samples. A temperature-dependent fluorescent dye, Rhodamine B, as imaged by laser scanning confocal microscopy (LSCM) was used to do this. The results were calibrated against real-time temperature measurements from fiber optic probes, with a calibration factor of 3.4% intensity change degrees C(-1) and a reproducibility of +/-6%. This non-contact method provided two-dimensional and three-dimensional images of temperature change and distributions in biological samples, at a spatial resolution of a few micrometers and with an estimated absolute precision of around 1.5 degrees C, with a differential precision of 0.4 degree C. Temperature rise within tissue was found to be non-uniform. Estimates of specific absorption rate (SAR) from absorbed power measurements were greater than those estimated from rate of temperature rise, measured at 1 min intervals, probably because this interval is too long to permit accurate estimation of initial temperature rise following start of RF exposure. Future experiments will aim to explore this.
Planarians are useful animals for regenerative and neuroscience research at the molecular level. Previously, we have reported the distribution and function of neurotransmitter-synthesizing neurons in the planarian central nervous system. In order to understand the neural projections and connections, it is important to understand the distribution of neurotransmitter receptors. In this study, we isolated a serotonin receptor gene and named it DjSER-7 (Dugesia japonica serotonin receptor type 7). DjSER-7-expressing cells were distributed in the planarian brain. According to electrophysiological analysis using Xenopus oocytes, current response was detected upon exposure to serotonin, but not other neurotransmitters in oocytes that were co-injected with mRNAs of both DjSER-7 and Galpha chimera B-2, which can interact with either Gq-, Gs- or Gi-coupled receptor. In contrast, current response was not detected after exposure to neurotransmitters in oocytes injected with only DjSER-7 mRNA. Our results indicated that DjSER-7 responds to serotonin, as indicated by electrophysiological analysis using Xenopus oocytes.

This study investigated alterations in heart rate variability (HRV) and cognitive performance before and after physical effort, for 30 high-level track and field athletes (23 males and 7 females). Interbeat intervals were assessed at the baseline and during each task of a CogState cognitive battery (simple reaction time, choice reaction time, working memory, short-term memory and sustained attention). Time and frequency domain measures of HRV were compared between conditions and between tasks. The results indicated differences in HRV between executive and non-executive tasks. There was a significant increase in sympathetic-modulation-related indices after physical effort. The differences between executive and non-executive tasks were the same in post-test. Correlations were found between HRV and cognitive performance, which differed by speed and accuracy. We conclude that HRV is related to cognitive demand and that the correlation between HRV and cognitive performance seems to be stronger after physical exercise. The results raise questions about the psychophysiological meaning of different HRV signals and this has implications for future research about the relationship between HRV and cognition.
Autonomic underarousal, indicated by low heart rate (HR) and skin conductance level (SCL), is related to childhood aggression. However, results are inconsistent in preschoolers. We assessed HR, SCL, heart rate reactivity and skin conductance reactivity in four-year-old children. Comparisons were made between children with a high level and with a low level of aggressive behavior according to the Child Behavior Checklist 1 1/2-5 as well as between children who were diagnosed with Oppositional Defiant Disorder or Conduct Disorder (ODD/CD) and children with a low level of aggression. Preschool children with a high level of aggressive behavior showed lower SCL and SCR and children with ODD/CD showed lower SCL. In contrast, we did not find lower HR and HRR in preschool children with a high level of aggressive behavior or ODD/CD. Thus, results suggest that decreased SCL, but not HR, is a characteristic of preschool children with aggressive behavior or ODD/CD.
Auditory size perception refers to the ability to make accurate judgements of the size of a sound source based solely upon the sound emitted from the source. Electro-physiological and behavioural data were collected to test whether sound-source size parameters are detected from task-irrelevant sequences in adults and newborn infants. The mismatch negativity (MMN) obtained from adults indexed automatic detection of changes in size for voices, musical instruments and animal calls, regardless of whether the acoustic change indicated larger or smaller sources. Neonates detected changes in the size of a musical instrument. The data are consistent with the notion that auditory size-deviant detection in humans is an innate automatic process. This conclusion is compatible with the theory that the ability to assess the size of sound sources evolved because it provided selective advantage of being able to detect larger (more competent) suitors and larger (more dangerous) predators.
Conducting polymers are soft, flexible materials, exhibiting material properties that can be reversibly changed by electrochemically altering the redox state. Surface chemistry is an important determinant for the molecular events of cell adhesion. Therefore, we analyzed whether the redox state of the conducting polymer PEDOT:Tosylate can be used to control epithelial cell adhesion and proliferation. A functionalized cell culture dish comprising two adjacent electrode surfaces was developed. Upon electronic addressing, reduced and oxidized surfaces are created within the same device. Simultaneous analysis of how a homogenous epithelial MDCK cell population responded to the electrodes revealed distinct surface-specific differences. Presentation of functional fibronectin on the reduced electrode promoted focal adhesion formation, involving alpha(v)beta(3) integrin, cell proliferation, and ensuing formation of polarized monolayers. In contrast, the oxidized surface harbored only few cells with deranged morphology showing no indication of proliferation. This stems from the altered fibronectin conformation, induced by the different surface chemistry of the PEDOT:Tosylate electrode in the oxidized state. Our results demonstrate a novel use of PEDOT:Tosylate as a cell-hosting material in multiple-electrode systems, where cell adhesion and proliferation can be controlled by electrochemical modulation of surface properties.
In this study, the behavior of neural stem cells from the newborn rat spinal cord was compared at neurosphere level after the addition of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) once or daily, blank chitosan carriers, or NT-3-chitosan carriers respectively. We found that NT-3 enhanced the viability and differentiation of neural stem cells, but as NT-3 has an extremely short half-life at 37 degrees C, in order to maintain the NT-3-mediated proliferation and differentiation effects on neural stem cells, NT-3 needed to be added to the medium every 24 h. However, NT-3-chitosan carriers dramatically increase the differentiation percentage of neural stem cells into neurons, which includes GABAergic and as cholinergic neurons. Although blank chitosan carriers also showed good biocompatibility to the neural stem cells, they induced the differentiation of these cells into neurons at a much lower percentage than the daily addition of NT-3 or the NT-3-chitosan carriers. Our results suggest that NT-3-chitosan carriers may not only maintain the viability of neural stem cells and increase their differentiation percentage into neurons, but also reduce the amount of NT-3 required for the survival and differentiation of these cells. These results may provide an experimental basis for the maximum replacement of dead neurons by neural stem cell transplant after spinal cord injury (SCI).
Utilizing structure-based drug design, a 4-aminoimidazole heterocyclic core was synthesized as a replacement for a 2-aminothiazole due to potential metabolically mediated toxicity. The synthetic route utilized allowed for ready synthesis of 1-substituted-4-aminoimidazoles. SAR exploration resulted in the identification of a novel cis-substituted cyclobutyl group that gave improved enzyme and cellular potency against cdk5/p25 with up to 30-fold selectivity over cdk2/cyclin E.
Injuries to the adult central nervous system (CNS), such as spinal cord injury and brain contusion, can cause permanent functional deficits if axonal connections are broken. Spontaneous functional recovery rarely occurs. It has been widely accepted that the extracellular environment of the CNS inhibits neuronal regeneration. However, it should be noted that another reason for injured neurons failing to regenerate is their weak intrinsic ability to do so. The regeneration of injured neurons is a process involving many intracellular phenomena, including cytoskeletal changes, gene and protein expression, and changes in the responsiveness to extracellular cues. The capacity of injured neurons to regenerate is modulated to some extent by changes in the expression of intracellular signaling molecules such as glycogen synthase kinase-3beta and cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate. Knowledge of these effects has guided the development of animal models for regenerative therapies of CNS injury. Enhancing the intrinsic regenerative machinery of injured axons in the adult CNS is a potentially powerful strategy for treating patients with a CNS injury.


Limited information is available with respect to the association between age and the plasma phospholipid fatty acid profile. Therefore we investigated the association between plasma phospholipid fatty acid status and age after correction for sex, smoking, alcohol use, BMI and fish intake. Plasma phospholipid fatty acid composition was measured and information on fish intake and other potential covariates was collected in 234 participants of the Maastricht Aging Study. The participants were healthy individuals of both sexes with an age range between 36 and 88 years. Hierarchical linear regression analyses were applied to study the relationship between age and fatty acid concentrations. After correction for fish consumption and other relevant covariates, a significant positive relationship was observed between age of the subjects and their plasma phospholipid concentrations of DHA (22 : 6n-3, P = 0.006) and EPA (20 : 5n-3; P = 0.001). Age contributed 2.3 and 3.9 % to the amount of explained variance, respectively. The higher n-3 long-chain PUFA status at advanced age was confirmed by lower concentrations of their putative 'shortage marker' Osbond acid (ObA, 22 : 5n-6; P = 0.022 for the relationship with age after correction for covariates and fish intake, R2 0.022). Concentrations of linoleic acid (LA; 18 : 2n-6) were negatively associated with age (P &lt; 0.001; R2 0.061). In conclusion, DHA and EPA concentrations appeared to be higher in older age groups, partly because of a higher fish intake and partly because of another age-associated mechanism, possibly involving the well-known competition with LA.

It has been previously reported that a substantial proportion of newly referred neurology out-patients have symptoms that are considered by the assessing neurologist as unexplained by 'organic disease'. There has however been much controversy about how often such patients subsequently develop a disease diagnosis that, with hindsight, would have explained the symptoms. We aimed to determine in a large sample of new neurology out-patients: (i) what proportion are assessed as having symptoms unexplained by disease and the diagnoses given to them; and (ii) how often a neurological disorder emerged which, with hindsight, explained the original symptoms. We carried out a prospective cohort study of patients referred from primary care to National Health Service neurology clinics in Scotland, UK. Measures were: (i) the proportion of patients with symptoms rated by the assessing neurologist as 'not at all' or only 'somewhat explained' by 'organic disease' and the neurological diagnoses recorded at initial assessment; and (ii) the frequency of unexpected new diagnoses made over the following 18 months (according to the primary-care physician). One thousand four hundred and forty-four patients (30% of all new patients) were rated as having symptoms 'not at all' or only 'somewhat explained' by 'organic disease'. The most common categories of diagnosis were: (i) organic neurological disease but with symptoms unexplained by it (26%); (ii) headache disorders (26%); and (iii) conversion symptoms (motor, sensory or non-epileptic attacks) (18%). At follow-up only 4 out of 1030 patients (0.4%) had acquired an organic disease diagnosis that was unexpected at initial assessment and plausibly the cause of the patients' original symptoms. Eight patients had died at follow-up; five of whom had initial diagnoses of non-epileptic attacks. Seven other types of diagnostic change with very different implications to a 'missed diagnosis' were found and a new classification of diagnostic revision is presented. One-third of new neurology out-patients are assessed as having symptoms 'unexplained by organic disease'. A new diagnosis, which with hindsight explained the original symptoms, rarely became apparent to the patient's primary care doctor in the 18 months following the initial hospital consultation.
Energy metabolism in the human brain is not fully understood. Classically, glucose is regarded as the major energy substrate. However, lactate (conventionally a product of anaerobic metabolism) has been proposed to act as an energy source, yet whether this occurs in man is not known. Here we show that the human brain can indeed utilize lactate as an energy source via the tricarboxylic acid cycle. We used a novel combination of (13)C-labelled cerebral microdialysis both to deliver (13)C substrates into the brain and recover (13)C metabolites from the brain, and high-resolution (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance. Microdialysis catheters were placed in the vicinity of focal lesions and in relatively less injured regions of brain, in patients with traumatic brain injury. Infusion with 2-(13)C-acetate or 3-(13)C-lactate produced (13)C signals for glutamine C4, C3 and C2, indicating tricarboxylic acid cycle operation followed by conversion of glutamate to glutamine. This is the first direct demonstration of brain utilization of lactate as an energy source in humans.
Brain atrophy and neuronal degeneration of unknown etiology are frequent and severe concomitants of the systemic autoimmune disease lupus erythematosus (SLE). Using the murine MRL/lpr model, we examined populations of proliferative brain cells during the development of SLE-like disease and brain atrophy. The disease onset was associated with reduced expression of Ki67 and BrdU proliferation markers in the dorsal part of the rostral migratory stream, enhanced Fluoro Jade C staining in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus, and paradoxical increase in density of Ki67(+)/BrdU(-) cells in the paraventricular nucleus. Protuberances containing clusters of BrdU(+) cells were frequent along the lateral ventricles and in some cases were bridging ventricular walls. Cells infiltrating the choroid plexus were Ki67(+)/BrdU(+), suggesting proliferative leukocytosis in this cerebrospinal fluid-producing organ. The above results further support the hypothesis that systemic autoimmune disease induces complex CNS pathology, including impaired neurogenesis in the hippocampus. Moreover, changes in the paraventricular nucleus implicate a metabolic dysfunction in the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis, which may account for altered hormonal status and psychiatric manifestations in SLE.
Maintenance of the balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in the brain, which is affected by the activation state of microglia, is important for maintenance of neuronal function. Evidence has suggested that IL-4 plays an important neuromodulatory role and has the ability to decrease lipopolysaccharide-induced microglial activation and the production of IL-1beta. We have also demonstrated that CD200-CD200R interaction is involved in immune homeostasis in the brain. Here, we investigated the anti-inflammatory role of IL-4 and, using in vitro and in vivo analysis, established that the effect of lipopolysaccharide was more profound in IL-4(-/-), compared with wildtype, mice. Intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide exerted a greater inhibitory effect on exploratory behaviour in IL-4(-/-), compared with wildtype, mice and this was associated with evidence of microglial activation. We demonstrate that the increase in microglial activation is inversely related to CD200 expression. Furthermore, CD200 was decreased in neurons prepared from IL-4(-/-) mice, whereas stimulation with IL-4 enhanced CD200 expression. Importantly, neurons prepared from wildtype, but not from IL-4(-/-), mice attenuated the lipopolysaccharide-induced increase in pro-inflammatory cytokine production by glia. These findings suggest that the neuromodulatory effect of IL-4, and in particular its capacity to maintain microglia in a quiescent state, may result from its ability to upregulate CD200 expression on neurons.
Recent work from our laboratory and others has shown that certain stressors increase expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1) in the hypothalamus. The first goal of the following studies was to assess the impact of acute stress on other key inflammatory factors, including both cytokines and cell surface markers for immune-derived cells resident to the CNS in adult male Sprague Dawley rats exposed to intermittent footshock (80 shocks, 90 s variable ITI, 5 s each). While scattered changes in IL-6 and GFAP were observed in the hippocampus and cortex, we found the hypothalamus to be exquisitely sensitive to the effects of footshock. At the level of the hypothalamus, mRNA for IL-1 and CD14 were significantly increased, while at the same time CD200R mRNA was significantly decreased. A subsequent experiment demonstrated that propranolol (20mg/kg i.p.) blocked the increase in IL-1 and CD14 mRNA observed in the hypothalamus, while the decrease in CD200R was unaffected by propranolol. Interestingly, inhibition of glucocorticoid synthesis via injection of metyrapone (50mg/kg s.c.) plus aminoglutethimide (100mg/kg s.c.) increased basal IL-1 mRNA and augmented IL-1 and CD14 expression provoked by footshock. Injection of minocycline, a putative microglial inhibitor, blocked the IL-1 response to footshock, while CD14 and CD200R were unaffected. Together, these gene expression changes (i) provide compelling evidence that stress may provoke neuroinflammatory changes that extend well beyond isolated changes in a single cytokine; (ii) suggest opposing roles for classic stress-responsive factors (norepinephrine and corticosterone) in the modulation of stress-related neuroinflammation; (iii) indicate microglia within the hypothalamus may be key players in stress-related neuroinflammation; and (iv) provide a potential mechanism (increased CD14) by which acute stress primes reactivity to later immune challenge.
Behavioral scientists have increasingly included inflammatory biology as mechanisms in their investigation of psychosocial dynamics on the pathobiology of disease. However, a lack of standardization of inclusion and exclusion criteria and assessment of relevant control variables impacts the interpretation of these studies. The present paper reviews and discusses human biobehavioral factors that can affect the measurement of circulating markers of inflammation. Keywords relevant to inflammatory biology and biobehavioral factors were searched through PubMed. Age, sex, and hormonal status, socioeconomic status, ethnicity and race, body mass index, exercise, diet, caffeine, smoking, alcohol, sleep disruption, antidepressants, aspirin, and medications for cardiovascular disease are all reviewed. A tiered set of recommendations as to whether each variable should be assessed, controlled for, or used as an exclusion criteria is provided. These recommendations provide a framework for observational and intervention studies investigating linkages between psychosocial and behavioral factors and inflammation.
In previous behavioral studies, a prime syllable was presented just prior to a dichotic syllable pair, with instructions to ignore the prime and report one syllable from the dichotic pair. When the prime matched one of the syllables in the dichotic pair, response selection was biased towards selecting the unprimed target. The suggested mechanism was that the prime was inhibited to reduce conflict between task-irrelevant prime processing and task-relevant dichotic target processing, and a residual effect of the prime inhibition biased the resolution of the conflict between the two targets. The current experiment repeated the primed dichotic listening task in an event-related fMRI setting. The fMRI data showed that when the task-irrelevant prime matched the task-relevant targets, activations in posterior medial frontal cortex (pMFC) and in right inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) increased, which was considered to represent conflict and inhibition, respectively. Further, matching trials where the unprimed target was selected showed activation in right IFG, while matching trials where the primed target was selected showed activations in pMFC and left IFG, indicating the difference between inhibition-biased selection and unbiased selection.
The present study examined whether written syllable units are perceived in first steps of letter string processing. An illusory conjunction experiment was conducted while event-related potentials were recorded. Colored pseudowords were presented such that there was a match or mismatch between the syllable boundaries and the color boundaries. The results showed that congruent stimuli for which the syllable and color boundaries coincided produced a greater positive-going waveform than incongruent stimuli for which the syllable and color boundaries did not coincide. This syllable-color congruency effect was observed to occur both prior to 100 ms, and in a time window commencing at 150 ms. This finding suggests that syllable units are perceived in the initial steps of French visual word processing. Moreover, this study underlines the specificity of the illusory conjunction paradigm as a relevant and powerful tool of investigation of sublexical units that are automatically evoked from word perception.

Calcium channel antagonists have been employed in the prophylactic treatment of migraine. Their major action is the inhibition of Ca2+ influx into smooth muscle cells that is mediated through high voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels. These drugs had been introduced for the treatment of migraine mainly because of 2 of their effects were considered to be of potential benefit to these patients: their vasodilatory effect and their protective action against the harmful effects of hypoxia on cerebral issue. However, recent studies have provided evidence that in the central nervous system, they directly affect neuronal functions known to be calcium-dependent, such as neurotransmitter synthesis and release, inhibition of cortical spreading depression, and neuronal excitability. Although the exact mechanism of prophylactic effects calcium channel antagonists against migraine attacks remains unknown, alterations in Ca2+ channel function in the central nervous system are believed to play a key role in prophylaxis of migraine.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by pathological lesions, in particular senile plaques (SPs), cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), predominantly consisting of self-aggregated proteins amyloid beta (Abeta) and tau, respectively. Transglutaminases (TGs) are inducible enzymes, capable of modifying conformational and/or structural properties of proteins by inducing molecular covalent cross-links. Both Abeta and tau are substrates for TG cross-linking activity, which links TGs to the aggregation process of both proteins in AD brain. The aim of this study was to investigate the association of transglutaminase 1 (TG1), transglutaminase 2 (TG2) and TG-catalyzed cross-links with the pathological lesions of AD using immunohistochemistry. We observed immunoreactivity for TG1, TG2 and TG-catalyzed cross-links in NFTs. In addition, both TG2 and TG-catalyzed cross-links colocalized with Abeta in SPs. Furthermore, both TG2 and TG-catalyzed cross-links were associated with CAA. We conclude that these TGs demonstrate cross-linking activity in AD lesions, which suggests that both TG1 and TG2 are likely involved in the protein aggregation processes underlying the formation of SPs, CAA and/or NFTs in AD brain.
Clusterin, also known as apolipoprotein J, is a versatile chaperone molecule which contains several amphipathic and coiled-coil alpha-helices, typical characteristics of small heat shock proteins. In addition, clusterin has three large intrinsic disordered regions, so-called molten globule domains, which can stabilize stressed protein structures. Twenty years ago, it was demonstrated that the expression of clusterin was clearly increased in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Later it was observed that clusterin can bind amyloid-beta peptides and prevent their fibrillization. Clusterin is also involved in the clearance of amyloid-beta peptides and fibrils by binding to megalin receptors and enhancing their endocytosis within glial cells. Clusterin is a complement inhibitor and can suppress complement activation observed in AD. Clusterin is also present in lipoprotein particles and regulates cholesterol and lipid metabolism of brain which is disturbed in AD. Clusterin is a stress-induced chaperone which is normally secreted but in conditions of cellular stress, it can be transported to cytoplasm where it can bind to Bax protein and inhibit neuronal apoptosis. Clusterin can also bind to Smad2/3 proteins and potentiate the neuroprotective TGFbeta signaling. An alternative splicing can produce a variant isoform of clusterin which can be translocated to nuclei where it induces apoptosis. The role of nuclear clusterin in AD needs to be elucidated. We will review here the extensive literature linking clusterin to AD and examine the recent progress in clusterin research with the respect to AD pathology. Though clusterin can be viewed as a multipotent guardian of brain, it is unable to prevent the progressive neuropathology in chronic AD.
This article reviews the scientific contributions of Jacques Paillard (1920-2006), who strengthened substantially the role of physiological psychology in the field of movement neuroscience. His research began in 1947 under the direction of the French neurophysiologist, Alfred Fessard (1900-1982), with whom he then collaborated for 9 years while an undergraduate and then graduate student and junior faculty member in psychology at the University of Paris (the Sorbonne). Paillard moved to the University of Marseille in 1957 as a Professor of Psychophysiology. In parallel, he became a founding member and administrator of the Institute of Neurophysiology and Psychophysiology, which began in 1963 on the Marseille campus of the National Center of Scientific Research (CNRS). Paillard retired from his university and CNRS positions in 1991 but he continued seminal research until his demise. Paillard advanced understanding of higher brain influences on human spinal motor mechanisms and the functional role of proprioception as revealed in patients deprived of such sensibility. He remains best known, however, for his work on human motor cognition. He reasoned that brain &quot;maps&quot; of the external world are constructed by the body's own movements and the central effects of their resulting central and peripheral feedback. He proposed two levels of interactive brain processing for the planning and/or execution of a reaching movement: 1) a sensorimotor level, using body posture as a key reference; and 2) a &quot;higher&quot; cognitive level for accurate movement performance, using learned representations of the position and shape of the environmental components, including the body, itself.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common, chronic, recurrent mental illness that affects millions of individuals worldwide. To date, the monoaminergic systems (serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine) have received the most attention in the neurobiology of MDD, and all classes of antidepressants target these monoaminergic systems. Accumulating evidence suggests that the glutamatergic system plays an important role in the neurobiology and treatment of this disease. Some clinical studies have demonstrated that the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist ketamine has rapid antidepressant effects in treatment-resistant patients with MDD. Here, the author reviews the recent findings on the role of the glutamatergic system in the neurobiology of MDD and in new potential therapeutic targets (NMDA receptors, AMPA receptors, metabotropic glutamate receptors, ceftriaxone, minocycline, N-acetyl-L-cysteine) for MDD.
The influence of counterfactual thinking and regret on choice behavior has been widely acknowledged in economic science (Bell in Oper Res 30:961-981, 1982; Kahneman and Tversky in Judgment under uncertainty: heuristics and biases. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, pp 201-210, 1982; Loomes and Sugden in Econ J 92:805-824, 1982). Neuroimaging studies have only recently begun to explore the neural correlates of this psychological factor and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) activity was observed in several of them depending of the exact characteristics of the employed paradigm. This selective OFC involvement and, moreover, a consistently found dissociation of medial and lateral OFC activity clusters allow inferences to the function of this structure in counterfactual thinking and regret. Vice versa, the differential contribution of OFC subregions to these processes also adds evidence to the current debate on the function of this cortical structure in decision-making that attracted increasing attention in recent years.
Many structural brain asymmetries accompany left hemisphere language dominance. For example, the cingulate sulcus is larger in the medial cortex of the right hemisphere, while the more dorsal paracingulate sulcus is larger on the left. The functional significance of these asymmetries is unknown because fMRI studies rarely attempt to localize activation to specific sulci, possibly due to difficulties in consistent sulcal identification. In medial cortex, for example, there are many regions of partial sulcal overlap where MRI images do not provide sufficient information to unambiguously distinguish a paracingulate sulcus from a displaced anterior cingulate segment. As large samples of postmortem material are rarely available for cytoarchitectural studies of sulcal variation, we have investigated the effect of variation in boundary and sulcal definition on paracingulate asymmetry in the MRI scans of 200 healthy adults (100 men, 100 women). Although women displayed a reliable asymmetry in the size of the paracingulate sulcus, regardless of boundary definition or technique, asymmetry was greatest when (1) the measurement was limited to the midcingulate region between the genu and the anterior commissure; and (2) the more dorsal of two overlapping sulci was always classified as a paracingulate sulcus (rather than as a displaced cingulate segment). The fact that paracingulate asymmetry is maximal in the midcingulate region suggests that this region may play a particular role in hemispheric specialization for language. Future work should investigate the structural and functional correlates of sulcal variation in this region.

Glioblastomas continue to rank among the most lethal primary human tumors. Despite treatment with the most rigorous surgical interventions along with the most optimal chemotherapeutic and radiation regimens, the median survival is just 12-15 mo for patients with glioblastoma. Among the histological hallmarks of glioblastoma, necrosis has been demonstrated to be a powerful predictor of poor patient prognosis. Over the years, there have been many advances in our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying glioblastoma formation, yet the mechanisms that lead to tumor necrosis remain unclear. One pathway that may lead to necrosis in glioblastoma involves the neurotransmitter, glutamate, which has been shown to accumulate in the peritumoral fluid as a result of decreased cellular uptake by glioblastoma cells. This accumulation leads to subsequent glutamate excitotoxicity and probable necrosis through a massive elevation of intracellular Ca(2+) and reduction in cellular ATP levels. We propose that a pathway involving tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), astrocyte-elevated gene-1 (AEG-1) and nuclear factor-kappaB (NFkappaB) leads to decreased glutamate uptake through coordinated downregulation of the excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2), the glutamate transporter responsible for the majority of glutamate uptake in the human brain. In addition, we suggest that AEG-1 signaling, loss of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), and ionotropic glutamate receptor activity lead to AKT pathway activation, which results in nutrient overconsumption and necrosis. Together, these pathways provide a new perspective on glioblastoma necrosis involving the process of glutamate excitotoxicity. Future research should address the components of these molecular pathways in order to better understand the mechanism of necrosis in glioblastoma and to begin to develop targeted therapies that may improve patient prognosis in the future.
The auxiliary Ca(V)alpha(2)delta-1 subunit is an important component of voltage-gated Ca(2+) (Ca(V)) channel complexes in many tissues and of great interest as a drug target. Nevertheless, its exact role in specific cell functions is still unknown. This is particularly important in the case of the neuronal L-type Ca(V) channels where these proteins play a key role in the secretion of neurotransmitters and hormones, gene expression, and the activation of other ion channels. Therefore, using a combined approach of patch-clamp recordings and molecular biology, we studied the role of the Ca(V)alpha(2)delta-1 subunit on the functional expression and the pharmacology of recombinant L-type Ca(V)1.3 channels in HEK-293 cells. Co-expression of Ca(V)alpha(2)delta-1 significantly increased macroscopic currents and conferred the Ca(V)1.3alpha(1)/Ca(V)beta(3) channels sensitivity to the antiepileptic/analgesic drugs gabapentin and AdGABA. In contrast, Ca(V)alpha(2)delta-1 subunits harboring point mutations in N-glycosylation consensus sequences or the proteolytic site as well as in conserved cysteines in the transmembrane delta domain of the protein, reduced functionality in terms of enhancement of Ca(V)1.3alpha(1)/Ca(V)beta(3) currents. In addition, co-expression of the delta domain drastically inhibited macroscopic currents through recombinant Ca(V)1.3 channels possibly by affecting channel synthesis. Together these results provide several lines of evidence that the Ca(V)alpha(2)delta-1 auxiliary subunit may interact with Ca(V)1.3 channels and regulate their functional expression.
Inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase (ITPase), the enzyme that hydrolyzes ITP and other deaminated purine nucleoside triphosphates to the corresponding purine nucleoside monophosphate and pyrophosphate, is encoded by the Itpa gene. In this study, we established Itpa knockout (KO) mice and used them to show that ITPase is required for the normal organization of sarcomeres in the heart. Itpa(-/-) mice died about 2 weeks after birth with features of growth retardation and cardiac myofiber disarray, similar to the phenotype of the cardiac alpha-actin KO mouse. Inosine nucleotides were found to accumulate in both the nucleotide pool and RNA of Itpa(-/-) mice. These data suggest that the role of ITPase in mice is to exclude ITP from the ATP pool, and the main target substrate of this enzyme is rITP. Our data also suggest that cardiomyopathy, which is mainly caused by mutations in sarcomeric protein-encoding genes, is also caused by a defect in maintaining the quality of the ATP pool, which is an essential requirement for sarcomere function.
Akt (PKB) is a critical kinase in cell-survival pathways. Its activity depends on the phosphorylation of Thr308 and Ser473, by PDK1 and mTORC2, respectively. We found that Akt can be further stimulated through phosphorylation of Ser129 by another kinase, CK2. Here we show that phosphorylation of Akt at Ser129 also facilitates its association with Hsp90 chaperone, thus preventing Thr308 dephosphorylation. This is supported by the following observations: (1) phospho-Thr308 decreases when Ser129 is mutated to alanine, (2) this decrease is abolished by cell treatment with okadaic acid (to inactivate PP2A) or geldanamycin (to inactivate Hsp90), (3) phosphorylation of Ser129 neither enhances the activity of PDK1 nor hampers the in vitro activity of PP2A on Thr308, but increases the Hsp90 association to Akt. These data support the view that the antiapoptotic potential of CK2 is at least in part mediated by its ability to maintain Akt in its active form.
Despite the relatively well-characterized headache mechanisms in migraine, upstream events triggering individual attacks are poorly understood. This lack of mechanistic insight has hampered a rational approach to prophylactic drug discovery. Unlike targeted abortive and analgesic interventions, mainstream migraine prophylaxis has been largely based on serendipitous observations (e.g. propranolol) and presumed class effects (e.g. anticonvulsants). Recent studies suggest that spreading depression is the final common pathophysiological target for several established or investigational migraine prophylactic drugs. Building on these observations, spreading depression can now be explored for its predictive utility as a preclinical drug screening paradigm in migraine prophylaxis.
Recent years have witnessed an upsurge in the usage of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine functional connectivity (fcMRI), both in normal and pathological populations. Despite this increasing popularity, concerns about the psychologically unconstrained nature of the &quot;resting-state&quot; remain. Across studies, the patterns of functional connectivity detected are remarkably consistent. However, the test-retest reliability for measures of resting state fcMRI measures has not been determined. Here, we quantify the test-retest reliability, using resting scans from 26 participants at 3 different time points. Specifically, we assessed intersession (&gt;5 months apart), intrasession (&lt;1 h apart), and multiscan (across all 3 scans) reliability and consistency for both region-of-interest and voxel-wise analyses. For both approaches, we observed modest to high reliability across connections, dependent upon 3 predictive factors: 1) correlation significance (significantly nonzero &gt; nonsignificant), 2) correlation valence (positive &gt; negative), and 3) network membership (default mode &gt; task positive network). Short- and long-term measures of the consistency of global connectivity patterns were highly robust. Finally, hierarchical clustering solutions were highly reproducible, both across participants and sessions. Our findings provide a solid foundation for continued examination of resting state fcMRI in typical and atypical populations.
The neural mechanisms underlying the selection and initiation of voluntary actions in the absence of external instructions are poorly understood. These mechanisms are usually investigated using a paradigm where different movement choices are self-generated by a participant on each trial. These &quot;free choices&quot; are compared with &quot;instructed choices,&quot; in which a stimulus informs subjects which action to make on each trial. Here, we introduce a novel paradigm to investigate these modes of action selection, by measuring brain processes evoked by an instruction to either reverse or maintain free and instructed choices in the period before a &quot;go&quot; signal. An unpredictable instruction to change a response plan had different effects on free and instructed choices. In instructed trials, change cues evoked a larger P300 than no-change cues, leading to a significant interaction of choice and change condition. Free-choice trials displayed a trend toward the opposite pattern. These results suggest a difference between updating of free and instructed action choices. We propose a theoretical framework for internally generated action in which representations of alternative actions remain available until a late stage in motor preparation. This framework emphasizes the high modifiability of voluntary action.
Directing spatial attention to a location inside the classical receptive field (cRF) of a neuron in macaque medial temporal area (MT) shifts the center of the cRF toward the attended location. Here we investigate the influence of spatial attention on the profile of the inhibitory surround present in many MT neurons. Two monkeys attended to the fixation point or to 1 of 2 random dot patterns (RDPs) placed inside or next to the cRF, whereas a third RDP (the probe) was briefly presented in quick succession across the cRF and surround. The probe presentation responses were used to compute a map of the excitatory receptive field and its inhibitory surround. Attention systematically reshapes the receptive field profile, independently shifting both center and surround toward the attended location. Furthermore, cRF size is changed as a function of relative distance to the attentional focus: attention inside the cRF shrinks it, whereas directing attention next to the cRF expands it. In addition, we find systematic changes in surround inhibition and cRF amplitude. This nonmultiplicative push-pull modulation of the receptive field's center-surround structure optimizes processing at and near the attentional focus to strengthen the representation of the attended stimulus while reducing influences from distractors.
Chronic stress exposure has been reported to induce dendritic remodeling in several brain regions, but it is not known whether individual neural circuits show distinct patterns of remodeling. The current study tested the hypothesis that the projections from the infralimbic (IL) area of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) to the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA), a pathway relevant to stress-related mental illnesses like depression and post-traumatic stress disorder, would have a unique pattern of remodeling in response to chronic stress. The retrograde tracer FastBlue was injected into male rats' BLA or entorhinal cortex (EC) 1 week prior to 10 days of immobilization stress. After cessation of stress, FastBlue-labeled and unlabeled IL pyaramidal neurons were loaded with fluorescent dye Lucifer Yellow to visualize dendritic arborization and spine density. As has been previously reported, randomly selected (non-FastBlue-labeled) neurons showed stress-induced dendritic retraction in apical dendrites, an effect also seen in EC-projecting neurons. In contrast, BLA-projecting neurons showed no remodeling with stress, suggesting that this pathway may be particularly resilient against the effects of stress. No neurons showed stress-related changes in spine density, contrasting with reports that more dorsal areas of the mPFC show stress-induced decreases in spine density. Such region- and circuit-specificity in response to stress could contribute to the development of stress-related mental illnesses.
Layer 2/3 (L2/3) pyramidal cells receive excitatory afferent input both from neighbouring pyramidal cells and from cortical and subcortical regions. The efficacy of these excitatory synaptic inputs is modulated by spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP). Here we report that synaptic connections between L2/3 pyramidal cell pairs are located proximal to the soma, at sites overlapping those of excitatory inputs from other cortical layers. Nevertheless, STDP at L2/3 pyramidal to pyramidal cell connections showed fundamental differences from known STDP rules at these neighbouring contacts. Coincident low-frequency pre- and postsynaptic activation evoked only LTD, independent of the order of the pre- and postsynaptic cell firing. This symmetric anti-Hebbian STDP switched to a typical Hebbian learning rule if a postsynaptic action potential train occurred prior to the presynaptic stimulation. Receptor dependence of LTD and LTP induction and their pre- or postsynaptic loci also differed from those at other L2/3 pyramidal cell excitatory inputs. Overall, we demonstrate a novel means to switch between STDP rules dependent on the history of postsynaptic activity. We also highlight differences in STDP at excitatory synapses onto L2/3 pyramidal cells which allow for input specific modulation of synaptic gain.
Input to apical dendritic tufts is now deemed crucial for associative learning, attention, and similar &quot;feedback&quot; interactions in the cerebral cortex. Excitatory input to apical tufts in neocortical layer 1 has been traditionally assumed to be predominantly cortical, as thalamic pathways directed to this layer were regarded relatively scant and diffuse. However, the sensitive tracing methods used in the present study show that, throughout the rat neocortex, large numbers (mean approximately 4500/mm(2)) of thalamocortical neurons converge in layer 1 and that this convergence gives rise to a very high local density of thalamic terminals. Moreover, we show that the layer 1-projecting neurons are present in large numbers in most, but not all, motor, association, limbic, and sensory nuclei of the rodent thalamus. Some layer 1-projecting axons branch to innervate large swaths of the cerebral hemisphere, whereas others arborize within only a single cortical area. Present data imply that realistic modeling of cortical circuitry should factor in a dense axonal canopy carrying highly convergent thalamocortical input to pyramidal cell apical tufts. In addition, they are consistent with the notion that layer 1-projecting axons may be a robust anatomical substrate for extensive &quot;feedback&quot; interactions between cortical areas via the thalamus.
Because motor imagery (MI) and visual imagery (VI) are influenced differently by factors such as biomechanical constraints or stimulus size, it is conceivable that they rely on separate processes, possibly involving distinct cortical networks, a view corroborated by neuroimaging and neuropsychological studies. In the posterior parietal cortex, it has been suggested that the superior parietal lobule (SPL) underlies VI, whereas MI relies on the supramarginalis gyrus (SMG). However, because several brain imaging studies have also shown an overlap of activations in SPL and SMG during VI or MI, the question arises as to which extent these 2 subregions really contribute to distinct imagery processes. To address this issue, we used repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation to induce virtual lesions of either SMG or SPL in subjects performing a MI (hand drawing rotation) or a VI (letter rotation) task. Whatever hemisphere was stimulated, SMG lesions selectively altered MI, whereas SPL lesions only affected VI, demonstrating a double dissociation between MI and VI. Because these deficits were not influenced by the angular distance of the stimuli, we suggest that SMG and SPL are involved in the reenactment of the motor and visual representations, respectively, and not in mental rotation processes per se.
The developing cerebral cortex contains apical and basal types of neurogenic progenitor cells. Here, we investigated the cellular properties and neurogenic output of basal progenitors, also called intermediate neuronal progenitors (INPs). We found that basal mitoses expressing transcription factor Tbr2 (an INP marker) were present throughout corticogenesis, from embryonic day 10.5 through birth. Postnatally, Tbr2(+) progenitors were present in the dentate gyrus, subventricular zone (SVZ), and posterior periventricle (pPV). Two morphological subtypes of INPs were distinguished in the embryonic cortex, &quot;short radial&quot; in the ventricular zone (VZ) and multipolar in the SVZ, probably corresponding to molecularly defined INP subtypes. Unexpectedly, many short radial INPs appeared to contact the apical (ventricular) surface and some divided there. Time-lapse video microscopy suggested that apical INP divisions produced daughter INPs. Analysis of neurogenic divisions (Tis21-green fluorescent protein [GFP](+)) indicated that INPs may produce the majority of projection neurons for preplate, deep, and superficial layers. Conversely, proliferative INP divisions (Tis21-GFP(-)) increased from early to middle corticogenesis, concomitant with SVZ growth. Our findings support the hypothesis that regulated amplification of INPs may be an important factor controlling the balance of neurogenesis among different cortical layers.
The claustrum is a prominent but ill-defined forebrain structure that has been suggested to integrate multisensory information and perhaps transform percepts into consciousness. The claustrum's shape and vague borders have hampered experimental assessment of its functions. We used matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-imaging mass spectrometry to reveal a novel protein marker, G-protein gamma2 subunit (Gng2), which is enriched in the claustrum but not adjacent structures of the rat forebrain. The spatial pattern of Gng2 expression suggests key differences from commonly held views of the claustrum's structure. Using anatomical methods, we found that the rat claustrum is present only at striatal levels of the telencephalon and does not extend to frontal cortical territories. Moreover, the claustrum is surrounded on all sides by layer VI insular cortex cells in both the rat and primate. Using these defining characteristics of the claustrum, we found that the claustrum projects to cortical but not to subcortical sites. The definition of the claustrum as a cortical site is considered. The identification of a claustrum-specific protein opens the door to selective molecular lesions and the subsequent evaluation of the role of the claustrum in cognition.
Whenever we observe a movement of a conspecific, our mirror neuron system becomes activated, urging us to imitate the observed movement. However, because such automatic imitation is not always appropriate, an inhibitive component keeping us from imitating everything we see seems crucial for an effective social behavior. This becomes evident from neuropsychological conditions like echopraxia, in which this suppression is absent. Here, we unraveled the neurodynamics underlying this proposed inhibition of automatic imitation by measuring and manipulating brain activity during the execution of a stimulus-response compatibility paradigm. Within the identified connectivity network, right middle/inferior frontal cortex sends neural input concerning general response inhibition to right premotor cortex, which is involved in automatic imitation. Subsequently, the fully prepared imitative response is sent to left opercular cortex that functions as a final gating mechanism for intentional imitation. We propose an informed neurocognitive model of inhibition of automatic imitation, suggesting a functional dissociation between automatic and intentional imitation.
Whereas neuronal numbers are largely preserved in normal aging, subtle morphological changes occur in dendrites and spines, whose electrotonic consequences remain unexplored. We examined age-related morphological alterations in 2 types of pyramidal neurons contributing to working memory circuits in the macaque prefrontal cortex (PFC): neurons in the superior temporal cortex forming &quot;long&quot; projections to the PFC and &quot;local&quot; projection neurons within the PFC. Global dendritic mass homeostasis, measured by 3-dimensional scaling analysis, was conserved with aging in both neuron types. Spine densities, dendrite diameters, lengths, and branching complexity were all significantly reduced in apical dendrites of long projection neurons with aging, but only spine parameters were altered in local projection neurons. Despite these differences, voltage attenuation due to passive electrotonic structure, assuming equivalent cable parameters, was significantly reduced with aging in the apical dendrites of both neuron classes. Confirming the electrotonic analysis, simulated passive backpropagating action potential efficacy was significantly higher in apical but not basal dendrites of old neurons. Unless compensated by changes in passive cable parameters, active membrane properties, or altered synaptic properties, these effects will increase the excitability of pyramidal neurons, compromising the precisely tuned activity required for working memory, ultimately resulting in age-related PFC dysfunction.
The sense of smell deteriorates in normal aging, but the underling mechanisms are still elusive. Here we investigated age-related alterations in expression patterns of odorant receptor (OR) genes and functional properties of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs)-2 critical factors that define the odor detection threshold in the olfactory epithelium. Using in situ hybridization for 9 representative OR genes, we compared the cell densities of each OR in coronal nose sections at different ages (3-27 months). The cell density for different ORs peaked at different time points and a decline was observed for 6 of 9 ORs at advanced ages. Using patch clamp recordings, we then examined the odorant responses of individual OSNs coexpressing a defined OR (MOR23) and green fluorescent protein. The MOR23 neurons recorded from aged animals maintained a similar sensitivity and dynamic range in response to the cognate odorant (lyral) as those from younger mice. The results indicate that although the cell densities of OSNs expressing certain types of ORs decline at advanced ages, individual OSNs can retain their sensitivity. The implications of these findings in age-related olfactory deterioration are discussed.


The current view of the psychiatric significance of inter-ictal spike discharges (IIS) in nonepileptic, psychiatric patients is that the discharges are &quot;incidental&quot; and are of no clinical significance. Hence, despite a voluminous literature suggestive that such discharges may have clinical relevance, electroencephalograms are hardly ever recorded in nonepileptic psychiatric patients. This literature is briefly summarized, and one detailed example of a disorder (i.e., autistic spectrum disorders) where such discharges are particularly common is provided. The argument is made that this is an area of psychiatry that is under-investigated and that research devoted to elucidating the mechanisms of development of IIS, their possible clinical relevance, and the role of anticonvulsants in managing such patients, could be very profitable.

Coeliac disease (CD) is considered a T cell-mediated autoimmune disease, and up-regulation of T-bet and phosphorylated signal transducers and activators of transcription (pSTAT)1, key transcription factors for the development of T helper type 1 (Th1) cells, has been described in the mucosa of patients with untreated CD. Using transcription factor analysis, we investigated whether T-bet and pSTAT1 expressions are up-regulated in the peripheral blood of CD patients and correlate with disease activity. Using flow cytometry, we analysed T-bet, pSTAT1 and pSTAT3 expression in CD4(+), CD8(+) T cells, CD19(+) B cells and monocytes from peripheral blood of 15 untreated and 15 treated CD patients and 30 controls, and longitudinally in five coeliac patients before and after dietary treatment. We evaluated using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), interferon (FN)-gamma, interleukin (IL)-17 and IL-10 production by peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) cultures. T-bet expression in CD4(+), CD8(+) T cells, CD19(+) B cells and monocytes and IFN-gamma production by PBMC was higher in untreated than in treated CD patients and controls. pSTAT1 expression was higher in CD4(+)T cells, B cells and monocytes from untreated than from treated CD patients and controls. pSTAT3 was increased only in monocytes from untreated patients compared with CD-treated patients and controls. The data obtained from the longitudinal evaluation of transcription factors confirmed these results. Flow cytometric analysis of pSTAT1 and T-bet protein expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells could be useful and sensible markers in the follow-up of CD patients to evaluate disease activity and response to dietary treatment.
A 62-year-old man had a new onset of severe, orthostatic headache which eventually progressed to a stupor and a coma 3 weeks later. A computed tomography (CT) scan showed bilateral chronic subdural haematoma and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain showed the typical findings of spontaneous intracranial hypotension (SIH). After pre-medication with acetazolamide, he was treated with three lumbar autologous epidural blood patches (EBPs) and kept in the Trendelenburg position, with full recovery. The first lumbar autologous EBP was ineffective and the second was only partially effective because of incorrect execution of the procedure as shown by spinal neuroimaging examination post-EBP. A spinal neuroimaging examination post-EBP is therefore to be recommended in order to confirm the correct execution of procedure. Pre-medication with acetazolamide and keeping the patient in the Trendelenburg position could reduce the flow of spinal cerebrospinal (CSF) leak favouring sealing of the hole.
Clinical neurophysiology has become an invaluable tool in the diagnosis of muscle channelopathies, but the situation is less clear cut with neuronal channelopathies. The genetic episodic ataxias are a group of disorders with heterogeneous phenotype and genotype, but share in common the feature of intermittent cerebellar dysfunction. Episodic ataxia (EA) types 1 and 2 are the most widely recognised of the autosomal dominant episodic ataxias and are caused by dysfunction of neuronal voltage-gated ion channels. There are central and peripheral nervous system manifestations in both conditions, and they are therefore good models of neuronal channelopathies to study neurophysiologically. To date most work has focussed upon characterising the electrophysiological properties of mutant channels in vitro. This review summarises the role of voltage-gated potassium and calcium channels, mutations of which underlie the main types of episodic ataxia types 1 and 2. The clinical, genetic and electrophysiological features of EA1 and EA2 are outlined, and a protocol for the assessment of these patients is proposed.




Face perception provides information critical to cognitive computations about the social world. This raises the possibility that the development of mechanisms used for social cognition may depend on the presence of normal face perception mechanisms, and this notion partly motivates an aetiological model of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) that suggests that deficits in face perception lead to the social cognition impairments that characterize ASD. To investigate these issues, we examined social cognition in participants with developmental prosopagnosia (DP). A total of 2 male DPs with severe facial identity and facial expression deficits showed no signs of impaired social cognition on three measures. A total of 10 other DPs responded to an inventory measuring autistic traits, and all except one performed normally. These results indicate that social cognition mechanisms can develop normally in the context of developmental face-processing impairments.
Dissociations within binding in perception have been reported after brain damage. In short-term memory (STM), feature binding and feature processing appear to rely on separate processes. However, dissociations within binding in STM following brain damage have not been reported to date. We report on the case E.S. who, after removal of a left medial sphenoid ridge meningioma, developed a selective impairment of visual STM (VSTM) binding. We found that, despite having normal perceptual binding, E.S. was unable to retain in VSTM features bound into objects while she could retain individual features as well as controls did (Experiments 1-2, 4, and 6). Her verbal STM for bound and single features remains intact (Experiments 3 and 5). E.S.'s performance suggests that STM binding can be dissociated from STM for single features across visual and verbal domains. The results are discussed in the light of current models of STM.

Interactions between the ventral premotor (PMv) and the primary motor cortex (M1) are crucial for transforming an object's geometrical properties, such as its size and shape, into a motor command suitable for grasp of the object. Recently, we showed that PMv interacts with M1 in a specific fashion, depending on the hand posture. However, the functional connectivity between PMv and M1 during the preparation of an actual grasp is still unknown. To address this issue, PMv-M1 interactions were tested while subjects were preparing to grasp different visible objects requiring either a precision grip or a whole hand grasp. A conditioning-test transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) paradigm was used: a test stimulus was applied over M1 either in isolation or after a conditioning stimulus delivered, at different delays, over the ipsilateral PMv. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded in the first dorsal interosseus and abductor digiti minimi muscles, which show highly differentiated activity according to grasp. While subjects prepared to grasp, delivering a conditioning PMv pulse 6 or 8msec before a test pulse over M1 strikingly facilitated MEPs in the specific muscles that were used in the upcoming grasp. This degree of facilitation correlated with the amount of muscle activity used later in the trial to grasp the objects. The present results demonstrate that, during grasp preparation, the PMv-M1 interactions are muscle-specific. PMv appears to process the object geometrical properties relevant for the upcoming grasp, and transmits this information to M1, which in turn generates a motor command appropriate for the grasp. We also reveal that the grasp-specific facilitation resulting from PMv-M1 interactions is differently related to the upcoming grasp muscle activity than is that from paired-pulse stimulation over M1, suggesting that these two TMS paradigms assess the excitability of cortico-cortical pathways devoted to the control of grasp at two different levels.
Conceptual knowledge allows us to bring meaning to our world. Studies of semantic dementia (SD) patients and some functional neuroimaging studies indicate that the anterior temporal lobes, bilaterally, are a core neural substrate for the formation of conceptual representations. The majority of SD patients (who have circumscribed atrophy of the anterior temporal lobes) have better comprehension of concrete than abstract words. However, this finding remains controversial, as some individual SD patients have exhibited reverse imageability effects, i.e., relative preservation of abstract knowledge. This would imply that the anterior temporal lobes are particularly crucial for processing sensory aspects of semantic knowledge, which are an important part of concrete but not abstract concepts. To adjudicate on this debate, we used offline, low-frequency, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation to disrupt neural processing temporarily in the left or right temporal poles (TPs). We examined this effect using a synonym judgement task, comprising high, medium and low imageability items, which we have previously employed with a case-series of SD patients. The time required to make semantic decisions was slowed considerably, particularly for low imageability items, consistent with the pattern we observed in SD. These results confirm that both TPs make a critical contribution to semantic processing, even for abstract concepts that do not have strong sensory representations.
Functional neuroimaging studies have shown that the detection of a target defined by more than one feature (for example, a conjunction of colour and orientation) amongst distractors is associated with the activation of a network of brain areas. Dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), along with areas such as the frontal eye fields (FEF) and posterior parietal cortex (PPC), is a component of this network. While transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) had shown that both FEF and PPC are necessary for, and not just correlated with, successful conjunction search, this is not the case for DLPFC. To test the hypothesis that this area is also necessary for efficient conjunction search, TMS was applied over DLPFC and the effects on conjunction and feature (in this case colour) search performance compared with those when TMS was delivered over area MT/V5 and a vertex control stimulation condition. DLPFC TMS impaired performance on the conjunction search task but was without effect on feature search, similar to findings when TMS is delivered over PPC or FEF. Vertex TMS had no effects whereas MT/V5 TMS significantly improved performance with a time course that may indicate that this was due to modulation of V4 activity. These findings illustrate that, like FEF and PPC, DLPFC is necessary for fully effective conjunction visual search performance.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is increasingly used in Cognitive Neuroscience to study functional contributions of a stimulated brain region to cognitive and perceptual processing. TMS-related behavioural effects are often interpreted as reflecting selective disruption of processing primarily within the stimulated region itself. This approach is now being extended by studies that combine TMS with concurrent neuroimaging measures, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We discuss some recent combined TMS-fMRI studies and their implications for TMS investigations of cognition and perception. An emerging theme is that TMS does not affect only the stimulated region, but can also influence remote brain areas interconnected with the stimulation site. Such 'network' effects of TMS can be anatomically specific, but also context-dependent, changing with the current functional state of the targeted network rather than simply reflecting just fixed, context-invariant anatomical connectivity. Perceptual and behavioural effects of TMS may correspondingly involve TMS influences on remote interconnected brain regions, not solely on the stimulated region itself. Thus, TMS can now be used to study the consequences of functional interactions between the stimulated region and other parts of the network. This may lead beyond strictly modular views of brain function, that emphasize functional properties of single brain areas, towards new perspectives on how functional interactions between remote but interconnected brain regions may support perception and cognition.
The opercular and triangular sections of the inferior frontal gyrus, also known as Broca's area, have been shown to be involved in various language tasks. In the current study we investigated both the functional role, as well as the precise temporal involvement of Broca's area during picture naming. We applied online event-related transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to Broca's area at five different time points after picture presentation, aiming to cover the complete language production process. Applying real TMS at 300 msec after picture presentation led to an increase in picture naming latency, whereas sham stimulation and real stimulation at earlier and later time windows did not result in any changes in reaction time (RT). Our methodological approach enabled us to get insight into the temporal characteristics of the involvement of this brain area during picture naming. Making use of this information and directly relating it to psycholinguistic models, we conclude that Broca's area may be involved in the process of syllabification during overt speech production.
Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) induces electrical currents in the brain to stimulate neural tissue. This article reviews our present understanding of TMS methodology, focusing on its biophysical foundations. We concentrate on how the laws of electromagnetic induction apply to TMS; addressing issues such as the location, area (i.e., focality), depth, and mechanism of TMS. We also present a review of the present limitations and future potential of the technique.
Neuromuscular dysfunction is prevalent in critically ill patients, is associated with worse short-term outcomes, and is a determinant of long-term disability in intensive care unit survivors. Diagnosis is made with the help of clinical, electrophysiological, and morphological observations; however, the lack of a consistent nomenclature remains a barrier to research. We propose a simple framework for diagnosing and classifying neuromuscular disorders acquired in critical illness.
This article traces the development and growth of the American Psychological Association (APA) Minority Fellowship Program (MFP) from is inception in 1974 to 2007. The original influences of Black psychiatrists in creating the Center for Minority Group Mental Health at the National Institute of Mental Health are described, and the initial structure and strategy of MFP is outlined. The dramatic growth in the number of MFP Fellows (82%), the average size of Fellowship stipends (810%), and the total stipend dollars (1,560%) reflects expansion of the programs in substance abuse research, treatment and prevention, neuroscience and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), as well as mental health service and research. The influence of the MFP on the APA and departments of psychology are described, including the role the MFP played in the establishment of the Office, Board, and Committee of Ethnic Minority Affairs. Some of the accomplishments and leadership roles MFP alumni have played are described. The article concludes with a discussion of the current status of MFP and projections for the future.
Immunotherapies targeting the amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have consistently been effective in mouse studies and shown promise in clinical trials, although some setbacks have occurred. First, encephalitis was observed in a small subset of patients. More recent autopsy data from a few subjects suggests that clearance of Abeta plaques may not halt cognitive deterioration once impairments are evident, emphasizing the need for other more effective approaches at that stage of the disease. Another important target in AD is the neurofibrillary tangles and its precursors, composed primarily of hyperphosphorylated tau proteins, which correlate well with the degree of dementia. As Abeta and tau pathologies are likely synergistic, targeting both together may be more effective, and perhaps essential as early diagnosis prior to cognitive decline is currently unavailable. Also, Abeta immunotherapy results in a very limited indirect clearance of tau aggregates, showing the importance of developing a separate therapy that directly targets pathological tau. Our findings in two tangle mouse models indicate that active immunization targeting an AD phospho-tau epitope reduces aggregated tau in the brain and prevents/slows progression of the tangle-related behavioral phenotype, including cognitive impairment. These antibodies enter the brain and bind to pathological tau within neurons although the therapeutic effect may at least in part be due to clearance of extracellular tau that may have biological effects. We are currently clarifying the mechanism of these promising findings, determining its epitope specificity as well as assessing the feasibility of this approach for clinical trials.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family of ligands (GDFLs) as well as other trophic factors have, in animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD), demonstrated the potential for excellent ameliorative properties. Clinical trials that have mechanically injected GDNF intracerebrally, while demonstrating relative safety, have been clinically disappointing to date. Likewise, recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) delivered neurturin (cere-120) has also been demonstrated to be safe in humans, however clinical results have been negative. The failure of the major clinical trials has cast some doubt in the field about trophic factor delivery for the treatment of PD. In this review, we make the case that GDFLs are likely to function only when there are remaining dopamine neurons in the nigrostriatal pathway as opposed to other candidate modes of action. Thus, it is our view that utilizing earlier stage PD patients who have significant nigrostriatal dopamine innervation remaining would be more ideal to demonstrate the efficacy of GDFLs. This is particularly true when considering a novel delivery method such as gene transfer. However, if earlier stage patients are to be enrolled in GDFL gene transfer trials, then a much better safety profile must be demonstrated by preclinical experiments. One important safety advance might be the use of an external regulation system to control the expression level of the transgene. However, gene regulation systems pose unique safety issues and we will discuss these in detail. It is our view that GDFLs still remain as a promising therapeutic approach for PD.
Oncolytic viral therapy is a promising biological therapy for the treatment of cancer. Recent advances in genetic engineering have facilitated the construction of custom-built oncolytic viruses that can be exquisitely targeted to tumors by exploiting each cancer's unique biology and their efficacy can be further enhanced by &quot;arming&quot; them with additional therapeutic genes. Such an approach allows the virus to unload its &quot;therapeutic cargo&quot; at the tumor site, thereby enhancing its anti-neoplastic properties. While several clever strategies have been recently described using genes that can induce cellular apoptosis/suicide and/or facilitate tumor/virus imaging, viruses armed with genes that also affect the tumor microenvironment present an exciting and promising approach to therapy. In this review we discuss recently developed oncolytic viruses armed with genes encoding for angiostatic factors, inflammatory cytokines, or proteases that modulate the extracellular matrix to regulate tumor vascularization, anti-tumor immune responses and viral spread throughout the solid tumor.

Cell-based transplantation strategies are inherently combination therapies, as they may mediate spinal cord repair via trophic or phenotypic mechanisms. The growth factor expression profile and phenotype of transplanted cells are determined by the transplant population as well as by the site into which they are transplanted. Identifying the key pathways involved in transplant survival and differentiation, as well as neuroprotection and regeneration of endogenous tissue, will enable manipulation of both the transplanted cells and the microenvironment to improve transplant efficiency. High purity populations derived from stem cells will serve to better delineate lineage-specific mechanisms of repair, while providing both neurotrophic and phenotypic benefits to the injured spinal cord.
Efforts to characterize and classify the cellular components of the nervous system have a rich history in modern neuroscience, and closely mirror the development of new techniques to assay cellular properties. Recent advances in high-throughput histology, genetics and neuroinformatics hold great promise for systematic and reproducible measurement and community databasing of cellular properties. In particular, transgenic approaches to reproducibly target and manipulate specific cell types in mice are rapidly advancing. Cre recombinase-based approaches in particular allow the coupling of cell type specificity with a wide variety of genetic tools for visualization, molecular profiling, tract tracing and functional manipulation. The reproducible multimodal characterization allowed by these transgenics provides a means to classify, building cellular taxonomies based on measurement of many phenotypic properties, as well as manipulate, moving beyond classification to understand the functional role of specific cell types and circuits in complex behaviors.

Axon guidance and synapse formation are important developmental events for establishing a functional neuronal circuitry. These two related cellular processes occur in a coordinated fashion but previous studies from multiple model organisms seemed to suggest that axon guidance and synapse formation are mediated by distinct molecular cues. Thus, axon guidance molecules are responsible for guiding the navigating axon toward its target area, while other adhesion or ligand-receptor molecules specify the synapse formation within the target area. However, accumulative evidence has shown that axon guidance molecules can regulate the localization and formation of pre-synaptic and post-synaptic components during synapse formation. These results demonstrate a role for axon guidance molecules in synapse formation and provide insight into how axon guidance and synapse formation are coordinated at the molecular level.
Methods to label neurons and to monitor their activity with genetically encoded fluorescent reporters have been a staple of neuroscience research for several years. The recent introduction of photoswitchable ion channels and pumps, such as channelrhodopsin (ChR2), halorhodopsin (NpHR), and light-gated glutamate receptor (LiGluR), is enabling remote optical manipulation of neuronal activity. The translucent brains of zebrafish offer superior experimental conditions for optogenetic approaches in vivo. Enhancer and gene trapping approaches have generated hundreds of Gal4 driver lines in which the expression of UAS-linked effectors can be targeted to subpopulations of neurons. Local photoactivation of genetically targeted LiGluR, ChR2, or NpHR has uncovered novel functions for specific areas and cell types in zebrafish behavior. Because the manipulation is restricted to times and places where genetics (cell types) and optics (beams of light) intersect, this method affords excellent resolving power for the functional analysis of neural circuitry.
Most of our current knowledge about the neural control of behavior is based on electrophysiology. Here we review advances and limitations of current electrophysiological recording techniques applied in behaving animals. Extracellular recording methods have improved with respect to sampling density and miniaturization, and our understanding of the nature of the recorded signals has advanced. Juxtacellular recordings have become increasingly popular as they allow identification of the recorded neurons. Juxtacellular recordings are relatively easy to apply in behaving animals and can be used to stimulate individual neurons. Methods for intracellular recordings in awake behaving animals also advanced, and it has become clear that long-duration intracellular recordings are possible even in freely moving animals. We conclude that the electrophysiological methods repertoire has greatly diversified in recent years and that the field has moved beyond what used to be a mere spike counting business.




Venoms are rich mixtures of mainly peptides and proteins evolved by nature to catch and digest preys or for protection against predators. They represent extensive sources of potent and selective bioactive compounds that can lead to original active ingredients, for use as drugs, as pharmacological tools in research and for the biotechnology industry. Among the most fascinating venomous animals, marine snails offer a unique set of pharmacologically active components, targeting a wide diversity of receptors and ion channels. Recent advances still continue to demonstrate their huge neuropharmacological potential. In the quest for interesting pharmacological profiles, researchers face a vast number of venom components to investigate within time and technological constraints. A brief perspective on marine snail venom's complexity and features is given followed by the different discovery strategies and pharmacological approaches, exemplified with some recent developments. These advances will hopefully help further uncovering new pharmacologically important venom molecules.
Alterations in multiple biological functions, such as transcription factor activity, are implicated in the neurobiology of depression, based primarily on the characterization of antidepressant efficacy in nave rodents rather than on models that capture the protracted feelings of anhedonia and helplessness that typify depression. This unit presents rat and mouse models of depression that involve chronic oral exposure to the stress-associated adrenal hormone, corticosterone (CORT), resulting in anhedonic- and helplessness-like behaviors that are persistent yet reversible by chronic antidepressant treatment. Prior CORT exposure also chronically influences molecular targets hypothesized to contribute to negative mood. One example is phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein in the hippocampus and nucleus accumbens. Prior chronic CORT exposure provides an alternative method to chronic mild stress models of depression that is easily replicable and persists well beyond the CORT exposure period, thereby modeling the persistent depressive-like state in humans.
This unit describes methods for loading ion- and voltage-sensitive dyes into neurons, with a particular focus on the spinal cord as a model system. In addition, we describe the use of these dyes to visualize neural activity. Although the protocols described here concern spinal networks in culture or an intact in vitro preparation, they can be, and have been, widely used in other parts of the nervous system.
The tumor suppressor morphogen, Patched (Ptc), has an extensive homology to the Niemann-Pick-C 1 (NPC1) protein. The NPC disease is a paediatric, progressive and fatal neurodegenerative disorder thought to be due to an abnormal accumulation of cholesterol in neurons. Here, we report that patched mutant adults develop a progressive neurodegenerative disease and their brain contains membranous and lamellar inclusions. There is also a significant reduction in the number of synaptic terminals in the brain of the mutant adults. Interestingly, feeding cholesterol to wild type flies generates inclusions in the brain, but does not cause the disease. However, feeding cholesterol to mutant flies increases synaptic connections and suppresses the disease. Our results suggest that sequestration of cholesterol in the mutant brain in the form of membranous material and inclusions affects available pool of cholesterol for cellular functions. This, in turn, negatively affects the synaptic number and contributes to the disease-state. Consistent with this, in ptc mutants there is a reduction in the pool of cholesterol esters, and cholesterol-mediated suppression of the disease accompanies an increase in cholesterol esters. We further show that Ptc does not function directly in this process since gain of function for Hedgehog also induces the same disease with a reduction in the level of cholesterol esters. We believe that loss of function for ptc causes neurodegeneration via two distinct ways: de-repression of genes that interfere with lipid trafficking, and de-repression of genes outside of the lipid trafficking; the functions of both classes of genes ultimately converge on synaptic connections.
The homeobox-containing gene Arx is expressed during ventral telencephalon development and required for correct GABAergic interneuron tangential migration from the ganglionic eminences to the olfactory bulbs, cerebral cortex and striatum. Its human ortholog is associated with a variety of neurological clinical manifestations whose symptoms are compatible with the loss of cortical interneurons and altered basal ganglia-related activities. Herein, we report the identification of a number of genes whose expression is consistently altered in Arx mutant ganglionic eminences. Our analyses revealed a striking ectopic expression in the ganglionic eminences of several of these genes normally at most marginally expressed in the ventral telencephalon. Among them, Ebf3 was functionally analyzed. Thus, its ectopic expression in ventral telencephalon was found to prevent neuronal tangential migration. Further, we showed that Arx is sufficient to repress Ebf3 endogenous expression and that its silencing in Arx mutant tissues partially rescues tangential cell movement. Together, these data provide new insights into the molecular pathways regulated by Arx during telencephalon development.
One of the earliest stages of brain morphogenesis is the establishment of the neural tube during neurulation. While some of the cellular mechanisms responsible for neurulation have been described in a number of vertebrate species, the underlying molecular processes are not fully understood. We have identified the zebrafish homolog of protocadherin-19, a member of the cadherin superfamily, which is expressed in the anterior neural plate and is required for brain morphogenesis. Interference with Protocadherin-19 function with antisense morpholino oligonucleotides leads to a severe disruption in early brain morphogenesis. Despite these pronounced effects on neurulation, axial patterning of the neural tube appears normal, as assessed by in situ hybridization for otx2, pax2.1 and krox20. Characterization of embryos early in development by in vivo 2-photon timelapse microscopy reveals that the observed disruption of morphogenesis results from an arrest of cell convergence in the anterior neural plate. These results provide the first functional data for protocadherin-19, demonstrating an essential role in early brain development.
Multiple tissue interactions and signaling within the pharyngeal arches are required for development of the craniofacial skeleton. Here, we focus on the role of the transcription factor prdm1a in the differentiation of the posterior skeleton. prdm1a is expressed in the presumptive pharyngeal arch region and later in an endodermal pouch, the otic vesicle, and pharyngeal teeth. prdm1a mutants display a reduction in pharyngeal arch markers, a loss of posterior ceratobranchial cartilages, and a reduction in most neural crest-derived dermal bones. This is likely caused by a decrease in the number of proliferating cells but not an increase in cell death. Finally, a reduction in two key developmental signaling pathways, Fgf and retinoic acid, alters prdm1a expression, suggesting that prdm1a expression is mediated by these signaling pathways to pattern the posterior craniofacial skeleton. Together, these results indicate an essential role for prdm1a in the development of the zebrafish craniofacial skeleton.
Although cAMP-dependent kinase (PKA) has been known to regulate many biological systems, including patterning, cell differentiation and proliferation, it is not well understood how the spatial-temporal specificity of the PKA signaling is generated. While the PKA signal activation is regulated in many ways, a direct visualization of PKA activity in situ is not possible. Thus, examinations of PKA regulators will provide indirect, but nonetheless important information to elucidate the distribution of PKA activity. In the present study, three isoforms of PKA-inhibitor (PKI) genes were identified from avian genome, and their expression patterns were examined during the organogenesis period. PKI genes were strongly expressed in muscle, liver, and nervous system primordia, suggesting their inhibitory roles on the PKA signaling in the development of these tissues.
The past decade of research in neuroscience and stroke rehabilitation has demonstrated that the adult brain is capable of recovery through physiological processes (often called 'plasticity'). Some of the recovery is spontaneous and some is a result of experience, including interventions such as physical therapy, which probably enhance or activate changes in brain structure and function. There is virtually no literature on physiological changes in the brains of children or adults with cerebral palsy (CP) after an intervention. It is unclear whether the principles of plasticity that have been deduced from animal models of stroke might also apply to children and adults with CP. But children with CP should have the potential to respond to experience in a similar way to adults, with the additional potential of regulation of neuronal development in response to injury. This article describes mechanisms of plasticity and a rehabilitation strategy to preserve the substrates for motor control in CP and then to apply later therapies for more refinement of motor control.
Human speech and birdsong are shaped during a sensorimotor sensitive period in which auditory feedback guides vocal learning. To study brain activity as song learning occurred, we recorded longitudinally from developing zebra finches during the sensorimotor phase. Learned sequences of vocalizations (motifs) were examined along with contemporaneous neural population activity in the song nucleus HVC, which is necessary for the production of learned song (Nottebohm et al. 1976: J Comp Neurol 165:457-486; Simpson and Vicario 1990: J Neurosci 10:1541-1556). During singing, HVC activity levels increased as the day progressed and decreased after a night of sleep in juveniles and adults. In contrast, the pattern of HVC activity changed on a daily basis only in juveniles: activity bursts became more pronounced during the day. The HVC of adults was significantly burstier than that of juveniles. HVC bursting was relevant to song behavior because the degree of burstiness inversely correlated with the variance of song features in juveniles. The song of juveniles degrades overnight (Deregnaucourt et al. 2005: Nature 433:710-716). Consistent with a relationship between HVC activity and song plasticity (Day et al. 2008: J Neurophys 100:2956-2965), HVC burstiness degraded overnight in young juveniles and the amount of overnight degradation declined with developmental song learning. Nocturnal changes in HVC activity strongly and inversely correlated with the next day's change, suggesting that sleep-dependent degradation of HVC activity may facilitate or enable subsequent diurnal changes. Collectively, these data show that HVC activity levels exhibit daily cycles in adults and juveniles, whereas HVC burstiness and song stereotypy change daily in juveniles only. In addition, the data indicate that HVC burstiness increases with development and inversely correlates with song variability, which is necessary for trial and error vocal learning.
Characterizing connectivity in the spinal cord of zebrafish embryos is not only prerequisite to understanding the development of locomotion, but is also necessary for maximizing the potential of genetic studies of circuit formation in this model system. During their first day of development, zebrafish embryos show two simple motor behaviors. First, they coil their trunks spontaneously, and a few hours later they start responding to touch with contralateral coils. These behaviors are contemporaneous until spontaneous coils become infrequent by 30 h. Glutamatergic neurons are distributed throughout the embryonic spinal cord, but their contribution to these early motor behaviors in immature zebrafish is still unclear. We demonstrate that the kinetics of spontaneous coiling and touch-evoked responses show distinct developmental time courses and that the touch response is dependent on AMPA-type glutamate receptor activation. Transection experiments suggest that the circuits required for touch-evoked responses are confined to the spinal cord and that only the most rostral part of the spinal cord is sufficient for triggering the full response. This rostral sensory connection is presumably established via CoPA interneurons, as they project to the rostral spinal cord. Electrophysiological analysis demonstrates that these neurons receive short latency AMPA-type glutamatergic inputs in response to ipsilateral tactile stimuli. We conclude that touch responses in early embryonic zebrafish arise only after glutamatergic synapses connect sensory neurons and interneurons to the contralateral motor network via a rostral loop. This helps define an elementary circuit that is modified by the addition of sensory inputs, resulting in behavioral transformation.
A developmental-evolutionary perspective is used to synthesize basic research from the neurosciences, ethology, genetics, and developmental psychology into a unified framework for understanding the nature and origins of social anxiety and avoidant personality disorder. Evidence is presented that social anxiety disorder (social phobia) and avoidant personality disorder may be alternate conceptualizations of the same disorder because they have virtually the same symptoms and genetic basis, and respond to the same pharmacologic and psychotherapeutic interventions. A functionalist perspective on social anxiety is formulated to (a) explain the origins of normative states of anxiety, (b) outline developmental pathways in the transition from normative anxiety to social anxiety and avoidant personality disorders, and (c) account for the processes leading to gender-differentiated patterns of anxiety-related disorders after puberty.
The dendritic trees of neurons result from specific patterns of growth and branching, and dendrite branches of the same neuron avoid one another to spread over a particular receptive field. Recognition molecules on the surfaces of dendrites influence these patterning and avoidance processes by promoting attractive, repulsive or adhesive responses to specific cues. The Drosophila transmembrane protein Turtle (Tutl) and its orthologs in other species are conserved members of the immunoglobulin superfamily, the in vivo functions of which are unknown. In Drosophila sensory neurons, we show that the tutl gene is required to restrain dendrite branch formation in neurons with simple arbors, and to promote dendrite self-avoidance in neurons with complex arbors. The cytoplasmic tail of Tutl is dispensable for control of dendrite branching, suggesting that Tutl acts as a ligand or co-receptor for an unidentified recognition molecule to influence the architecture of dendrites and their coverage of receptive territories.
Progenitor cells in the central nervous system must leave the cell cycle to become neurons and glia, but the signals that coordinate this transition remain largely unknown. We previously found that Wnt signaling, acting through Sox2, promotes neural competence in the Xenopus retina by activating proneural gene expression. We now report that Wnt and Sox2 inhibit neural differentiation through Notch activation. Independently of Sox2, Wnt stimulates retinal progenitor proliferation and this, when combined with the block on differentiation, maintains retinal progenitor fates. Feedback inhibition by Sox2 on Wnt signaling and by the proneural transcription factors on Sox2 mean that each element of the core pathway activates the next element and inhibits the previous one, providing a directional network that ensures retinal cells make the transition from progenitors to neurons and glia.


Type 1 diabetes is a chronic autoimmune condition resulting from T cell-mediated destruction of the insulin-producing cells in the islets of Langerhans. Its primary cause remains unknown, but it has been established that the clinical presentation is preceded by a long prodrome. This enables individuals at high risk of disease to be identified and offers the possibility of intervention to prevent clinical disease. Many groups are working in this field, concentrating on manipulation of environmental exposures that are potential triggers of autoimmunity and on immunomodulation strategies that aim to prevent destruction of beta-cells. Some interventions have shown promising results in early trials, but effective disease prevention remains elusive. This article reviews current progress in the field.

Estradiol increases basal growth hormone (GH) concentrations in sheep and cattle. This study sought to determine the effects of estradiol on GH-releasing hormone (GRH)-stimulated GH release in sheep. Growth hormone secretory characteristics, the GH response to GRH, and steady-state GH mRNA concentrations were determined in castrated male lambs treated with 2 different doses of estradiol 17-beta for a 28-d experimental period. Although no differences between treatments in mean GH, basal GH, or GH pulse number were observed after 28 d of estradiol treatment, GH pulse amplitude was greater (P &lt; 0.05) in the 2.00-cm implant-treated animals than in the control and 0.75-cm implant group. The effect of estradiol treatment on GRH-stimulated GH release revealed differences between the control and estradiol-treated animals (P &lt; 0.05). The 15-min GH responses to 0.075 microg/kg hGRH in the control, 0.75-cm, and 2.00-cm implant groups, respectively, were 76 +/- 10, 22.6 +/- 2.1, and 43.6 +/- 15.0 ng/mL. Growth hormone mRNA content was determined for pituitary glands from the different treatment groups, and no differences in steady-state GH mRNA levels were observed. There were no differences in the mean plasma concentrations of IGF-I, cortisol, T(3), or T(4) from weekly samples. Growth hormone release from cultured ovine pituitary cells from control sheep was not affected by estradiol after 72 h or in a subsequent 3-h incubation with estradiol combined with GRH. These data suggest that estradiol has differing actions on basal and GRH-stimulated GH concentrations in plasma, but the increase in pulse amplitude does not represent an increased pituitary sensitivity to GRH.
Enhanced sensitivity to information of negative (compared to positive) valence has an adaptive value, for example, by expediting the correct choice of avoidance behavior. However, previous evidence for such enhanced sensitivity has been inconclusive. Here we report a clear advantage for negative over positive words in categorizing them as emotional. In 3 experiments, participants classified briefly presented (33 ms or 22 ms) masked words as emotional or neutral. Categorization accuracy and valence-detection sensitivity were both higher for negative than for positive words. The results were not due to differences between emotion categories in either lexical frequency, extremeness of valence ratings, or arousal. These results conclusively establish enhanced sensitivity for negative over positive words, supporting the hypothesis that negative stimuli enjoy preferential access to perceptual processing.
Decision making is influenced by social cues, but there is little understanding of how social information interacts with other cues that determine decisions. To address this quantitatively, participants were asked to learn which of two faces was associated with a higher probability of reward. They were repeatedly presented with two faces, each with a different, unknown probability of reward, and participants attempted to maximize gains by selecting the face that was most often rewarded. Both faces had the same identity, but one face had a happy expression and the other had either an angry or a sad expression. Ideal observer models predict that the facial expressions should not affect the decision-making process. Our results however showed that participants had a prior disposition to select the happy face when it was paired with the angry but not the sad face and overweighted the positive outcomes associated with happy faces and underweighted positive outcomes associated with either angry or sad faces. Nevertheless, participants also integrated the feedback information. As such, their decisions were a composite of social and utilitarian factors.

We make strong memories of significant events in our lives which may serve to increase our resilience and adaptation capacity to deal with future challenges. It is well established that the neurotransmitter glutamate and the ERK MAPK intracellular signaling pathway play a principal role in memory formation. In addition, stress-associated hormones like glucocorticoids released during such events are known to strengthen formation of memories. But, how do these hormones work? Do they interact with the ERK MAPK pathway or otherwise? What are the more distal, epigenomic effects? We discovered in rats and mice that confrontation with a psychological challenge (e.g., forced swimming, Morris water maze) would lead, through NMDA-ERK signaling, to MSK1 and Elk-1 activation in dentate gyrus neurons (a part of the hippocampus involved in encoding of memories) resulting in histone H3 S10-phosphorylation and K14-acetylation, H4 hyper-acetylation, gene induction and formation of memories of the event. Moreover, glucocorticoid hormones via the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) greatly facilitated the epigenomic mechanisms and cognitive performance. Therefore, we propose that formation of enduring memories of significant events requires an interaction of GRs with the NMDA/ERK/MSK1/Elk-1 signaling pathways to allow an optimal epigenomic activation pattern in dentate gyrus neurons to accommodate their altered neurophysiological function.
There are numerous examples of enduring effects of early experience on gene transcription and neural function. We review the emerging evidence for epigenetics as a candidate mechanism for such effects. There is now evidence that intracellular signals activated by environmental events can directly modify the epigenetic state of the genome, including CpG methylation, histone modifications and microRNAs. We suggest that this process reflects an activity-dependent epigenetic plasticity at the level of the genome, comparable with that observed at the synapse. This epigenetic plasticity mediates neuronal differentiation and phenotypic plasticity, including that associated with learning and memory. Altered epigenetic states are also associated with the risk for and expression of mental disorders. In a broader context, these studies define a biological basis for the interplay between environmental signals and the genome in the regulation of individual differences in behavior, cognition and physiology, as well as the risk for psychopathology.
Cortical dysplasia, a malformation of the cerebral cortex of developmental origin, accounts for most cases of drug-resistant childhood epilepsy. Despite its prevalence, the genetic and molecular bases for the disease are not known for most cases. With the exception of tuberous sclerosis complex, a type of cortical malformation with known genetic etiology, no mutated genes have been identified that can lead to the neuroanatomic abnormalities observed in the patients. Furthermore, there are currently no animal models that completely recapitulate the features of the disease, hindering progress in developing new treatments for this devastating condition. In this article, I review some of the approaches that researchers in the field are undertaking to utilize the biopsy tissue obtained from patients with cortical dysplasia who are undergoing epilepsy surgery. These multifaceted approaches are providing a plethora of new information that is then utilized to generate and evaluate animal models and to further our understanding of the disease. These studies will enable the development of novel antiepileptic treatments for patients with cortical dysplasia and similar disorders.
Cortical malformations are highly epileptogenic lesions associated with complex, unanticipated, and often aberrant electrophysiologic and functional relationships. These relationships are inextricably linked to widespread cortical networks subserving eloquent functions, particularly language and motor ability. Cytomegalic neurons but not balloon cells in Palmini type 2 dysplastic cortex are intrinsically hyperexcitable and contribute to local epileptogenesis and functional responsiveness. However, there is much evidence that focal cortical dysplasia is rarely a localized or even regional process, and is a functionally, electrophysiologically, and ultimately clinically integrated neural network disorder. Not surprisingly, malformed cortex is implicated in cognitive dysfunction, particularly disturbances of linguistic processing. An understanding of these relationships is critical for successful epilepsy surgery. Gains in surgical prognosis rely on multiple diagnostic modalities to delineate complex anatomic, electrophysiologic, and functional relationships in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-negative patients with rates of seizure-freedom roughly comparable to lesional patients.

A rehabilitation approach has been adopted for many long-term neurologic conditions, but not for epilepsy. The disabilities associated with epilepsy are cognitive, psychological, and social, which are not as readily identified by medical doctors as are physical disabilities. A rehabilitation approach moves the emphasis from a medically driven process to a focus on the personal, social, and physical context of long-term illness. It is suggested that a missed opportunity for education and support for self-management occurs after diagnosis. This results in disadvantage to those whose educational level and knowledge of epilepsy are low. People who do not achieve epilepsy control may then experience higher levels of psychological distress, and a negative cycle of loss of self-efficacy, poor epilepsy control, social disadvantage, and disability. Rehabilitation services have benefited communities surrounding centers of excellence. Not so in epilepsy. Despite centers of excellence, areas with deprivation have higher than national average levels of patients reporting a seizure in the prior year, and higher emergency hospital admissions. Specialists working in partnership with general practitioners (GPs) and practice nurses can do more to increase participation and reduce distress for people with epilepsy. When available, GPs and nurses with special interest in epilepsy promote integrated services. Primary-secondary networks are likely to be more effective in preventing downward drift. This requires evaluation.

The incidence of epilepsy is significantly higher in children than adults. When faced with the diagnosis of epilepsy, parents have many questions regarding cause, treatment, and prognosis. Although the majority of children with epilepsy have an excellent prognosis and respond well to therapy, some children are refractory to therapy and suffer from cognitive decline. Animal models are now providing insights into the mechanisms responsible for the high incidence of seizures during development and age-dependent seizure-induced damage. One of the causes of the increased susceptibility of the young brain to seizures is the depolarizing effects of GABA secondary to high intracellular concentrations of chloride in young neurons. Although cell loss is not a feature of seizures in the young brain, recurrent seizures do result in aberrant sprouting of mossy fibers, reduce neurogenesis, and alter excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitter receptor structure and function. Behavioral consequences of early-life seizures include impaired spatial cognition, which now can be assessed using single-cell recordings from the hippocampus. Antiepileptic drugs have had a tremendous positive influence in epilepsy management, although there are now a number of studies demonstrating that antiepileptic drugs at therapeutic concentrations can impair cognition and result in increased apoptosis. While clinical judgment and experience are paramount when discussing the consequences of seizures and their treatment, awareness of studies from animals can provide the clinician with guidance in addressing these important issues with parents.
Emotional disturbances, depressive mood, anxiety, aggressive behavior, and memory impairment are the common psychiatric features associated with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). The present study was carried out to investigate the role of Bacopa monnieri extract in hippocampus of pilocarpine-induced temporal lobe epileptic rats through the 5-HT(2C) receptor in relation to depression. Our results showed upregulation of 5-HT(2C) receptors with a decreased affinity in hippocampus of pilocarpine-induced epileptic rats. Also, there was an increase in 5-HT(2C) gene expression and inositol triphosphate content in epileptic hippocampus. Carbamazepine and B. monnieri treatments reversed the alterations in 5-HT(2C) receptor binding, gene expression, and inositol triphosphate content in treated epileptic rats as compared to untreated epileptic rats. The forced swim test confirmed the depressive behavior pattern during epilepsy that was nearly completely reversed by B. monnieri treatment.
The long-term effects of vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) on seizure frequency were studied in 30 patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Median observation time was 52 months (17-123). The effect parameters investigated were total number of seizures and different seizure types. The median reduction in number of seizures was 60.6%. The effects of VNS varied considerably between seizure types. Best effects were observed with atonic seizures (80.8% median reduction, number of responders: 8/12), followed closely by tonic seizures (73.3% median reduction, number of responders: 8/13). Least effects were with generalized tonic-clonic seizures (median reduction 57.4%, number of responders: 11/20). Additional positive effects included milder or shorter ictal or postictal phase in 16 patients. Improved alertness was reported in 76.7%. Adverse effects, of which drooling and voice alteration were most frequent, were reported in 20 patients. There was a statistically significant reduction in the median number of antiepileptic drugs used. The discontinuation rate was 16.7%.

Despite the high prevalence of marijuana use among pregnant women and adolescents, the impact of cannabis on the developing brain is still not well understood. However, growing evidence supports that the endocannabinoid system plays a major role in CNS patterning in structures relevant for mood, cognition, and reward, such as the mesocorticolimbic system. It is thus clear that exposure to cannabis during early ontogeny is not benign and potential compensatory mechanisms that might be expected to occur during neurodevelopment appear insufficient to eliminate vulnerability to neuropsychiatric disorders in certain individuals. Both human longitudinal cohort studies and animal models strongly emphasize the long-term influence of prenatal cannabinoid exposure on behavior and mental health. This review provides an overview of the endocannabinoid system and examines the neurobiological consequences of cannabis exposure in pregnancy and early life by addressing its impact on the development of neurotransmitters systems relevant to neuropsychiatric disorders and its association with these disorders later in life. It posits that studying in utero cannabis exposure in association with genetic mutations of neural systems that have strong relationships to endocannabinoid function, such as the dopamine, opioid, glutamate, and GABA, might help to identify individuals at risk. Such data could add to existing knowledge to guide public health platform in regard to the use of cannabis and its derivatives during pregnancy.
The endocytic membrane activities of two human breast cancer cell lines (MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7) of strong and weak metastatic potential, respectively, were studied in a comparative approach. Uptake of horseradish peroxidase was used to follow endocytosis. Dependence on ionic conditions and voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) activity were characterized. Fractal methods were used to analyze quantitative differences in vesicular patterning. Digital quantification showed that MDA-MB-231 cells took up more tracer (i.e., were more endocytic) than MCF-7 cells. For the former, uptake was totally dependent on extracellular Na(+) and partially dependent on extracellular and intracellular Ca(2+) and protein kinase activity. Analyzing the generalized fractal dimension (D(q )) and its Legendre transform f(alpha) revealed that under control conditions, all multifractal parameters determined had values greater for MDA-MB-231 compared with MCF-7 cells, consistent with endocytic/vesicular activity being more developed in the strongly metastatic cells. All fractal parameters studied were sensitive to the VGSC blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX). Some of the parameters had a &quot;simple&quot; dependence on VGSC activity, if present, whereby pretreatment with TTX reduced the values for the MDA-MB-231 cells and eliminated the differences between the two cell lines. For other parameters, however, there was a &quot;complex&quot; dependence on VGSC activity. The possible physical/physiological meaning of the mathematical parameters studied and the nature of involvement of VGSC activity in control of endocytosis/secretion are discussed.

In a recent genome-wide association study (GWAS) based on 12,374 non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms we identified a number of candidate multiple sclerosis susceptibility genes. Here, we describe the extended analysis of 17 of these loci undertaken using an additional 4234 patients, 2983 controls and 2053 trio families. In the final analysis combining all available data, we found that evidence for association was substantially increased for one of the 17 loci, rs34536443 from the tyrosine kinase 2 (TYK2) gene (P=2.7 x 10(-6), odds ratio=1.32 (1.17-1.47)). This single nucleotide polymorphism results in an amino acid substitution (proline to alanine) in the kinase domain of TYK2, which is predicted to influence the levels of phosphorylation and therefore activity of the protein and so is likely to have a functional role in multiple sclerosis.
There have been numerous important recent advances in our understanding of the causes of Parkinson's disease (PD), the treatments available and how these are best applied for the long-term management of patients. Novel genes causing familial PD have been discovered and mechanisms leading to cell dysfunction and death identified. The PD prodrome is now a subject of great interest and clinical markers are being defined that may in future, together with biochemical markers, support an early, pre-motor diagnosis of PD. This will become important as new therapies are developed to modify disease progression. In the interim, the optimization of existing therapies remains an important priority. The value of existing and novel continuous drug delivery systems in PD is seen as providing simplified regimens, maintenance of motor control, reduction in motor complications and improved patient adherence to drug use.
In several species, an acute injection of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) induces a retinal degeneration characterized principally by a rapid loss of the outer nuclear layer, the other layers remaining structurally intact. It has, however, also been reported that down-regulation of melanopsin gene expression is associated with the degeneration and is detectable soon after injection. Melanopsin is expressed by a small subset of intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells and plays an important role in circadian behaviour photoentrainment. We injected MNU into Long Evans rats and investigated the ability of animals to entrain to three light/dark cycles of different light intensities (300, 15 and 1 lux). Control animals entrained their locomotor activity rhythms to the three cycles. In contrast, MNU-treated animals could only entrain properly to the 300 lux cycle. For the 15 lux cycle, their phase angle was much altered compared with control animals, and for the 1 lux cycle, MNU-injected animals were unable to photoentrain and exhibited an apparent free-run activity pattern with a period of 24.3 h. Subsequent to behavioural studies the animals were killed and rod, cone, melanopsin expression and melanopsin-expressing cells were quantified. Rod and cone loss was almost complete, melanopsin protein was reduced by 83% and melanopsin-expressing cells were reduced by 37%. Our study provides a comprehensive model of photoreceptor degeneration at the adult stage and a simple and versatile method to investigate the relation between retinal photoreceptors and the circadian system.
Prolactin-releasing peptide (PrRP), an RF amide peptide present in the brain, generates a wide variety of centrally generated autonomic responses, including increases in arterial blood pressure and heart rate. The identity of the receptor mediating the effects of PrRP is unknown. In addition to GPR10, which is its putative endogenous receptor, PrRP demonstrates a high binding affinity for Neuropeptide FF (NPFF) receptors, specifically the NPFF2 receptor. In the present study, we examined whether the central cardiovascular effects of PrRP in the intact animal and its cellular effects on parvocellular paraventricular nucleus (PVN) neurons are mediated via NPFF receptors. In conscious rats, intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) PrRP caused an increase in arterial blood pressure and heart rate, which was blocked with RF9, a specific NPFF receptor antagonist. These PrRP-evoked cardiovascular effects were preserved in the Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty (OLETF) rat strain, in which the GRP10 receptor gene was mutated. In rat brain slices, whole-cell patch clamp recordings of parvocellular paraventricular nucleus neurons show PrRP caused a decrease in evoked and miniature GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs), effects that were antagonized by RF9, but not neuropeptide Y, a putative GPR10 receptor antagonist. The effects of PrRP on IPSCs in OLETF rats were similar to those in wild-type rats. Both in vivo and in vitro data strongly suggest that certain PrRP effects in the brain are expressed via NPFF receptors, probably NPFF2, rather than the GPR10 receptor. These observations may assume clinical relevance as RF amide peptides such NPFF and PrRP become therapeutic targets for a variety of autonomically related disorders.
AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic modifications in the amygdala have been reported to sustain cued fear conditioning. However, the hippocampal formation is also critically involved in fear learning. Therefore, we examined whether fear conditioning is also accompanied by changes in AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. We focused on spontaneous miniature excitatory post-synaptic currents (mEPSCs). Young adult mice were trained using tone/footshock pairings and contextual/cued memories were tested 3-4 h and 1 day later. We found that the mEPSC frequency was significantly enhanced when recorded 3 h, but not 24 h, after fear conditioning training. Fear training induced a slight enhancement in the mEPSC amplitude at 3 h after training. The increased mEPSC frequency and amplitude were absent in animals that were only exposed to footshock or novelty or unpaired tone/footshock training. This implies that learning the association between context, tone and footshock transiently enhances hippocampal CA1 spontaneous synaptic transmission, which may contribute to the encoding of the fearful event.
Abnormalities in the formation and function of cerebellar circuitry potentially contribute to cognitive deficits in humans. In the adult, the activity of the sole output neurons of the cerebellar cortex - the Purkinje cells (PCs) - is shaped by the balance of activity between local excitatory and inhibitory circuits. However, how this balance is established during development remains poorly understood. Here, we investigate the role of interleukin-1 receptor accessory protein-like 1 (IL1RAPL1), a protein linked to cognitive function which interacts with neuronal calcium sensor 1 (NCS-1) in the development of mouse cerebellum. Using Il1rapl1-deficient mice, we found that absence of IL1RAPL1 causes a transient disinhibition of deep cerebellar nuclei neurons between postnatal days 10 and 14 (P10/P14). Upstream, in the cerebellar cortex, we found developmental perturbations in the activity level of molecular layer interneurons (MLIs), resulting in the premature appearance of giant GABAA-mediated inhibitory post-synaptic currents capable of silencing PCs. Examination of feed-forward recruitment of MLIs by parallel fibres shows that during this P10/P14 time window, MLIs were more responsive to incoming excitatory drive. Thus, we conclude that IL1RAPL1 exerts a key function during cerebellar development in establishing local excitation/inhibition balance.
Preconditioning sciatic nerve injury enhances axonal regeneration of ascending sensory neurons after spinal cord injury. A key question is whether direct injury of sensory nerves is necessary for the enhanced regeneration. The lumbar 5 ventral root transection (L5 VRT) model, a model of selective motor nerve injury, provides a useful tool to address this question. Here we examined the effects of a preconditioning L5 VRT on the regeneration after a subsequent dorsal column transection (DCT) in adult Sprague-Dawley rats. We found that L5 VRT 1 week before DCT increased the number of Fast Blue (FB)-labeled neurons in the L5 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and promoted sprouting/regenerating axons to grow into the glial scar. L5 VRT also induced a dramatic upregulation of expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the preconditioned DRG and in the injured spinal cord. Moreover, almost all of the FB-labeled sprouting/regenerating neurons expressed BDNF, and approximately 55% of these neurons were surrounded by p75 neurotrophin receptor-positive glial cells. This combined injury led to an increase in the number of BDNF- and TrkB-immunoreactive nerve fibers in the dorsal column caudal to the lesion site. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that L5 VRT promotes sprouting/regeneration of ascending sensory neurons, indicating that sensory axotomy may not be essential for the plasticity of injured dorsal column axons. Thus, the sensory neurons could be preprimed in the regenerative milieu of Wallerian degeneration and neuroinflammation, which might alter the expression of neurotrophic factors and their receptors, facilitating sprouting/regeneration of ascending sensory neurons.
Ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine (DA) neurons and their forebrain projections are critically involved in reward processing and cognitive functions. Descending projections from the lateral habenula (LHb) play a central role in inhibiting DA cell activity in response to the absence of expected rewards. As LHb efferents are reportedly glutamatergic, their ability to inhibit DA cells would theoretically require a disynaptic connection involving VTA GABA neurons and their local collateral inputs to DA cells. We therefore used anterograde tract-tracing from the LHb to investigate the relative selectivity of LHb synapses onto GABA versus DA VTA neurons. LHb axons were visualized using immunoperoxidase, and DA and GABA cells were marked by immunogold-silver labeling for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or GABA, respectively. By ultrastructural analysis, 16% of LHb axons were observed to form synaptic contacts in the VTA, and most of these were of an intermediate morphological type that did not exhibit definitive asymmetric or symmetric character. LHb axons synaptically targeted TH- and GABA-labeled dendrites to a comparable extent (45 and 52% observed incidence, respectively). Pre-embedding immunogold labeling for the vesicular glutamate transporter type 2 and post-embedding immunogold staining for GABA confirmed that approximately 85% of LHb terminals were glutamatergic and not GABAergic. These results suggest that the robust inhibition of DA cells evoked by the LHb is unlikely to arise from a selective innervation of VTA GABA neurons. Moreover, the LHb may mediate a direct excitation of DA cells that is over-ridden by indirect inhibition originating from an extrinsic source.
Oxytocin (20-100 ng) was found to be able to induce penile erection when injected unilaterally into the ventral subiculum or the posteromedial cortical nucleus of the amygdala of male rats. The pro-erectile effect started mostly 30 min after treatment and was abolished by the prior injection of d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)-vasotocin (1-2 microg), an oxytocin receptor antagonist, into the ventral subiculum or posteromedial cortical nucleus. Oxytocin-induced penile erection occurred 15 min after the increase in the concentration of extracellular dopamine and its metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the dialysate obtained from the nucleus accumbens, which was also abolished by d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)-vasotocin. The pro-erectile effect of oxytocin was also reduced by cis-flupentixol (2 and 5 microg), a dopamine receptor antagonist, injected into the nucleus accumbens, and by (+)MK-801 (5 microg), a noncompetitive N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist, injected into the ventral tegmental area, but not into the nucleus accumbens. Together with studies showing that glutamatergic efferents from the ventral subiculum/posteromedial cortical nucleus of the amygdala to other areas of the limbic system modulate the activity of mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons, these findings suggest that oxytocin injected into these areas increases glutamatergic neurotransmission in the ventral tegmental area. This, in turn, activates mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons, leading to penile erection. These results provide evidence that the ventral subiculum and the posteromedial cortical nucleus of the amygdala participate in a neural circuit that controls not only the consummatory aspects of sexual behaviour (e.g. penile erection and copulatory performance), but also its motivational/reward aspects, confirming a key role of oxytocin and dopamine in these processes.


The Japanese macaque (Macaca fuscata), along with rhesus and long-tailed macaques, is one of the macaca species. In Japan, it has been preferred for use as a laboratory animal, particularly in the field of neuroscience, because of its high level of intelligence and its gentle nature. In addition, the species has a relatively homogeneous genetic background and field researchers have accumulated abundant information on the social behavior of wild Japanese macaques. As future neuroscience research will undoubtedly be more focused on the higher cognitive functions of the brain, including social behavior among multiple individuals, the Japanese macaque can be expected to become even more valuable as a laboratory animal in the near future. The Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology has launched a National BioResource Project (NBRP) to establish a stable breeding and supply system for Japanese macaques for laboratory use. The project is in progress and should lead to the establishment of a National Primate Center in Japan, which will support the supply of monkeys as well as social outreach and handling of animal welfare issues.
The heterogeneity of tumours and uncertainties surrounding derived short-term cell cultures and established cell lines fundamentally challenge the research and understanding of tumour growth and development. When tumour cells are cultured, changes are inevitably induced due to the artificial growth conditions. Several recent studies have questioned how representative established cell lines or derived short-term cell cultures are of the tumour in situ. We have characterised gene expression changes induced by short-term culture in astrocytoma in order to determine whether derived short-term cell cultures are representative of the tumour in situ. In comparison to the majority of studies, paired biopsies and derived short-term cultures were investigated to reduce the effects of long-term culture and inter-tumour variability when comparing biopsies and derived cultures from tumours with the same histology from different individuals. We have used the Affymetrix GeneChip U133A to generate gene expression profiles of 6 paediatric pilocytic astrocytoma (PA) biopsies and derived short-term cell cultures and 3 adult glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) biopsies and derived short-term cultures. Significant differential gene expression is induced by short-term culture. However, when the biopsy and derived short-term cell culture samples were grouped according to tumour type (PA and GBM) a molecular signature of 608 genes showed significant differential expression between the groups. This gene cohort can distinguish PA and GBM tumours, regardless of the sample source, suggesting that astrocytoma derived short-term cultures do retain key aspects of the global tumour expression profile and are representative of the tumour in situ. Furthermore, these genes are involved in pathways and functions characteristic of adult GBM including VEGF signalling, hypoxia and TP53 signalling.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a powerful tool for generating 3-dimensional structural and functional image data. MRI has already proven valuable in creating atlases of mouse and quail development. Here, we have exploited high resolution MRI to determine the parameters necessary to acquire images of the chick embryo eye. Using a 9.4 Tesla (400 MHz) high field ultra-shielded and refrigerated magnet (Bruker), MRI was carried out on paraformaldehyde-fixed chick embryos or heads at E4, E6, E8, and E10. Image data were processed using established and custom packages (MRICro, ImageJ, ParaVision, Bruker and mri3dX). Voxel dimensions ranged from 62.5 microm to 117.2 microm. We subsequently used the images obtained from the MRI data in order to make precise measurements of chick embryo eye surface area, volume and axial length from E4 to E10. MRI was validated for accurate sizing of ocular tissue features by direct comparison with previously published literature. Furthermore, we demonstrate the utility of high resolution MRI for making accurate measurements of morphological changes due to experimental manipulation of chick eye development, thereby facilitating a better understanding of the effects on chick embryo eye development and growth of such manipulations. Chondroitin sulphate or heparin were microinjected into the vitreous cavity of the right eyes of each of 3 embryos at E5. At E10, embryos were fixed and various eye parameters (volume, surface area, axial length and equatorial diameter) were determined using MRI and normalised with respect to the un-injected left eyes. Statistically significant alterations in eye volume (p &lt; 0.05; increases with chondroitin sulphate and decreases with heparin) and changes in vitreous homogeneity were observed in embryos following microinjection of glycosaminoglycans. Furthermore, in the heparin-injected eyes, significant disturbances at the vitreo-retinal boundary were observed as well as retinal folding and detachment confirming histological observations. These data reveal the utility and superiority of MRI for producing images enabling quantification of experimentally induced changes in eye volume and structure. The results indicate that MRI is an important tool that could become a routine approach for rapid and sensitive phenotypic analysis of normal chick ocular development and morphology as well as potentially the effects of surgical or genetic manipulations of chick embryo eyes in live embryos in ovo.

A rising tide of obesity and type 2 diabetes has resulted from the development of technologies that have made inexpensive high calorie foods readily available and exercise unnecessary for many people. Obesity and the metabolic syndrome (insulin resistance, visceral adiposity and dyslipidemia) wreak havoc on cells throughout the body thereby promoting cardiovascular and kidney disease, and degenerative diseases of the brain and body. Obesity and insulin resistance promote disease by increasing oxidative damage to proteins, lipids and DNA as the result of a combination of increased free radical production and an impaired ability of cells to detoxify the radicals and repair damaged molecules. By covalently modifying membrane-associated proteins, the membrane lipid peroxidation product 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE) may play particularly sinister roles in the metabolic syndrome and associated disease processes. HNE can damage pancreatic beta cells and can impair the ability of muscle and liver cells to respond to insulin. HNE may promote atherosclerosis by modifying lipoproteins and can cause cardiac cell damage by impairing metabolic enzymes. An adverse role for HNE in the brain in obesity and the metabolic syndrome is suggested by studies showing that HNE levels are increased in brain cells with aging and Alzheimer's disease. HNE can cause the dysfunction and degeneration of neurons by modifying membrane-associated glucose and glutamate transporters, ion-motive ATPases, enzymes involved in amyloid metabolism, and cytoskeletal proteins. Exercise and dietary energy restriction reduce HNE production and may also increase cellular systems for HNE detoxification including glutathione and oxidoreductases. The recent development of low molecular weight molecules that scavenge HNE suggests that HNE can be targeted in the design of drugs for the treatment of obesity, the metabolic syndrome, and associated disorders.
To replicate the sleep-wake disorders of Parkinson's disease (PD) and to understand the temporal relationship between these sleep disturbances and the occurrence of parkinsonism, we performed long-term continuous electroencephalographic monitoring of vigilance states in unrestrained rhesus monkeys using an implanted miniaturized telemetry device and tested the effect of MPTP intoxication on their sleep-wake organization. MPTP injection yielded a dramatic disruption of sleep-wake architecture with reduced sleep efficacy that persisted years after MPTP administration. Primary deregulation of REM sleep and increased daytime sleepiness occurring before the emergence of motor symptoms were a striking feature of the MPTP effect. This was concomitant with a breakdown of dopaminergic homeostasis, as evidenced by decreased dopamine turnover measured after a single MPTP injection. In the long term, partial re-emergence of REM sleep paralleled the partial adaptation to parkinsonism, the latter being known to result from compensatory mechanisms within the dopaminergic system. Altogether, these findings highlight the suitability of the MPTP model of PD as a tool to model the sleep/wake disturbances of the human disease. Ultimately, this may help in deciphering the specific role of dopamine depletion in the occurrence of these disorders.

Recent evidence shows that traumatic brain injury (TBI) regulates proliferation of neural stem/progenitor cells in the dentate gyrus (DG) of adult hippocampus. There are distinct classes of neural stem/progenitor cells in the adult DG, including quiescent neural progenitors (QNPs), which carry stem cell properties, and their progeny, amplifying neural progenitors (ANPs). The response of each class of progenitors to TBI is not clear. We here used a transgenic reporter Nestin-GFP mouse line, in which QNP and ANP cells are easily visualized and quantified, to determine the targets of the TBI in the DG. We examined changes in proliferation of QNPs and ANPs in the acute phase following TBI and found that QNPs were induced by TBI insult to enter the cell cycle whereas proliferation of ANPs was not significantly affected. These results indicate that different subtypes of neural stem/progenitor cells respond differently to TBI insult. Stem cell activation by the TBI may reflect the induction of innate repair and plasticity mechanisms by the injured brain.
This study reports that the cysteine 22--&gt;glycine 22 substitution in the HIV-1 Tat 1-86 B significantly attenuates its neurotoxicity. Consistent with previous studies, direct interactions of rat hippocampal cells with Tat 1-86 B were shown to cause dose-dependent and time-dependent neurotoxicity associated with activation of caspases from the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway. Despite the similar binding/uptake properties, Cys22 Tat 1-86 B failed to induce significant neurotoxicity and activation of caspases 9 and 3/7 in hippocampal primary cultures. Results of the study underscore the important role of cysteine-rich domain in mechanism of Tat-mediated neurotoxicity.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a novel class of small non-coding RNAs that negatively regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level by binding to the 3' untranslated region of target mRNAs leading to their translational inhibition or sometimes degradation. We uncovered a previously unknown alteration in temporal expression of a large set of miRNAs following a contusive spinal cord injury (SCI) in adult rats using microarray analysis. These altered miRNAs can be classified into 3 categories: (1) up-regulation, (2) down-regulation and (3) an early up-regulation at 4 h followed by down-regulation at 1 and 7 days post-SCI. The bioinformatics analysis indicates that the potential targets for miRNAs altered after SCI include genes encoding components that are involved in the inflammation, oxidation, and apoptosis that are known to play important roles in the pathogenesis of SCI. These findings suggest that abnormal expression of miRNAs may contribute to the pathogenesis of SCI and are potential targets for therapeutic interventions following SCI.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a genetically dominant condition caused by expanded CAG repeats. These repeats code for a glutamine tract in the HD gene product huntingtin (htt), which is a protein expressed in almost all tissues. Although most HD symptoms reflect preferential neuronal death in specific brain regions, even before the HD gene was identified numerous reports had described additional abnormalities in the peripheral tissues of HD patients, including weight loss, altered glucose homeostasis, and sub-cellular abnormalities in fibroblasts, lymphocytes and erythrocytes. Several years have elapsed since the HD mutation was discovered, and analyses of peripheral tissues from HD patients have helped to understand the molecular pathogenesis of the disease and revealed that the molecular mechanisms through which mutated htt leads to cell dysfunction are widely shared between central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral tissues. These studies show that in peripheral tissues, mutated htt causes accumulation of intracellular protein aggregates, impairment of energetic metabolism, transcriptional deregulation and hyperactivation of programmed cell-death mechanisms. Here, we review the current knowledge of peripheral tissue alterations in HD patients and in animal models of HD and focus on how this information can be used to identify potential therapeutic possibilities and biomarkers for disease progression.
Developmental and glucocorticoid-induced changes in tissue glycogen content occur in the fetus near term coincident with an increase in plasma triiodothyronine (T(3)), although the role of thyroid hormones in mediating these changes is unknown. This study investigated glycogen content in the liver, heart and skeletal muscle of sheep fetuses after experimental manipulation of thyroid hormone concentration in utero by T(3) infusion and fetal thyroidectomy (TX). At 130 days of gestation (term 145 +/- 2 days), hepatic glycogen was greater, and muscle glycogen was lower, in the TX fetuses than in the intact fetuses. However, between 130 and 144 days of gestation the normal increment in hepatic glycogen, and decrement in cardiac glycogen, seen in intact fetuses was abolished when the prepartum rise in T(3), but not cortisol, was prevented by TX. At 144 days of gestation, hepatic glycogen was lower, and cardiac glycogen was higher, in the TX compared with intact fetuses. In intact fetuses at 130 days of gestation, 5 days of intravenous T(3) infusion (8-12 microg kg(-1) day(-1)) caused a small but significant increase in hepatic glycogen, although the concentration achieved was not as great as that observed in intact fetuses infused with cortisol (2-3 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) for 5 days. Infusion of T(3) reduced cardiac glycogen to the level observed in mature fetuses near term and immature fetuses infused with cortisol for 5 days. Glycogen content in fetal skeletal muscle increased between 100 and 115 days of gestation, but was unaffected by cortisol or T(3) infusion. Therefore, thyroid hormones are important in the developmental control of hepatic and cardiac glycogen content in the ovine fetus near term and may mediate, in part, the maturational effects of cortisol.
The risk of a subsequent stroke following an acute transient ischemic attack or minor stroke is high, with 90-day risk at approximately 10%. Identification of those patients at the highest risk for recurrent stroke following a transient ischemic attack or minor stroke may allow risk-specific management strategies to be implemented, such as hospital admission with expedited work-up for those at high risk and emergency room discharge for those at low risk. Predictors of recurrent stroke, including the ABCD2 score, brain imaging and the stroke mechanism, are reviewed in this article, with a focus on recent literature. An emphasis is placed on the importance of early imaging of the brain parenchyma (diffusion-weighted imaging) and vascular imaging to identify patients at high risk for recurrence. The need for identification of the cause of the initial event, allowing therapies to be tailored to the individual patient, is discussed.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that almost certainly represents the common outcome of multiple causal pathways and it is now generally accepted that genetic factors make a significant contribution to these pathways. Behavioral studies suggest a heritability of approximately 0.76. While molecular genetic approaches have identified a range of potential candidate genes, it is now clear that the genetics of ADHD are characterized by a number of genes each of which makes a small but significant contribution to the overall risk. Several genome-wide linkage studies have been conducted and, although there are considerable differences in findings between studies, several regions have been supported across several studies (bin 16.4, 5p13, 11q22-25, 17p11). The contribution of several candidate genes has been supported by meta-analyses (DRD4, DRD5, DAT1, HTR1B and SNAP25). Genome-wide association scans are starting to appear but have not yet had sufficient power to produce conclusive results. Gene-environment interactions, which are as yet relatively understudied, are likely to be of importance in fully understanding the role of genes in ADHD and will be discussed.
Age-related macular degeneration is the leading cause of blindness in the developing world. Retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE) transplantation in subretinal space, has been assessed in various animal models of age-related macular degeneration and in humans as a potential technique to preserve the visual function. However, the RPE cell survival posttransplantation is limited because of lack of attachment of the transplanted cells to the pathological Bruch's membrane and also partly because of iatrogenic removal of adhesive elements in the membrane during the removal of choroidal new vessels before transplantation procedure. Although pathological Bruch's membrane is well studied, there is still much debate as to why and how changes in the structure and components of this membrane leads to loss of RPE cells and disruption of their function and subsequent death of photoreceptors leading to visual loss. Integrins on RPE cells have been characterized and shown to be important for attachment of cells to Bruch's membrane. Considering the essential role of integrins in functions such as cell migration and adhesion, it is plausible that lack of attachment of RPE cells posttransplantation can be overcome by improving integrin function. Here, we have focused on some of the recent findings on the use of integrins and modulation of their function to improve the adhesion of RPE cells to normal and pathological Bruch's membrane. This work also aims at elucidating a potential mechanism by which accumulating inhibitory molecules in the Bruch's membrane in the pathological state, interferes with integrin function.
Transplantation of stem or progenitor cells is an attractive new approach for treating neurodegenerative conditions of the central nervous system, which aims to protect or replace neurons and improve function. Proof of principle has already been shown in the retina that photoreceptors may be replaced by transplantation of neural progenitor cells. However, the task of retinal ganglion cell replacement is much more complex, as new cells will need to establish complex connections within the retina and also extend axons to precise targets in the brain. Although progress has been made in this field, it is likely that neuroprotective clinical applications will be established more quickly. Our laboratory has focused on the intraocular transplantation of cells to treat inner retinal disease, either by neuronal replacement or neuroprotection of existing cells. We have investigated the efficacy and effects of transplanting a variety of cell types, including human Mller stem cells (MIO-M1), oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), and bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) in a rat model of experimentally induced glaucoma. We also have developed and characterized a novel in vitro organotypic retinal explant culture system for exploring the methods of enhancing the efficacy of cell transplantation for the inner retina. In this review, we discuss the potentially beneficial effects of intraocular cell injections, identify current shortcomings of retinal stem cell therapy, and suggest directions for future research.
With the aging of the population, we are seeing a global increase in the prevalence of age-related disorders, especially in developed countries. Chronic diseases disproportionately affect the older segment of the population, contributing to disability, a diminished quality of life and an increase in healthcare costs. Increased life expectancy reflects the success of contemporary medicine, which must now respond to the challenges created by this achievement, including the growing burden of chronic illnesses, injuries and disabilities. A well-developed theoretical framework is required to understand the molecular basis of aging. Such a framework is a prerequisite for the development of clinical interventions that will constitute an efficient response to the challenge of age-related health issues. This review critically analyzes the experimental evidence that supports and refutes the Free Radical/Mitochondrial Theory of Aging, which has dominated the field of aging research for almost half a century.
The presenilin complex, consisting of presenilin, nicastrin, anterior pharynx defective-1 and presenilin enhancer-2, constitutes gamma-secretase, which is required for the generation of amyloid beta-protein. In this article, we show that Synoviolin (also called Hrd1), which is an E3 ubiquitin ligase implicated in endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation, is involved in the degradation of endogenous immature nicastrin, and affects amyloid beta-protein generation. It was found that the level of immature nicastrin was dramatically increased in synoviolin-null cells as a result of the inhibition of degradation, but the accumulation of endogenous presenilin, anterior pharynx defective-1 and presenilin enhancer-2 was not changed. This was abolished by the transfection of exogenous Synoviolin. Moreover, nicastrin was co-immunoprecipitated with Synoviolin, strongly suggesting that nicastrin is the substrate of Synoviolin. Interestingly, amyloid beta-protein generation was increased by the overexpression of Synoviolin, although the nicastrin level was decreased. Thus, Synoviolin-mediated ubiquitination is involved in the degradation of immature nicastrin, and probably regulates amyloid beta-protein generation. Structured digital abstract: * MINT-7255352: Synoviolin (uniprotkb:Q9DBY1) physically interacts (MI:0915) with NCT (uniprotkb:P57716) by anti tag coimmunoprecipitation (MI:0007) * MINT-7255377: Ubiquitin (uniprotkb:P62991) physically interacts (MI:0915) with NCT (uniprotkb:P57716) by anti bait coimmunoprecipitation (MI:0006) * MINT-7255363: NCT (uniprotkb:P57716) physically interacts (MI:0915) with Synoviolin (uniprotkb:Q9DBY1) by anti bait coimmunoprecipitation (MI:0006).
The regulation of protein expression on the cell surface membrane is an important component of the cellular response to extracellular signalling. The translation of extracellular signalling into specific protein localization often involves the post-translational modification of cargo proteins. Using a genetic screen of random peptides, we have previously identified a group of C-terminal sequences, represented by RGRSWTY-COOH (termed'SWTY'), which are capable of overriding an endoplasmic reticulum localization signal and directing membrane proteins to the cell surface via specific binding to 14-3-3 proteins. The identity of the kinase signalling pathways that drive phosphorylation and 14-3-3 binding of the SWTY sequence is not known. In this study, we report that the activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt) pathway by the over-expression of active kinases, stimulation with fetal bovine serum or growth factors can: (a) phosphorylate the SWTY sequence; (b) recruit 14-3-3 proteins to SWTY; and (c) promote surface expression of the chimeric potassium channel fused with the SWTY sequence. The expression of the dominant negative Akt inhibited the enhancement of surface expression by fetal bovine serum. In addition, the activation of PI3K significantly enhanced the 14-3-3 association and cell surface expression of GPR15, a G protein-coupled receptor which carries an endogenous SWTY-like, C-terminal, 14-3-3 binding sequence and is known to serve as a HIV co-receptor. Given the wealth and specificity of both kinase activity and 14-3-3 binding sequences, our results suggest that the C-terminal SWTYlike motif may serve as a sensor that can selectively induce the cell surface expression of membrane proteins in response to different extracellular signals.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress are involved in Alzheimer disease (AD) pathogenesis. In human AD brains, the activity of the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase enzyme complex (alpha-KGDHC) is reduced. KGDHC is mostly involved in NADH production. It can also participate in oxidative stress and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. The mitochondrial dihydrolipoyl succinyltransferase enzyme (DLST) is a key subunit specific to the alpha-KGDHC. In cultured cells, reduction of DLST increased H(2)O(2)-induced ROS generation and cell death. Thus, we asked whether partial genetic deletion of DLST could accelerate the onset of AD pathogenesis, using a transgenic mouse model of amyloid deposition crossed with DLST(+/-) mice. Tg19959 mice, which carry the human amyloid precursor protein with two mutations, develop amyloid deposits and progressive behavioral abnormalities. We compared Tg19959 mice to Tg19959-DLST(+/-) littermates at 2-3 months of age and studied the effects of DLST deficiency on amyloid deposition, spatial learning and memory, and oxidative stress. We found that alpha-KGDHC activity was reduced in DLST(+/-) mice. We also found that DLST deficiency increased amyloid plaque burden, Abeta oligomers, and nitrotyrosine levels and accelerated the occurrence of spatial learning and memory deficits in female Tg19959 mice. Our data suggest that alpha-KGDHC may be involved in AD pathogenesis through increased mitochondrial oxidative stress.

Oxytocin is produced in the hypothalamus and released into the circulation through the neurohypophyseal system. Peripherally released oxytocin facilitates parturition and milk ejection during nursing. Centrally released oxytocin coordinates the onset of maternal nurturing behavior at parturition and plays a role in mother-infant bonding. More recent studies have revealed a more general role for oxytocin in modulating affiliative behavior in both sexes. Oxytocin regulates alloparental care and pair bonding in female monogamous prairie voles. Social recognition in male and female mice is also modulated by oxytocin. In humans, oxytocin increases gaze to the eye region of human faces and enhances interpersonal trust and the ability to infer the emotions of others from facial cues. While the neurohypopheseal oxytocin system has been well characterized, less is known regarding the nature of oxytocin release within the brain. Here we review the role of oxytocin in the regulation of prosocial interactions, and discuss the neuroanatomy of the central oxytocin system.
Sexual differentiation of the mammalian nervous system has been studied intensively for over 25 years. Most of what we know, however, comes from work on relatively non-social species in which direct reproduction (i.e., production of offspring) is virtually the only route to reproductive success. In social species, an individual's inclusive fitness may include contributions to the gene pool that are achieved by supporting the reproductive efforts of close relatives; this feature is most evident in eusocial organisms. Here, we review what is known about neuroendocrine mechanisms, sexual differentiation, and effects of social status on the brain and spinal cord in two eusocial mammals: the naked mole-rat and Damaraland mole-rat. These small rodents exhibit the most rigidly organized reproductive hierarchy among mammals, with reproduction suppressed in a majority of individuals. Our findings suggest that eusociality may be associated with a relative lack of sex differences and a reduced influence of gonadal hormones on some functions to which these hormones are usually tightly linked. We also identify neural changes accompanying a change in social and reproductive status, and discuss the implications of our findings for understanding the evolution of sex differences and the neuroendocrinology of reproductive suppression.
Surgical or interventional neurophysiology is a term commonly used to refer to a large number of neurosurgical procedures involving the brain, cranial nerves, spinal cord and peripheral nervous system which, to be efficient and safe, demand specific neurophysiological know-how. As a result of the development of these procedures and their increasing use in the operating room, the role of clinical neurophysiology, traditionally diagnostic, has been extended. With the advent of 'neurostimulation' and 'neuromodulation', some neurophysiological techniques have, in themselves, progressively become more therapeutic, the therapeutic alteration of nervous system activity being achieved not only by surgical ablation or medication but also through electrophysiological means via implanted or non-implanted devices, whose development was made possible by extensive studies in the field of neurophysiology. The first application of electrical stimulation in urology opened up the way for progress in the therapeutic direction. Moreover, with regard to the mechanism of action underlying neuromodulation, the application of neurophysiology and neuroimaging procedures has contributed to understanding of the neural control mechanism of visceral (e.g. lower urinary tract) function. In our experience, the advent of sacral neuromodulation for lower urinary tract dysfunction and the use of neurophysiology has made it possible to shed light on the pathophysiological mechanisms of neuro-urological disorders, allowing us to assess and validate new therapeutic approaches and finally to develop a new method and device for chronic pudendal nerve stimulation.
In general, the behavioral and neural effects of estradiol administration to males and females differ. While much attention has been paid to the potential structural, cellular and sub-cellular mechanisms that may underlie such differences, as of yet there has been no examination of whether the differences observed may be related to differential uptake or storage of estradiol within the brain itself. We administered estradiol benzoate to gonadectomized male and female rats, and compared the concentration of estradiol in serum and brain tissue found in these rats to those of gonadectomized, oil-treated rats and intact rats of both sexes. Long-term gonadectomy (3 weeks) reduced estradiol concentration in the male and female hippocampus, but not in the male or female amygdala or in the female prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, exogenous treatment with estradiol increased estradiol content to levels above intact animals in the amygdala, prefrontal cortex and the male hippocampus. Levels of estradiol were undetectable in the prefrontal cortex of intact males, but were detectable in all other brain regions of intact rats. Here we demonstrate (1) that serum concentrations of estradiol are not necessarily reflective of brain tissue concentrations, (2) that within the brain, there are regional differences in the effects of gonadectomy and estradiol administration, and (3) that there is less evidence for local production of estradiol in males than females, particularly in the prefrontal cortex and perhaps the hippocampus. Thus there are regional differences in estradiol concentration in the prefrontal cortex, amygdala and hippocampus that are influenced by sex and hormone status.
The relationship between amyloid beta and cognitive dysfunction in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease has been evaluated predominantly with the spatial reference memory version of the water maze task. However, as Alzheimer's disease encompasses decline in multiple memory systems, it is important to also utilize non-spatial tasks to fully characterize the role of amyloid on behaviour in animal models. We used the TgCRND8 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease to evaluate the effect of amyloid on spatial reference memory, as well as on the non-spatial task of acquisition of conditioned taste aversion, and on the procedural task of swimming to a visible platform. We demonstrate that 8- to 12-month-old TgCRND8 mice are significantly impaired in all three tasks, and that the levels of soluble amyloid beta are significantly correlated with impairment in spatial reference memory, but not with impairment in conditioned taste aversion or swimming to a visible platform. Insoluble fractions of amyloid, which correspond closely to amyloid plaque burden in the brain, are not associated with any behavioural measure. Our study extends the characterization of the model to stages of advanced amyloid pathology and demonstrates that older TgCRND8 mice are impaired in multiple memory systems, including procedural tasks, which are spared at younger ages. The lack of association between amyloid plaques and memory decline supports clinical findings in Alzheimer's patients.
The Hox family of transcription factors are expressed at different domains along the rostrocaudal (R-C) body axis during development. To examine the function of Hoxc8 and Hoxc9 in specific cell types and at different developmental times, we have generated and characterized loxP flanked (floxed) Hoxc8 and Hoxc8--&gt;Hoxc9 replacement alleles of mice, with either GFP or LacZ reporters. Although all four alleles of mice behave like wild-type controls in motor behavioral testing, slight differences in endogenous Hox gene expression were observed among these alleles depending on the type of reporters used and the presence of Hoxc9 cDNA in the targeting constructs. The efficiency of Cre-mediated recombination was evaluated by crossing these mice with the Nestin-cre and Isl1-cre mice, and the loss of Hoxc8 expression with or without Hoxc9 misexpression was confirmed in embryonic spinal cord. In addition, an upregulation of reporter gene expression was observed after Cre-mediated recombination. These mice will be useful tools to analyze Hox gene function in a cell type-specific manner.
Glial cells provide an optimal surface for attachment, migration, and growth of CNS neurons. This study was designed to investigate the ability of four glia cell types, retinal Mller Glia (MG), cortical astrocytes (CA), A7, and Oli-neu to support the outgrowth of embryonic day 18 rat retinal explants. Extracellular matrix (ECM) prepared by water lysis of monolayers of A7, CA, and MG cells significantly increased, whereas Oli-neu-derived ECM inhibited fiber growth. Analogous results were obtained with explants on live monolayers. The inhibitory effect of Oli-neu matrix, but not of live cells, could be neutralized with the Rho-kinase inhibitor Y27632. Studies on the message and protein level revealed the expression of a range of ECM glycoproteins and the major chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs). Oli-neu produced large amounts of tenascin-C (TN-C), DSD-1-PG/phosphacan, and NG2, correlating with its inhibitory properties. Upon treatment with chondroitinase ABC (ChABC), retinal axon growth was increased on CA, MG, and A7, in accordance with the degradation of inhibitory CSPGs. In contrast, inhibition exerted by Oli-neu or postnatal oligodendrocytes was not abolished. When the neurite growth promoting properties of TN-C were neutralized by the monoclonal antibody J1/tn2, retinal axon growth was clearly diminished on MG, indicating a dominance of the FNIII domain D of TN-C in this cell type. The results suggest that glial cells construct complex ECM structures with distinct properties ranging from promotion to inhibition of retinal axons, depending on their composition. Furthermore, inhibitory ECM may resist ChABC treatment in some situations.


Neural correlates of auditory processing, including for species-specific vocalizations that convey biological and ethological significance (e.g., social status, kinship, environment), have been identified in a wide variety of areas including the temporal and frontal cortices. However, few studies elucidate how non-human primates interact with these vocalization signals when they are challenged by tasks requiring auditory discrimination, recognition and/or memory. The present study employs a delayed matching-to-sample task with auditory stimuli to examine auditory memory performance of rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta), wherein two sounds are determined to be the same or different. Rhesus macaques seem to have relatively poor short-term memory with auditory stimuli, and we examine if particular sound types are more favorable for memory performance. Experiment 1 suggests memory performance with vocalization sound types (particularly monkey), are significantly better than when using non-vocalization sound types, and male monkeys outperform female monkeys overall. Experiment 2, controlling for number of sound exemplars and presentation pairings across types, replicates Experiment 1, demonstrating better performance or decreased response latencies, depending on trial type, to species-specific monkey vocalizations. The findings cannot be explained by acoustic differences between monkey vocalizations and the other sound types, suggesting the biological, and/or ethological meaning of these sounds are more effective for auditory memory.
Short periods of forced exercise have been reported to selectively induce enhancements in hippocampal-dependent cognitive function, possibly via brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-mediated mechanisms. In this study, we report that 1 week of treadmill running significantly enhanced both object displacement (spatial) and object substitution (nonspatial) learning. These behavioral changes were accompanied by increased expression of BDNF protein in the dentate gyrus, hippocampus, and perirhinal cortex. The effects of exercise on object substitution were mimicked by intracerebroventricular injection of BDNF protein. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that exercise has the potential to enhance cognitive function in young healthy rats, possibly via a mechanism involving increased BDNF expression in specific brain regions.
The potential of exercise or environmental enrichment to prevent or reverse age-related cognitive decline in rats has been widely investigated. The data suggest that the efficacy of these interventions as neuroprotectants may depend upon the duration and nature of the protocols and age of onset. Investigations of the mechanisms underlying these neuroprotective strategies indicate a potential role for the neurotrophin family of proteins, including nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). In this study, we have assessed the effects of 8 months of forced exercise, begun in middle-age, on the expression of long-term potentiation (LTP) and on spatial learning in the Morris water maze in aged Wistar rats. We also assessed these measures in a cage control group and in a group of rats exposed to the stationary treadmill for the same duration as the exercised rats. Our data confirm an age-related decline in expression of LTP and in spatial learning concomitant with decreased expression of NGF and BDNF mRNA in dentate gyrus (DG). The age-related impairments in both plasticity and growth factor expression were prevented in the long-term exercised group and, surprisingly, the treadmill control group. Given the extensive handling that the treadmill control group received and their regular exposure to an environment outside the home cage, this group can be considered to have experienced environmentally enriched conditions when compared with the cage control group. Significant correlations were observed between both learning and LTP and the expression of NGF and BDNF mRNA in the dentate gyrus. We conclude that decreased expression of NGF and BDNF in the dentate gyrus of aged rats is associated with impaired LTP and spatial learning. We suggest that the reversal of these age-related impairments by enrichment and exercise may be linked with prevention of the age-related decline in expression of these growth factors and, furthermore, that enrichment is as efficacious as exercise in preventing this age-related decline.
The dogmatic view that new neurons are not produced in the adult mammalian brain has been overturned in light of mounting evidence that neurogenesis continues to occur within two neurogenic niches, the subventricular zone and the hippocampus. In mammals, new neurons are incorporated into the hippocampus throughout life and are influenced by environmental and genetic factors. Most studies use captive-bred animals, and no previous studies have examined neurogenesis in free-living rats despite the common use of laboratory rats. In particular, exercise upregulates neurogenesis in the hippocampus and exercise levels would certainly differ between wild and captive populations. Therefore, it is unclear whether results from captive populations can be generalized to natural populations or reflect variations from an artificial and inappropriate &quot;baseline&quot; level. To address this, we compared levels of cell proliferation and the number of immature neurons (using the endogenous markers Ki67 and doublecortin, respectively) in captured wild juvenile and adult Norway rats to three captive strains (Sprague-Dawley, Long-Evans, and Brown Norway) of the same species. Here, we show that the level of cell proliferation and young immature neuron survival in the dentate gyrus of juvenile wild rats is significantly higher than in Sprague-Dawley rats, but not Long-Evans or Brown Norway rats. However, cell proliferation and the number of immature neurons in the hippocampus of adult wild rats are within the normal range of captive-bred rats at all adult ages examined. This finding is surprising given the dissimilar environments, including stressors and opportunities for exercise, encountered by each population.
Voluntary physical activity induces molecular changes in the hippocampus consistent with improved hippocampal function, but few studies have explored the effects of wheel running on specific hippocampal-dependent learning and memory processes. The current studies investigated the impact of voluntary wheel running on learning and memory for context and extinction using contextual fear conditioning which is known to be dependent on the hippocampus. When conditioning occurred prior to the start of 6 weeks of wheel running, wheel running had no effect on memory for context or extinction (assessed with freezing). In contrast, when wheel running occurred for 6 weeks prior to conditioning, physical activity improved contextual memory during a retention test 24 h later, but did not affect extinction learning or memory. Wheel running had no effect on freezing immediately after foot shock presentation during conditioning, suggesting that physical activity does not affect the acquisition of the context-shock association or alter the expression of freezing, per se. Instead, it is argued that physical activity improves the consolidation of contextual memories in the hippocampus. Consistent with improved hippocampus-dependent context learning and memory, 6 weeks of wheel running also improved context discrimination and reduced the context pre-exposure time required to form a strong contextual memory. The effect of wheel running on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) in hippocampal and amygdala subregions was also investigated. Wheel running increased BDNF mRNA in the dentate gyrus, CA1, and the basolateral amygdala. Results are consistent with improved hippocampal function following physical activity.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is a rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of catecholamines. In zebrafish, two genes encoding TH have been identified. We cloned them and studied their expression in zebrafish. In adult tissues, th1 mRNA was more abundant than th2 mRNA in the brain and eyes, whereas th2 mRNA was more abundant in the liver, kidney, heart and gills. In developing brain, th1 mRNA was readily detected at 1 day post-fertilization using qPCR and in situ hybridization, whereas th2 mRNA appeared later. th1 was found in 17 catecholaminergic groups in larval brain, whereas th2 was found in four additional groups. A monoclonal antibody commonly used against TH detected preferentially TH1 protein. The two th genes, probably originated as a result of genome duplication, thus show complementary expression, although th1 is predominant in the brain and th2 in the periphery. th2 may be a novel essential factor in regulation of catecholamine synthesis in zebrafish.
Seasonal changes in the length of the daily photoperiod induce significant changes in social behavior. Hamsters housed in winter-like short photoperiods (SP) can express significantly higher levels of aggression than hamsters housed in long photoperiods (LP) that mimic summer. The mechanisms responsible for increasing aggressiveness in SP-exposed female hamsters are not well understood but may involve seasonal changes in the endocrine system. In experiment 1, the effects of SP exposure on the circulating levels of three adrenal hormones were determined. Short photoperiod exposure was found to significantly depress the circulating levels of cortisol and the adrenal androgen dehydropiandrosterone (DHEA) but significantly increased the circulating levels of the sulfated form of DHEA, DHEAS. Experiment 2 examined the effects of gonadal hormones on several different measures of aggression including its intensity in females housed in both long and short photoperiod. Exposure to SP resulted in high levels of aggression regardless of the endocrine state of the animal or the measure used to quantify aggression. In contrast, administration of estradiol to hamsters housed in LP significantly reduced aggression. The data of the present study support the hypothesis that SP-housed females are more aggressive than LP-housed females because SP exposure renders females insensitive to the aggression-reducing effects of ovarian hormones.
A single exposure to a cat or cat odors has been reported by some groups to induce contextual and auditory fear conditioning and long-lasting changes in anxiety-like behaviour, but there is no evidence for parallel changes in biological stress markers. In the present study we demonstrated in male rats that exposure to a novel environment containing a cloth impregnated with cat fur odor resulted in avoidance of the odor, lower levels of activity and higher pituitary-adrenal (PA) response as compared to those exposed to the novel environment containing a clean cloth, suggesting increased levels of stress in the former animals. When re-exposed 9 days later to the same environment with a clean cloth, previously cat fur exposed rats again showed avoidance of the cloth area and lower levels of activity, suggesting development of contextual fear conditioning, which again was associated with a higher PA activation. In contrast, unaltered both anxiety-like behaviour and PA responsiveness to an elevated plus-maze were found 7 days after cat odor exposure. It is concluded that: (i) PA activation is able to reflect both the stressful properties of cat fur odor and odor-induced contextual fear conditioning; (ii) development of cat odor-induced contextual fear conditioning is independent of the induction of long-lasting changes in anxiety-like behaviour; and (iii) greater PA activation during exposure to the odor context is not explained by non-specific sensitization of the PA axis caused by previous exposure to cat fur odor.
Early life experiences have been shown to adjust cognitive abilities, stress reactivity, fear responses and immune activity in adult mammals of many species. However, whereas severe stressors have been generally associated with the emergence of hypothalamic pituitary adreno-cortical (HPA)-mediated pathology, mild neonatal stressful experiences have been traditionally associated with 'positive' effects or resilience. External stressors stimulate the HPA axis to induce a corticosterone secretion in mouse dams, which, in turn is directly transmitted to the progeny through lactation. Such corticosteroid transfer may offer a unitary mechanism whereby early low corticosterone exposure may favor resilience in the offspring and high corticosterone increase vulnerability to pathology. In this study we further investigated this hypothesis by evaluating the long-term effects of a neonatal exposure to low (33 mg/l) and high (100 mg/l) doses of corticosterone during the first 10 days of life in outbred CD-1 mice through supplementation in the maternal drinking water. Offspring attentional set-shifting abilities, central neurotrophic regulation and levels of natural auto-antibodies (na-Abs) directed to serotonin (SERT) and dopamine (DAT) transporters were assessed in adulthood. While low levels of neonatal corticosterone improved adult cognitive abilities and increased na-Abs levels directed to SERT, high doses of neonatal corticosterone reduced hippocampal BDNF levels and na-Abs directed to DAT. These findings confirm and extend our previous findings, supporting the view that both adaptive plasticity and pathological outcomes in adulthood may depend on circulating neonatal corticosterone levels and that these effects follow a U-shaped profile.
The current study examined effects of chronic estradiol replacement on a prefrontally-mediated working memory task at different ages in a rodent model. Ovariectomized young, middle-aged, and old Long-Evans rats were given 5% or 10% 17beta-estradiol in cholesterol vehicle via Silastic implants and tested on an operant delayed spatial alternation task (DSA). The two estradiol exposed groups did not perform as well as the vehicle control group did. Deficits were present at all but the longest delay, where all groups including the vehicle control group performed poorly. Surprisingly, there was not a significant effect of age or an age by estradiol interaction, despite the fact that old rats had longer latencies to respond after both correct and incorrect lever presses. These data confirm our earlier finding that chronic estradiol treatment has an impairing effect on working memory as measured on DSA task. However, contrary to expectations, young, middle-aged and old rats were similarly impaired by chronic estradiol treatment; there were no indications of differential effects at different periods of the lifespan. Also contrary to expectations, there were no indications of a decline in DSA performance with advancing age. Overall, the results demonstrate that chronic estradiol exposure causes deficits in the DSA performance of ovariectomized female rats, not only in young adulthood, but also at older ages analogous to those at which hormone replacement therapy is commonly prescribed in humans.
The gonadal hormone testosterone (T) regulates aggression across a wide range of vertebrate species. Recent evidence suggests that the adrenal prohormone dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) may also play an important role in regulating aggression. DHEA can be converted into active sex steroids, such as T and estradiol (E(2)), within the brain. Previous studies show that circulating DHEA levels display diurnal rhythms and that melatonin increases adrenal DHEA secretion in vitro. Here we examined serum DHEA and T levels in long-day housed Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus), a nocturnal species in which melatonin treatment increases aggression. In Experiment 1, serum DHEA and T levels were measured in adult male hamsters during the day (1200 h, noon) and night (2400 h, midnight). In Experiment 2, aggression was elicited using 5-min resident-intruder trials during the day (1800 h) and night (2000 h) (lights-off at 2000 h). Serum DHEA and T levels were measured 24 h before and immediately after aggressive encounters. In Experiment 1, there was no significant difference in serum DHEA or T levels between noon and midnight, although DHEA levels showed a trend to be lower at midnight. In Experiment 2, territorial aggression was greater during the night than the day. Moreover, at night, aggressive interactions rapidly decreased serum DHEA levels but increased serum T levels. In contrast, aggressive interactions during the day did not affect serum DHEA or T levels. These data suggest that nocturnal aggressive encounters rapidly increase conversion of DHEA to T and that melatonin may play a permissive role in this process.
Prolactin is best known for its involvement in lactation, where it regulates mechanisms that supply nutrients for milk production. In individuals with pathological hyperprolactinemia, glucose and fat homeostasis have been reported to be negatively influenced. It is not previously known, however, whether prolactin regulates lipogenesis in human adipose tissue. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of prolactin on lipogenesis in human adipose tissue in vitro. Prolactin decreased the concentration of malonyl-CoA, the product of the first committed step in lipogenesis, to 77+/-6% compared to control 100+/-5% (p=0.022) in cultured human adipose tissue. In addition, prolactin was found to decrease glucose transporter 4 ( GLUT4) mRNA expression, which may cause decreased glucose uptake. In conclusion, we propose that prolactin decreases lipogenesis in human adipose tissue as a consequence of suppressed malonyl-CoA concentration in parallel with decreased GLUT-4 expression. In the lactating woman, this regulation in adipose tissue may enhance the provision of nutrients for the infant instead of nutrients being stored in adipose tissue. In hyperprolactinemic individuals, a suppressed lipogenesis could contribute to an insulin resistant state with consequences for the health.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in children is increasingly used in clinical application and in developmental research; however, little is known how pediatric patient and typically developing populations successfully complete studies. We examined pediatric success rates with epilepsy, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism spectrum disorders (ASD), and typically developing children (TYP). We also examined the affect of age, and, for ADHD populations, medication status on success rates. We defined a successful fMRI individual run when the data were interpretable and included in group statistics. For unsuccessful runs, datasets with excessive motion or floor task performance were categorized when possible. All clinical groups scanned less successfully than controls; medication status did not affect ADHD success (epilepsy, 80%; ADHD (off methylphenidate), 77%; ADHD (on methylphenidate), 81%; ASD, 70%; TYP, 87%). Ten to 18-year-old had a significantly greater scan success rate than 4- to 6-year-old; adolescents (13- to 18-year-old) demonstrated greater scan success rates than 7- to 9-year-old. Success rate for completing an entire battery of experimental runs (n = 2-6), varied between 50-59% for patient populations and 69% for TYP (79% when excluding 4- to 6-year-old). Success rate for completing one run from a battery was greater than 90% for all groups, except for ASD (81%). These data suggest 20-30% more children should be recruited in these patient groups, but only 10-20% for TYP for research studies. Studies with 4- to 6-year-olds may require 20-40% additional participants; studies with 10- to 18-year-olds may require 10-15% additional participants.
The ability to quickly decide on the nature of unexpected environmental changes is vital for adaptive behavior. Converging evidence suggests that the orbitofrontal cortex plays an important role in the rapid assignment of motivational significance and goal relevance to environmental stimuli. However, its putative role as a central part of a network involved in the prioritization of attentional selection, particulary when significant environmental changes occur unexpectedly or outside of attentional focus, remains to be established. Therefore, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging with a subsequent psychophysiological interaction analysis to reveal the functional connectivity of the right posterior orbitofrontal cortex (pOFC) in a context, in which subjects had to adjust goal-directed behavior to behaviorally relevant events presented outside of the current attentional focus. As expected, an increased functional interaction between pOFC and regions involved in the modulation of selective attention (pulvinar nucleus and inferior parietal lobule) and processing of &quot;bottom-up&quot; salience (substantia nigra) could be observed when unattended, but significant changes were relevant for behavior. Moreover, a positive correlation between level of accuracy and an increased functional connectivity between pOFC and extrastriate cortex suggested that a motivationally-triggered signal from pOFC may have increased visual processing of the relevant but currently unattended stimulus attribute. These data provide evidence that the interplay between the pOFC and these regions underlies a mechanism by which organisms rapidly achieve voluntary control of attentional resources to deal with behaviorally significant changes that occur outside of current attentional focus.
During rest, multiple cortical brain regions are functionally linked forming resting-state networks. This high level of functional connectivity within resting-state networks suggests the existence of direct neuroanatomical connections between these functionally linked brain regions to facilitate the ongoing interregional neuronal communication. White matter tracts are the structural highways of our brain, enabling information to travel quickly from one brain region to another region. In this study, we examined both the functional and structural connections of the human brain in a group of 26 healthy subjects, combining 3 Tesla resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging time-series with diffusion tensor imaging scans. Nine consistently found functionally linked resting-state networks were retrieved from the resting-state data. The diffusion tensor imaging scans were used to reconstruct the white matter pathways between the functionally linked brain areas of these resting-state networks. Our results show that well-known anatomical white matter tracts interconnect at least eight of the nine commonly found resting-state networks, including the default mode network, the core network, primary motor and visual network, and two lateralized parietal-frontal networks. Our results suggest that the functionally linked resting-state networks reflect the underlying structural connectivity architecture of the human brain.
Biological differences in male and female sexuality are obvious in the behavioral domain, but the central mechanisms that might explain these behavioral gender differences remain unclear. In this study, we merged two earlier positron emission tomography data sets to enable systematic comparison of the brain responses in heterosexual men and women during sexual tactile genital (penile and clitoral) stimulation and during orgasm. Gender commonalities were most evident during orgasm, a phase which demonstrated activations in the anterior lobe of the cerebellar vermis and deep cerebellar nuclei, and deactivations in the left ventromedial and orbitofrontal cortex in both men and women. During tactile genital stimulation, deactivations in the right amygdala and left fusiform gyrus were found for both genders. Marked gender differences were seen during this phase: left fronto-parietal areas (motor cortices, somatosensory area 2 and posterior parietal cortex) were activated more in women, whereas in men, the right claustrum and ventral occipitotemporal cortex showed larger activation. The only prominent gender difference during orgasm was male-biased activation of the periaqueductal gray matter. From these results, we conclude that during the sexual act, differential brain responses across genders are principally related to the stimulatory (plateau) phase and not to the orgasmic phase itself. These results add to a better understanding of the neural underpinnings of human sexuality, which might benefit treatment of psychosexual disorders.
ARX (the aristaless-related homeobox gene) is a transcription factor that participates in the development of GABAergic and cholinergic neurons in the forebrain. Many ARX mutations have been identified in X-linked lissencephaly and mental retardation with epilepsy, and thus ARX is considered to be a causal gene for the two syndromes although the neurobiological functions of each mutation remain unclear. We attempted to elucidate the causal relationships between individual ARX mutations and disease phenotypes by generating a series of mutant mice. We generated three types of mice with knocked-in ARX mutations associated with X-linked lissencephaly (P353R) and mental retardation [P353L and 333ins(GCG)7]. Mice with the P355R mutation (equivalent to the human 353 position) that died after birth were significantly different in Arx transcript/protein amounts, GABAergic and cholinergic neuronal development, brain morphology and lifespan from mice with P355L and 330ins(GCG)7 but considerably similar to Arx-deficient mice with truncated ARX mutation in lissencephaly. Mice with the 330ins(GCG)7 mutation showed severe seizures and impaired learning performance, whereas mice with the P355L mutation exhibited mild seizures and only slightly impaired learning performance. Both types of mutant mice exhibited the mutation-specific lesser presence of GABAergic and cholinergic neurons in the striatum, medial septum and ventral forebrain nuclei when compared with wild-type mice. Present findings that reveal a causal relationship between ARX mutations and the pleiotropic phenotype in mice, suggest that the ARX-related syndrome, including lissencephaly or mental retardation, is caused by only the concerned ARX mutations without the involvement of other genetic factors.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a recessive genetic disease, affects lower motoneurons leading to denervation, atrophy, paralysis and in severe cases death. Reduced levels of survival motor neuron (SMN) protein cause SMA. As a first step towards generating a genetic model of SMA in zebrafish, we identified three smn mutations. Two of these alleles, smnY262stop and smnL265stop, were stop mutations that resulted in exon 7 truncation, whereas the third, smnG264D, was a missense mutation corresponding to an amino acid altered in human SMA patients. Smn protein levels were low/undetectable in homozygous mutants consistent with unstable protein products. Homozygous mutants from all three alleles were smaller and survived on the basis of maternal Smn dying during the second week of larval development. Analysis of the neuromuscular system in these mutants revealed a decrease in the synaptic vesicle protein, SV2. However, two other synaptic vesicle proteins, synaptotagmin and synaptophysin were unaffected. To address whether the SV2 decrease was due specifically to Smn in motoneurons, we tested whether expressing human SMN protein exclusively in motoneurons in smn mutants could rescue the phenotype. For this, we generated a transgenic zebrafish line with human SMN driven by the motoneuron-specific zebrafish hb9 promoter and then generated smn mutant lines carrying this transgene. We found that introducing human SMN specifically into motoneurons rescued the SV2 decrease observed in smn mutants. Our analysis indicates the requirement for Smn in motoneurons to maintain SV2 in presynaptic terminals indicating that Smn, either directly or indirectly, plays a role in presynaptic integrity.

White matter hyperintensities (WMHs) observed on cerebral magnetic resonance images (MRIs) are associated with age and hypertension, suggesting a vascular mechanism of pathogenesis. Central systolic blood pressure (cSBP) correlates more closely with measures of cardiovascular disease risk than brachial pressure. We sought to determine whether cSBP correlates with WMHs and if cSBP is predictive of cerebrovascular disease. Radial applanation tonometric measurements for cSBP and augmentation index (AI) were carried out in unselected individuals undergoing carotid ultrasound. WMHs were assessed retrospectively using fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR)-MRIs as periventricular (PVH) and deep white matter hyperintensities (DWMH), and they were rated using the Fazekas scale. A total of 179 patients, 94 (53%) men and 85 (47%) women, with a mean age of 66+/-13 years were included in the study. On MRI, 17, 74, 67 and 21 patients had PVH grades 0, 1, 2 and 3, respectively. Forty-eight, 69, 49 and 13 had DWMH grades 0, 1, 2 and 3, respectively. In our study population, PVH correlated with age, brachial SBP, cSBP and AI (r=0.49, 0.28, 0.23; P&lt;0.002 and r=0.13; P&lt;0.05, respectively). DWMH also correlated with age, brachial SBP and cSBP (r=0.41, 0.30, 0.22; P&lt;0.003, respectively), but not with AI. cSBP values were associated with PVH/DWMH grades 2 and 3, but brachial SBP correlated only with grade 3. Mean carotid intima-media thickness (common carotid arteries (CCA)-IMT) was 0.68+/-0.13 mm. CCA-IMT and plaque score (PS) correlated with PVH/DWMH. Multivariate regression analysis showed cSBP, age and PS to be independently associated with PVH and DWMH. Correlation of cSBP with PVH and DWMH was independent of PS. Central SBP correlated with PVH and DWMH in FLAIR-MRIs and can better predict WMHs than brachial SBP in earlier stages.
We introduce a spatial filtering method in the spherical harmonics domain for constraining magnetoencephalographic (MEG) multichannel measurements to any user-specified spherical region of interest (ROI) inside the head. The method relies on a linear transformation of the signal space separation inner coefficients that represent the MEG signal generated by sources located inside the head. The spatial filtering is achieved effectively by constructing a spherical harmonics basis vector that is dependent on the center of the targeted ROI and it does not require any discrete division of the headspace into grids like the traditional MEG spatial filtering approaches. The validation and the performance of the method are demonstrated through both simulated and actual bilateral auditory-evoked data experiments.
Current neuroscience has identified several constructs to increase the effectiveness of upper extremity rehabilitation. One is the use of progressive, skill acquisition-oriented training. Another approach emphasizes the use of bilateral activities. Building on these principles, this paper describes the design and feasibility testing of a robotic/virtual environment system designed to train the arm of persons who have had strokes. The system provides a variety of assistance modes, scalable workspaces and hand-robot interfaces allowing persons with strokes to train multiple joints in three dimensions. The simulations utilize assistance algorithms that adjust task difficulty both online and offline in relation to subject performance. Several distinctive haptic effects have been incorporated into the simulations. An adaptive master-slave relationship between the unimpaired and impaired arm encourages active movement of the subject's hemiparetic arm during a bimanual task. Adaptive anti-gravity support and damping stabilize the arm during virtual reaching and placement tasks. An adaptive virtual spring provides assistance to complete the movement if the subject is unable to complete the task in time. Finally, haptically rendered virtual objects help to shape the movement trajectory during a virtual placement task. A proof of concept study demonstrated this system to be safe, feasible and worthy of further study.



Religious traditions across the world display beliefs in healing through prayer. The healing powers of prayer have been examined in triple-blind, randomized controlled trials. We illustrate randomized controlled trials on prayer and healing, with one study in each of different categories of outcome. We provide a critical analysis of the scientific and philosophical dimensions of such research. Prayer has been reported to improve outcomes in human as well as nonhuman species, to have no effect on outcomes, to worsen outcomes and to have retrospective healing effects. For a multitude of reasons, research on the healing effects of prayer is riddled with assumptions, challenges and contradictions that make the subject a scientific and religious minefield. We believe that the research has led nowhere, and that future research, if any, will forever be constrained by the scientific limitations that we outline.
Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. israelensis, which is used worldwide to control Aedes aegypti larvae, produces Cry11Aa and other toxins during sporulation. In this study, pull-down assays were performed using biotinylated Cry11Aa toxin and solubilized brush border membrane vesicles prepared from midguts of Aedes larvae. Three of the eluted proteins were identified as aminopeptidase N (APN), one of which was a 140 kDa protein, named AaeAPN1 (AAEL012778 in VectorBase). This protein localizes to the apical side of posterior midgut epithelial cells of larva. The full-length AaeAPN1 was cloned and expressed in Eschericia coli and in Sf21 cells. AaeAPN1 protein expressed in Sf21 cells was enzymatically active, had a GPI-anchor but did not bind Cry11Aa. A truncated AaeAPN1, however, binds Cry11Aa with high affinity, and also Cry11Ba but with lower affinity. BBMV but not Sf21 expressed AaeAPN1 can be detected by wheat germ agglutinin suggesting the native but Sf21 cell-expressed APN1 contains N-acetylglucosamine moieties.
OPA1 is the major gene responsible for Dominant Optic Atrophy (DOA), a blinding disease that affects specifically the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), which function consists in connecting the neuro-retina to the brain. OPA1 encodes an intra-mitochondrial dynamin, involved in inner membrane structures and ubiquitously expressed, raising the critical question of the origin of the disease pathophysiology. Here, we review the fundamental knowledge on OPA1 functions and regulations, highlighting their involvements in mitochondrial respiration, membrane dynamic and apoptosis. In light of these functions, we then describe the remarkable RGC mitochondrial network physiology and analyse data collected from animal models expressing OPA1 mutations. If, to date RGC mitochondria does not present any peculiarity at the molecular level, they represent possible targets of numerous assaults, like light, pressure, oxidative stress and energetic impairment, which jeopardize their function and survival, as observed in OPA1 mouse models. Although fascinating fields of investigation are still to be addressed on OPA1 functions and on DOA pathophysiology, we have reached a conspicuous state of knowledge with pertinent cell and animal models, from which therapeutic trials can be initiated and deeply evaluated.
The activity of many oncogenic proteins depends on the molecular chaperone Hsp90. Recent studies indicate that tumorigenesis is associated with increased expression of chaperones, such as Hsp90. However, little is known about the isoform dependence and cochaperone contribution on tumor formation. Here we report the first systematic expression profiling for Hsp90alpha and Hsp90beta, the cochaperones Aha1, Cdc37, p23, Tpr2, and the Hsp90 dependent transcription factor HSF1 in a set of different tumor tissue samples. We find that in 10 out of 17 human tumors the expression level of at least one Hsp90 or Hsp90 cochaperone protein is significantly elevated. However, individual tumors show unique patterns of expression. Furthermore, Hsp90alpha and Hsp90beta expression levels are not related. Our results suggest that expression profiling of Hsp90alpha and Hsp90beta and its cochaperone proteins may be useful for cancer diagnosis and prognosis as well as for tailoring of drugs that interfere with the Hsp90 system in a tumor specific manner.
It has been demonstrated that during neurogenesis in the mammalian brain, cell-cycle lengthening in neuronal progenitors may cause them to switch from proliferation to neuron-generating division. However, little is known about the cellular mechanisms involved in lengthening of the cell cycle. Growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) is a nervous system-specific protein whose expression in proliferating neuroblasts is related to neurogenesis. In this study, we investigated the effect of GAP-43 on cell-cycle progression in transgenic fibroblast cells. Using cumulative bromodeoxyuridine labeling, cell-cycle kinetics in GAP-43-transgenic and control NIH 3T3 cells were analyzed. Our data demonstrate that expression of GAP-43 in fibroblasts results in lengthening of the cell cycle compared to control fibroblasts. The mechanism by which GAP-43 mediated this effect appeared to involve increasing the time spent by the cells in the G(1) phase of the cell cycle.


Features of acute rejection in dual kidney transplant have not been studied. The aim of this study is to compare acute rejections in dual kidney transplant recipients from elderly donors on different immunosuppressive protocols. Sixty-nine patients were evaluated: 28 received calcineurin inhibitor-based (group 1) and 41 received calcineurin inhibitor-free immunosuppression (group 2). Histology of all donor kidneys was evaluated before implantation. All rejections showed tubulitis in both groups, and were classified as T-cell mediated acute rejections. Incidence and Banff grade of rejections in the two groups were not significantly different. Late rejections however, were observed in group 1 (P &lt; 0.01) whereas steroid-resistant rejections occurred in group 2 (P &lt; 0.03). C4d deposition was only observed in group 2. Occurrence of acute rejection was significantly associated with graft loss due to interstitial fibrosis/tubular atrophy in both groups. In group 1 mean serum creatinine levels of patients with rejections at six months and one year were higher than those of patients without rejections (P &lt; 0.03 and P &lt; 0.009, respectively). In group 2 they were higher at six months (P &lt; 0.01) but not at one year. In addition, graft loss due to interstitial fibrosis/tubular atrophy occurred in 3/28 patients in group 1 (10.7%, OR= 1.95, 95%CI 1.02-3.71), and in 1/41 patients in group 2 (2.4%, OR= 0.41, 95%CI 0.07-2.24). Taken together these results suggest better renal function in patients on calcineurin inhibitor-free immunosuppression. In conclusion, acute rejections were detrimental irrespective of the type of immunosuppression, but different features were observed with each therapy. A tailored approach should be advantageous for prevention and treatment of acute rejections.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is a measure of sensorimotor gating or information processing. Few studies have examined PPI in bipolar disorder (BD); two studies reported a PPI disruption and two reported no change. There are gender differences in PPI and within the clinical profile of BD, which may explain some of these discrepancies. Thus, the effect of gender on PPI in BD was the focus of the current study. Euthymic BD patients (14 male/15 female) were compared to age- and IQ-matched healthy control participants (16 male/16 female). Assessment of PPI included 21 pulse-alone trials (115 dB) and a total of 42 prepulse-pulse trials (seven of each prepulse: 74, 78, 86 dB) at two stimulus onset asynchrony levels (SOA: 60, 120 ms). There was a group x SOA and a group x gender interaction, reflecting that men with BD showed reduced PPI compared to control males at the 60-ms SOA (3% in BD vs. 26% in controls), but not the 120-ms SOA. In contrast, women with BD had significantly increased PPI compared to female controls at the 120-ms SOA (49% in BD vs. 29% in controls), but not the 60-ms SOA. Compared to control participants BD patients showed changes in PPI, which are gender-dependent; male BD participants had reduced PPI, whereas female BD participants had increased PPI. This gender difference highlights the need to consider men and women with BD as two distinct groups, at least in PPI studies.

A new experimental paradigm called &quot;Early-Night Serial Awakenings&quot; (ENSA) was explored to find out its strengths and weaknesses for psychophysiological studies of NREM sleep dreaming. Five participants spent 20 experimental nights in the sleep laboratory, and were serially awakened with approximately 24-minute intervals during Stages 2 and 3 of NREM sleep. As a total, 164 awakenings were conducted during the sessions that lasted on average 193 min. Altogether, 30% of NREM sleep awakenings led to dream reports, 39% to reports of white dreaming, and 31% to reports of dreamless sleep. Results also show that sleep EEG spectral power, dream recall frequency as well as dream complexity remained stable throughout the serial awakening sessions. We conclude that, as ENSA dreams appeared to be static and very limited in content, the paradigm we identified could be used in future studies to reveal the psychophysiological mechanisms of relatively simple forms of early-night NREM sleep dreaming.

Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) are thought to be multifactorial in etiology. A variety of susceptibility genes have been associated, but definitive conclusions have been difficult to draw and are partly hampered by the small number of patients in each study. We undertook a comprehensive meta-analysis on any gene that was investigated in a case-control model of AAA. A comprehensive, genetic meta-analysis of all genes investigated by using an allelic-association, case-control model in AAA was conducted. Electronic databases were searched through July 2009 for any candidate gene in AAA. Odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were determined for each gene-disease association by using fixed- and random-effect models. Twenty studies in 7 candidate genes were analysed among 16,748 individuals (i.e., 7891 patients and 8857 controls). Of the 8 genes studied, 5 genes were associated with AAA. The angiotensin-1 converting enzyme (ACE) insertion/deletion polymorphism (I/D) showed a significant association in both a dominant model (OR, 1.35; 95% CI, 1.17 to 1.56; P &lt; 0.0001) and a recessive model (OR 1.24; 95% CI, 1.08 to 1.42; P &lt; 0.00001). The pooled ORs for the C677T variant of 5,10-methyltetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) were 1.34 (95% CI, 1.08 to 1.65; P = 0.007) for the dominant model and 1.16 (95% CI, 0.81 to 1.67; P = 0.41) for a recessive model. There was also significance in the dominant model of the angiotensin-1 receptor polymorphism (AT1R) A1166C (OR, 1.94; 95% CI, 1.66 to 2.28; P &lt; 0.00001) and in the dominant (95% CI, 1.18 to 2.11; P = 0.002) and recessive (OR, 1.51; 95% CI, 1.13 to 2.02; P = 0.006) models of the interleukin-10 1082 polymorphism. The MMP-3 nt-1612 polymorphism was also significant in the dominant (OR, 1.4; 95% CI, 1.12 to 1.76; P = 0.003) and recessive (OR 1.3; 95% CI, 1.05 to 1.61; P = 0.02) models. In conclusion, there is a genetic basis to sporadic aortic aneurysms. Patients with the ACE/D and MTHFR/677T, AT1R/C, IL-10/A, and MMP-3 nt-1612 polymorphisms are at an increased risk of developing this condition.



A multifaceted contemporary movement aims to correct alleged weaknesses in the scientific foundation of psychoanalysis. For both pragmatic-political and scientific reasons we are encouraged to do and/or study systematic empirical research on psychoanalytic process and outcome, as well as apparently relevant neuroscience. The thesis advanced here is that the privileged status this movement accords such research as against in-depth case studies is unwarranted epistemologically and is potentially damaging both to the development of our understanding of the analytic process itself and to the quality of our clinical work. In a nonobjectivist hermeneutic paradigm best suited to psychoanalysis, the analyst embraces the existential uncertainty that accompanies the realization that there are multiple good ways to be, in the moment and more generally in life, and that the choices he or she makes are always influenced by culture, by sociopolitical mind-set, by personal values, by countertransference, and by other factors in ways that are never fully known. Nevertheless, a critical, nonconformist psychoanalysis always strives to expose and challenge such foundations for the participants' choices. The &quot;consequential uniqueness&quot; of each interaction and the indeterminacy associated with the free will of the participants make the individual case study especially suited for the advancement of &quot;knowledge&quot;-that is, the progressive enrichment of sensibility-in our field.
Conventional neuroanatomical methods may fail to demonstrate the presence of axons that are finer than 1 microm in diameter because such processes are near or below the limit of resolution of the light microscope. The presence of such axons can, however, be readily demonstrated by recording. The most easily interpreted type of recording for this purpose is the demonstration of antidromic activation of the cell body following stimulation of the region through which the axon passes. We have exploited this technique in the hypothalamus and have demonstrated the presence of double axonal projections or axons branching very near the cell bodies of the secretory cells of the neurohypophysial system in the rat supraoptic nucleus. We found that a small proportion of supraoptic magnocellular cells could be antidromically activated both from the neural stalk and from elsewhere in the hypothalamus, including the suprachiasmatic nucleus (8 cells of a total of 182) and the antero-ventral third ventricular region (AV3V; 4 of 182 cells) near the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT). Collision of antidromic and orthodromic spikes showed that the cells were clearly antidromically (rather than synaptically, or orthodromically) activated from both sites. A stimulus applied to one of the axons prevented propagation of a spike evoked by a pulse delivered to the other axon until sufficient time had elapsed after the first stimulus for the resultant spike to have propagated from the first stimulus site along one cell process (towards the cell body or branch point), and from this point along the other axonal branch to the second stimulus site (there was also a short additional delay period during which the axon at the site of the second stimulus recovered from its absolute refractory period). If the interval between the stimuli was progressively reduced, there came a point where the second spike failed. Such a clear demonstration of dual projections in a system where the cells were previously thought to have only a single axon raises the possibility that many nerve cells in the CNS have previously unsuspected projections.
Contrary to popular beliefs, a recent empirical study using eye tracking has shown that a non-clinical sample of socially anxious adults did not avoid the eyes during face scanning. Using eye-tracking measures, we sought to extend these findings by examining the relation between stable shyness and face scanning patterns in a non-clinical sample of 11-year-old children. We found that shyness was associated with longer dwell time to the eye region than the mouth, suggesting that some shy children were not avoiding the eyes. Shyness was also correlated with fewer first fixations to the nose, which is thought to reflect the typical global strategy of face processing. Present results replicate and extend recent work on social anxiety and face scanning in adults to shyness in children. These preliminary findings also provide support for the notion that some shy children may be hypersensitive to detecting social cues and intentions in others conveyed by the eyes. Theoretical and practical implications for understanding the social cognitive correlates and treatment of shyness are discussed.
Development of effective treatments for Alzheimer's disease is complicated by the poor understanding of its pathophysiology. Recent work suggests mitochondria may play a primary role in neurodegeneration, due to alterations in mitochondria turnover and that the brain is specifically susceptible, due to high energy demand. Mitochondria are the major source of cellular energy through oxidative phosphorylation and regulate intracellular calcium levels and survival pathways. Hypoxia has been implicated in several neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease. During hypoxic events, mitochondrial complex III produces high levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). These ROS seem to have a primary role in the regulation of the transcription factor hypoxia inducible factor 1alpha that triggers death effectors. Here we discuss the role of mitochondria in AD putting focus on the activation of hypoxia-mediated mitochondrial pathways, which could eventually lead to cell degeneration and death.
Soluble oligomers and/or aggregates of Amyloid-beta (Abeta) are viewed by many as the principal cause for neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanism by which Abeta and its aggregates cause neurodegeneration is not clear. The toxicity of Abeta has been attributed to its hydrophobicity. However, many specific mitochondrial cytopathologies e.g., loss of complex IV, loss of iron homeostasis, or oxidative damage cannot be explained by Abeta's hydrophobicity. In order to understand the role of Abeta in these cytopathologies we hypothesized that Abeta impairs specific metabolic pathways. We focused on heme metabolism because it links iron, mitochondria, and Abeta. We generated experimental evidence showing that Abeta alters heme metabolism in neuronal cells. Furthermore, we demonstrated that Abeta binds to and depletes intracellular regulatory heme (forming an Abeta-heme complex), which provides a strong molecular connection between Abeta and heme metabolism. We showed that heme depletion leads to key cytopathologies identical to those seen in AD including loss of iron homeostasis and loss of mitochondrial complex IV. Abeta-heme exhibits a peroxidase-like catalytic activity, which catalytically accelerates oxidative damage. Interestingly, the amino acids sequence of rodent Abeta (roAbeta) and human Abeta (huAbeta) is identical except for three amino acids within the hydrophilic region, which is also the heme-binding motif that we identified. We found that huAbeta, unlike roAbeta, binds heme tightly and forms a peroxidase. Although, roAbeta and huAbeta equally form fibrils and aggregates, rodents do not develop AD-like neuropathology. These findings led us to propose a new mechanism for mitochondrial dysfunction and huAbeta's neurotoxicity. This mechanism prompted the development of methylene blue (MB), which increased heme synthesis, complex IV, and mitochondrial function. Thus, MB may delay the onset and progression of AD and serve as a lead to develop novel drugs to treat AD.
The &quot;mitochondrial cascade hypothesis&quot; could explain many of the biochemical, genetic and pathological features of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). Somatic mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) could cause energy failure, increased oxidative stress and accumulation of amyloid beta, which in a vicious cycle reinforces mtDNA damage and oxidative stress. Despite the evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction in AD, and despite the cognitive impairment frequently reported in patients with mtDNA mutation, no causative mutation in the mtDNA have been linked to AD. Indeed, results of studies on the role of mtDNA polymorphisms or haplogroups in AD are controversial. In this minireview, we summarize the actual knowledge about the involvement of mtDNA in AD pathology.
The multiple dysfunctional changes associated with a brain affected with Alzheimer's disease (AD) makes the understanding of primary pathogenic mechanisms challenging. Mitochondrial dysfunction has been associated with almost every neurodegenerative disease and neurodegenerative-related event. Alzheimer's disease is no exception with data suggesting mitochondrial malfunctions ranging from improper organelle dynamics, defective oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), oxidative stress, and harmful beta amyloid (Abeta) associations with the mitochondria. A major change often associated with AD is impairment of the electron transport chain at complex IV: cytochrome c oxidase (COX). This mini-review concentrates on recent work by our group that sheds light on the role COX deficiency plays in the pathophysiology of AD using a transgenic mouse model. Results suggest that neuronal COX deficiency does not increase oxidative stress and nor increases amyloidal formations in vivo. Conclusions from this work also suggest that Abeta formation is a cause of COX deficiency as opposed to the consequence.
This study investigated in male European hamsters (Cricetus cricetus ) whether entrainment of circannual rhythms follows the principles of the nonparametric entrainment model. In 2 experiments the times of the year when long (LP) or short photoperiod (SP) are able to synchronize the reproductive cycle were determined, by recording phase response curves (PRCs). A total of 28 groups of 10 hamsters were synchronized by SP, before being subjected to 2 converse experiments: a) 14 groups were transferred to constant LP, only interrupted by SP for 1 month (SP-pulse), the pulse being increasingly delayed between groups by 2 weeks or 1 month steps; and b) the remaining 14 groups stayed in constant SP interrupted by LP for 1 month (LP-pulse) at different phases of the cycle. In a 3rd experiment 5 groups of 10 European hamsters were subjected to constant LP interrupted by 1-month SP-pulses in regular non-365-day zeitgeber intervals (circannual T-cycles) differing between groups (c). The reproductive state was checked every 2 or 4 weeks. The PRCs revealed that an SP-pulse had a very strong phase-resetting capability of -180 degrees to at least +81 degrees in subjective summer (a). During subjective winter when the animals hibernate, a SP-pulse had only weak effectiveness (a) whereas an LP-pulse advanced the circannual clock by up to +41 degrees (b). In the latter conditions a further advance of up to +156 degrees was achieved by the decrease in photoperiod at the return to SP conditions, which terminated the reproductive phase already after 4 to 5 weeks. In different circannual T-cycles the animals entrained for at least 2 cycles (c). In conclusion, 1) the circannual rhythm of European hamsters can be entrained by one photoperiodic signal per cycle, 2) the decrease in photoperiod is most important for its synchronization, and 3) as in circadian clocks the resetting of circannual clocks follows the principles of the nonparametric entrainment model.
Intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) project to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and are essential for normal photic entrainment of global circadian rhythms in physiology and behavior. The effect of light on the central clock is dependent on circadian phase, and the retina itself contains intrinsic circadian oscillators that can alter its sensitivity to light. This raises the possibility that the ipRGCs, and hence the photoentraining signals in the retinohypothalamic tract, are subject to circadian modulation. Although the ipRGC photopigment melanopsin reportedly exhibits circadian variations in expression, there has been no direct test of the hypothesis that ipRGC sensitivity is under circadian control. Here, the authors provide such a test by measuring the sensitivity of intrinsic photoresponses of rat ipRGCs at 4 circadian times (CTs) using multielectrode array recording. There was little if any circadian modulation in the threshold of intrinsic ipRGC photoresponses. However, very bright light evoked significantly more spiking early in the subjective night (CT12-13) than at other circadian phases. Thus, the gain of the melanopsin-driven response is slightly increased in the early night, at roughly the circadian phase when melanopsin synthesis is thought to be elevated. However, this gain change is probably too modest to contribute much to shape the phase response curve (PRC) for behavioral photoentrainment.
Hyperpolarization-activated cation nonselective (HCN) channels represent an interesting group of targets for drug development. In this study, the authors report the development of a novel membrane potential-sensitive dye (MPSD) assay for HCN channel modulators that has been miniaturized into 384-well fluorescent imaging plate reader (FLIPR) high-throughput screening (HTS) format. When optimized (by cell plating density, plate type, cell recovery from cryopreservation), the well-to-well signal variability was low, with a Z' = 0.73 and coefficient of variation = 6.4%, whereas the MPSD fluorescence signal amplitude was -23,700 +/- 1500 FLIPR(3) relative fluorescence units (a linear relationship was found between HCN1 MPSD fluorescence signal and the cell plating density) and was completely blocked by 30 microM ZD7288. The assay tolerated up to 1% DMSO, inclusion of which did not significantly change the signal kinetics or amplitude. A single-concentration screening of an ion channel-focused library composed of 4855 compounds resulted in 89 HCN1 blocker hits, 51 of which were subsequently analyzed with an 8-point concentration-response analysis on the IonWorks HT electrophysiology platform. The correlation between MPSD and the electrophysiology assay was moderate, as shown by the linear regression analysis (r(2) = 0.56) between the respective IC(50)s obtained using these 2 assays. The reported HTS-compatible HCN channel blocker assay can serve as a tool in drug discovery in the pursuit of HCN channel isoform-selective small molecules that could be used in the development of clinically relevant compounds.
Neural stem cells exist in the mammalian developing and adult nervous system. Recently, tremendous interest in the potential of neural stem cells for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases and brain injuries has substantially promoted research on neural stem cell self-renewal and differentiation. Multiple cell-intrinsic regulators coordinate with the microenvironment through various signaling pathways to regulate neural stem cell maintenance, self-renewal, and fate determination. This review focuses on essential intracellular regulators that control neural stem cell maintenance and self-renewal in both embryonic brains and adult nervous system. These factors include the orphan nuclear receptor TLX, the high-mobility-group DNA binding protein Sox2, the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor Hes, the tumor suppressor gene Pten, the membrane-associated protein Numb, and its cytoplasmic homolog Numblike. The aim of this review is to summarize our current understanding of neural stem cell regulation through these important stem cell regulators.
Rat C6 glioma cells are commonly used to investigate the functions of glial cells. To evaluate the presence of testosterone and its metabolism in rat C6 glioma cells, we cultured them in media with or without the addition of testosterone propionate and anastrozole, a blocker of aromatase, the enzyme needed to transform testosterone into estradiol. The same procedure was repeated with morphine (10 and 100 microM), known to decrease testosterone levels in the brain (in rats) and plasma (in rats and humans). Confluent cells were exposed to the test media for 48 h and then collected. Cell pellets were used to determine testosterone by radioimmunoassay. The C6 cells contained detectable levels of testosterone and the levels increased with the addition of testosterone to the medium. Aromatase blockage by anastrozole increased cellular levels of testosterone regardless of the addition of exogenous testosterone. Both concentrations of morphine dose-dependently decreased testosterone levels in the C6 cells; this effect was also present with the contemporary administration of anastrozole. Our findings show that testosterone is present in rat C6 glioma cells and can be metabolized by aromatase. Moreover, the presence of morphine in the culture medium strongly decreased testosterone, demonstrating that the glia would be a target of the morphine-induced hypogonadal effect.
The vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) establishes pH gradients along secretory and endocytic pathways. Progressive acidification is essential for proteolytic processing of prohormones and aggregation of soluble content proteins. The V-ATPase V(0) subunit is thought to have a separate role in budding and fusion events. Prolonged treatment of professional secretory cells with selective V-ATPase inhibitors (bafilomycin A1, concanamycin A) was used to investigate its role in secretory-granule biogenesis. As expected, these inhibitors eliminated regulated secretion and blocked prohormone processing. Drug treatment caused the formation of large, mixed organelles, with components of immature granules and lysosomes and some markers of autophagy. Markers of the trans-Golgi network and earlier secretory pathway were unaffected. Ammonium chloride and methylamine treatment blocked acidification to a similar extent as the V-ATPase inhibitors without producing mixed organelles. Newly synthesized granule content proteins appeared in mixed organelles, whereas mature secretory granules were spared. Following concanamycin treatment, selected membrane proteins enter tubulovesicular structures budding into the interior of mixed organelles. shRNA-mediated knockdown of the proteolipid subunit of V(0) also caused vesiculation of immature granules. Thus, V-ATPase has a role in protein sorting in immature granules that is distinct from its role in acidification.
Electrical stimulation of the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray (dlPAG) matter induces panic- or fear-like responses with intense emotional distress and severe anxiety. In this study, we evoked panic-like behaviour by dlPAG stimulation and evaluated the effect on neuronal activation in different brain regions. The number of c-Fos immunoreactive (c-Fos-ir) cells was measured semi-quantitatively through series of stained rat brain sections. Our results demonstrate strong neural activation in the medial prefrontal cortex, orbital cortex, anterior olfactory nuclei, secondary motor cortex, and the somatosensory cortex. Moderate increases in the number of c-Fos-ir cells were detected in various regions, including the hypothalamus, amygdala, and striatum. Additionally, there was mild expression of c-Fos-ir cells in the hippocampus, thalamus, and habenula regions. In conclusion, we have shown that deep brain stimulation of the dlPAG produced a distinctive pattern of neuronal activation across forebrain regions as compared to the sham and control animals.
The Goodpasture antigen-binding protein (GPBP) plays a critical role in brain development. Knockdown of GPBP leads to loss of myelinated tracts in the central nervous system and to extensive apoptosis in the brain during early embryogenesis. GPBP was initially identified as a protein associated with the autoantigen in Goodpasture autoimmune syndrome, where it was shown to be a kinase that regulates type IV collagen organization. GPBP isoforms bind and transport ceramide from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus and are therefore also known as ceramide transporters (CERT). Ceramide dysregulation is involved in autoimmunity and neurodegenerative disorders. In order to analyze the possible role of GPBP in neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration we studied the basal GPBP expression in normal rat brain. High levels of immunoreactivity were detected in neurons of the cerebral cortex, hippocampal formation, the basal ganglia, the olfactory bulb and nuclei of the thalamus, the hypothalamus and the septal area. Lower expression levels of GPBP were observed widely throughout the brain, suggesting that GPBP plays an important role in central nervous system neuron function.
The neurobiological basis of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in tuberous sclerosis complex is still largely unknown. Cortical tubers may disrupt several brain networks that control different types of attention. Frontal lobe dysfunction due to seizures or epileptiform electroencephalographic discharges may perturb the development of brain systems that underpin attentional and hyperactive functions during a critical early stage of brain maturation. Comorbidity of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) with mental retardation and autism spectrum disorders is frequent in children with tuberous sclerosis. Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) may also reflect a direct effect of the abnormal genetic program. Treatment of children with tuberous sclerosis complex with combined symptoms of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and epilepsy may represent a challenge for clinicians, because antiepileptic therapy and drugs used to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) may aggravate the clinical picture of each other.


Relations among theory of mind (ToM), the executive functions of working memory and cognitive inhibition, and frontal lesions were studied using path analysis in 43 school-aged children with traumatic brain injury. The relation between cognitive inhibition and ToM involved a single mediated path, such that cognitive inhibition predicted ToM through working memory. Frontal injury had a direct impact on working memory, which then separately determined ToM performance, the direct single paths between frontal injury and ToM being nonsignificant. The expression of ToM in school-age children with traumatic brain injury is not domain specific, but instead depends on the domain-general functions of working memory and cognitive inhibition.
In the current study, we introduce the Item-Specific Deficit Approach (ISDA), a novel method for characterizing memory process deficits in list-learning data. To meet this objective, we applied the ISDA to California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) data collected from a sample of 132 participants (53 healthy participants and 79 neurologically compromised participants). Overall, the ISDA indices measuring encoding, consolidation, and retrieval deficits demonstrated advantages over some traditional indices and indicated acceptable reliability and validity. Currently, the ISDA is intended for experimental use, although further research may support its utility for characterizing memory impairments in clinical assessments.


Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a disorder characterized by attentional difficulties. Mindfulness is a receptive attention to present experience. Both ADHD and mindfulness are associated with attention and personality. This study tests whether individuals with ADHD have lower mindfulness scores than controls and, if true, whether personality contributes to these differences. One hundred and five adults (half with ADHD) were assessed for mindfulness, using the Kentucky Inventory of Mindfulness Skills, and personality, using the Tridimensional Character Inventory. Individuals with ADHD report themselves as less mindful than non-ADHD controls and more novelty-seeking, less self-directed, and more self-transcendent. Mindfulness is negatively associated with ADHD and positively associated with self-directedness and self-transcendence. Analyses of subscales of mindfulness suggest that ADHD is associated most with the &quot;Acting in Awareness&quot; dimension, perhaps because of shared items reflecting attentional variability. The current findings support that a large portion of variability in trait mindfulness can be explained by ADHD status and personality traits of self-directedness and self-transcendence. It further suggests that interventions that increase mindfulness might improve symptoms of ADHD and increase self-directedness and/or self-transcendence.

A major problem related to hypnotic drug use is residual sedation the morning after bedtime administration. This constitutes a particular safety hazard for patients who have to drive a car the next morning. Information on the severity of residual effects is mainly derived from studies conducted with young healthy volunteers. However, most users of hypnotics are older people who may be more sensitive to drug effects. The aim of this study was to evaluate the residual effects the morning after evening doses of temazepam 20 mg and zopiclone 7.5 mg on driving performance in healthy elderly drivers. Eighteen healthy elderly drivers (10 females and 8 males; mean age, 64.3 years) participated in a double-blind, 3-way crossover study. Treatments were single oral doses of temazepam 20 mg, zopiclone 7.5 mg, and placebo administered at bedtime. Subjects performed a standardized highway driving test between 10 and 11 hours after hypnotic intake. Before and after the driving test, cognitive performance was assessed. Driving performance did not differ between temazepam and placebo but was significantly impaired after zopiclone 7.5 mg (P &lt; 0.002). The results of the laboratory tests were in line with the effects on driving of both hypnotics. Temazepam 20 mg is unlikely to impair driving 10 hours or more after bedtime administration in healthy elderly aged 75 years or younger. Zopiclone 7.5 mg moderately impairs driving in the elderly at least until 11 hours after administration. The magnitude of impairing effects in the elderly was comparable with those found previously in younger volunteers.
The cognitive processing of concepts, that is, abstract general ideas, has been mostly studied with language. However, other domains, such as music, can also convey concepts. Koelsch et al. [Koelsch, S., Kasper, E., Sammler, D., Schulze, K., Gunter, T., &amp; Friederici, A. D. Music, language and meaning: Brain signatures of semantic processing. Nature Neuroscience, 7, 302-307, 2004] showed that 10 sec of music can influence the semantic processing of words. However, the length of the musical excerpts did not allow the authors to study the effect of words on musical targets. In this study, we decided to replicate Koelsch et al. findings using 1-sec musical excerpts (Experiment 1). This allowed us to study the reverse influence, namely, of a linguistic context on conceptual processing of musical excerpts (Experiment 2). In both experiments, we recorded behavioral and electrophysiological responses while participants were presented 50 related and 50 unrelated pairs (context/target). Experiments 1 and 2 showed a larger N400 component of the event-related brain potentials to targets following a conceptually unrelated compared to a related context. The presence of an N400 effect with musical targets suggests that music may convey concepts. The relevance of these results for the comprehension of music as a structured set of conceptual units and for the domain specificity of the mechanisms underlying N400 effects are discussed.
Can the topology of a recurrent spiking network be inferred from observed activity dynamics? Which statistical parameters of network connectivity can be extracted from firing rates, correlations and related measurable quantities? To approach these questions, we analyze distance dependent correlations of the activity in small-world networks of neurons with current-based synapses derived from a simple ring topology. We find that in particular the distribution of correlation coefficients of subthreshold activity can tell apart random networks from networks with distance dependent connectivity. Such distributions can be estimated by sampling from random pairs. We also demonstrate the crucial role of the weight distribution, most notably the compliance with Dales principle, for the activity dynamics in recurrent networks of different types.
Linear additivity of synaptic input is a pervasive assumption in computational neuroscience, and previously Bernander et al. (Journal of Neurophysiology 72:2743-2753, 1994) point out that the sublinear additivity of a passive neuronal model can be linearized with voltage-dependent currents. Here we re-examine this perspective in light of more recent findings and issues. Based on in vivo intracellular recordings, three voltage-dependent conductances seem to be of interest for pyramidal cells of the forebrain: two of them are amplifying, I ( NaP ) and I ( h ); and one of them is attenuating, I ( A ). Based on particular I-V characteristics reported in the literature, each of these three voltage-dependent currents linearizes a particular range of synaptic excitation. Computational simulations use a steady-state, one-compartment model. They establish maximal linear ranges, where supralinear effects-due to adding too much of any one conductance-limit these ranges. Specific, carefully selected pairwise combinations of these currents can linearize larger ranges than either current alone. In terms of parameters, the steady-state I-V characteristics of each current are critical. On the other hand, the relationships between the results here and resting conductance to ground, synaptic conductance, and number of active synapses are simple and easily scaled; thus in regard to these three latter dependences, the results here are easily generalized. Finally, to improve our understanding of evolved function, the relative metabolic costs of linearization are quantified. In one case, there is a clear preference arising from this cost consideration (a particular I ( h ), I ( NaP ) pairing is less costly compared to a particular I ( A ), I ( NaP ) pairing that produces an equivalent, linearized range). However in other cases, a preference will depend on the required range; but in any event, the largest linearized range observed here (28 mV), from a combination of I ( h ) and I ( A ), is significantly more costly than the 20 mV range that the I ( h ), I ( NaP ) pair produces.
In many rhythmic behaviors, phasic sensory feedback modifies the motor pattern. This modification is assumed to depend on feedback sign (positive vs. negative). While on a phenomenological level feedback sign is well defined, many sensory pathways also process antagonistic, and possibly contradictory, sensory information. We here model the locust flight pattern generator and proprioceptive feedback provided by the tegula wing receptor to test the functional significance of sensory pathways processing antagonistic information. We demonstrate that the tegula provides delayed positive feedback via interneuron 301, while all other pathways provide negative feedback. Contradictory to previous assumptions, the increase of wing beat frequency when the tegula is activated during flight is due to the positive feedback. By use of an abstract model we reveal that the regulation of motor pattern frequency by sensory feedback critically depends on the interaction of positive and negative feedback, and thus on the weighting of antagonistic pathways.
Apelin is a peptide hormone with cardiovascular and glucose homeostasis properties, and obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is complicated by cardiovascular and metabolic comorbidities. Plasma apelin has not been previously assessed in OSA. We investigated the response of plasma apelin to a 2-h 75 g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and the effect of 3 months compliant continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy in 15 obese males with newly diagnosed OSA. Plasma apelin and serum cortisol were recorded 10 minutely, while serum insulin and glucose were measured 30 minutely. Ten subjects had plasma apelin measured at intervals across a 24-h period to investigate for circadian variation in apelin levels, and this was repeated following 3 months compliant CPAP therapy. Fasting (0.342+/-0.038 vs 0.288+/-0.024 ng/ml, P=0.04), 30 min (0.399+/-0.035 vs 0.312+/-0.036 ng/ml, P=0.007) and 120 min (0.402+/-0.030 vs 0.259+/-0.024 ng/ml, P&lt;0.001) apelin levels were reduced following CPAP. The area under curve for apelin OGTT response was lower post-CPAP (44.1+/-3.3 vs 35.8+/-2.3 ng/ml per min, P&lt;0.001). Mean OGTT apelin levels showed a significant treatment effect (P=0.006) and a time effect (P&lt;0.001), and the effect of time was different pre- versus post-CPAP (P=0.005). No significant variability in apelin levels existed across the 24-h period at diagnosis. Lower levels were evident overnight following treatment (P=0.004). Improvements in insulin and glucose parameters and reduced cortisol levels were found post-CPAP. In summary, untreated OSA was associated with elevated plasma apelin levels, altered apelin secretory dynamics in response to oral glucose and lack of an apparent circadian variability, which was restored following CPAP.
After anautogenous mosquitoes ingest the required blood meal, proteins in it are rapidly cleaved, yielding a large pool of amino acids. Transport of these amino acids into gut epithelial cells and their subsequent translocation into other tissues is critical for oogenesis and other physiological processes. We have identified a proton amino acid transporter (PAT) in Aedes aegypti (AaePAT1, AAEL007191) which facilitates this transport and is expressed in epithelial cell membranes of larval caecae and the adult midgut. AaePAT1 encodes a 475 amino acid protein showing high similarity to Anopheles gambiae AGAP009896, Culex pipiens CPIJ011438 and Drosophila melanogaster CG7888. When expressed in Xenopus oocytes the transport kinetics showed AaePAT1 is a low affinity transporter with low substrate specificity, having Km and Vmax values of about 7.2 mmol l(-1) and 69 pmol oocyte(-1) min(-1), respectively, for glutamine. A number of other amino acids are also transported by this PAT. In female adult midgut, AaePAT1 transcript levels were induced after ingestion of a blood meal.
Predictions from perceptual load theory (Lavie, 1995, 2005) regarding object recognition across the same or different viewpoints were tested. Results showed that high perceptual load reduces distracter recognition levels despite always presenting distracter objects from the same view. They also showed that the levels of distracter recognition were unaffected by a change in the distracter object view under conditions of low perceptual load. These results were found both with repetition priming measures of distracter recognition and with performance on a surprise recognition memory test. The results support load theory proposals that distracter recognition critically depends on the level of perceptual load. The implications for the role of attention in object recognition theories are discussed.
The involvement of muscles in the pathogenesis of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) is irregular and unpredictable. We show that the TSE-specific protein (PrP(TSE)) is present in muscles of mice fed with a mouse-adapted strain of bovine spongiform encephalopathy as early as 100 days post-infection, corresponding to about one-third of the incubation period. The proportion of mice with PrP(TSE)-positive muscles and the number of muscles involved increased as infection progressed, but never attained more than a limited distribution, even at the clinical stage of disease. The appearance of PrP(TSE) in muscles during the preclinical stage of disease was probably due to the haematogenous/lymphatic spread of infectivity from the gastrointestinal tract to lymphatic tissues associated with muscles, whereas in symptomatic animals, the presence of PrP(TSE) in the nervous system, in neuromuscular junctions and in muscle fibres suggests a centrifugal spread from the central nervous system, as already observed in other TSE models.
Abnormal electroencephalography (EEG) in migraineurs has been reported in several studies. However, few have evaluated EEG findings in migraineurs during a time period when neither the last attack nor the next attack may interact with the results. We, therefore, compared interictal EEG in migraineurs and headache-free subjects with a design controlled for interference by pre-ictal changes. Pre-ictal EEG findings in the painful cranial side during the next attack after registration were also investigated. Correlations between clinical variables and EEG are reported as well. Interictal EEGs from 33 migraineurs (6 with and 27 without aura) and 31 controls were compared. Absolute power, asymmetry and relative power were studied for delta, theta and alpha frequency bands in parieto-occipital, temporal and fronto-central areas. EEG variables were correlated to attack frequency, headache duration, attack duration, pain intensity, photo- and phonophobia. Compared with controls, migraineurs had increased relative theta power in all cortical regions and increased delta activity in the painful fronto-central region. Absolute power and asymmetry were similar among groups. In age-adjusted analyses, headache intensity correlated with increased delta activity. In this blinded controlled study, we found globally increased relative theta activity in migraineurs. A slight interictal brain dysfunction is probably present between attacks.
This paper explores the implications of an early criticism of the stimulation studies of Fritsch and Hitzig and Ferrier for localized brain functions. Fritsch and Hitzig and Ferrier concluded that motor centers reside in the cortices of the hemispheres. Their studies were replicated, but their conclusions were not generally accepted initially. The most salient, laboratory-based criticism was that the electrical current used for stimulation diffused well beyond the cortex making their conclusion of cerebral motor centers unacceptable. The diffusion argument was essentially a French suggestion. Ferrier's and American research and interpretations provided data and arguments against it.
Although torpedoes and Malopterurus, a Nile catfish, had been described and even used medically in antiquity, their discharges were poorly understood before the second half of the eighteenth century. It was then that their actions, along with those of certain South American &quot;eels,&quot; became firmly associated with electricity. The realization that an animal could produce electricity marked a turning point in the history of neurophysiology, which had long described nerve actions with recourse to animal spirits. By examining The Gentleman's Magazine during the period when electric fish were becoming electrical, one can begin to appreciate how new discoveries about these unusual creatures captured the imagination of scientists and were filtered down to the literate public.
Repeated or continuous inflammation of the heart is one of the initiation factors for dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). In previous studies, we established a DCM animal model by immunizing rats with cardiac C protein. In the present study, we analyze the role of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in experimental autoimmune carditis (EAC) and subsequent DCM to elucidate the pathomechanisms of this disease. In this model, inflammation begins approximately 9 days after immunization. At that time, MMP activities were detected by in situ zymography. Real-time PCR analysis revealed continuous up-regulation of MMP-2 mRNA from 2 wk and thereafter. MMP-9 mRNA, however, had only a transient increase at 2 wk. Double staining with in situ zymography and cell markers demonstrated that gelatinase (MMP-2 and MMP-9)-expressing cells are infiltrating macrophages during the early stage and cardiomyocytes at later stages. Minocycline, which inhibits MMP-9 activities more strongly than MMP-2, significantly suppressed EAC, but an MMP-2-specific inhibitor, TISAM, did not affect the course of the disease. Furthermore, immunohistochemical examination revealed that minocycline treatment suppressed T cell and macrophage infiltration strongly, whereas TISAM did not. These findings indicate that MMP-9, but not MMP-2, is involved in the pathogenesis of the acute phase of EAC, and further suggest that MMP-9 inhibitors, minocycline and its derivatives, may be useful therapies for EAC and DCM.
Canavan disease (CD) is a fatal dysmyelinating genetic disorder associated with aspartoacylase deficiency, resulting in decreased brain acetate levels and reduced myelin lipid synthesis in the developing brain. Here we tested tolerability of a potent acetate precursor, glyceryl triacetate (GTA), at low doses in two infants diagnosed with CD, aged 8 and 13 months. Much higher doses of GTA were evaluated for toxicity in the tremor rat model of CD. GTA was given orally to the infants for up to 4.5 and 6 months, starting at 25 mg/kg twice daily, doubling the dose weekly until a maximum of 250 mg/kg reached. Wild-type and tremor rat pups were given GTA orally twice daily, initially at a dose of 4.2 g/kg from postnatal days 7 through 14, and at 5.8 g/kg from day 15 through 23, and thereafter in food (7.5%) and water (5%). At the end of the trial (approximately 90 to 120 days) sera and tissues from rats were analysed for changes in blood chemistry and histopathology. GTA treatment caused no detectable toxicity and the patients showed no deterioration in clinical status. In the high-dose animal studies, no significant differences in the mean blood chemistry values occurred between treated and untreated groups, and no lesions indicating toxicity were detectable in any of the tissues examined. Lack of GTA toxicity in two CD patients in low-dose trials, as well as in high-dose animal studies, suggests that higher, effective dose studies in human CD patients are warranted.


Valcamonica is an Italian valley where ferro-manganese industries have been active for a century and where an increased prevalence of parkinsonism was observed. A group of 93 patients (65 from Valcamonica, 28 from the reference area of Brescia city) and 76 controls (52 from Valcamonica, 24 from Brescia) were screened for serum Cu, Zn, Fe, Mn in blood (MnB) and urine (MnU), transferrin, peroxides, alanine (ALT) and aspartate (AST) transaminases and direct bilirubin. Test results were compared among groups according to the residential area and related to the disease severity. Valcamonica patients had a serum-increase of Cu, as well as of AST/ALT ratio, and a serum-decrease of Zn and Fe compared with other subgroups of cases and controls. Cases and controls from Valcamonica had higher MnB and MnU levels compared to cases and controls from Brescia. After controlling for the duration of illness, the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale III domain correlated with serum Cu and AST/ALT ratio. Our results suggest the possibility that, in this area, a lifetime exposure to neurotoxicants and to Mn in particular, when accompanied to a subclinical liver dysfunction, may pose an increased risk for neurodegenerative disorders via metal metabolism (Cu, Zn, Fe) abnormalities.
Monoamine oxidase A and B (MAOA and MAOB) appear to be involved in the pathogenesis of Major Depression, and vulnerability of Major Depression is associated with personality traits relating to positive and negative affect. This study aimed to investigate associations between MAOA and MAOB polymorphisms and personality traits of positive and negative emotionality in healthy volunteers, to elucidate mechanisms underlying personality and the risk for depression. Healthy Caucasian volunteers (N = 150) completed the Multiphasic Personality Questionnaire (MPQ), which includes independent superfactors of Positive Emotionality and Negative Emotionality. Participants were genotyped for 8 MAOA and 12 MAOB single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Association analyses for both SNPs and haplotypes were performed using the permutation approach implemented in PLINK. Negative Emotionality was significantly associated with the two highly linked MAOB polymorphisms rs10521432 and rs6651806 (p &lt; 0.002). Findings were extended in haplotype analyses. For MAOB the 4-SNP haplotype GACG formed from rs1799836, rs10521432, rs6651806 and rs590551 was significantly related to lower Negative Emotionality scores (p &lt; 0.002). MAOA was not related to personality in this study. Our finding provides the first evidence that MAOB polymorphisms influence levels of negative emotionality in healthy human volunteers. If confirmed, these results could lead to a better understanding of personality traits and inter-individual susceptibility developing psychiatric disorders such as major depression.
Type 1 diabetes can affect hippocampal function triggering cognitive impairment through unknown mechanisms. Caffeine consumption prevents hippocampal degeneration and memory dysfunction upon different insults and is also known to affect peripheral glucose metabolism. Thus we now characterized glucose transport and the neurochemical profile in the hippocampus of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats using in vivo(1)H NMR spectroscopy and tested the effect of caffeine consumption thereupon. We found that hippocampal glucose content and transport were unaltered in diabetic rats, irrespective of caffeine consumption. However diabetic rats displayed alterations in their hippocampal neurochemical profile, which were normalized upon restoration of normoglycaemia, with the exception of myo-inositol that remained increased (36 +/- 5%, p &lt; 0.01 compared to controls) likely reflecting osmolarity deregulation. Compared to controls, caffeine-consuming diabetic rats displayed increased hippocampal levels of myo-inositol (15 +/- 5%, p &lt; 0.05) and taurine (23 +/- 4%, p &lt; 0.01), supporting the ability of caffeine to control osmoregulation. Compared to controls, the hippocampus of diabetic rats displayed a reduced density of synaptic proteins syntaxin, synaptophysin and synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa (in average 18 +/- 1%, p &lt; 0.05) as well increased glial fibrillary acidic protein (20 +/- 5%, p &lt; 0.05), suggesting synaptic degeneration and astrogliosis, which were prevented by caffeine consumption. In conclusion, neurochemical alterations in the hippocampus of diabetic rats are not related to defects of glucose transport but likely reflect osmoregulatory adaptations caused by hyperglycemia. Furthermore, caffeine consumption affected this neurochemical adaptation to high glucose levels, which may contribute to its potential neuroprotective effects, namely preventing synaptic degeneration and astrogliosis.
Wernicke's encephalopathy is a cerebral disorder caused by thiamine (vitamin B(1)) deficiency (TD). Neuropathologic consequences of TD include region-selective neuronal cell loss and blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown. Early increased expression of the endothelial isoform of nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) occurs selectively in vulnerable brain regions in TD. We hypothesize that region-selective eNOS induction in TD leads to altered expression of tight junction proteins and BBB breakdown. In order to address this issue, TD was induced in C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) and eNOS(-/-) mice by feeding a thiamine-deficient diet and treatment with the thiamine antagonist pyrithiamine. Pair-fed control mice were fed the same diet with additional thiamine. In medial thalamus of TD-WT mice (vulnerable area), increased heme oxygenase-1 and S-nitrosocysteine immunostaining was observed in vessel walls, compared to pair-fed control-WT mice. Concomitant increases in IgG extravasation, decreases in expression of the tight junction proteins occludin, zona occludens-1 and zona occludens-2, and up-regulation of matrix metalloproteinase-9 in endothelial cells were observed in the medial thalamus of TD-WT mice. eNOS gene deletion restored these BBB alterations, suggesting that eNOS-derived nitric oxide is a major factor leading to cerebrovascular alterations in TD. However, eNOS gene deletion only partially attenuated TD-related neuronal cell loss, suggesting the presence of mechanisms additional to BBB disruption in the pathogenesis of these changes.
Previous reports indicated the presence of both gangliosides and sialidase in the nuclear envelope (NE) of primary neurons and the NG108-15 neural cell line. GM1, one of the major gangliosides of this membrane, was shown to be tightly associated with a sodium-calcium exchanger in the inner membrane of the NE and to potentiate exchanger activity. GD1a was the other major ganglioside detected in the NE and, like GM1, occurs in both inner and outer membranes. A subsequent report indicated the presence of sialidase activity in the NE without specification as to which of the two membranes express it. The present study was undertaken to determine the nature and locus of this activity within the NE of two cell lines: NG108-15 and SH-SY5Y. Western blot analysis of the separated membranes revealed occurrence of Neu3 in the inner membrane and Neu1 in the outer membrane of the NE. Moreover, sialidase activity at both sites was shown capable of catalyzing conversion of endogenous GD1a to GM1.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is involved in many aspects of neuronal biology and hippocampal physiology. Status epilepticus (SE) is a condition in which prolonged seizures lead to neuronal degeneration. SE-induced in rodents serves as a model of Temporal Lobe Epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis, the most frequent epilepsy in humans. We have recently described a strong correlation between TrkB decrease and p75ntr increase with neuronal degeneration (Neuroscience 154:978, 2008). In this report, we report that local, acute intra-hippocampal infusion of function-blocking antibodies against BDNF prevented both early TrkB down-regulation and neuronal degeneration after SE. Conversely, the infusion of recombinant human BDNF protein after SE greatly increased neuronal degeneration. The inhibition of BDNF mRNA translation by the infusion of antisense oligonucleotides induced a rapid decrease of BDNF protein levels, and a delayed increase. If seizures were induced at the time endogenous BDNF was decreased, SE-induced neuronal damage was prevented. On the other hand, if seizures were induced at the time endogenous BDNF was increased, SE-induced neuronal damage was exacerbated. These results indicate that under a pathological condition BDNF exacerbates neuronal injury.
Although alterations in micro-opioid receptor (microOR) signaling mediate excitatory effects of opiates in opioid tolerance, the molecular mechanism for the excitatory effect of acute low dose morphine, as it relates to microOR coupling, is presently unknown. A pronounced coupling of microOR to the alpha subunit of G inhibitory protein emerged in periaqueductal gray (PAG) from mice systemically administered with morphine at a dose producing acute thermal hyperalgesia. This coupling was abolished in presence of the selective microOR antagonist d-Phe-Cys-Tyr-d-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) administered at the PAG site, showing that the low dose morphine effect is triggered by microOR activated G inhibitory protein at supraspinal level. When Gbetagamma downstream signalling was blocked by intra-PAG co-administration of 2-(3,4,5-trihydroxy-6-oxoxanthen-9-yl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylic acid, a compound that inhibits Gbetagamma dimer-dependent signaling, a complete prevention of low dose morphine induced acute thermal hyperalgesia was obtained. Phospholipase C beta3, an enzyme necessary to morphine hyperalgesia, was revealed to be associated with Gbetagamma in PAG. Although opioid administration induces a shift in microOR-G protein coupling from Gi to Gs after chronic administration, our data support that this condition is not realized in acute treatment providing evidence that a separate molecular mechanism underlies morphine induced acute excitatory effect.
Homomeric alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are a well-established, pharmacologically distinct subtype. The more recently identified alpha9 subunit can also form functional homopentamers as well as alpha9alpha10 heteropentamers. Current fluorescent probes for alpha7 nicotinic ACh receptors are derived from alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-BgTx). However, alpha-BgTx also binds to alpha9* and alpha1* receptors which are coexpressed with alpha7 in multiple tissues. We used an analog of alpha-conotoxin ArIB to develop a highly selective fluorescent probe for alpha7 receptors. This fluorescent alpha-conotoxin, Cy3-ArIB[V11L;V16A], blocked ACh-evoked alpha7 currents in Xenopus laevis oocytes with an IC(50) value of 2.0 nM. Observed rates of blockade were minute-scale with recovery from blockade even slower. Unlike FITC-conjugated alpha-BgTx, Cy3-ArIB[V11L;V16A] did not block alpha9alpha10 or alpha1beta1deltaepsilon receptors. In competition binding assays, Cy3-ArIB[V11L;V16A] potently displaced [(125)I]-alpha-BgTx binding to mouse hippocampal membranes with a K(i) value of 21 nM. Application of Cy3-ArIB[V11L;V16A] resulted in specific punctate labeling of KXalpha7R1 cells but not KXalpha3beta2R4, KXalpha3beta4R2, or KXalpha4beta2R2 cells. This labeling could be abolished by pre-treatment with alpha-cobratoxin. Thus, Cy3-ArIB[V11L;V16A] is a novel and selective fluorescent probe for alpha7 receptors.
The neurotransmitter serotonin is synthesized in the retina by one type of amacrine neuron but accumulates in bipolar neurons in many vertebrates. The mechanisms, functions and purpose underlying serotonin accumulation in bipolar cells remain unknown. Here, we demonstrate that exogenous serotonin transiently accumulates in a distinct type of bipolar neuron. KCl-mediated depolarization causes the depletion of serotonin from amacrine neurons and, subsequently, serotonin is taken-up by bipolar neurons. The accumulation of endogenous and exogenous serotonin by bipolar neurons is blocked by selective reuptake inhibitors. Exogenous serotonin is specifically taken-up by bipolar neurons even when serotonin-synthesizing amacrine neurons are destroyed; excluding the possibility that serotonin diffuses through gap junctions from amacrine into bipolar neurons. Further, inhibition of monoamine oxidase A prevents the degradation of serotonin in bipolar neurons, suggesting that monoamine oxidase A is present in these neurons. However, the vesicular monoamine transporter 2 is present only in amacrine cells suggesting that serotonin is not transported into synaptic vesicles and reused as a transmitter in the bipolar neurons. We conclude that the serotonin-accumulating bipolar neurons perform glial functions in the retina by actively transporting and degrading serotonin that is synthesized in neighboring amacrine cells.
Information on the prognosis of patients with transient ischaemic attack or moderately disabling ischaemic stroke associated with bilateral internal carotid artery (ICA) occlusion is scarce. We prospectively studied 57 consecutive patients (46 men; mean age 60 +/- 9 years) with bilateral ICA occlusion who had presented with unilateral transient or moderately disabling cerebral or retinal ischaemic symptoms. We determined the long-term risk of recurrent ischaemic stroke and the composite outcome of stroke, myocardial infarction or vascular death. Four patients had a recurrent ischaemic stroke during a mean follow-up of 5.9 years, resulting in an annual stroke rate of 1.2% (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.3-3.1). Risk factors for recurrent ischaemic stroke could not be identified. Eighteen patients suffered a stroke, myocardial infarction or vascular death, resulting in an annual rate for major vascular events of 5.3% (95% CI 3.1-8.3). Age and a history of ischaemic heart disease were significant risk factors for future vascular events. Patients with transient or moderately disabling symptoms of cerebral or retinal ischaemia associated with bilateral ICA occlusion have a relatively low risk of recurrent ischaemic stroke. Although this study was not designed to compare conservative treatment with surgical intervention, the favourable outcome suggests that a policy of medical therapy and control of risk factors may be justified in these patients.
The 14-3-3 protein test has been shown to support the clinical diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) when associated with an adequate clinical context, and a high differential potential for the diagnosis of sporadic CJD has been attributed to other cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteins such as tau protein, S100b and neuron specific enolase (NSE). So far there has been only limited information available about biochemical markers in genetic transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (gTSE), although they represent 10-15% of human TSEs. In this study, we analyzed CSF of 174 patients with gTSEs for 14-3-3 (n = 166), tau protein (n = 78), S100b (n = 46) and NSE (n = 50). Levels of brain-derived proteins in CSF varied in different forms of gTSE. Biomarkers were found positive in the majority of gCJD (81%) and insert gTSE (69%), while they were negative in most cases of fatal familial insomnia (13%) and Gerstmann-Strussler-Scheinker syndrome (10%). Disease duration and codon 129 genotype influence the findings in a different way than in sporadic CJD.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is an atypical parkinsonian syndrome characterised by akinesis, rigidity, falls, supranuclear gaze palsy and cognitive, particularly executive, dysfunction. This study examined the extent to which emotion recognition is affected by PSP. Although deficits in the recognition of emotion have been reported in several diseases which share clinicopathological characteristics with PSP, it has never been studied systematically in PSP. Twenty-four patients with probable or definite PSP and matched healthy controls were studied using tests of facial identity and facial emotion recognition. Patients were not impaired in recognising famous faces, but they showed significant deficits in the recognition of emotions, particularly negative emotions. Moreover, emotion recognition was strongly correlated with the severity of other cognitive deficits in PSP, but not disease duration. Deficits in emotion recognition form an integral part of the cognitive spectrum of the disease. The findings point to the pathological involvement of key regions necessary for the processing of emotions and to a subtype of PSP with cognitive and emotion recognition impairments. The acknowledgement of deficits in emotion recognition is important for management of both patients and their carers.


Papillary glioneuronal tumors are newly recognized seizure producing tumors. We report two such cases with immunohistochemical characterization of glial and neuronal components and briefly review literature. Co-localization of glial and neuronal markers was demonstrable on confocal microscopy with expression of stem cell markers (Nestin and CD133) suggesting possible origin from neuroepithelial stem cell with biphenotypic differentiation.
After denervation of adult rat abdominal muscles, the postsynaptic apparatus of neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) retains its original architecture and clustering of acetylcholine receptors (AChRs). When descending fibers of the spinal cord are surgically diverted to this muscle by a nerve grafting procedure, supraspinal glutamatergic neurons can innervate muscle fibers and restore motor function; the newly formed NMJs switch from a cholinergic to a glutamatergic-type synapse. We show here that regenerating nerve endings contact the fibers in an area occupied by cholinergic endplates. These NMJs are morphologically indistinguishable from those in controls, but they differ in the subunit composition of AChRs. Moreover, by immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy, new NMJs express glutamatergic synapse markers. The alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunit GluR1 partially colocalizes with AChRs, and vesicular glutamate transporter 2 is localized in the presynaptic compartment. Immunoprecipitation analysis of membranes from reinnervated muscle showed that AMPA receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR2 coimmunoprecipitate with rapsyn, the AChR-anchoring protein at the NMJ. Taken together, these results indicate that cholinergic endplates can be targeted by new glutamatergic projections and that the clustering of AMPA receptors occurs there.
Glial cytoplasmic inclusions (GCIs) are a pathologic hallmark of multiple system atrophy (MSA), but their pathogenetic roles need to be clarified. To determine possible roles of GCIs in individual cells, serial optical sections obtained by confocal microscopy were reconstructed to yield 3-dimensional (3D) images of the nuclei to quantify nuclear volume. Oligodendroglial nuclear volumes were determined in the pons of 6 MSA and 7 control patients. The nuclear volumes were significantly smaller in the MSA group as a whole (135.81 +/- 60.83 microm, mean +/- SD; n = 404) than in the control group (188.05 +/- 55.71 microm; n = 308; p &lt; 0.001). This difference was due to a significantly smaller nuclear volume of oligodendrocytes without GCIs (GCI group, 91.26 +/- 23.77 microm; n = 210) compared with the control group (p &lt; 0.001) and compared with the oligodendrocytes with GCIs (GCI group, 184.03 +/- 51.18 microm; n = 194; p &lt; 0.001); the difference between the latter GCI and control groups was not significant (p &gt; 0.05). This selective decrease in nuclear volume restricted to the GCI group cannot be explained if nuclear shrinkage was accelerated in the presence of GCIs. Conversely, GCI formation might be linked, either directly or indirectly, to a mechanism that counteracts rather than accelerates nuclear shrinkage. This novel 3-dimensional strategy provides pivotal data that link GCI formation and degeneration in MSA.
Central sensitization, a prolonged hyperexcitability of dorsal horn nociceptive neurons, is a major contributor to abnormal pain processing after spinal cord injury (SCI). Dendritic spines are micron-sized dendrite protrusions that can regulate the efficacy of synaptic transmission. Here we used a computational approach to study whether changes in dendritic spine shape, density, and distribution can individually, or in combination, adversely modify the input-output function of a postsynaptic neuron to create a hyperexcitable neuronal state. The results demonstrate that a conversion from thin-shaped to more mature, mushroom-shaped spine structures results in enhanced synaptic transmission and fidelity, improved frequency-following ability, and reduced inhibitory gating effectiveness. Increasing the density and redistributing spines toward the soma results in a greater probability of action potential activation. Our results demonstrate that changes in dendritic spine morphology, documented in previous studies on spinal cord injury, contribute to the generation of pain following SCI.
The basal ganglia (BG) play a central role in movement and it has been demonstrated that the discharge rate of neurons in these structures are modulated by the behavioral context of a given task. Here we used the antisaccade task, in which a saccade toward a flashed visual stimulus must be inhibited in favor of a saccade to the opposite location, to investigate the role of the caudate nucleus, a major input structure of the BG, in flexible behavior. In this study, we recorded extracellular neuronal activity while monkeys performed pro- and antisaccade trials. We identified two populations of neurons: those that preferred contralateral saccades (CSNs) and those that preferred ipsilateral saccades (ISNs). CSNs increased their firing rates for prosaccades, but not for antisaccades, and ISNs increased their firing rates for antisaccades, but not for prosaccades. We propose a model in which CSNs project to the direct BG pathway, facilitating saccades, and ISNs project to the indirect pathway, suppressing saccades. This model suggests one possible mechanism by which these neuronal populations could be modulating activity in the superior colliculus.
Sensory feedback is important for the learning and control of a variety of behaviors. Vocal motor production in songbirds is a powerful model system to study sensory influences on behavior because the learning, maintenance, and control of song are critically dependent on auditory feedback. Based on previous behavioral and neural experiments, it has been hypothesized that songs produced in isolation [undirected (UD) song] represent a form of vocal practice, whereas songs produced to females during courtship interactions [female-directed (FD) song] represent a form of vocal performance. According to this &quot;practice versus performance&quot; framework, auditory feedback should be more influential when birds engage in vocal practice than when they engage in vocal performance. To directly test this hypothesis, we used a computerized system to perturb auditory feedback at precise locations during the songs of Bengalese finches and compared the degree to which feedback perturbations caused song interruptions as well as changes to the sequencing and timing of syllables between interleaved renditions of UD and FD song. We found that feedback perturbation caused fewer song interruptions and smaller changes to syllable timing during FD song than during UD song. These data show that changes in the social context in which song is produced rapidly modulate the influence of auditory feedback on song control in a manner consistent with the practice versus performance framework. More generally, they indicate that, for song, as for other motor skills including human speech, the influence of sensory feedback on activity within vocal premotor circuitry can be dynamically modulated.
The mammalian brain is an enormously complex set of circuits composed of interconnected neuronal cell types. The analysis of central neural circuits will be greatly served by the ability to turn off specific neuronal cell types while recording from others in intact brains. Because drug delivery cannot be restricted to specific cell types, this can only be achieved by putting &quot;silencer&quot; transgenes under the control of neuron-specific promoters. Towards this end we have created a line of transgenic mice putting the Drosophila allatostatin (AL) neuropeptide receptor (AlstR) under the control of the tetO element, thus enabling its inducible expression when crossed to tet-transactivator lines. Mammals have no endogenous AL or AlstR, but activation of exogenously expressed AlstR in mammalian neurons leads to membrane hyperpolarization via endogenous G-protein-coupled inward rectifier K(+) channels, making the neurons much less likely to fire action potentials. Here we show that this tetO/AlstR line is capable of broadly expressing AlstR mRNA in principal neurons throughout the forebrain when crossed to a commercially-available transactivator line. We electrophysiologically characterize this cross in hippocampal slices, demonstrating that bath application of AL leads to hyperpolarization of CA1 pyramidal neurons, making them refractory to the induction of action potentials by injected current. Finally, we demonstrate the ability of AL application to silence the sound-evoked spiking responses of auditory cortical neurons in intact brains of AlstR/tetO transgenic mice. When crossed to other transactivator lines expressing in defined neuronal cell types, this AlstR/tetO line should prove a very useful tool for the analysis of intact central neural circuits.
Understanding the mechanistic substrates of neural computations that lead to behavior remains a fundamental problem in neuroscience. In particular, the contributions of intrinsic neural properties such as burst firing and dendritic morphology to the processing of behaviorally relevant sensory input have received much interest recently. Pyramidal cells within the electrosensory lateral line lobe of weakly electric fish display an intrinsic bursting mechanism that relies on somato-dendritic interactions when recorded in vitro: backpropagating somatic action potentials trigger dendritic action potentials that lead to a depolarizing afterpotential (DAP) at the soma. We recorded intracellularly from these neurons in vivo and found firing patterns that were quite different from those seen in vitro: we found no evidence for DAPs as each somatic action potential was followed by a pronounced afterhyperpolarization (AHP). Calcium chelators injected in vivo reduced the AHP, thereby unmasking the DAP and inducing in vitro-like bursting in pyramidal cells. These bursting dynamics significantly reduced the cell's ability to encode the detailed time course of sensory input. We performed additional in vivo pharmacological manipulations and mathematical modeling to show that calcium influx through N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors activate dendritic small conductance (SK) calcium-activated potassium channels, which causes an AHP that counteracts the DAP and leads to early termination of the burst. Our results show that ion channels located in dendrites can have a profound influence on the processing of sensory input by neurons in vivo through the modulation of an intrinsic bursting mechanism.
Alterations in neuronal Ca(2+) homeostasis are important determinants of age-related cognitive impairment. We examined the Ca(2+) influx, buffering, and electrophysiology of basal forebrain neurons in adult, middle-aged, and aged male F344 behaviorally assessed rats. Middle-aged and aged rats were characterized as cognitively impaired or unimpaired by water maze performance relative to young cohorts. Patch-clamp experiments were conducted on neurons acutely dissociated from medial septum/nucleus of the diagonal band with post hoc identification of phenotypic marker mRNA using single-cell RT-PCR. We measured whole cell calcium and barium currents and dissected these currents using pharmacological agents. We combined Ca(2+) current recording with Ca(2+)-sensitive ratiometric microfluorimetry to measure Ca(2+) buffering. Additionally, we sought changes in neuronal firing properties using current-clamp recording. There were no age- or cognition-related changes in the amplitudes or fractional compositions of the whole cell Ca(2+) channel currents. However, Ca(2+) buffering was significantly enhanced in cholinergic neurons from aged cognitively impaired rats. Moreover, increased Ca(2+) buffering was present in middle-aged rats that were not cognitively impaired. Firing properties were largely unchanged with age or cognitive status, except for an increase in the slow afterhyperpolarization in aged cholinergic neurons, independent of cognitive status. Furthermore, acutely dissociated basal forebrain neurons in which choline acetyltransferase mRNA was detected had the electrophysiological profiles of identified cholinergic neurons. We conclude that enhanced Ca(2+) buffering by cholinergic basal forebrain neurons may be important during aging.
Despite nearly a century of electrophysiological studies recording extracranially from humans and intracranially from monkeys, the neural generators of nearly all human event-related potentials (ERPs) have not been definitively localized. We recorded an attention-related ERP component, known as the N2pc, simultaneously with intracranial spikes and local field potentials (LFPs) in macaques to test the hypothesis that an attentional-control structure, the frontal eye field (FEF), contributed to the generation of the macaque homologue of the N2pc (m-N2pc). While macaques performed a difficult visual search task, the search target was selected earliest by spikes from single FEF neurons, later by FEF LFPs, and latest by the m-N2pc. This neurochronometric comparison provides an empirical bridge connecting macaque and human experiments and a step toward localizing the neural generator of this important attention-related ERP component.
Recent motor learning studies show that human subjects and nonhuman primates form neural representations of novel mechanical environments and associated forces. Whereas proficient adaptation is seen for a single force field, when faced with multiple novel force environments, movement performance and in particular the ability to switch between different force environments declines. It is difficult to reconcile these findings with the notion that primates can proficiently switch between multiple motor skills. Conceivably, particular kinds of sensory, cognitive, or perceptual contextual cues are required. This study examined the effect of visual feedback on motor learning, in particular, cues that simulated interaction with a virtual object. A robot arm was used to deliver novel patterns of forces (force fields) to the limb during reaching movements. We tested the possibility that subjects transition more easily between novel forces and their sudden absence when they are accompanied by visual cues that relate to object grasp. We used a virtual display system to present subjects with different kinds of visual feedback during reaching, including illusory feedback, indicating grasp of a virtual object during reaching in the force field, and object release in the absence of forces. Throughout the experiment, subjects in fact maintained grasp of the robot. We found that, indeed, the most effective visual cues were those associating the force field with grasp of the virtual object and the absence of the force field with release of the object. Our findings show more broadly that specific visual cues can protect motor skills from interference.
Recent biochemical and behavioral data suggest right-hemispheric lateralization of amygdala functions in pain. Our previous electrophysiological studies showed pain-related neuroplasticity in the latero-capsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeLC) in the right brain hemisphere. Here we determined differences in the processing of pain-related signals in right versus left CeLC neurons. Individual CeLC neurons were recorded extracellularly before and after induction of an arthritis pain state in anesthetized rats. Brief innocuous and noxious test stimuli were applied to peripheral tissues ipsi- and contralateral to the recording site. A monoarthritis was induced in the ipsi- or contralateral knee by intraarticular injections of kaolin and carrageenan. Under normal conditions, CeLC neurons in the left amygdala had smaller receptive fields than those in the right, but the magnitude of background and evoked activity was not significantly different. After arthritis induction, neurons in the right, but not left, CeLC developed increased background activity and evoked responses, irrespective of the location of the arthritis (ipsi- or contralateral to the recording site). A protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor decreased the activity of right CeLC neurons after arthritis induction but had no effect in the left amygdala. Forskolin, however, increased the activity of left and right CeLC neurons under normal conditions. The results show for the first time laterality of pain-related electrophysiological activity changes in individual amygdala neurons. Whereas both left and right amygdala neurons receive nociceptive inputs and can become sensitized in principle, a yet unknown mechanism prevents PKA activation and pain-related changes in the left amygdala.
The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is a component of the limbic system implicated in a wide variety of functions spanning motor and sensory information processing, memory, attention, novelty detection, and comparisons of expectation versus outcome. It remains unclear how much of this functional diversity stems from differences in methodology or interpretation versus truly reflecting the range of processes in which the ACC is involved. In the present study, ACC neuronal activity was examined in freely behaving mice (C57BL6/J) under conditions allowing investigation of many of the cited functions in conditions free from externally applied rules: tests of novel object and novel location recognition memory. Behavioral activity and neuronal activity were recorded first in the open field, during the initial exposure and subsequent familiarization to two identical objects, and finally during the recognition memory tests. No discernible stable firing correlates of ACC neurons were found in the open field, but the addition of objects led to lasting changes in the firing patterns of many ACC neurons around one or both of the object locations. During the novel location test, some neurons followed the familiar object to its new location, others fired exclusively where the object had been, and yet others fired to both current and former object locations. Many of these same features were observed during tests of object recognition memory. However, the magnitude of the neuronal preference for the novel or the familiar object was markedly greater than that observed during either the tests of location recognition or novel object preferences in animals that did not exhibit the expected behavior. The present study reveals, for the first time, single-neuron correlates of object and location recognition behaviors in the rodent ACC and suggests that neurons of the ACC provide a distributed representation of all of the salient features of a task.
Endogenous cannabinoids (eCBs) mobilized from postsynaptic cells activate presynaptic cannabinoid receptors and thereby inhibit synaptic transmitter release. The inhibition can be either brief (seconds) or long-lasting (minutes to hours). Recent studies provide insight into the presynaptic mechanisms responsible for long-lasting, eCB-mediated long-term depression. Among these, the proteins PKA and RIM1alpha appear to be crucial, although other possibilities are emerging.
Cortical spreading depolarizations (spreading depressions and peri-infarct depolarizations) are a pathology intrinsic to acute brain injury, generating large negative extracellular slow potential changes (SPCs) that, lasting on the order of minutes, are studied with DC-coupled recordings in animals. The spreading SPCs of depolarization waves are observed in human cortex with AC-coupled electrocorticography (ECoG), although SPC morphology is distorted by the high-pass filter stage of the amplifiers. Here, we present a signal processing method to reverse these distortions and recover approximate full-band waveforms from AC-coupled recordings. We constructed digital filters that reproduced the phase and amplitude distortions introduced by specific AC-coupled amplifiers and, based on this characterization, derived digital inverse filters to remove these distortions from ECoG recordings. Performance of the inverse filter was validated by its ability to recover both simulated and real low-frequency input test signals. The inverse filter was then applied to AC-coupled ECoG recordings from five patients who underwent invasive monitoring after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. For 117 SPCs, the inverse filter recovered full-band waveforms with morphologic characteristics typical of the negative DC shifts recorded in animals. Compared with those recorded in the rat cortex with the same analog and digital methods, the negative DC shifts of human depolarizations had significantly greater durations (1:47 vs. 0:45 min:sec) and peak-to-peak amplitudes (10.1 vs. 4.2 mV). The inverse filter thus permits the study of spreading depolarizations in humans, using the same assessment of full-band DC potentials as that in animals, and suggests a particular solution for recovery of biosignals recorded with frequency-limited amplifiers.
Involuntary emotional expression disorder (IEED) is a syndrome characterized by involuntary episodes of emotional expression, particularly crying or laughing, that occur in patients with a neurological illness, including neuro-degenerative diseases. The authors assessed the frequency and clinical correlates of IEED among 131 patients with Parkinson's disease. IEED was present in 16.8% of patients overall and in 15.3% of depressed patients. The only clinical correlate of IEED diagnosis was greater severity of Parkinson's disease. The lack of an association between IEED and depression suggests that, in spite of some symptom overlap, the two disorders are distinct neuropsychiatric syndromes in Parkinson's disease.
The Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) was developed in 1974 to objectively describe neurological status and predict outcome in neuroscience patients. Through the years, the GCS has become the gold standard for coma assessment. Despite its widespread use, the GCS has many limitations that are well documented in the literature. The Full Outline of Unresponsiveness (FOUR) score is a new coma scale that was recently developed and validated in adults as a proposed replacement for the GCS. The purpose of this study was to compare the interrater reliability and predictive validity of the FOUR score and the GCS in pediatric patients. The interrater reliability for the GCS was good (k(w) = .738), and that for the FOUR score was excellent (k(w) = .951). Outcome prediction analysis showed that the FOUR score and the GCS are both able to predict in-hospital morbidity and poor outcome at the end of hospitalization. The results from this pediatric study were consistent with the adult studies which suggest that the FOUR score is a reliable and valid tool for use in a wide variety of neuroscience patients.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a component of neural cell niches and regulates multiple functions of diverse cell types. To date, limited information is available concerning its biological effects on the growth properties of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). In the present study, we examined effects of several ECM components, i.e., fibronectin, laminin, and Matrigel, on the survival, proliferation, migration, process extension, and purity of OPCs isolated from embryonic day 15 rat spinal cords. All three ECM components enhanced these biological properties of the OPCs compared with a non-ECM substrate, poly-D-lysine. However, the extents of their effects were somewhat different. Among these ECMs, fibronectin showed the strongest effect on almost all aspects of the growth properties of OPCs, implying that this molecule is a better substrate for the growth of OPCs in vitro. Because of its survival- and growth-promoting effects on OPCs, fibronectin may be considered as a candidate substrate for enhancing OPC-mediated repair under conditions when exogenous delivery or endogenous stimulation of OPCs is applied.
beta-Site amyloid precursor protein (APP) cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is a membrane-bound protease that is essential for the production of beta-amyloid protein (Abeta). Given the crucial role of Abeta accumulation in Alzheimer's disease (AD), inhibition of BACE1 activity may represent a feasible therapeutic strategy in the treatment of AD. Recently, we and others identified reticulon 3 (RTN3) and reticulon 4-B/C (RTN4-B/C or Nogo-B/C) as membrane proteins that interact with BACE1 and inhibit its ability to produce Abeta. In this study, we employed various mutants of RTN3 and RTN4-C and C. elegans RTN to investigate the molecular mechanisms by which RTNs regulate BACE1. We found that RTN3 mutants lacking the N-terminal or C-terminal or loop domain as well as a RTN4-C mutant lacking the C-terminal domain bound to BACE1 comparably to wild-type RTN3 and RTN4-C. Furthermore, overexpression of wild-type RTN3, RTN4-C, and these RTN mutants similarly reduced Abeta40 and Abeta42 secretion by cells expressing Swedish mutant APP. C. elegans RTN, which has low homology to human RTNs, also interacted with BACE1 and inhibited Abeta secretion. In contrast, two RTN3 mutants containing deletions of the first or second potential transmembrane domains and an RTN3 swap mutant of the second transmembrane domain bound BACE1 but failed to inhibit Abeta secretion. Collectively, these results suggest that the two-transmembrane-domain tertiary structure of RTN proteins is critical for the ability of RTNs to modulate BACE1 activity, whereas N-terminal, C-terminal and loop regions are not essential for this function.
Metallothionein (MT) belongs to a family of metal-binding cysteine-rich proteins comprising several structurally related proteins implicated in tissue protection and regeneration after injuries and functioning as antiapoptotic antioxidants in neurological disorders. This has been demonstrated in animals receiving MT treatment and in mice with endogenous MT overexpression or null mutation during various experimental models of neuropathology, and also in patients with Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Exogenously applied MT increases neurite outgrowth and neuronal survival in rat cerebellar, hippocampal, dopaminergic, and cortical neurons in vitro. In this study, the intraneuronal signaling involved in MT-mediated neuritogenesis was examined. The MT-induced neurite outgrowth in cultures of cerebellar granule neurons was dependent on activation of a heterotrimeric G-protein-coupled pathway but not on protein tyrosine kinases or on receptor tyrosine kinases. Activation of phospholipase C was necessary for MT-induced neurite outgrowth, and furthermore it was shown that inhibition of several intracellular protein kinases, such as protein kinase A, protein kinase C, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, Ca(2+)/calmodulin kinase-II, and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase, abrogated the MT-mediated neuritogenic response. In addition, exogenously applied MT resulted in a decrease in phosphorylation of intraneuronal kinases implicated in proinflammatory reactions and apoptotic cell death, such as glycogen synthase-serine kinase 3alpha, Jun, and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3. This paper elucidates the intraneuronal molecular signaling involved in neuroprotective effects of MT.





Remifentanil is being used increasingly as one component of total intravenous anesthesia. Severe postoperative pain has occasionally been reported with discontinuation of remifentanil. This study was designed to determine the involvement of conventional protein kinase Cgamma (cPKCgamma) in the inhibitory action of lidocaine on remifentanil-induced hyperalgesia of rats after propofol-remifentanil-based anesthesia. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were allocated into the following groups randomly: propofol only (P), propofol+remifentanil (R), propofol+remifentanil+lidocaine (RL), and propofol+lidocaine (L). Cumulative pain score and withdrawal response to mechanical stimulation, immunoblotting, and immunofluorescence were applied to observe remifentanil-induced hyperalgesia and cPKCgamma membrane translocation. We found that the cumulative pain score of group R increased significantly at 30, 120, and 300 minutes postanesthesia (P&lt;0.05). After plantar incision, the withdrawal threshold on both the contralateral and the ipsilaeral side at 30, 120, and 300 minutes postanesthesia in group R was significantly lower than in groups P, RL, and L (P&lt;0.05). Both immunoblotting and immunofluorescence showed that cPKCgamma membrane translocation increased in dorsal horn neurons of propofol-remifentanil-based anesthetized rats, which could be inhibited by systemic lidocaine. These results suggested that increased cPKCgamma membrane translocation was involved in remifentanil-induced hyperalgesia, which was inhibited by systemic lidocaine and may contribute to reduced postoperative pain in rats after propofol-remifentanil-based anesthesia.
Macrocephaly-cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita is a rare overgrowth syndrome commonly associated with hydrocephalus. Although the pathophysiological characteristics of the hydrocephalus in this syndrome is not fully known, previous reports have described its treatment with ventriculoperitoneal shunt placement. The authors describe 2 cases of macrocephaly-cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita successfully treated for progressive hydrocephalus with endoscopic third ventriculostomy. Both patients experienced clinical and radiographic stabilization following treatment, and these findings offer insight into the pathophysiology of the hydrocephalus and its ideal management.


Significant interest exists in strategies for improving forelimb function following spinal cord injury. We investigated the effect of enriched housing combined with skilled training on the recovery of skilled and automatic forelimb function after a cervical spinal cord injury in adult rats. All animals were pretrained in skilled reaching, gridwalk crossing, and overground locomotion. Some received a cervical over-hemisection lesion at C4-5, interrupting the right side of the spinal cord and dorsal columns bilaterally, and were housed in standard housing alone or enriched environments with daily training. A subset of animals received rolipram to promote neuronal plasticity. Animals were tested weekly for 4 weeks to measure reaching, errors on the gridwalk, locomotion, and vertical exploration. Biotinylated dextran amine was injected into the cortex to label the corticospinal tract. Enriched environments/daily training significantly increased the number and success of left reaches compared to standard housing. Animals also made fewer errors on the gridwalk, a measure of coordinated forelimb function. However, there were no significant improvements in forelimb use during vertical exploration or locomotion. Likewise, rolipram did not improve any of the behaviors tested. Both enriched housing and rolipram increased plasticity of the corticospinal tract rostral to the lesion. These studies indicate that skilled training after a cervical spinal cord injury improves recovery of skilled forelimb use (reaching) and coordinated limb function (gridwalk) but does not improve automatic forelimb function (locomotion and vertical exploration). These studies suggest that rehabilitating forelimb function after spinal cord injury will require separate strategies for descending and segmental pathways.
Coenzyme Q(10) (CoQ(10)) is widely consumed as a dietary supplement to enhance bioenergetic capacity and to ameliorate the debilitative effects of the aging process or certain pathological conditions. Our main purpose in this study was to determine whether CoQ(10) intake does indeed attenuate the age-associated losses in motor, sensory, and cognitive functions or decrease the rate of mortality in mice. Mice were fed a control nonpurified diet or that diet containing 0.68 mg/g (low dosage) or 2.6 mg/g (high dosage) CoQ(10), starting at 4 mo of age, and were tested for sensory, motor, and cognitive function at 7, 15, and 25 mo of age. Amounts of the ubiquinols CoQ(9)H(2) and CoQ(10)H(2) measured in a parallel study were augmented in the cerebral cortex but not in any other region of the brain. Intake of the low-CoQ(10) diet did not affect age-associated decrements in muscle strength, balance, coordinated running, or learning/memory, whereas intake at the higher amount increased spontaneous activity, worsened the age-related losses in acuity to auditory and shock stimuli, and impaired the spatial learning/memory of old mice. The CoQ(10) diets did not affect survivorship of mice through 25 mo of age. Our results suggest that prolonged intake of CoQ(10) in low amounts has no discernable impact on cognitive and motor functions whereas intake at higher amounts exacerbates cognitive and sensory impairments encountered in old mice. These findings do not support the notion that CoQ(10) is a fitness-enhancing or an &quot;antiaging&quot; substance under normal physiological conditions.



An epistemological web invites critical reflection and the possibility of new ideas emerging in the space between experience and different ways of thinking. A web offers a postmodern method of a hermeneutic of experience and a way of knowing that creates space for a robust, flexible, dynamic process of critical reflection and discovery. The following article utilizes an inter-textual epistemological web (see Figure 1, p. 4) to answer the question, &quot;Do metaphors of experience and experiences of metaphor during contemplative healing prayer with a spiritual director nurture a transformational process toward aliveness and compassion?&quot; How can one discover and communicate this reality in dialog with Hebrew scripture, psychoanalytic theory, affective neuroscience and ways of thinking about contemplative transformation?

With the help of single-cell microflorimetry, (45)Ca(2+) radiotracer fluxes, and patch-clamp in whole-cell configuration, we examined the effect of the amiloride derivative 3-amino-6-chloro-5-[(4-chloro-benzyl)amino]-N-[[(2,4-dimethylbenzyl)amino]iminomethyl]-pyrazinecarboxamide (CB-DMB) on the activity of the three isoforms of the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX) and on several other membrane currents including voltage- and pH-sensitive ones. This amiloride analog suppressed the bidirectional activity of all NCX isoforms in a concentration-dependent manner. The IC(50) values of CB-DMB were in the nanomolar range for the outward and the inward components of the bidirectional NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3 activity. Deletion mutagenesis showed that CB-DMB inhibited NCX activity mainly at level of the f-loop but not through the interaction with Gly833 located at the level of the alpha(2) repeat. On the other hand, CB-DMB suppressed in the micromolar range the other plasma membrane currents encoded by voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels, tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na(+) channels, and pH-sensitive ASIC1a. Collectively, the data of the present study showed that CB-DMB, when used in the nanomolar range, is one of the most potent compounds that can block the activity of the three NCX isoforms when they work both in the forward and in the reverse modes of operation without interfering with other ionic channels.
Although many nervous system disorders are associated with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor overactivation, pharmacological inhibition of NMDA receptors has typically demonstrated limited clinical value due to debilitating psychotomimetic side-effects. Memantine, however, induces far fewer behavioural side-effects than other NMDA receptor channel blockers such as ketamine, and slows the progressive cognitive decline associated with Alzheimer's disease. Memantine and ketamine inhibit NMDA receptors with similar affinity and kinetics. A prominent mechanistic difference between memantine and ketamine is the degree to which they are 'trapped' within the closed channel of NMDA receptors following removal of agonist: ketamine becomes trapped in nearly all NMDA receptors to which it was bound before agonist removal, whereas some bound memantine molecules dissociate after agonist removal, a phenomenon called partial trapping. Here we investigated the mechanism underlying partial trapping of memantine by recombinant NR1/2A NMDA receptors. We found that memantine dissociation from NR1/2A receptors after agonist removal (the process that results in partial trapping) followed an exponential time course with tau = 0.79 +/- 0.32 s. Neither membrane voltage depolarization nor maintained presence of memantine after agonist removal affected partial trapping, suggesting that partial trapping does not result from memantine escape through open channels. We tested the hypothesis that partial trapping results from binding of memantine to two sites, a superficial 'non-trapping' site and a deep 'trapping' site, which cannot be occupied simultaneously. This hypothesis was supported by the lack of ketamine binding to the superficial site, the voltage dependence of partial trapping, and the effect on partial trapping of a mutation near the deep site. The superficial binding site for memantine may, by causing partial trapping, contribute to memantine's unique therapeutic utility.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is a neuropeptide released following meal ingestion that, among other effects, decreases gastric tone and motility. The central targets and mechanism of action of GLP-1 on gastric neurocircuits have not, however, been fully investigated. A high density of GLP-1 containing neurones and receptors are present in brainstem vagal circuits, suggesting that the gastroinhibition may be vagally mediated. We aimed to investigate: (1) the response of identified gastric-projecting neurones of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) to GLP-1 and its analogues; (2) the effects of brainstem application of GLP-1 on gastric tone; and (3) the vagal pathway utilized by GLP-1 to induce gastroinhibition. We conducted our experiments using whole-cell recordings from identified gastric-projecting DMV neurones and microinjection in the dorsal vagal complex (DVC) of anaesthetized rats while monitoring gastric tone. Perfusion with GLP-1 induced a concentration-dependent excitation of a subpopulation of gastric-projecting DMV neurones. The GLP-1 effects were mimicked by exendin-4 and antagonized by exendin-9-39. In an anaesthetized rat preparation, application of exendin-4 to the DVC decreased gastric tone in a concentration-dependent manner. The gastroinhibitory effects of exendin-4 were unaffected by systemic pretreatment with the pro-motility muscarinic agonist bethanechol, but were abolished by systemic administration of the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), or by bilateral vagotomy. Our data indicate that GLP-1 activates selective receptors to excite DMV neurones mainly and that the gastroinhibition observed following application of GLP-1 in the DVC is due to the activation of an inhibitory non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic input to the stomach.
Glutamate transporters are responsible for clearing synaptically released glutamate from the extracellular space. By this action, they maintain low levels of ambient glutamate, thus preventing excitotoxic damage, and contribute to shaping synaptic currents. We show that up-regulation of the glutamate transporter GLT-1 by ceftriaxone severely impaired mGluR-dependent long-term depression (LTD), induced at rat mossy fibre (MF)-CA3 synapses by repetitive stimulation of afferent fibres. This effect involved GLT-1, since LTD was rescued by the selective GLT-1 antagonist dihydrokainate (DHK). DHK per se produced a modest decrease in fEPSP amplitude that rapidly regained control levels after DHK wash out. Moreover, the degree of fEPSP inhibition induced by the low-affinity glutamate receptor antagonist gamma-DGG was similar during basal synaptic transmission but not during LTD, indicating that in ceftriaxone-treated rats LTD induction did not alter synaptic glutamate transient concentration. Furthermore, ceftriaxone-induced GLT-1 up-regulation significantly reduced the magnitude of LTP at MF-CA3 synapses but not at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses. Postembedding immunogold studies in rats showed an increased density of gold particles coding for GLT-1a in astrocytic processes and in mossy fibre terminals; in the latter, gold particles were located near and within the active zones. In both CEF-treated and untreated GLT-1 KO mice used for verifying the specificity of immunostaining, the density of gold particles in MF terminals was comparable to background levels. The enhanced expression of GLT-1 at release sites may prevent activation of presynaptic receptors, thus revealing a novel mechanism by which GLT-1 regulates synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus.
BDNF plays a key role in neuronal development, in short- and long-term changes in synaptic activity, and in neuronal survival. These effects are mediated, to a great extent, by changes in protein synthesis. We conducted a gel-based proteome profiling of the long-term (12 h) effects of BDNF in cultured hippocampal neurons. BDNF changed the abundance of proteins involved in (i) Nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide and nucleic acid metabolism, (ii) protein metabolism, (iii) carbohydrate metabolism, (iv) regulators of apoptosis, and (v) regulators of cell proliferation. A large majority of the identified proteins involved in translation activity were upregulated, but not all changes in the protein content were correlated with alterations in the corresponding mRNA. The upregulation of Seryl-aminoacyl-tRNA-synthetase and Eef2 was sensitive to the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin, as determined by Western blot. Since the mRNAs for proteins involved in translation represent a large fraction of the diversity of dendritic mRNAs, we investigated the effect of BDNF on the distribution of the transcripts in the soma versus neurite compartments. The increase in mRNA for proteins of the translation machinery in the soma was differentially coupled with the upregulation of neurite transcripts. BDNF also downregulated specific mRNAs in neurite compartments suggesting that the neurotrophin may act by regulating mRNA stability and thereby affecting the dendritic protein content.
Lexical-semantic access and retrieval was examined in 15 adults diagnosed with schizophrenia and matched controls. This study extends the literature through the inclusion of multiple examinations of lexical-semantic production within the same patient group and through correlating performance on these tasks with various positive and negative clinical symptoms. On tasks of verbal fluency, meaning generation, sentence production using contextual information and confrontation naming, participants with schizophrenia made significantly more semantic errors on naming tasks; produced fewer meanings for homophones; produced fewer items on semantic, phonological, cued and switching fluency tasks; and produced more errors on sentence production tasks when compared to healthy controls. Significant correlations were also observed between ratings of psychomotor poverty and measures of semantic production and mental inflexibility. This study has provided additional evidence for deficits in lexical-semantic retrieval which are not due to underlying semantic store degradation, do not involve phonological based retrieval, and at the level of sentence generation appear to vary as a function of the contextual constraints provided.





We are providing free digital resources for teaching neuroscience labs at http://mdcune.psych.ucla.edu/. These resources will ultimately include materials for teaching laboratories in electrophysiology of neuronal circuits (SWIMMY), a Neuroinformatics/Bioinformatics module, and two modules for investigating the effects of hormones on early CNS development-one focusing on the development of the song system and one focusing on sex differences in spinal cord motor neurons. All of these modules are inquiry based-students gain from genuine experiences in doing actual studies rather than just simulations. These materials should provide instructors the ability to provide good quality laboratory experiences regardless of resource limitations. Currently, modules on sex differences in the spinal cord and virtual neural circuits (SWIMMY) are available on our website. More will be available in summer 2009 and 2010. SWIMMY was demonstrated at the Faculty for Undergraduate Neuroscience (FUN) Workshop-The Undergraduate Neuroscience Education: Interactions, interdisciplines, and curricular best practices at Macalester College in July 2008.
The Allen Brain Atlas is a repository of neuroanatomical data concerning the mouse brain. The core of the database is a Nissl-stained reference atlas of the brain accompanied by in situ hybridization data for essentially the entire mouse genome. This database is freely available at the Allen Institute for Brain Science website, as is an innovative tool to explore the database, the Brain Explorer. This tool is downloaded and installed on your own computer. I have developed a self-study tutorial, &quot;Explorations with the Allen Brain Explorer&quot;, which uses the Brain Explorer and the Brain Atlas to teach fundamentals of mammalian neuroanatomy and brain function. In this tutorial background information and step-by-step exercises on the use of the Brain Explorer are given using PowerPoint as a platform. To do the tutorial both the PowerPoint and the Brain Explorer are opened on the computer and the students switch from one program to the other as they go, in a step-wise fashion, through the various exercises. There are two main groups of exercises, titled &quot;The Basics&quot; and &quot;Explorations&quot;, with both groups accessed from a PowerPoint &quot;Start Menu&quot; by clicking on dynamic links to the appropriate exercises. Most exercises have a number of dynamic links to PowerPoint slides where background information for the exercises is given or the neuroanatomical data collected from the Brain Atlas is discussed.
The Introduction to Neuroscience course at Hope College includes a three-hour laboratory period each week. Seven of the fifteen weeks of the lab are used for a lab project that is focused on understanding the effects of gonadal hormones on brain and behavior. Students perform ovariectomies and implant sham, estradiol, or testosterone capsules in rats and then carry out five experiments: 1) Sexual Behavior, 2) Spatial Learning using the Morris Water Maze, 3) The Size of the Sexually Dimorphic Nucleus, 4) Phosphorylation of NMDA Receptors, and 5) Long Term Potentiation in Hippocampal Slices. The experiments are designed to provide the students with experiences at different levels of neuroscience, while improving their skills in statistics, using the primary literature, and scientific writing. The students generate interesting and statistically significant data which they summarize in a journal style lab reports. Using a Self Assessment of Learning Gains tool, we learned that students perceive the lab project improves their ability to A) pose questions from more than one disciplinary perspective that can be addressed by collecting and evaluating scientific evidence, B) learn about complex science problems that require insight from more than one discipline, C) extract main points from a scientific article and develop a coherent summary, and D) write reports using scientific data as evidence. Based on our results, we believe an extended lab project in an introductory neuroscience course can be used to engage students in neuroscience topics and help them develop the skills and habits of neuroscientists.
Undergraduate institutions are increasingly adopting neuroscience within their curricula, although it is unclear how best to implement this material given the interdisciplinary nature of the field, which requires knowledge of basic physics, chemistry, biology and psychology. This difficulty is compounded by declines over recent decades in the amount of physics education that students receive in high school, which hinders students' ability to grasp basic principles of neuroscience. Here we discuss our experiences as teacher (BRC) and student (RLS) with an undergraduate course in Vision and Art. The course capitalizes on students' prior interest in visual art to motivate an understanding of the physiological and computational neural processes that underlie vision; our aim is that the learning strategies that students acquire as a result of the format and interdisciplinary approach of the course will increase students' critical thinking skills and benefit them as they pursue other domains of inquiry. The course includes both expert lectures on central themes of vision along with a problem-based learning (PBL) laboratory component that directly engages the students as empirical scientists. We outline the syllabus, the motivation for using PBL, and describe a number of hands-on laboratory exercises, many of which require only inexpensive and readily available equipment. We have developed a website that we hope will facilitate student-driven inquiry beyond the classroom and foster inter-institutional collaboration in this endeavor. We conclude the paper with a discussion of the potential limitations of the course and how to evaluate the success of the course and the website.
Bowdoin College is a small liberal arts college that offers a comprehensive Neuroscience major. The laboratory experience is an integral part of the major, and many students progress through three stages. A core course offers a survey of concepts and techniques. Four upper-level courses function to give students more intensive laboratory research experience in neurophysiology, molecular neurobiology, social behavior, and learning and memory. Finally, many majors choose to work in the individual research labs of the Neuroscience faculty. We, as laboratory instructors, are vital to the process, and are actively involved in all aspects of the lab-based courses. We provide student instruction in state of the art techniques in neuroscience research. By sharing laboratory teaching responsibilities with course professors, we help to prepare students for careers in laboratory neuroscience and also support and facilitate faculty research programs.
The field of neuroscience is generating increased public appetite for information about exciting brain research and discoveries. As stewards of the discipline, together with FUN and others, the Society for Neuroscience (SfN) embraces public outreach and education as essential to its mission of promoting understanding of the brain and nervous system. The Society looks to its members, particularly the younger generation of neuroscientists, to inspire, inform and engage citizens of all ages, and most importantly our youth, in this important endeavor. Here we review SfN programs and resources that support public outreach efforts to inform, educate and tell the story of neuroscience. We describe the important role the Brain Awareness campaign has played in achieving this goal and highlight opportunities for FUN members and students to contribute to this growing effort. We discuss specific programs that provide additional opportunities for neuroscientists to get involved with K-12 teachers and students in ways that inspire youth to pursue further studies and possible careers in science. We draw attention to SfN resources that support outreach to broader audiences. Through ongoing partnerships such as that between SfN and FUN, the neuroscience community is well positioned to pursue novel approaches and resources, including harnessing the power of the Internet. These efforts will increase science literacy among our citizens and garner more robust support for scientific research.
Planning for new science facilities at your institution is an exciting, challenging, and rewarding endeavor. Perhaps most significantly, it also embodies a rare opportunity to provide new infrastructure to support a programmatic vision for the future. Here, we describe St. Olaf's new Regents Hall of Natural and Mathematical Sciences, beginning with an outline of the planning/design process, then an overview of the features of the building - with particular regard to the Neuroscience Program facilities - and finally a discussion of lessons learned. We hope our experiences may benefit those engaged in the facilities planning process at their own institutions.
Never before in human history has there been a more exciting time to be studying neuroscience. By extension, the opportunities have never been greater to examine how contemporary findings in neuroscience might relate to other areas of human inquiry. Over the last two decades I have participated in a number of formal and informal attempts to connect neuroscience and psychology to other academic disciplines in the context of interdisciplinary courses. Herein lies a brief overview of my experiences with these undertakings.
This article describes a non-majors biology class linking neuroscience and women's studies. The class had 24 students from 13 majors. We met for three classroom hours and three laboratory hours each week. We used animal and human case studies to explore issues of gender, sexuality, hormones, anatomy, biochemistry, behavior and environment to explore the differences and similarities between male and female brains. Reading focused on two major texts, Roughgarden's Evolution's Rainbow and Hines's Brain Gender, and primary literature referenced within. Student performance was assessed through exams, class participation, presentations of primary literature, and independent research projects with oral and written presentations. The cross-listing with women's studies improved the class because it led to a great richness of majors and experiences. Furthermore, these students were used to vehement discussion and careful analysis, which carried over to assessing the primary literature, to a surprising degree.
Neurons in Action, a set of 25 hyperlinked tutorials and interactive simulations on CD-ROM, provides the student with a completely different approach to neurophysiology from that of textbooks. Guided by the tutorials, by their professor, by the urge to test their understanding, or simply by curiosity, students specify the parameters of a patch of membrane, an axon, a postsynaptic membrane, or a cell and run virtual experiments. Parameters include geometry, the number and type of ion channels in the membrane, the number of myelin wraps of the axon, the ion concentrations inside and out, synaptic variables, and temperature. Hyperlinked explanations, historical information, and classic papers on the CD provide the &quot;textbook&quot; material. This article describes this learning tool and details several ways in which it is being used at the undergraduate level.
The 'JUNE and You' sessions presented at the July 2008 Undergraduate Neuroscience Education workshop, sponsored jointly by Faculty for Undergraduate Neuroscience (FUN) and Project Kaleidoscope (PKAL), featured background information about the history and mission of the Journal of Undergraduate Neuroscience Education (JUNE), followed by an informative discussion about the challenges facing JUNE, including new ideas for future developments. This article will highlight some of the information and ideas generated and shared at this conference. Critical discussion points included the need to keep members of FUN actively engaged in submitting and reviewing articles for JUNE. Ways in which authors, reviewers, and interested faculty members could best help in promoting the mission and vision of JUNE were discussed. Concerns about recent hackings into the JUNE website were also raised, and possible solutions and measures that can be taken to minimize this in the future were discussed. In addition, ideas for expanding the role of JUNE to provide a forum to evaluate new and emerging website information that is pertinent to undergraduate neuroscience education was discussed. Ideas for future developments of JUNE included revolving postings of articles as they are accepted, providing links to several related websites, and allowing updates for articles that have been previously published in JUNE. Finally, ideas for maintaining and expanding JUNE's stature as the resource for undergraduate neuroscience education included ensuring that JUNE is listed on important search vehicles, such as PubMed.
The need to enhance recruitment and retention of students in the sciences to strengthen the economic and scientific foundation of the United States was recently underscored by the National Science Board. The SOMAS Program (Support Of Mentors And their Students) addresses this need using a two-pronged strategy: 1) Junior faculty receive mentoring and instruction in launching research programs that engage student collaborators; and 2) College students are introduced to discovery in the neurosciences by conducting original research with their professors. Junior faculty from predominantly undergraduate institutions are invited to submit applications to obtain summer research support for undergraduate students who will spend 10 weeks collaborating with the faculty member on projects of common interest. Awards cover a travel and a supply budget, summer student housing, as well as faculty and student stipends. The faculty mentors and their students are to use the travel support to attend the joint Annual Meetings of the Society for Neuroscience (SfN) and the Faculty for Undergraduate Neuroscience (FUN). Faculty Awardees are required to participate in the Survival Skills and Ethics Workshop held at the SfN Meeting to prepare them to write grants aimed at supporting their research programs. Students are to present their summer research findings at the FUN Poster Session held jointly with the SfN Meeting. Students are also required to attend Survival Skills Workshop sessions that focus on ethics in research and that provide tips on applying to graduate school. The SOMAS-URM Program presently emphasizes recruitment and retention of underrepresented groups to enhance participation in scientific discovery by the full range of the American population.
How do good teachers get that way? While practice is certainly important, good ideas are essential. The first goal of the &quot;New(er) Kids on the Block&quot; plenary session at the 2008 PKAL/FUN Workshop was to highlight the notable things junior FUN faculty are doing in the classroom and the lab. Happily, both younger and more seasoned faculty colleagues shared a multitude of pedagogical ideas, many of which are briefly described here. The second goal of the session was to provide a place for junior faculty to ask questions of senior faculty. This broader goal was less directly met, possibly because of time constraints, possibly because of the nature of the group setting. In future workshops, arranging a large session for the exchange of ideas and a smaller session for mentoring type activities might be advisable.
In the spring of 2007, the Society for Neuroscience (SfN) did not include support for higher education as a priority in its strategic plan. By the spring of 2009, its priorities had changed. One catalyst for that change was a proposal for a website that would list, review, and rate resources for teaching neuroscience at the graduate and undergraduate level. The proposal was sent to and accepted by SfN Council in August 2008; by spring 2009, SfN had taken initial steps to implement it. Two documents are presented here that mark the change in policy: the website proposal, and SfN Council's response.
The Internet is enhancing and challenging traditional approaches to teaching undergraduate neuroscience. In addition to the new FUN-supported development of a Society for Neuroscience Portal for higher education, there is a wealth of available teaching resources currently housed on the web. This article discusses the current state of digital libraries and introduces a series of exemplary web-based classroom resources.
The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) generates 16 nonstructural proteins (nsp's) through proteolytic cleavage of a large precursor protein. Although several nsp's exhibit catalytic activities that are important for viral replication and transcription, other nsp's have less clearly defined roles during an infection. In order to gain a better understanding of their functions, we attempted to identify host proteins that interact with nsp's during SARS-CoV infections. For nsp2, we identified an interaction with two host proteins, prohibitin 1 (PHB1) and PHB2. Our results suggest that nsp2 may be involved in the disruption of intracellular host signaling during SARS-CoV infections.
Spatial independent component analysis (ICA) is a well-established technique for multivariate analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. It blindly extracts spatiotemporal patterns of neural activity from functional measurements by seeking for sources that are maximally independent. Additional information on one or more sources (e.g., spatial regularity) is often available; however, it is not considered while looking for independent components. In the present work, we propose a new ICA algorithm based on the optimization of an objective function that accounts for both independence and other information on the sources or on the mixing model in a very general fashion. In particular, we apply this approach to fMRI data analysis and illustrate, by means of simulations, how inclusion of a spatial regularity term helps to recover the sources more effectively than with conventional ICA. The improvement is especially evident in high noise situations. Furthermore we employ the same approach on data sets from a complex mental imagery experiment, showing that consistency and physiological plausibility of relatively weak components are improved.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalography (EEG) represent brain activity in terms of a reliable anatomical localization and a detailed temporal evolution of neural signals. Simultaneous EEG-fMRI recordings offer the possibility to greatly enrich the significance and the interpretation of the single modality results because the same neural processes are observed from the same brain at the same time. Nonetheless, the different physical nature of the measured signals by the two techniques renders the coupling not always straightforward, especially in cognitive experiments where spatially localized and distributed effects coexist and evolve temporally at different temporal scales. The purpose of this article is to illustrate the combination of simultaneously recorded EEG and fMRI signals exploiting the principles of EEG distributed source modeling. We define a common source space for fMRI and EEG signal projection and gather a conceptually unique framework for the spatial and temporal comparative analysis. We illustrate this framework in a graded-load working-memory simultaneous EEG-fMRI experiment based on the n-back task where sustained load-dependent changes in the blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) signals during continuous item memorization co-occur with parametric changes in the EEG theta power induced at each single item. In line with previous studies, we demonstrate on two single-subject cases how the presented approach is capable of colocalizing in midline frontal regions two phenomena simultaneously observed at different temporal scales, such as the sustained negative changes in BOLD activity and the parametric EEG theta synchronization. We discuss the presented approach in relation to modeling and interpretation issues typically arising in simultaneous EEG-fMRI studies.


Physical whole-body vibration (WBV) exercises become available at various levels of intensity. In a first series of measurements, we investigated 3-dimensional platform accelerations of three different WBV devices without and with three volunteers of different weight (62, 81 and 100 kg) in squat position (150 degrees knee flexion). The devices tested were two professional devices, the PowerPlate and the Galileo-Fitness, and one home-use device, the PowerMaxx. In a second series of measurements, the transmission of vertical platform accelerations of each device to the lower limbs was tested in eight healthy volunteers in squat position (100 degrees knee flexion). The first series showed that the platforms of two professional devices vibrated in an almost perfect vertical sine wave at frequencies between 25-50 and 5-40 Hz, respectively. The platform accelerations were slightly influenced by body weight. The PowerMaxx platform mainly vibrated in the horizontal plane at frequencies between 22 and 32 Hz, with minimal accelerations in the vertical direction. The weight of the volunteers reduced the platform accelerations in the horizontal plane but amplified those in the vertical direction about eight times. The vertical accelerations were highest in the Galileo (approximately 15 units of g) and the PowerPlate (approximately 8 units of g) and lowest in the PowerMaxx (approximately 2 units of g). The second series showed that the transmission of vertical accelerations at a common preset vibration frequency of 25 Hz were largest in the ankle and that transmission of acceleration reduced approximately 10 times at the knee and hip. We conclude that large variation in 3-dimensional accelerations exist in commercially available devices. The results suggest that these differences in mechanical behaviour induce variations in transmissibility of vertical vibrations to the (lower) body.
The hypothesis is summarised schematically in Fig. 1. It is proposed that mechanical deformation of the skin by needles and application of heat or electrical current leads to release of large amounts of ATP from keratinocytes, fibroblasts and other cells in skin; the ATP then occupies specific receptor subtypes expressed on sensory nerve endings in the skin and tongue; the sensory nerves send impulses through ganglia to the spinal cord, the brain stem, hypothalamus and higher centres; the brain stem and hypothalamus contain neurons that control autonomic functions, including cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, respiratory, urinogenital and musculo-skeletal activity. Impulses generated in sensory fibres in the skin connect with interneurons to modulate (either inhibition or facilitation) the activities of the motoneurons in the brain stem and hypothalamus to change autonomic functions; specifically activated sensory nerves, via interneurons, also inhibit the neural pathways to the pain centres in the cortex.

Genetic variations of the human RETN gene are associated with metabolic phenotypes, including obesity, insulin sensitivity, diabetes, and coronary heart disease (CHD). There are few studies of two gene variants, -394C&gt;G and -420C&gt;G, in Chinese population. This study investigated the distribution of RETN gene, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), in Chinese Han population and the association of the polymorphisms with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and CHD. In a population-based, case-control genetic association study, a total of 961 subjects were recruited from the community, including 318 T2DM patients, 273 CHD patients, and 370 unrelated healthy control individuals. Serum lipid levels were detected. Two SNPs of RETN gene, -394C&gt;G and -420C&gt;G, were genotyped by PCR-RFLP. Unknown Polymorphisms were screened with the technique of denaturing high performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC). The frequencies of RETN -394G allele in T2DM group, CHD group, and control group were 0.3066, 0.3555, and 0.3481, respectively, which are met with the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. There is a significant difference of the comparison of sex in T2DM group of RETN gene SNP-394C&gt;G (P &lt; 0.05). Compared with controls, there was no significant difference in the distribution of genotypes and allele frequencies of -394C&gt;G polymorphic site in T2DM patients and CHD patients, respectively. No direct association was found between the -394C&gt;G polymorphism and T2DM or CHD. The frequencies of RETN -420G allele in T2DM group, CHD group, and control group were 0.4009, 0.3725, and 0.3859, respectively, which are met with the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. The frequencies of RETN -420G allele in T2DM groups and control groups of Chinese population are significantly different from those in European population (0.40 vs. 0.27, 0.39 vs. 0.26) (P &lt; 0.01). Compared with controls, there was no significant difference in distribution of genotypes and allele frequencies of -420C&gt;G polymorphic site in T2DM patients and CHD patients, respectively. No direct association was found between the -420C&gt;G polymorphism and T2DM or CHD. In addition, we found new potential SNP +593G&gt;C in exon 3 of RETN gene using DHPLC. The RETN gene exhibits sex and ethnic differences. +593G&gt;C of RETN gene might be a new potential SNP in exon 3 of RETN gene. Association between SNP -394C&gt;G and -420C&gt;G of RETN gene with T2DM and CHD in Chinese needs more exploration.
CRYPTOCHOME proteins are necessary for mammalian circadian rhythms and have many well-established biochemical roles within the molecular clock. While studies examining the effect of null Cry alleles have been informative, they have failed to dissect out the relative importance of, and the molecular mechanisms behind, the many roles of the CRY1 and CRY2 proteins. To address this, we created an allelic series of Cry mutants through random mutagenesis, followed by a cell-based screen to isolate mutants with aberrant repression of CLOCK-BMAL1. We identified 22 mutants with mutations resulting in single amino acid substitutions which cause a variety of deficiencies in different CRY functions. To illustrate the breadth and value of these new tools, we present an in-depth analysis of two of these mutants, CRY2G354D and CRY2G351D; the former shows deficiency in clock protein binding and is required for repression by both CRYs, while in contrast, the latter displays normal binding function but exhibits a CRY2-specific repression phenotype. Further, while overexpression of CRY2 in NIH 3T3 cells caused a dose-dependent decrease in rhythm amplitude, overexpression of CRY2G351D abolished rhythmicity. In summary, characterization of these unique alleles provides new opportunities for more-sophisticated insight into the multifaceted functions of the CRY proteins in circadian rhythms.
Lesioned central nervous system (CNS) axons fail to regenerate because of limited availability of neurotrophic factors (NTF) to promote neuron survival and drive axon regeneration through an environment rich in multiple myelin- and non myelin-derived axon growth inhibitory ligands that initiate growth cone collapse through the Rho/Rho kinase (ROCK) signalling pathway. However, pharmacological inhibition of Rho and ROCK promotes neurite outgrowth in PC12, Ntera-2 cells and embryonic/early postnatal neurons in culture. We have used our well-characterised CNS myelin-inhibited adult rat retinal culture model to show that Y27632 only promotes disinhibited neurite outgrowth if RGC are co-stimulated with ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF). Y27632 in CNTF-stimulated retinal cultures promotes optimal RGC neurite outgrowth at 10 muM concentrations, while higher concentrations negatively correlate with RGC neurite outgrowth and survival. Raising the levels of cAMP in Y27632-treated retinal cultures also promotes significant RGC neurite outgrowth, an effect that is potentiated by the further inclusion of CNTF. Our results suggest that Y27632-induced ROCK inhibition promotes robust disinhibited axon regeneration of adult neurons only when growth promoting factors are added and/or cAMP levels are raised.
We have developed a compartmentalised culture model for the purification of axonal mRNA from embryonic, neonatal and adult rat dorsal root ganglia. This mRNA was used un-amplified for RT-qPCR. We assayed for the presence of axonal mRNAs encoding molecules known to be involved in axon growth and guidance. mRNAs for beta-actin, beta-tubulin, and several molecules involved in the control of actin dynamics and signalling during axon growth were found, but mRNAs for microtubule-associated proteins, integrins and cell surface adhesion molecules were absent. Quantification of beta-actin mRNA by means of qPCR showed that the transcript is present at the same level in embryonic, newborn and adult axons. Using the photoconvertible reporter Kaede we showed that there is local translation of beta-actin in axons, the rate being increased by axotomy. Knock down of beta-actin mRNA by RNAi inhibited the regeneration of new axon growth cones after in vitro axotomy, indicating that local translation of actin-related molecules is important for successful axon regeneration.
Although relatively neglected previously, research efforts in the past decade or so have identified a pivotal role for glial cells in regulating neuronal function. Particular emphasis has been placed on increasing our understanding of the function of microglia because a change from the ramified &quot;resting&quot; state of these cells has been associated with the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases, notably Alzheimer's disease. However, it is not clear whether activation of microglia and the associated inflammatory changes play a part in triggering disease processes or whether cell activation is a response to the early changes associated with the disease. In either case, the possibility exists that modulation of microglial activation may be beneficial in some circumstances, underlying the need to pursue research in this area. The original morphological categorization of microglia by Del Rio Hortega into ameboid, ramified, and intermediate forms, must now be elaborated to encompass a functional description. The evidence which has been generated recently suggests that microglia are probably never in a &quot;resting&quot; state and that several intermediate transitional states, based on function and morphology, probably exist. A more complete understanding of these states and the triggers which lead to a change from one to another state, and the factors which modulate the molecular switch that determines the persistence of the &quot;activated&quot; state remain to be identified.
Despite the existence of a large body of information on the subject, the mechanisms of morphine tolerance and dependence are not yet fully understood. There is substantial evidence indicating that mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), a family including extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase, p38 MAPK, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase, can be activated by chronic morphine treatment in the central and peripheral nervous systems and that application of a MAPK inhibitor reduces morphine tolerance and dependence. While the exact mechanism is not completely understood, recent evidence suggests that the activation of MAPK induced by long-term morphine exposure may participate in tolerance and dependence by regulating the downstream targets, such as calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P, nitric oxide, transient receptor potential vanilloid 1, and proinflammatory cytokines. In this review, we focus on the current understanding of the role of MAPK signaling pathways in morphine tolerance and dependence.
Some growth hormone secretagogues act as agonists at the ghrelin receptor and have been described as &quot;ago-allosteric&quot; ligands because of an ability to also modulate the maximum efficacy and potency of ghrelin (Holst et al., 2005). In membranes prepared from cells coexpressing the human ghrelin receptor and the G protein Galpha(o1), N-[1(R)-1, 2-dihydro-1-ethanesulfonylspiro-3H-indole-3,4'-piperidin)-1'-yl]carbonyl-2-(phenylmethoxy)-ethyl-2-amino-2-methylpropanamide (MK-677), growth hormone-releasing peptide 6 (GHRP-6), and the 2(R)-hydroxypropyl derivative of 3-amino-3-methyl-N-(2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-2-oxo-1-([2'-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl) (1,1'-biphenyl)-4-yl]methyl)-1H-1-benzazepin-3(R)-yl)-butanamide (L-692,585) each functioned as direct agonists, and each displayed higher efficacy than ghrelin. The effect of multiple, fixed concentrations of each of these ligands on the function and concentration-dependence of ghrelin and the effect of multiple, fixed concentrations of ghrelin on the action of MK-677, GHRP-6, and L-692,585 was analyzed globally according to a modified version of an operational model of allosterism that accounts for allosteric modulation of affinity, efficacy, and allosteric agonism. Each of the data sets was best fit by a model of simple competition between a partial and a full agonist. Both positive and negative allosteric modulators are anticipated to alter the kinetics of binding of an orthosteric agonist. However, none of the proposed ago-allosteric regulators tested had any effect on the dissociation kinetics of (125)I-[His]-ghrelin, and GHRP-6 and MK-677 were able to fully displace (125)I-[His]-ghrelin from the receptor. At least in the system tested, each of the ligands acted in a simple competitive fashion with ghrelin as demonstrated by analysis according to a model whereby ghrelin is a partial agonist with respect to each of the synthetic agonists tested.
In mammals, the neuropeptide vasopressin is a key molecule for complex emotional and social behaviours. Two microsatellite polymorphisms, RS1 and RS3, near the promoter of AVPR1A, encoding the receptor subtype most heavily implicated in behaviour regulation, have been linked to autism and behavioural traits. However, the impact of these variants on human brain function is unknown. Here we show that human amygdala function is strongly associated with genetic variation in AVPR1A. Using an imaging genetics approach in a sample of 121 volunteers studied with an emotional face-matching paradigm, we found that differential activation of amygdala is observed in carriers of risk alleles for RS3 and RS1. Alleles in RS1 previously reported to be significantly over- and undertransmitted to autistic probands showed opposing effects on amygdala activation. Furthermore, we show functional difference in human brain between short and long repeat lengths that mirror findings recently obtained in a corresponding variant in voles. Our results indicate a neural mechanism mediating genetic risk for autism through an impact on amygdala signalling and provide a rationale for exploring therapeutic strategies aimed at abnormal amygdala function in this disorder.
Injured peripheral but not central nerves regenerate their axons but functional recovery is often poor. We demonstrate that prolonged periods of axon separation from targets and Schwann cell denervation eliminate regenerative capacity in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). A substantial delay of 4 weeks for all regenerating axons to cross a site of repair of sectioned nerve contributes to the long period of separation. Findings that 1h 20Hz bipolar electrical stimulation accelerates axon outgrowth across the repair site and the downstream reinnervation of denervated muscles in rats and human patients, provides a new and exciting method to improve functional recovery after nerve injuries. Drugs that elevate neuronal cAMP and activate PKA promote axon outgrowth in vivo and in vitro, mimicking the electrical stimulation effect. Rapid expression of neurotrophic factors and their receptors and then of growth associated proteins thereafter via cAMP, is the likely mechanism by which electrical stimulation accelerates axon outgrowth from the site of injury in both peripheral and central nervous systems.
We used amplitude modulation of cutaneous reflexes during leg cycling as a paradigm to investigate neural control mechanisms regulating forward (FWD) and backward (BWD) rhythmic limb movement. Our prediction was a simple reversal of reflex modulation during BWD leg cycling and context-dependent reflex modulation. Cutaneous reflexes were evoked by electrical stimulation delivered to the superficial peroneal (SP) and distal tibial (TIB) nerves at the ankle. EMG recordings were collected from muscles acting at the hip, knee, and ankle. Kinematic data were also collected at these joints. Cutaneous reflexes were analyzed according to the phase of movement in which they were evoked. When functional phases (i.e., flexion or extension) of cycling were matched between FWD and BWD, background EMG and reflex modulation patterns were generally similar. The reflex patterns when compared at similar functional phases presented as a simple reversal suggesting FWD and BWD cycling are regulated by similar neural mechanisms. The general reflex regulation of limb trajectory was maintained between cycling directions in accordance with the task requirements of the movement direction.
Minocycline is proposed as an add-on therapy to improve the efficacy of glatiramer acetate in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. The effect of minocycline plus glatiramer acetate was evaluated in this double-blind, placebo-controlled study by determining the total number of T1 gadolinium-enhanced lesions at months 8 and 9 in patients who were starting glatiramer acetate and had at least one T1 gadolinium-enhanced lesion on screening magnetic resonance imaging. Forty-four participants were randomized to either minocycline 100 mg twice daily or matching placebo for 9 months as add-on therapy. They were assessed at screening and months 1, 3, 6, 8 and 9. Forty participants completed the study. Compared with glatiramer acetate/placebo, glatiramer acetate/minocycline reduced the total number of T1 gadolinium-enhanced lesions by 63% (mean 1.47 versus 2.95; p = 0.08), the total number of new and enlarging T2 lesions by 65% (mean 1.84 versus 5.14; p = 0.06), and the total T2 disease burden (p = 0.10). A higher number of gadolinium-enhanced lesions were present in the glatiramer acetate/minocycline group at baseline; this was incorporated into the analysis of the primary endpoint but makes interpretation of the data more challenging. The risk of relapse tended to be lower in the combination group (0.19 versus 0.41; p = NS). Treatment was safe and well tolerated. We conclude that efficacy endpoints showed a consistent trend favoring combination treatment. As minocycline is a relatively safe oral therapy, further study of this combination is warranted in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.

The morphological and contractile changes of muscles below the level of the lesion after spinal cord injury (SCI) are dramatic. In humans with SCI, a fiber-type transformation away from type I begins 4-7 months post-SCI and reaches a new steady state with predominantly fast glycolytic IIX fibers years after the injury. There is a progressive drop in the proportion of slow myosin heavy chain (MHC) isoform fibers and a rise in the proportion of fibers that coexpress both the fast and slow MHC isoforms. The oxidative enzymatic activity starts to decline after the first few months post-SCI. Muscles from individuals with chronic SCI show less resistance to fatigue, and the speed-related contractile properties change, becoming faster. These findings are also present in animals. Future studies should longitudinally examine changes in muscles from early SCI until steady state is reached in order to determine optimal training protocols for maintaining skeletal muscle after paralysis.
We conducted a genome-wide association study among 2,323 individuals with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and 9,013 control subjects and evaluated all SNPs with P &lt; 1.0 x 10(-4) in a second, independent cohort of 2,532 affected individuals and 5,940 controls. Analysis of the genome-wide data revealed genome-wide significance for one SNP, rs12608932, with P = 1.30 x 10(-9). This SNP showed robust replication in the second cohort (P = 1.86 x 10(-6)), and a combined analysis over the two stages yielded P = 2.53 x 10(-14). The rs12608932 SNP is located at 19p13.3 and maps to a haplotype block within the boundaries of UNC13A, which regulates the release of neurotransmitters such as glutamate at neuromuscular synapses. Follow-up of additional SNPs showed genome-wide significance for two further SNPs (rs2814707, with P = 7.45 x 10(-9), and rs3849942, with P = 1.01 x 10(-8)) in the combined analysis of both stages. These SNPs are located at chromosome 9p21.2, in a linkage region for familial ALS with frontotemporal dementia found previously in several large pedigrees.

To determine whether entorhinal spatial representations are continuous or fragmented, we recorded neural activity in grid cells while rats ran through a stack of interconnected, zig-zagged compartments of equal shape and orientation (a hairpin maze). The distribution of spatial firing fields was markedly similar across all compartments in which running occurred in the same direction, implying that the grid representation was fragmented into repeating submaps. Activity at neighboring positions was least correlated at the transitions between different arms, indicating that the map split regularly at the turning points. We saw similar discontinuities among place cells in the hippocampus. No fragmentation was observed when the rats followed similar trajectories in the absence of internal walls, implying that stereotypic behavior alone cannot explain the compartmentalization. These results indicate that spatial environments are represented in entorhinal cortex and hippocampus as a mosaic of discrete submaps that correspond to the geometric structure of the space.

Patients with parkinsonian symptoms can present either to primary care physicians or to neurologists. In both contexts, differential diagnosis is problematic, particularly early in the disease when only subtle bradykinesia, rigidity or tremor is present. Adjunctive tests should help substantially to improve the accuracy of early clinical diagnosis. This Review appraises cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), plasma and urine biomarkers that have been studied in the differential diagnosis of neurodegenerative parkinsonism. CSF biomarkers seem to hold the most promise because of their intimacy with the degenerating neurons. Most assays are still in the early stages of development, but CSF measures of alpha-synuclein (specific for Parkinson disease) and tau fragments (specific for progressive supranuclear palsy) have been refined. Universal approval of these assays will depend on larger clinical trials and establishment of normal ranges. Other blood and CSF biomarkers have shown exceptional specificity and sensitivity when analyzed in combination, although these findings require verification. A host of potential biomarkers have, however, produced disappointing results, either because of poor specificity or low assay reproducibility. Despite such difficulties, improved technology, in conjunction with advances in nosology and pathology, means that biomarkers are poised to enter routine clinical practice to aid the differentiation of parkinsonian disorders.
Optimal management of chronic diseases not only requires tackling of the primary disease processes, but also necessitates timely recognition and treatment of comorbid conditions. In this article, we illustrate this two-pronged approach for two common age-related disorders: Parkinson disease (PD) and cerebrovascular disease (CVD). We first discuss the pathophysiological mechanisms that could provide a link between PD and CVD. Patients with PD have a series of risk factors that could promote development of CVD, but also have several protective factors. We then review the available clinical, radiological and neuropathological evidence to support an association between these two conditions. We conclude by discussing the potential implications for clinical practice, highlighting how comorbid CVD could alter the clinical presentation of PD and reviewing the possibilities for prevention and secondary prophylaxis. Additional research will be needed to fully evaluate the prevalence and clinical relevance of comorbid CVD in PD. Pending further evidence, we recommend that cerebral neuroimaging should be considered if patients with initially uncomplicated PD develop-either acutely or chronically-prominent and/or treatment-resistant gait impairment, postural instability, depression, cognitive decline, or urinary incontinence. Finding comorbid CVD in such patients could have prognostic implications, and could necessitate treatment to arrest further progression of CVD.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a critical and rapidly growing global health problem. Neurological complications occur in almost all patients with severe CKD, potentially affecting all levels of the nervous system, from the CNS through to the PNS. Cognitive impairment, manifesting typically as a vascular dementia, develops in a considerable proportion of patients on dialysis, and improves with renal transplantation. Patients on dialysis are generally weaker, less active and have reduced exercise capacity compared with healthy individuals. Peripheral neuropathy manifests in almost all such patients, leading to weakness and disability. Better dialysis strategies and dietary modification could improve outcomes of transplantation if implemented before surgery. For patients with autonomic neuropathy, specific treatments, including sildenafil for impotence and midodrine for intradialytic hypotension, are effective and well tolerated. Exercise training programs and carnitine supplementation might be beneficial for neuromuscular complications, and restless legs syndrome in CKD responds to dopaminergic agonists and levodopa treatment. The present Review dissects the pathophysiology of neurological complications related to CKD and highlights the spectrum of therapies currently available.
The enlargement and species-specific elaboration of the cerebral neocortex during evolution holds the secret to the mental abilities of humans; however, the genetic origin and cellular mechanisms that generated the distinct evolutionary advancements are not well understood. This article describes how novelties that make us human may have been introduced during evolution, based on findings in the embryonic cerebral cortex in different mammalian species. The data on the differences in gene expression, new molecular pathways and novel cellular interactions that have led to these evolutionary advances may also provide insight into the pathogenesis and therapies for human-specific neuropsychiatric disorders.
Evolutionary developmental biology, often called evo-devo, seeks to understand the ancestral relationship among organisms by comparing their developmental strategies and ultimately reconstructing the pathways that led to the extraordinary variety of biological forms. The insights from this synthesis of developmental biology and evolutionary principles are useful for understanding the development of the nervous system. The pervasive and crucial roles of microRNAs in nervous system development suggest that these short non-coding transcripts deserve a chapter in the unfolding evo-devo story. The structure of microRNAs, their physical proximity to other genes and their network effects on targets make this class of transcripts tractable genetic material for evolutionary change.
Voltage-activated ion channels open and close in response to changes in voltage, a property that is essential for generating nerve impulses. Studies on voltage-activated potassium (Kv) channels show that voltage-sensor activation is sensitive to the composition of lipids in the surrounding membrane. Here we explore the interaction of lipids with S1-S4 voltage-sensing domains and find that the conversion of the membrane lipid sphingomyelin to ceramide-1-phosphate alters voltage-sensor activation in an S1-S4 voltage-sensing protein lacking an associated pore domain, and that the S3b-S4 paddle motif determines the effects of lipid modification on Kv channels. Using tarantula toxins that bind to paddle motifs within the membrane, we identify mutations in the paddle motif that weaken toxin binding by disrupting lipid-paddle interactions. Our results suggest that lipids bind to voltage-sensing domains and demonstrate that the pharmacological sensitivities of voltage-activated ion channels are influenced by the surrounding lipid membrane.
We present a dynamic causal model that can explain context-dependent changes in neural responses, in the rat barrel cortex, to an electrical whisker stimulation at different frequencies. Neural responses were measured in terms of local field potentials. These were converted into current source density (CSD) data, and the time series of the CSD sink was extracted to provide a time series response train. The model structure consists of three layers (approximating the responses from the brain stem to the thalamus and then the barrel cortex), and the latter two layers contain nonlinearly coupled modules of linear second-order dynamic systems. The interaction of these modules forms a nonlinear regulatory system that determines the temporal structure of the neural response amplitude for the thalamic and cortical layers. The model is based on the measured population dynamics of neurons rather than the dynamics of a single neuron and was evaluated against CSD data from experiments with varying stimulation frequency (1-40 Hz), random pulse trains, and awake and anesthetized animals. The model parameters obtained by optimization for different physiological conditions (anesthetized or awake) were significantly different. Following Friston, Mechelli, Turner, and Price (2000), this work is part of a formal mathematical system currently being developed (Zheng et al., 2005) that links stimulation to the blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signal through neural activity and hemodynamic variables. The importance of the model described here is that it can be used to invert the hemodynamic measurements of changes in blood flow to estimate the underlying neural activity.
We study a dynamical model of processing and learning in the visual cortex, which reflects the anatomy of V1 cortical columns and properties of their neuronal receptive fields. Based on recent results on the fine-scale structure of columns in V1, we model the activity dynamics in subpopulations of excitatory neurons and their interaction with systems of inhibitory neurons. We find that a dynamical model based on these aspects of columnar anatomy can give rise to specific types of computations that result in self-organization of afferents to the column. For a given type of input, self-organization reliably extracts the basic input components represented by neuronal receptive fields. Self-organization is very noise tolerant and can robustly be applied to different types of input. To quantitatively analyze the system's component extraction capabilities, we use two standard benchmarks: the bars test and natural images. In the bars test, the system shows the highest noise robustness reported so far. If natural image patches are used as input, self-organization results in Gabor-like receptive fields. In quantitative comparison with in vivo measurements, we find that the obtained receptive fields capture statistical properties of V1 simple cells that algorithms such as independent component analysis or sparse coding do not reproduce.
Pyramidal cells in the hippocampus are part of a small neuronal network that performs computations on external input. The network consists of principal cells and various forms of feedback inhibition. Experimental evidence indicates at least two functionally distinct inhibitory feedback loops in the CA3 area of the hippocampus: (1) a loop in which O-LM interneurons project to the distal dendrites of pyramidal cells with synapses that have slow kinetics, and (2) a loop in which basket interneurons project to the somata of pyramidal cells with synapses that have fast kinetics. There is an interconnection between the two loops in the form of O-LM to basket interneuron inhibition and the configuration is further complicated by the presence of distinct propagation delays and short-term facilitation and depression of certain synapses in the two basic loops. In this study we investigated the consequences of various configurations of the circuit and modulations of the components of inhibition for the computation that the network can perform on its input. Gaussian noise was used as the input to the dendrite of the pyramidal cell and evoked two types of events: spikes or bursts. The event-triggered average (ETA) and the event-triggered covariance (ETC) were determined and the inter-event-intervals between spikes and bursts were analyzed. The ETA and ETC on the pyramidal cell show that this model behaves in first approximation as an activity integrator: with sufficient positive input, bursts as well as spikes are evoked. Which of the two is determined by the input just after the (first) spike: positive input results in a burst; negative input results in a spike. Stronger feedback inhibition, in the slow as well as in the fast loop, increases the event rate of the pyramidal cell. For a single input and large propagation delays, the interaction between the two feedback loops is not of great importance. The consequences of the presence of the slow and/or fast feedback inhibitory loop, with or without facilitation and depression, were analyzed in relation to synapse strength. Facilitation and depression are most relevant when their recovery time constant is of the same order as the mean inter-event interval. Short-term depression can stop activity in the fast loop after several fast spikes and can switch the network to a different state, thus functioning as a kind of 'brake' on the fast inhibitory feedback loop. Thus inhibition and the details of the microcircuit organization play an important role in the information processing of the small neuronal circuit.
Neurophysiological data reveals intrinsic cellular properties that suggest how entorhinal cortical neurons could code memory by the phase of their firing. Potential cellular mechanisms for this phase coding in models of entorhinal function are reviewed. This mechanism for phase coding provides a substrate for modeling the responses of entorhinal grid cells, as well as the replay of neural spiking activity during waking and sleep. Efforts to implement these abstract models in more detailed biophysical compartmental simulations raise specific issues that could be addressed in larger scale population models incorporating mechanisms of inhibition.
In cortical networks, synaptic excitation is mediated by AMPA- and NMDA-type receptors. NMDA differ from AMPA synaptic potentials with regard to peak current, time course, and a strong voltage-dependent nonlinearity. Here we illustrate based on empirical and computational findings that these specific biophysical properties may have profound implications for the dynamics of cortical networks, and via dynamics on cognitive functions like active memory. The discussion will be led along a minimal set of neural equations introduced to capture the essential dynamics of the various phenomena described. NMDA currents could establish cortical bistability and may provide the relatively constant synaptic drive needed to robustly maintain enhanced levels of activity during working memory epochs, freeing fast AMPA currents for other computational purposes. Perhaps more importantly, variations in NMDA synaptic input-due to their biophysical particularities-control the dynamical regime within which single neurons and networks reside. By provoking bursting, chaotic irregularity, and coherent oscillations their major effect may be on the temporal pattern of spiking activity, rather than on average firing rate. During active memory, neurons may thus be pushed into a spiking regime that harbors complex temporal structure, potentially optimal for the encoding and processing of temporal sequence information. These observations provide a qualitatively different view on the role of synaptic excitation in neocortical dynamics than entailed by many more abstract models. In this sense, this article is a plead for taking the specific biophysics of real neurons and synapses seriously when trying to account for the neurobiology of cognition.
The ability to covertly select visual stimuli in our environment based on their behavioral relevance is an important skill. Stimulus selection has been studied experimentally, at the single neuron as well as at the population level, by recording from the visual cortex of subjects performing attention-demanding tasks, but studies at the local circuit level are lacking. We conducted simulations of a primary visual cortex (V1) model to provide insight into the local circuit computation underlying stimulus selection in V4. Two small oriented rectangular bars were placed at different locations in the 4 by 4 degree visual field represented by the V1 model, such that they activated different V1 neurons but such that they were both inside the classical receptive field (CRF) of the same V4 neuron. The biased competition framework [Desimone, R., &amp; Duncan, J. (1995). Neural mechanisms of selective visual attention. Annual Review of Neuroscience, 18, 193-222] makes predictions for the response of V4 neurons and the modulation thereof by spatial and feature attention. In our simulation of the V1 network, we obtained results consistent with these predictions for V4 when the model had long-range excitatory projections targeting inhibitory neurons and when spatial attention was mediated by a spatially restricted projection that either inhibited the inhibitory neurons or excited the excitatory neurons. Although it is not clear whether attention effects measured in V4 neurons are generated mostly by local circuits within V4, our simulations suggest that spatial attention at a resolution less than the size of the CRF of a V4 neuron is inherited from upstream areas like V1 and relies on circuits mediating surround suppression at the single neuron level. Furthermore, the model displayed global oscillations in the alpha frequency range (around 10 Hz), whose coherence was highest in the absence of visual stimulation, which is consistent with electroencephalograms recorded in humans. By contrast, when a stimulus was presented the alpha oscillation sped up and became less coherent, whereas at the single column level (40-480 cells) transient beta/gamma oscillations were observed with a frequency between 25 and 50 Hz.
Many network models in computational neuroscience rise to the challenge of explaining behavioural phenomena ranging from microseconds to tens of seconds using components operating mostly on a time-scale of milliseconds. These models have in common that the underlying system has a memory, which implies that its output depends on its past input history. In this review we compare how such memory traces or delayed responses may be implemented in different brain areas supporting a diversity of functions.
The plexus of long and short range lateral connections is a prominent feature of the layer 2/3 microcircuit in the primary visual cortex. Despite the scope for possible functionality, the interdependence of local and long range circuits is still unclear. Spatiotemporal patterns of activity appear to be shaped by the underlying connectivity architecture and strong inhibition. A modelling study has been conducted to capture population activity that has been observed in vitro using voltage sensitive dyes. The model demonstrates that the precise spatiotemporal spread of activity seen in the cortical slice results from long range connections that target specific orientation domains whilst distinct regions of suppressed activity are shown to arise from local isotropic axonal projections. Distal excitatory activity resulting from long range axons is shaped by local interneurons similarly targeted by such connections. It is shown that response latencies of distal excitation are strongly influenced by frequency dependent facilitation and low threshold characteristics of interneurons. Together, these results support hypotheses made following experimental observations in vitro and clearly illustrate the underlying mechanisms. However, predictions by the model suggest that in vivo conditions give rise to markedly different spatiotemporal activity. Furthermore, opposing data in the literature regarding inter-laminar connectivity give rise to profoundly different spatiotemporal patterns of activity in the cortex.
The neocortex is a major component of the most sophisticated and economically significant computer in existence, nevertheless the organisation and operation of its computational circuit is not yet understood. Here we make some steps toward relating anatomical structure to computational function. We use methods of quantitative neuroanatomy to estimate the cortical circuit by defining the projection matrix between the various cells types of the neocortex of the cat, and then we consider the implications of this connectivity for cortical signal processing. Our analyses show that for a reasonable choice of the ratio between excitatory and inhibitory efficacy, the overall cortical circuit lies near the border of dynamical stability. We discuss a model of co-operative competitive processing that is consistent with the observed connectivity in the superficial layers of the cortex, and consider also how the topology of the overall cortical circuit could be configured dynamically through average inhibition.

Mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress and reductions in thiamine-dependent enzymes have been implicated in multiple neurological disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Experimental thiamine deficiency (TD) is an established model for reducing the activities of thiamine-dependent enzymes in brain. TD diminishes thiamine-dependent enzymes throughout the brain, but produces a time-dependent selective neuronal loss, glial activation, inflammation, abnormalities in oxidative metabolism and clusters of degenerating neurites in only specific thalamic regions. The present studies tested how TD alters brain pathology in Tg19959 transgenic mice over expressing a double mutant form of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). TD exacerbated amyloid plaque pathology in transgenic mice and enlarged the area occupied by plaques in cortex, hippocampus and thalamus by 50%, 200% and 200%, respectively. TD increased Abeta(1-42) levels by about three fold, beta-CTF (C99) levels by 33% and beta-secretase (BACE1) protein levels by 43%. TD-induced inflammation in areas of plaque formation. Thus, the induction of mild impairment of oxidative metabolism, oxidative stress and inflammation induced by TD alters metabolism of APP and/or Abeta and promotes accumulation of plaques independent of neuron loss or neuritic clusters.
Cortical cholinergic loss and amyloidogenic processing of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP), may functionally interact in Alzheimer's disease. However, it is still unknown whether biological restoration of regulatory cholinergic inputs affects APP metabolism in vivo. Rats immunolesioned with 192 IgG-saporin exhibited severe acquisition deficits in place navigation that were paralleled by a dramatic loss of terminal cholinergic innervation and by marked changes in the regional expression of APP-like immunoreactivity. Moreover, in these animals, we observed a drastic reduction of soluble APP (sAPP) and a concomitant increase of the unsoluble, membrane-bound fraction (mAPP). Notably, at about 6 months post-surgery, lesioned animals implanted with reinnervating cholinergic-rich septal tissue grafts exhibited fairly normal spatial navigation abilities, as well as cortical and hippocampal APP levels that were restored up to normal or near-normal values. APP levels correlated significantly with lesion- or graft-induced changes in cholinergic innervation density, and both these measures correlated with performance in the spatial navigation task. Thus, integrity of ascending cholinergic inputs may be required to prevent amyloidogenic processing of APP in vivo and to modulate cognitive performance.
Adaptive metabolic changes associated with bacterial infections are likely to cause dehydration. Activation of hypothalamic neurons in the supraoptic nucleus that release anti-diuretic arginine-vasopressin in plasma provides water retention. Aging is characterized by arginine-vasopressin neuron hyper-activity and over-expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines like interleukin (IL)-6. Conversely, insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I, known to exhibit anti-inflammatory properties, decreases with age. We compared activation of arginine-vasopressin neurons in adult (3 months) and aged (22 months) Wistar rats by measuring not only c-fos expression, plasma arginine-vasopressin and diuresis but also the expression of IL-6 and IGF-I in the supraoptic nuclei after intraperitoneal lipopolysaccharide injection. Aged rats displayed a heightened, shorter lasting activation of arginine-vasopressin neurons following lipopolysaccharide as compared to adults. IL-6 mRNA was 3-fold higher while IGF-I mRNA was 10-fold lower in aged than in adult rats. Brain pre-treatment with neutralizing anti-IL-6 antibodies or recombinant IGF-I in aged rats reversed lipopolysaccharide-induced anti-diuresis. These data extend the concept of neuroendocrine-immune interactions to the arginine-vasopressin neuronal system by establishing a relationship between brain IL-6/IGF-I balance and age-associated arginine-vasopressin neuronal dysfunction.
Administration of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors (e.g. AG1478/PD168393) promotes central nervous system (CNS) axon regeneration in vivo by an unknown mechanism. Here, we show that EGFR activation is not required for AG1478-/PD168393-induced neurite outgrowth in cultures of dorsal root ganglion neurons (DRGN) with added inhibitory CNS myelin extract (CME), but is mediated by the paracrine and autocrine actions of the glia-/neuron-derived neurotrophins (NT) NGF, BDNF and NT-3 through Trk signalling in DRGN potentiated by elevated cAMP levels. The DRGN neurite growth seen in CME-inhibited cultures treated with AG1478 is eradicated by blocking Trk signalling but undiminished after siRNA knockdown of &gt;90% EGFR. Moreover, addition of the combined triplet of NT restores neurite outgrowth in CME-inhibited cultures, when cAMP levels are raised. Accordingly, we suggest that chemical EGFR inhibitors act independently of EGFR, inducing glia and neurons to secrete NT and raising cAMP levels in DRG cultures, leading to Trk-dependent disinhibited DRGN neurite outgrowth.
Accumulation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides is thought to be a critical event in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), because they induce multiple neurotoxic effects, including mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptotic cell death. Therefore the reduction of Abeta is considered a primary therapeutic target. Gelsolin, an Abeta binding protein, has been shown to inhibit apoptosis, although the underlying mechanism is unclear. To clarify these effects, we manipulated cytoplasmic gelsolin levels through viral-directed overexpression in the brain of APP/Ps1 transgenic mice. We observed that gelsolin reduces brain Abeta burden in the APP/Ps1 mice, possibly by enhancing Abeta clearance via megalin. The reduction in brain Abeta levels was accompanied by an inhibition of nitric oxide production and cell death, not only in the choroid plexus but also in the cerebral cortex. Notably, overexpressed gelsolin restored the impaired mitochondrial activity in the APP/Ps1 mice, resulting in the increase of cytochrome c oxidase activity. By contrast, RNA interference to block gelsolin expression, confirmed that cytoplasmic gelsolin acts as a modulator of brain Abeta levels and its neurotoxic effects. We conclude that gelsolin might prevent brain amyloidosis and Abeta-induced apoptotic mitochondrial changes. These findings make cytoplasmic gelsolin a potential therapeutic strategy in AD.
We determined total Purkinje cell (PC) numbers in cerebella of wild-type (+/+) and heterozygous (rl/+) reeler mice of either sex during early postnatal development; in parallel, we quantified levels of neuroactive steroids in the cerebellum with mass spectrometry. We also quantified reelin mRNA and protein expression with RT-PCR and Western blotting. PC numbers are selectively reduced at postnatal day 15 (P15) in rl/+ males in comparison to +/+ males, +/+ females, and rl/+ females. Administration of 17beta-estradiol (17beta-E) into the cisterna magna at P5 increases PC numbers in rl/+ males, but not in the other groups; conversely, estrogen antagonists 4-OH-tamoxifen or ICI 182,780 reduce PC numbers in +/+ and rl/+ females, but have no effect in males. Testosterone (T) levels at P5 are much higher in males than in females, reflecting the perinatal testosterone surge in males. In addition, rl/+ male cerebella at P5 show a peculiar hormonal profile in comparison with the other groups, consisting of increased levels of T and 17beta-E, and decreased levels of dihydrotestosterone. RT-PCR analysis indicated that heterozygosity leads to a 50% reduction of reelin mRNA in the cerebellum in both sexes, as expected, and that 17beta-E upregulates reelin mRNA, particularly in rl/+ males; reelin mRNA upregulation is associated with an increase of all major reelin isoforms. These effects may represent a novel model of how reelin deficiency interacts with variable perinatal levels of neuroactive steroids, leading to gender-dependent differences in genetic vulnerability.
The UBE3A/E6-AP is known to function both as an E3 ubiquitin ligase of the ubiquitin proteasome system and as a transcriptional coactivator. E6-AP shows brain-specific imprinting and loss of function of maternally inherited E6-AP causes Angelman syndrome. However, how the loss of function of E6-AP causes disease pathogenesis is poorly understood. Here, we show that E6-AP interacts with and promotes proteasome-mediated degradation of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27. E6-AP also directly ubiquitinates p27 in an in vitro ubiquitination assay. Partial knockdown of E6-AP increases the level of p27 leading to cell cycle arrest. Interestingly, partial knockdown also increases the transcription of p27. Finally, we have demonstrated the increased levels of p27 in E6-AP-maternal-deficient and null mice brain. Our result suggests that E6-AP not only enhances the degradation but also regulates the expression of p27 and its loss of function in Angelman syndrome might cause cell cycle alteration leading to disease pathogenesis.
Cerebellar agenesis is a rare disorder. We present the neurological and neuropsychological features of a patient with partial cerebellar agenesis (TZ), together with SPECT perfusion and fMRI activation during a finger tapping task. TZ shows only mild cerebellar signs, while neuropsychological testing discloses severe deficits in many domains, in accordance with the theorized role of the cerebellum in cognition. FMRI and SPECT demonstrate an activation and a symmetrical perfusion of the cerebellar remnants, that can be related to the residual cerebellar motor function. The left frontal and parieto-temporal cortex hypoperfusion can explain the severe cognitive impairment and could be linked to the abnormal cerebellar development.


Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) may play a role in modulating microglial activation, but group I mGluRs have received little attention. This study aimed to investigate the effects of group I mGluR selective ligands, (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine ((S)-3,5-DHPG) and (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA), in lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 50 ng/ml)-activated rat microglial cultures. (S)-3,5-DHPG (150 microM) significantly reduced (approximately 20-60%) the LPS-mediated production of nitrite (NO2(-)), tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), and L-glutamate (Glu) at 24 and 72 h. Image analysis revealed increases in both cell area and number, with larger amoeboid microglia (with retracted processes) formed following 2 h LPS exposure. This cellular population was absent after addition of (S)-3,5-DHPG, an effect antagonised by AIDA, and a concomitant reduction in cell area was also found. Taken together, these biochemical and morphological observations suggest that (S)-3,5-DHPG reduces microglial activation, indicating a role for group I mGluRs in modulating microglial function.
Mutations in Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase are a cause of motor neuron death in about 20% of cases of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Although the molecular mechanism of which these mutations induce motor neuron cell death is to a large extent unknown, there is significant evidence that effects on mitochondrial function and development of oxidative stress make a major contribution to the selective death of motor neurons in this disease. In this overview article we review the current understanding of mutant SOD1-mediated motor neuron degeneration in ALS with focus on oxidative damage and mitochondrial dysfunction. We also present novel information on the role of mitochondrial glutathione for the survival of NSC-34 cells stably transfected with the human SOD1(G93A) mutation, putting forward the hypothesis that this antioxidant pool provides a potentially useful target for therapeutic intervention.
In contrast to irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), the prevalence and risk factors for diarrhoea in the absence of IBS in the community are unknown. We aimed to evaluate potential risk factors for chronic diarrhoea (non-IBS). A valid questionnaire that recorded gastrointestinal symptoms required for a diagnosis of chronic diarrhoea, self-reported measures of potential risk factors, and a somatic symptom checklist was mailed to an age- and gender-stratified random sample of Olmsted County, Minnesota residents (30-64 year). Chronic diarrhoea was defined as reporting one or more of the following symptoms more than 25% of the time in the past 3 months: &gt; or =3 bowel movements a day, loose or watery stools, or faecal urgency. Subjects with IBS (Rome III) were excluded. Of 892 eligible subjects, 653 (73%) responded. Among 523 respondents not reporting IBS, chronic diarrhoea was reported by 148 (28%); 90 (61%) had chronic painless diarrhoea. Chronic diarrhoea was significantly associated with self-reported food sensitivity (OR = 2.05 [1.31-3.20]) and stress (OR = 1.99 [1.03-3.85]). Both remained significant in the adjusted variable models that excluded subjects with any abdominal pain. Female gender (OR = 0.67 [0.45-0.98]) and higher education level (OR = 0.60 [0.39-0.92]) had smaller odds for chronic diarrhoea. No association was detected for age, marital status, body mass index, cigarette or alcohol use, coffee, analgesics, emotional support, pets or water source. Chronic diarrhoea in the absence of IBS is common; self-reported food sensitivity, male gender and a lower level of education are risk factors.

We studied a Malian family with parental consanguinity and two of eight siblings affected with late-childhood-onset progressive myoclonus epilepsy and cognitive decline, consistent with the diagnosis of Lafora disease. Genetic analysis showed a novel homozygous single-nucleotide variant in the NHLRC1 gene, c.560A&gt;C, producing the missense change H187P. The changed amino acid is highly conserved, and the mutation impairs malin's ability to degrade laforin in vitro. Pathological evaluation showed manifestations of Lafora disease in the entire brain, with particularly severe involvement of the pallidum, thalamus, and cerebellum. Our findings document Lafora disease with severe manifestations in the West African population.
Both affective neuroscience and decision science focus on the role of emotions in decisions. Regret and disappointment are emotions experienced with negative decision outcomes. The present research examines the neural substrates of regret and disappointment as well as the role of regret and disappointment in decision making. Experiment 1 compared the subjective experience of regret and disappointment. Participants selected one of two gambles and received different types of feedback during the outcome phase. Despite identical nominal losses, regret induced a more intense dislike of the outcomes and a stronger desire to switch choices than disappointment. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, Experiment 2 examined the neural correlates of regret and disappointment. Both regret and disappointment activated anterior insula and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex relative to fixation, with greater activation in regret than in disappointment. In contrast to disappointment, regret also showed enhanced activation in the lateral orbitofrontal cortex. These findings suggest that regret and disappointment, emotions experienced during decision-related loss, share a general neural network but differ in both the magnitude of subjective feelings and with regret activating some regions with greater intensity.
We describe the use of the three dimensional characteristics of the functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) and cerebral blood volume (CBV) MRI signal changes to refine a two dimensional optical imaging spectroscopy (OIS) algorithm. The cortical depth profiles of the BOLD and CBV changes following neural activation were used to parameterise a 5-layer heterogeneous tissue model used in the Monte Carlo simulations (MCS) of light transport through tissue in the OIS analysis algorithm. To transform the fMRI BOLD and CBV measurements into deoxy-haemoglobin (Hbr) profiles we inverted an MCS of extra-vascular MR signal attenuation under the assumption that the extra-/intravascular ratio is 2:1 at a magnetic field strength of 3 T. The significant improvement in the quantitative accuracy of haemodynamic measurements using the new heterogeneous tissue model over the original homogeneous tissue model OIS algorithm was demonstrated on new concurrent OIS and fMRI data covering a range of stimulus durations.
The neural correlates of speech monitoring overlap with neural correlates of speech comprehension and production. However, it is unclear how these correlates are organized within functional connectivity networks, and how these networks interact to subserve speech monitoring. We applied spatial and temporal independent component analysis (sICA and tICA) to a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment involving overt speech production, comprehension and monitoring. SICA and tICA respectively decompose fMRI data into spatial and temporal components that can be interpreted as distributed estimates of functional connectivity and concurrent temporal dynamics in one or more regions of fMRI activity. Using sICA we found multiple connectivity components that were associated with speech perception (auditory and left fronto-temporal components) and production (bilateral central sulcus and default-mode components), but not with speech monitoring. In order to further investigate if speech monitoring could be mapped in the auditory cortex as a unique temporal process, we applied tICA to voxels of the sICA auditory component. Amongst the temporal components we found a single, unique component that matched the speech monitoring temporal pattern. We used this temporal component as a new predictor for whole-brain activity and found that it correlated positively with bilateral auditory cortex, and negatively with the supplementary motor area (SMA). Psychophysiological interaction analysis of task and activity in bilateral auditory cortex and SMA showed that functional connectivity changed with task conditions. These results suggest that speech monitoring entails a dynamic coupling between different functional networks. Furthermore, we demonstrate that overt speech comprises multiple networks that are associated with specific speech-related processes. We conclude that the sequential combination of sICA and tICA is a powerful approach for the analysis of complex, overt speech tasks.
Several brain imaging studies have assumed that response conflict is present in Stroop tasks. However, this has not been demonstrated directly. We examined the time-course of stimulus and response conflict resolution in a numerical Stroop task by combining single-trial electro-myography (EMG) and event-related brain potentials (ERP). EMG enabled the direct tracking of response conflict and the peak latency of the P300 ERP wave was used to index stimulus conflict. In correctly responded trials of the incongruent condition EMG detected robust incorrect response hand activation which appeared consistently in single trials. In 50-80% of the trials correct and incorrect response hand activation coincided temporally, while in 20-50% of the trials incorrect hand activation preceded correct hand activation. EMG data provides robust direct evidence for response conflict. However, congruency effects also appeared in the peak latency of the P300 wave which suggests that stimulus conflict also played a role in the Stroop paradigm. Findings are explained by the continuous flow model of information processing: Partially processed task-irrelevant stimulus information can result in stimulus conflict and can prepare incorrect response activity. A robust congruency effect appeared in the amplitude of incongruent vs. congruent ERPs between 330-400 ms, this effect may be related to the activity of the anterior cingulate cortex.
With regard to hearing perception, it remains unclear as to whether, or the extent to which, different conceptual categories of real-world sounds and related categorical knowledge are differentially represented in the brain. Semantic knowledge representations are reported to include the major divisions of living versus non-living things, plus more specific categories including animals, tools, biological motion, faces, and places-categories typically defined by their characteristic visual features. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify brain regions showing preferential activity to four categories of action sounds, which included non-vocal human and animal actions (living), plus mechanical and environmental sound-producing actions (non-living). The results showed a striking antero-posterior division in cortical representations for sounds produced by living versus non-living sources. Additionally, there were several significant differences by category, depending on whether the task was category-specific (e.g. human or not) versus non-specific (detect end-of-sound). In general, (1) human-produced sounds yielded robust activation in the bilateral posterior superior temporal sulci independent of task. Task demands modulated activation of left lateralized fronto-parietal regions, bilateral insular cortices, and sub-cortical regions previously implicated in observation-execution matching, consistent with &quot;embodied&quot; and mirror-neuron network representations subserving recognition. (2) Animal action sounds preferentially activated the bilateral posterior insulae. (3) Mechanical sounds activated the anterior superior temporal gyri and parahippocampal cortices. (4) Environmental sounds preferentially activated dorsal occipital and medial parietal cortices. Overall, this multi-level dissociation of networks for preferentially representing distinct sound-source categories provides novel support for grounded cognition models that may underlie organizational principles for hearing perception.
Behavioral studies have shown for decades that humans are sensitive to risk when making decisions. More recently, brain activities have been shown to be correlated with risky choices. But an important gap needs to be filled: How does the human brain learn which decisions are risky? In cognitive neuroscience, reinforcement learning has never been used to estimate reward variance, a common measure of risk in economics and psychology. It is thus unknown which brain regions are involved in risk learning. To address this question, participants completed a decision-making task during fMRI. They chose repetitively from four decks of cards and each selection was followed by a stochastic payoff. Expected reward and risk differed among the decks. Participants' aim was to maximize payoffs. Risk and reward prediction errors were calculated after each payoff based on a novel reinforcement learning model. For reward prediction error, the strongest correlation was found with the BOLD response in the striatum. For risk prediction error, the strongest correlation was found with the BOLD responses in the insula and inferior frontal gyrus. We conclude that risk and reward prediction errors are processed by distinct neural circuits during reinforcement learning. Additional analyses revealed that the BOLD response in the inferior frontal gyrus was more pronounced for risk aversive participants, suggesting that this region also serves to inhibit risky choices.
The difference between the rate of change of cerebral blood volume (CBV) and cerebral blood flow (CBF) following stimulation is thought to be due to circumferential stress relaxation in veins (Mandeville, J.B., Marota, J.J.A., Ayata, C., Zaharchuk, G., Moskowitz, M.A., Rosen, B.R., Weisskoff, R.M., 1999. Evidence of a cerebrovascular postarteriole windkessel with delayed compliance. J. Cereb. Blood Flow Metab. 19, 679-689). In this paper we explore the visco-elastic properties of blood vessels, and present a dynamic model relating changes in CBF to changes in CBV. We refer to this model as the visco-elastic windkessel (VW) model. A novel feature of this model is that the parameter characterising the pressure-volume relationship of blood vessels is treated as a state variable dependent on the rate of change of CBV, producing hysteresis in the pressure-volume space during vessel dilation and contraction. The VW model is nonlinear time-invariant, and is able to predict the observed differences between the time series of CBV and that of CBF measurements following changes in neural activity. Like the windkessel model derived by Mandeville, J.B., Marota, J.J.A., Ayata, C., Zaharchuk, G., Moskowitz, M.A., Rosen, B.R., Weisskoff, R.M., 1999. Evidence of a cerebrovascular postarteriole windkessel with delayed compliance. J. Cereb. Blood Flow Metab. 19, 679-689, the VW model is primarily a model of haemodynamic changes in the venous compartment. The VW model is demonstrated to have the following characteristics typical of visco-elastic materials: (1) hysteresis, (2) creep, and (3) stress relaxation, hence it provides a unified model of the visco-elastic properties of the vasculature. The model will not only contribute to the interpretation of the Blood Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD) signals from functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) experiments, but also find applications in the study and modelling of the brain vasculature and the haemodynamics of circulatory and cardiovascular systems.
Being exposed to fear or anger signals makes us feel threatened and prompts us to prepare an adaptive response. Yet, while fear and anger behaviors are both threat signals, what counts as an adaptive response is often quite different. In contrast with fear, anger is often displayed with the aim of altering the behavior of the agent to which it is addressed. To identify brain responses that are common or specific to the perception of these two types of threat signals, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging and asked subjects to recognize dynamic actions expressing fear, anger and neutral behaviors. As compared with neutral actions, the perception of fear and anger behaviors elicited comparable activity increases in the left amygdala and temporal cortices as well as in the ventrolateral and the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex. Whereas the perception of fear elicited specific activity in the right temporoparietal junction, the perception of anger triggered condition-specific activity in a wider set of regions comprising the anterior temporal lobe, the premotor cortex and the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, consistent with the hypothesis that coping with threat from exposure to anger requires additional contextual information and behavioral adjustments.
The assessment of Diffusion-Weighted MRI (DW-MRI) fibre-tracking algorithms has been limited by the lack of an appropriate 'gold standard'. Practical limitations of alternative methods and physical models have meant that numerical simulations have become the method of choice in practice. However, previous numerical phantoms have consisted of separate fibres embedded in homogeneous backgrounds, which do not capture the true nature of white matter. In this paper we describe a method that is able to randomly generate numerical structures consisting of densely packed bundles of fibres, which are much more representative of human white matter, and simulate the DW-MR images that would arise from them under many imaging conditions. User-defined parameters may be adjusted to produce structures with a range of complexities that spans the levels we would expect to find in vivo. These structures are shown to contain many different features that occur in human white matter and which could confound fibre-tracking algorithms, such as tract kissing and crossing. Furthermore, combinations of such features can be sampled by the random generation of many different structures with consistent levels of complexity. The proposed software provides means for quantitative assessment via direct comparison between tracking results and the exact location of the generated fibres. This should greatly improve our understanding of algorithm performance and therefore prove an important tool for fibre tracking development.
Fronto-striatal circuitry interacts with the midbrain dopaminergic system to mediate the learning of stimulus-response associations, and these associations often guide everyday actions, but the precise role of these circuits in forming and consolidating rules remains uncertain. A means to examine basal ganglia circuit contributions to associative motor learning is to examine these process in a lesion model system, such as Parkinson's disease (PD), a basal ganglia disorder characterized by the loss of dopamine neurons. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to compare brain activation of PD patients with a group of healthy aged-match participants during a visual-motor associative learning task that entailed discovering and learning arbitrary associations between a set of six visual stimuli and corresponding spatial locations by moving a joystick-controlled cursor. We tested the hypothesis that PD would recruit more areas than age-matched controls during learning and also show increased activation in commonly activated regions, probably in the parietal and premotor cortices, and the cerebellum, perhaps as compensatory mechanisms for their disrupted fronto-striatal networks. PD had no effect in acquiring the associative relationships and learning-related activation in several key frontal cortical and subcortical structures. However, we found that PD modified activation in other areas, including those in the cerebellum and frontal, and parietal cortex, particularly during initial learning. These results may suggest that the basal ganglia circuits become active more so during the initial formation of rule-based behavior.
Autologous haematopoietic stem-cell transplantation has been evaluated over the last years as a possible new therapeutic strategy in severe forms of multiple sclerosis unresponsive to the approved therapies. Up to now, more than 400 patients have been treated and numerous are the phase I and phase II studies which addressed the feasibility of this treatment, the efficacy, side effects and transplant-related mortality. The clinical response is strongly related to the intensity of the conditioning regimen utilized as well as to the phase of the disease course in which the therapy is carried out. Rapidly evolving multiple sclerosis with a relapsing-remitting clinical course and MRI signs of activity are the cases that can take more advantage. The risk of mortality, which dropped in the last years to 2-3%, is still the main problem of this powerful therapy.
Cyclophosphamide (Cy) is an alkylating agent used over the past 40 years to halt rapidly progressive forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). High doses of Cy produce marked immunosuppression and an anti-inflammatory immune deviation. Cy is most effective in young patients, with very active MS (frequent relapses, rapid accumulation of disability, and gad+ lesions on brain MRI). Monthly intravenous pulses of Cy for 1 year, followed by bimonthly pulses for the second year are a well-tolerated protocol in MS. Most side effects (mild alopecia, nausea and vomiting, and cystitis) are transient, dose dependent, and reversible. Permanent amenorrhoea and bladder cancer have rarely been described. As second-line therapy, Cy can be used in non-responders to IFN-beta or glatiramer acetate. As induction therapy, a short course (6-12 months) of Cy can precede immunomodulatory drugs in selected patients with an aggressive MS onset.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is typically characterized by rapidly progressive dementia and myoclonus, and it is caused by a conformational change of the prion protein. The heritable forms are associated with mutation in the gene encoding the prion protein (PRNP). We report a 63-year-old Italian woman harboring the E200K PRNP mutation. Electroencephalogram, cerebrospinal fluid analysis, PRNP gene sequencing, histopathologic examination, immunohistochemical studies, and Western blotting analysis confirmed the diagnosis of CJD. Pyramidal involvement was the first sign and the prominent clinical feature. Later on, she developed also myoclonus, ataxia, spastic tetraplegia, and at last dementia with akinetic mutism. Usually, signs of degeneration of the pyramidal tracts occur in a small number of patients as the disease advances. Our report supports the variability of the clinical expression of the E200K genetic CJD. Further studies are needed to understand the molecular basis underlying the phenotypic variability among patients carrying this mutation.
Spinal anesthesia (SA), accounting for more than 50% of regional anesthesias in the spinal region, is generally perceived as simple and safe. Our purpose is to increase awareness of hemorrhagic complications following SA. A 69-year-old male without either coagulation disorders or anticoagulant/antiplatelet therapy developed acute radiculopathy, and severe mental confusion after SA for prostatectomy. CT showed intracranial subarachnoid and intraventricular acute hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography was negative. MRI showed subarachnoid and subdural hematoma in the dorsolumbar spine. Seven-year follow-up showed permanent cognitive and radicular damage. Multiple attempts for SA most likely caused spinal vessels rupture, either directly or indirectly by inducing differential pressure changes between cerebrospinal fluid and intravascular spaces; however, definite mechanisms have not been completely understood. Patients undergoing spinal puncture must report any neurological abnormality, which may result in irreversible damage. Cases of altered consciousness require an extensive neuroradiological evaluation. Proper competency of physicians responsible for spinal puncture is mandatory.
Hyperhomocysteinemia and factors of homocysteine metabolism, S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) and S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet), may play a role in Alzheimer's disease (AD). With liquid-chromatography-tandem-mass-spectrometry AdoMet and AdoHcy were determined in brains of 8- and 15-month-old APP/PS1 Alzheimer mice, and their possible roles in AD brains investigated. The finding that AdoMet levels do not differ between the genotypes in (young) 8-month-old mice, but are different in (older) 15-month-old APP/PS1 mice compared to their wild-type littermates, suggests that alterations in AdoMet are a consequence of AD pathology rather than a cause. During aging, AdoMet levels decreased in the brains of wild-type mice, whereas AdoHcy levels diminished in both wild type and APP/PS1 mice. The finding that AdoMet levels in APP/PS1 mice are not decreased during aging (in contrast to wild-type mice), is probably related to less demand due to neurodegeneration. No effect of the omega-3 fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) or cholesterol-enriched diets on AdoMet or AdoHcy levels were found.


Reducing body myopathy is a rare progressive myopathy identified by characteristic pathological findings and secondary to dominantly acting mutations in the X-linked FHL1 gene. We report muscle MRI findings in two patients affected by reducing body myopathy and in their carrier mothers. All four showed a distinctive pattern of muscle alteration, with a predominant involvement of postero-medial muscle at thigh level and of soleus at calf level, with a striking sparing of glutei muscles that also appeared to be hypertrophic. These findings may help in the differential diagnosis of these disorders.

A 16- year-old boy with long-standing severe Tourette syndrome (TS) and mental retardation, non-responsive to complex pharmocological and behavioural treatment was selected for bilateral deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the globus pallidus internus (GPi). Pre-operative and post-operative Yale Tourette syndrome scale (YTSS) scores and several other scores were used to quantify the effect of DBS up to one year follow-up. Although subscores of the YTSS improved, the overall outcome of chronic GPi-DBS showed no substantial therapeutic effect. This finding is in contrast to markedly improved TS of the only two adolescent TS patients in whom DBS has been performed so far. In this article we discuss possible reasons for the poor therapeutic effect of GPi-DBS in our patient contributing to the on-going debate on DBS inclusion criteria for adolescent TS patients.
Genetic factors are known to affect the reinforcing properties of nicotine. Thus, inbred Lewis rats have been reported to be more sensitive to nicotine compared to Fischer 344 rats in self-administration, conditioned place preference and drug discrimination paradigms. In order to clarify the mechanisms of these differences we investigated, by means of dual probe microdialysis, the effect of different doses of nicotine (0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.4 mg/kg s.c.) on dopamine transmission in the shell and in the core of nucleus accumbens. Behavior was monitored during microdialysis. While no differences were observed between strains in dopamine basal values, Lewis rats, compared to Fischer 344 ones, showed in general a larger increase of DA transmission following nicotine both in the shell and in the core of the nucleus accumbens. In regard to behavioral stimulation no differences were observed between strains at higher doses while at the lowest doses Lewis rats appeared more sensitive than Fischer 344 rats to the locomotor stimulating effects of nicotine. These results suggest that strain-related differences in the sensitivity of mesolimbic dopamine transmission to nicotine might be involved in the reported differences in the reinforcing effect of nicotine in Lewis and Fischer 344 rats.
Prenatal hypoxia ischemia is a major cause of neurodevelopmental impairment in the newborn, associated with risk for motor, behavioral and cognitive impaired outcomes. We used an established mouse model of maternal hypoxia to examine the immediate molecular responses of signaling pathways associated with both cell death and neurogenesis. We also characterized responses to maternal pre-treatment with MgSO(4). Maternal hypoxia at embryonic day 17 (E17) failed to trigger inflammation or cell death in fetal brain at 24 h after hypoxia. However, maternal hypoxia decreased levels of neuronal migration signaling: Reelin (53% of control), Disabled 1 (Dab1, 77% of control), and amyloid precursor protein (APP, 64% of control) 2 h after the insult. These changes persisted for 24 h. At later times, Reelin levels in hippocampi of newborns in the maternal hypoxia-treated group increased compared to controls. Full protection from maternal hypoxia effects on hippocampal Reelin levels resulted from maternal pre-treatment with MgSO(4). Hypoxia and MgSO(4) increased radial and lateral migration distance in the CA1 four days after the insult, while in the DG the hypoxia treatment alone increased migration. Maternal hypoxia and MgSO(4) pre-treatment also stimulated hippocampal expression of genes related to neurogenesis, such as BDNF and NeuroD4. Taken together, the long-term neurodevelopmental outcome of prenatal and perinatal hypoxia may depend on perturbation of developmental signals that affect neuronal migration.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptors play an important role in mediating fast synaptic inhibition in the brain. They are ubiquitously expressed in the CNS and also represent a major site of action for clinically relevant drugs. Recent technological advances have greatly clarified the molecular and cellular roles played by distinct GABA(A) receptor subunit classes and isoforms in normal brain function. At the same time, postmortem and genetic studies have linked neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia and bipolar disorder with GABAergic neurotransmission and various specific GABA(A) receptor subunits, while evidence implicating GABA(A)R-associated proteins is beginning to emerge. In this review we discuss the mounting genetic, molecular, and cellular evidence pointing toward a role for GABA(A) receptor heterogeneity in both schizophrenia etiology and therapeutic development. Finally, we speculate on the relationship between schizophrenia-related disorders and selected GABA(A) receptor associated proteins, key regulators of GABA(A) receptor trafficking, targeting, clustering, and anchoring that often carry out these functions in a subtype-specific manner.
Neurofibrillary tangles composed of hyperphosphorylated tau are a major hallmark of Alzheimer's Disease. This phosphorylated tau may be a root cause of the disorder and therefore understanding its regulation is important for therapeutic intervention. To model this pathology, Okadaic acid (OA) has been used in primary cultured hippocampal neurons to investigate effects on tau, and the role of the JNK pathway in tau phosphorylation. The use of high content screening has allowed us to quantitatively assess the profound spatiotemporal profile of these proteins, finding dramatic and inhibitable changes. Furthermore, in vitro phosphorylation experiments show that the JNK3 isoform, which is predominantly expressed in the brain, can strongly autophosphorylate itself. This has profound implications on the importance of JNK3 in the CNS and its ability to sustain signaling both towards tau and other apoptotic targets. Together these data provide novel insights into the JNK pathway and a high resolution perspective on how this pathway influences tau phosphorylation and dynamics in neurons.
5-HT(1A) receptors are implicated in the modulation of cognitive processes including encoding of fear learning. However, their exact role has remained unclear due to contrasting contributions of pre- vs. postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors. Therefore, their role in fear conditioning was studied in mice using the selective ligand S15535, which fully activates 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors, yet only weakly stimulates their postsynaptic counterparts. The effects of S15535 were compared to those of the full agonist 8-OH-DPAT and the selective antagonist NAD-299. 8-OH-DPAT dose-dependently (0.01-0.5 mg/kg) and markedly impaired both context- and tone-dependent fear conditioning, as determined by complementary measures of inactivity and freezing. 8-OH-DPAT-mediated impairments were blocked by pre-injection of the selective 5-HT(1A) antagonist WAY100635. S15535 (0.01-5.0 mg/kg) mimicked 8-OH-DPAT in predominantly impairing conditioned contextual fear, though with smaller effect size than 8-OH-DPAT, consistent with lower efficacy at postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors. Furthermore, S15535 (1.0 mg/kg) tended to attenuate the impairment of fear conditioning by 8-OH-DPAT (0.3 mg/kg). In contrast, NAD-299 (0.3 and 1 mg/kg) facilitated contextual freezing. WAY100635 (0.3 mg/kg) prevented the impairment of contextual fear by S15535 (1 and 5 mg/kg), underpinning the role of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the actions of S15535. Collectively, these data indicate that 5-HT(1A) receptor ligands modulate fear conditioning in a bidirectional manner: activation of postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) sites exerts an inhibitory influence, whereas their blockade promote facilitation of fear conditioning. The results with S15535 underscore the importance of ligand efficacy in determining the actions of 5-HT(1A) receptor ligands in fear conditioning and other models of cognitive function.
Implicit (unconscious/incidental) and explicit (conscious/intentional) learning are considered to have distinct neural substrates. It is proposed that implicit learning is mediated by the basal ganglia (BG), while explicit learning has been linked to the medial temporal lobes (MTL). To test such a dissociation we investigated implicit and explicit sequence learning in Parkinson's disease (PD), a disorder characterized by striatal dysfunction. We studied both implicit and explicit learning of a 12-item sequence of target locations in 13 PD patients and 15 age-matched controls. In the implicit sequence learning task all participants completed 10 blocks of a probabilistic serial reaction time (SRT) task in which they were exposed to the sequence without explicit knowledge of it. Participants also completed between 1 and 10 blocks of an explicit sequence learning task in which the sequence was learned deliberately by trial-and-error. Both implicit and explicit sequence learning were significantly impaired in PD patients compared to controls. The results indicate that, in addition to playing a role in implicit sequence learning, the BG and its frontal projections are also involved in explicit sequence learning.

It is well known that the occurrence of false memories increases with aging, but the results remain inconsistent concerning Alzheimer's disease (AD). Moreover, the mechanisms underlying the production of false memories are still unclear. Using an experimental episodic memory test with material based on the names of famous people in a procedure derived from the DRM paradigm [Roediger, H. L., III, &amp; McDermott, K. B. (1995). Creating false memories: Remembering words not presented in lists. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory &amp; Cognition, 21, 803-814], we examined correct and false recall and recognition in 30 young adults, 40 healthy older adults, and 30 patients with AD. Moreover, we evaluated the relationships between false memory performance, correct episodic memory performance, and a set of neuropsychological assessments evaluating the semantic memory and executive functions. The results clearly indicated that correct recall and recognition performance decreased with the subjects' age, but it decreased even more with AD. In addition, semantically related false recalls and false recognitions increased with age but not with dementia. On the contrary, non-semantically related false recalls and false recognitions increased with AD. Finally, the regression analyses showed that executive functions mediated related false memories and episodic memory mediated related and unrelated false memories in aging. Moreover, executive functions predicted related and unrelated false memories in AD, and episodic and semantic memory predicted semantically related and unrelated false memories in AD. In conclusion, the results obtained are consistent with the current constructive models of memory suggesting that false memory creation depends on different cognitive functions and, consequently, that the impairments of these functions influence the production of false memories.








Persistent left superior vena cava (PLSVC) is the most common congenital cardiac anomaly occurring in around 0.4% of the general population, and 1.3-4.5% in those with additional cardiac defects. Eighty-two percent of PLSVC coexists with a right superior vena cava. Usually PLSVC is asymptomatic, but can cause difficulties during central venous cannulation from the left side. There are a few cases of brain abscess in the literature associated with PLSVC. Here, we describe a patient of brain abscess with PLSVC in the intensive care unit of King Faisal Hospital, Makkah, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Weakness of limb and respiratory muscles developing in the course of treatment in the intensive care unit (ICU) is commonly due to critical illness polyneuropathy, a complication of sepsis, or critical illness myopathy, a complication of the use of neuromuscular blocking agents and steroids. Guillain-Barre syndrome may rarely occur in this setting. We report 2 patients identified in our ICU in the last 20 years. Surgery was an apparent precipitating event in both patients. The clinical, electrophysiological, and cerebrospinal fluid features were consistent with this diagnosis. Both patients responded to treatment; the first case was treated with plasmapheresis while the other with intravenous immune globulin. Thus, while rare, it is important to identify this disorder in the ICU because of its response to specific treatment.
The co-existence of meningioma and schwannoma as 2 distinct histologic components within the same tumor has been described in neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2), but the co-existence of both tumors without evidence of NF2 is much rarer. Here, we are reporting a case of mixed schwannoma with meningioma without clinical evidence of NF2. In an adult Saudi lady with progressive left-sided hearing loss, left cerebellopontine tumor was diagnosed by MRI, and the histopathological diagnosis revealed that this tumor was composed of vestibular schwannoma and meningioma. This case is discussed with literature review.
Dandy Walker malformation (DWM) is a rare congenital brain anomaly characterized by cystic dilation of the fourth ventricle and hypoplasia of the cerebellar vermis. Other extracranial anomalies can be associated, including cardiac defects. We report a rare patient with DWM associated with progressive heart failure secondary to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. He was diagnosed at 2 months of age and died 5 months later. We conclude that hypertrophic cardiomyopathy can be associated with DWM with poor prognosis. A careful cardiac evaluation is needed in all infants with DWM for early recognition of such potentially serious associated cardiac malformations.






Continuous EEG (cEEG) monitoring in the intensive care unit (ICU) is essential for detecting non-convulsive seizures/status epilepticus (NCSs, NCSE). Currently there exist a number of continuous EEG monitoring systems adapted for use in the ICU. However, these systems have been trained using EEG data collected from healthy, neurologically intact patients with epileptic seizures, a very different patient population from ICU patients. The review consists of 2 parts, clinical and technological aspects. In the first one, we summarize the electroencephalographic aspects of NCSs/NCSE and other EEG patterns encountered in the ICU. In the second part, we explain how to develop a novel cEEG monitoring system to be used in Hamad Medical Corporation ICUs, Doha, Qatar, that is able to detect pathological EEG patterns commonly occurring in the critically ill patient. Real-time monitoring of seizure discharges, and other pathological EEG patterns will allow correct diagnosis and adequate treatment in a timely fashion.

Together, thousands of neurons with similar function make up topographically oriented sensory cortex maps that represent contralateral body parts. Although this is an accepted model for the adult cortex, whether these same rules hold after stroke-induced damage is unclear. After stroke, sensory representations damaged by stroke remap onto nearby surviving neurons. Here, we review the process of sensory remapping after stroke at multiple levels ranging from the initial damage to synapses, to their rewiring and function in intact sensory circuits. We introduce a new approach using in vivo 2-photon calcium imaging to determine how the response properties of individual somatosensory cortex neurons are altered during remapping. One month after forelimb-area stroke, normally highly limb-selective neurons in surviving peri-infarct areas exhibit remarkable flexibility and begin to process sensory stimuli from multiple limbs as remapping proceeds. Two months after stroke, neurons within remapped regions develop a stronger response preference. Thus, remapping is initiated by surviving neurons adopting new roles in addition to their usual function. Later in recovery, these remapped forelimb-responsive neurons become more selective, but their new topographical representation may encroach on map territories of neurons that process sensory stimuli from other body parts. Neurons responding to multiple limbs may reflect a transitory phase in the progression from their involvement in one sensorimotor function to a new function that replaces processing lost due to stroke.
Modern lesion and imaging work in humans has been clarifying which brain regions are involved in the processing of speech and language. Concurrently, some of this work has aimed to bridge the gap to the seemingly incompatible evidence for multiple brain-processing pathways that first accumulated in nonhuman primates. For instance, the idea of a posterior temporal-parietal &quot;Wernicke's&quot; territory, which is thought to be instrumental for speech comprehension, conflicts with this region of the brain belonging to a spatial &quot;where&quot; pathway. At the same time a posterior speech-comprehension region ignores the anterior temporal lobe and its &quot;what&quot; pathway for evaluating the complex features of sensory input. Recent language models confirm that the posterior or dorsal stream has an important role in human communication, by a reconceptualization of the &quot;where&quot; into a &quot;how-to&quot; pathway with a connection to the motor system for speech comprehension. Others have tried to directly implicate the &quot;what&quot; pathway for speech comprehension, relying on the growing evidence in humans for anterior-temporal involvement in speech and voice processing. Coming full circle, we find that the recent imaging of vocalization and voice preferring regions in nonhuman primates allows us to make direct links to the human imaging data involving the anterior-temporal regions. The authors describe how comparison of the structure and function of the vocal communication system of humans and other animals is clarifying evolutionary relationships and the extent to which different species can model human brain function.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is the most common inherited form of mental retardation and a leading genetic cause of autism. There is increasing evidence in both FXS and other forms of autism that alterations in synapse number, structure, and function are associated and contribute to these prevalent diseases. FXS is caused by loss of function of the Fmr1 gene, which encodes the RNA binding protein, fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Therefore, FXS is a tractable model to understand synaptic dysfunction in cognitive disorders. FMRP is present at synapses where it associates with mRNA and polyribosomes. Accumulating evidence finds roles for FMRP in synapse development, elimination, and plasticity. Here, the authors review the synaptic changes observed in FXS and try to relate these changes to what is known about the molecular function of FMRP. Recent advances in the understanding of the molecular and synaptic function of FMRP, as well as the consequences of its loss, have led to the development of novel therapeutic strategies for FXS.
Circadian timing affects almost all life's processes. It not only dictates when we sleep, but also keeps every cell and tissue working under a tight temporal regimen. The daily variations of physiology and behavior are controlled by a highly complex system comprising of a master circadian clock in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus, extra-SCN cerebral clocks, and peripheral oscillators. Here are presented similarities and differences in the molecular mechanisms of the clock machinery between the primary SCN clock and extra-SCN brain clocks. Diversity of secondary clocks in the brain, their specific sensitivities to time-giving cues, as their differential coupling to the master SCN clock, may allow more plasticity in the ability of the circadian timing system to integrate a wide range of temporal information. Furthermore, it raises the possibility that pathophysiological alterations of internal timing that are deleterious for health may result from internal desynchronization within the network of cerebral clocks.
Cerebral vasospasm continues to be the leading treatable cause of death and disability in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Transluminal balloon angioplasty has been considered a safe and effective treatment for cerebral vasospasm resistant to maximal medical treatment. However, it should be performed in a timely manner, any delays could potentially increase the risk of hemorrhagic infarct. Angioplasty in the affected territory may be of benefit in improving not only the angiographic appearance but also the ultimate outcome for the patient, if performed in a timely fashion.
Endovascular reperfusion therapy is evolving as a promising treatment in the setting of acute ischemic stroke. Careful patient selection and angiographic evaluation of the location and extent of occlusion are necessary for the successful management of stroke patients. Intra-arterial chemical thrombolysis, with such agents as alteplase and urokinase, has shown favorable results in the early management of cerebrovascular ischemia. Mechanical thrombolysis is becoming an adjunctive or alternative treatment therapy via novel clot dissolution and retrieval techniques. Existing and upcoming trials are investigating the safety and efficacy of neuroendovascular therapy while attempting to expand its indications in acute ischemic stroke.
Data from our clinical series and others supports the idea that endovascular coil embolization is a reliable form of treatment for both ruptured and unruptured cerebral aneurysms. This form of treatment appears from preliminary data to be protective against subarachnoid hemorrhage. Although not likely to replace open surgery, the continued advancements in technology and supportive clinical data will allow endovascular therapy to become a more durable mode of treatment.


Spinal surgery involves a wide spectrum of procedures during which the spinal cord, nerve roots, and key blood vessels are frequently placed at risk for injury. Neuromonitoring provides an opportunity to assess the functional integrity of susceptible neural elements during surgery. The methodology of obtaining and interpreting data from various neuromonitoring modalities-such as somatosensory evoked potentials, motor evoked potentials, spontaneous electromyography, and triggered electromyography-is reviewed in this report. Also discussed are the major benefits and limitations of each modality, as well as the strength of each alone and in combination with other modalities, with regard to its sensitivity, specificity, and overall value as a diagnostic tool. Finally, key clinical recommendations for the interpretation and step-wise decision-making process for intervention are discussed. Multimodality neuromonitoring relies on the strengths of different types of neurophysiological modalities to maximize the diagnostic efficacy in regard to sensitivity and specificity in the detection of impending neural injury. Thorough knowledge of the benefits and limitations of each modality helps in optimizing the diagnostic value of intraoperative monitoring during spinal procedures. As many spinal surgeries continue to evolve along a pathway of minimal invasiveness, it is quite likely that the value of neuromonitoring will only continue to become more prominent.
Low-grade gliomas ([LGGs] WHO Grade II) are slow-growing intrinsic cerebral lesions that diffusely infiltrate the brain parenchyma along white matter tracts and almost invariably show a progression toward malignancy. The treatment of these tumors forces the neurosurgeon to face uncommon difficulties and is still a subject of debate. At the authors' institution, resection is the first option in the treatment of LGGs. It requires the combined efforts of a multidisciplinary team of neurosurgeons, neuroradiologists, neuropsychologists, and neurophysiologists, who together contribute to the definition of the location, extension, and extent of functional involvement that a specific lesion has caused in a particular patient. In fact, each tumor induces specific modifications of the brain functional network, with high interindividual variability. This requires that each treatment plan is tailored to the characteristics of the tumor and of the patient. Consequently, surgery is performed according to functional and anatomical boundaries to achieve the maximal resection with maximal functional preservation. The identification of eloquent cerebral areas, which are involved in motor, language, memory, and visuospatial functions and have to be preserved during surgery, is performed through the intraoperative use of brain mapping techniques. The use of these techniques extends surgical indications and improves the extent of resection, while minimizing the postoperative morbidity and safeguarding the patient's quality of life. In this paper the authors present their paradigm for the surgical treatment of LGGs, focusing on the intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring protocol as well as on the brain mapping technique. They briefly discuss the results that have been obtained at their institution since 2005 as well as the main critical points they have encountered when using this approach.
Intraoperative electrical stimulation of the motor cortex is a sensitive method for intraoperative mapping and monitoring of this region. Two different stimulation techniques have been established, the bipolar and monopolar techniques. Controversy exists regarding the most suitable method. Both methods have advantages and disadvantages and different electrophysiological backgrounds. The present study is a review of the electrophysiological basis of direct cortical electrical stimulation of the motor cortex. Both methods are discussed and their field of application is presented.





Neuropathic pain is a debilitating form of chronic pain resulting from nerve injury, disease states, or toxic insults. Neuropathic pain is often refractory to conventional pharmacotherapies, necessitating validation of novel analgesics. Cannabinoids, drugs that share the same target as Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC), the psychoactive ingredient in cannabis, have the potential to address this unmet need. Here, we review studies evaluating cannabinoids for neuropathic pain management in the clinical and preclinical literature. Neuropathic pain associated with nerve injury, diabetes, chemotherapeutic treatment, human immunodeficiency virus, multiple sclerosis, and herpes zoster infection is considered. In animals, cannabinoids attenuate neuropathic nociception produced by traumatic nerve injury, disease, and toxic insults. Effects of mixed cannabinoid CB(1)/CB(2) agonists, CB(2) selective agonists, and modulators of the endocannabinoid system (i.e., inhibitors of transport or degradation) are compared. Effects of genetic disruption of cannabinoid receptors or enzymes controlling endocannabinoid degradation on neuropathic nociception are described. Specific forms of allodynia and hyperalgesia modulated by cannabinoids are also considered. In humans, effects of smoked marijuana, synthetic Delta(9)-THC analogs (e.g., Marinol, Cesamet) and medicinal cannabis preparations containing both Delta(9)-THC and cannabidiol (e.g., Sativex, Cannador) in neuropathic pain states are reviewed. Clinical studies largely affirm that neuropathic pain patients derive benefits from cannabinoid treatment. Subjective (i.e., rating scales) and objective (i.e., stimulus-evoked) measures of pain and quality of life are considered. Finally, limitations of cannabinoid pharmacotherapies are discussed together with directions for future research.
The balance between descending controls, both excitatory and inhibitory, can be altered in various pain states. There is good evidence for a prominent alpha(2)-adrenoceptor-mediated inhibitory system and 5-HT(3) (and likely also 5-HT(2)) serotonin receptor-mediated excitatory controls originating from brainstem and midbrain areas. The ability of cortical controls to influence spinal function allows for top-down processing through these monoamines. The links between pain and the comorbidities of sleep problems, anxiety, and depression may be due to the dual roles of noradrenaline and of 5-HT in these functions and also in pain. These controls appear, in the cases of peripheral neuropathy, spinal injury, and cancer-induced bone pain to be driven by altered peripheral and spinal neuronal processes; in opioid-induced hyperalgesia, however, the same changes occur without any pathophysiological peripheral process. Thus, in generalized pain states in which fatigue, mood changes, and diffuse pain occur, such as fibromyalgia and irritable bowel syndrome, one could suggest an abnormal engagement of descending facilitations with or without reduced inhibitions but with central origins. This would be an endogenous central malfunction of top-down processing, with the altered monoamine systems underlying the observed symptoms. A number of analgesic drugs can either interact with or have their actions modulated by these descending systems, reinforcing their importance in the establishment of pain but also in its control.
A growing variety of technical approaches allow control over the expression of selected genes in living organisms. The ability to deliver functional exogenous genes involved in neurodegenerative diseases has opened pathological processes to experimental analysis and targeted therapeutic development in rodent and primate preclinical models. Biological adaptability, economic animal use, and reduced model development costs complement improved control over spatial and temporal gene expression compared with conventional transgenic models. A review of viral vector studies, typically adeno-associated virus or lentivirus, for expression of three proteins that are central to major neurodegenerative diseases, will illustrate how this approach has powered new advances and opportunities in CNS disease research.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are the most common causes of dementia and movement disorders in the elderly. While progressive accumulation of oligomeric amyloid-beta protein (Abeta) has been identified as one of the central toxic events in AD leading to synaptic dysfunction, accumulation of alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) resulting in the formation of oligomers has been linked to PD. Most of the studies in AD have been focused on investigating the role of Abeta and Tau; however, recent studies suggest that alpha-syn might also play a role in the pathogenesis of AD. For example, fragments of alpha-syn can associate with amyloid plaques and Abeta promotes the aggregation of alpha-syn in vivo and worsens the deficits in alpha-syn tg mice. Moreover, alpha-syn has also been shown to accumulate in limbic regions in AD, Down's syndrome, and familial AD cases. Abeta and alpha-syn might directly interact under pathological conditions leading to the formation of toxic oligomers and nanopores that increase intracellular calcium. The interactions between Abeta and alpha-syn might also result in oxidative stress, lysosomal leakage, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Thus, better understanding the steps involved in the process of Abeta and alpha-syn aggregation is important in order to develop intervention strategies that might prevent or reverse the accumulation of toxic proteins in AD.
Except for a handful of inherited cases related to known gene defects, Parkinson's disease (PD) is a sporadic neurodegenerative disease of unknown etiology. There is increasing evidence that inflammation and proliferation of microglia may contribute to the neuronal damage seen in the nigro-striatal dopaminergic system of PD patients. Microglia events that participate in neuronal injury include the release of pro-inflammatory and neurotoxic factors. Characterizing these factors may help to prevent the exacerbation of PD symptoms or to remediate the disease progression. In rodents, the nigro-striatal system exhibits high expression of the chemokine receptor CXCR4. Its natural ligand CXCL12 can promote neuronal apoptosis. Therefore, the present study investigated the expression of CXCR4 and CXCL12 in post-mortem brains of PD and control (non-PD) individuals and in an animal model of PD. In the human substantia nigra (SN), CXCR4 immunoreactivity was high in dopaminergic neurons. Interestingly, the SN of PD subjects exhibited higher expression of CXCR4 expression and CXCL12 than control subjects despite the loss of dopamine (DA) neurons. This effect was accompanied by an increase in activated microglia. However, results from post-mortem brains may not provide indication as to whether CXCL12/CXCR4 can cause the degeneration of DA neurons. To examine the role of these chemokines, we determined the levels of CXCL12 and CXCR4 in the SN of MPTP-treated mice. MPTP produced a time-dependent up-regulation of CXCR4 that preceded the loss of DA neurons. These results suggest that CXCL12/CXCR4 may participate in the etiology of PD and indicate a new possible target molecule for PD.
Although traditionally it was believed that adult neurons have entered a permanent post-mitotic phase, the latest experimental data indicate that cell cycle constituents critically affect normal functions of the adult central nervous system (CNS), as well as contribute to the pathophysiology of both acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders. Recent study has also suggested that cell cycle pathways are involved in mediating not only neuronal cell death but also glial changes which may play key roles in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders. Therefore, therapies that inhibit cell cycle may have robust neuroprotective profiles, particularly after acute insults, by targeting multiple pathogenic mechanisms and could be useful clinically if used with a delivery focused on specific areas and of a limited duration.
Oxidation of dopamine to aminochrome seems to be a normal process leading to aminochrome polymerization to form neuromelanin, since normal individuals have this pigment in their dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. The neurons lost in individuals with Parkinson's disease are dopaminergic neurons containing neuromelanin. This raises two questions. First, why are those cells containing neuromelanin lost in this disease? Second, what is the identity of the neurotoxin that induces this cell death? We propose that aminochrome is the agent responsible for the death of dopaminergic neurons containing neuromelanin in individuals with Parkinson's disease. The normal oxidative pathway of dopamine, in which aminochrome polymerizes to form neuromelanin, can be neurotoxic if DT-diaphorase is inhibited under certain conditions. Inhibition of DT-diaphorase allows two neurotoxic reactions to proceed: (i) the formation of aminochrome adducts with alpha-synuclein, which induce and stabilize the formation of neurotoxic protofibrils; and (ii) the one electron reduction of aminochrome to the neurotoxic leukoaminochrome o-semiquinone radical. Therefore, we propose that DT-diaphorase is an important neuroprotective enzyme in dopaminergic neurons containing neuromelanin.
This review summarizes current topics for brain protection against stroke. Although there has been no strategy for brain protection except for tissue plasminogen activator, recent advance in neuroscience has addressed subtypes of glutamate receptor on neuronal survival and death. Hypothermia and ischemic tolerance are the most reproducible strategies for brain protection in experimental ischemia, and they share metabolic down-regulation as a crucial factor for protective action. Development of collateral circulation (arteriogenesis), endogenous neurogenesis after ischemia, gene therapy and cell transplantation are all potential targets for developing a new strategy for stroke patients.
We would like to report a rare case of pontine glioma with unusual neuroimaging features. The patient was a 3-year-old girl who suffered from chronic nausea and gait disturbance for several months. Computed tomography (CT) demonstrated ventricular dilatation, and ventricular peritoneal (VP) shunt was performed for idiopathic hydrocephalus at another hospital. Fever of unknown origin continued for a month after the VP shunt. At our hospital, cerebrospinal fluid examination showed bacterial meningitis, and it was assumed that shunt infection lead to shunt failure. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed hydrocephalus and pontine swelling, and serial MRI suggested brainstem tumor extending to the bilateral thalamus. The patient underwent stereotactic biopsy of the left thalamic tumor, under general anesthesia, and the histological diagnosis was anaplastic astrocytoma. Diffuse pontine glioma rarely increases without cranial nerve deficits. In the present case, pontine glioma extended to the bilateral thalamus symmetrically. It was difficult to diagnose the presented lesion as pontine glioma in the early period because of its unusual neuroimaging.


In human blood, the PET radiotracer [(18)F]CPFPX (1) is metabolized to numerous metabolites, one (M1) being the most prominent in plasma 30 min p.i. Because the mass of injected tracer is &lt; or = 5 nmol, concentrations in plasma are too low to analyze. Human liver microsomes generate main metabolites having HPLC retention times identical to those in plasma. HPLC-MS tentatively identified M1 as 2. Synthesis of 2 and identical HPLC-MS spectra of 2 and M1 confirmed that assignment.
Central sensitization, caused either by tissue inflammation or peripheral nerve injury, plays an important role in persistent pain. An animal model of capsaicin-induced pain has well-defined peripheral and central sensitization components, thus is useful for studying the analgesic effect on two separate components. The focus of this study is to examine the analgesic effects of electroacupuncture (EA) on capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia, which represents central sensitization. Capsaicin (0.1%, 20 microl) was injected into the plantar side of the left hind paw, and foot withdrawal thresholds in response to von Frey stimuli (mechanical sensitivity) were determined for both primary and secondary hyperalgesia in rats. EA (2 Hz, 3 mA) was applied to various pairs of acupoints, GB30-GB34, BL40-BL60, GV2-GV6, LI3-LI6 and SI3-TE8, for 30 min under isoflurane anesthesia and then the effect of EA on mechanical sensitivity of paw was determined. EA applied to the ipsilateral SI3-TE8, but to none of the other acupoints, significantly reduced capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia but not primary hyperalgesia. EA analgesic effect was inhibited by a systemic non-specific opioid receptor (OR) antagonist or an intrathecal mu- or delta-OR antagonist. EA analgesic effect was not affected by an intrathecal kappa-OR antagonist or systemic adrenergic receptor antagonist. This study demonstrates that EA produces a stimulation point-specific analgesic effect on capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia (central sensitization), mediated by activating endogenous spinal mu- and delta-opioid receptors.
It is not clear how males and females cope with pain over time and how sensory and emotional qualities fluctuate from moment to moment, although studies of pain at discrete time points suggest that women are more pain sensitive than men. Therefore, we developed a new broader-based pain model that incorporates a temporally continuous assessment of multiple pain dimensions across sensory and affective dimensions, and normalized peak pain intensity to unmask sex differences that may otherwise be confounded by inter-individual variability in pain sensitivity. We obtained continuous ratings of pain, burning, sharp, stinging, cutting, and annoyance evoked by repeated prolonged noxious heat stimuli in 32 subjects. Strikingly, females reported more pain than males at the outset of the first exposure to pain, but then experienced less pain and annoyance than males as a painful stimulus was sustained and with repeated stimulation. Patterns of pain and annoyance attenuation in women resembled the attenuation of sharp, stinging and cutting sensations, whereas patterns of pain and annoyance in men resembled burning sensations. Taken together, these data demonstrate a prominent sex difference in the time course of pain. Notably only females demonstrate adaptation and habituation that allow them to experience less pain over time. These findings suggest a sexual dichotomy in mechanisms underlying pain intensity and annoyance that could involve specific quality-linked mechanisms. Importantly, temporal processing of pain differs between males and females when adjusted for sex differences in pain sensitivity. Our findings provide insight into sex differences in tonic and possibly chronic pains.


Although its role in energy homeostasis is firmly established, the evidence accumulated over a decade linking the adipocyte leptin-hypothalamus axis in the pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus has received little attention in the contemporary thinking. In this context various lines of evidence are collated here to show that (1) under the direction of leptin two independent relays emanating from the hypothalamus restrain insulin secretion from the pancreas and mobilize peripheral organs--liver, skeletal muscle and brown adipose tissue--to upregulate glucose disposal, and (2), leptin insufficiency in the hypothalamus produced by either leptinopenia or restriction of leptin transport across the blood brain barrier due to hyperleptinemia of obesity and aging, initiate antecedent pathophysiological sequalae of diabetes type 1 and 2. Further, we document here the efficacy of leptin replenishment in vivo, especially by supplying it to the hypothalamus with the aid of gene therapy, in preventing the antecedent pathophysiological sequalae--hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance and hyperglycemia--in various animal models and clinical paradigms of diabetes type 1 and 2 with or without attendant obesity. Overall, the new insights on the long-lasting antidiabetic potential of two independent hypothalamic relays engendered by central leptin gene therapy and the preclinical safety indicators in rodents warrant further validation in subhuman primates and humans.
During human pregnancy, a circulating form of insulin-regulated aminopeptidase (IRAP EC 3.4.11.3), often termed oxytocinase or placental leucine aminopeptidase (PLAP), is present in plasma. It is proposed that circulating IRAP plays an important role in regulating the circulating levels of oxytocin and/or vasopressin during pregnancy. We assessed the reproductive and maternal profile of global IRAP knock out mice. No differences in the reproductive profile were observed, with normal gestational period, litter size and parturition recorded. However, western blot analysis of pregnant mouse serum, failed to detect IRAP, a result which was confirmed by fluorimetric IRAP enzyme assay. A review of the literature revealed that the presence of IRAP in the maternal circulation during pregnancy has been only reported in humans. Moreover, the sequence, Phe154 Ala155, identified as the cleavage site for the release of soluble IRAP, is restricted to members of the homindae family. Therefore the absence of IRAP from the circulation in mice, and other species during pregnancy, is due to the inability of a secretase to cleave placental IRAP to produce a soluble form of the enzyme. Given the expression of IRAP in areas of the brain associated with oxytocin modulated maternal behavior, we also investigated whether the IRAP global knockout mice had improved maternal responses. Using standard tests to assess maternal behavior, including pup retrieval, feeding and nurturing, no differences between knock out and wild type dams were observed. In conclusion, the physiological significance of circulating IRAP during human pregnancy cannot be addressed by investigations on mice.
The main questions addressed in this work were whether and how adaptation to suppression of visual information occurs in a free-fall paradigm, and the extent to which vision availability influences the control of landing movements. The prelanding modulation of EMG timing and amplitude of four lower-limb muscles was investigated. Participants performed six consecutive drop-landings from four different heights in two experimental conditions: with and without vision. Experimental design precluded participants from estimating the height of the drop. Since cues provided by proprioceptive and vestibular information acquired during the first trials were processed, the nervous system rapidly adapted to the lack of visual information, and hence produced a motor output (i.e., prelanding EMG modulation) similar to that observed when performing the activity with vision available.
Covalently bonding multiple fluorine atom tags to the precursors of monoamines could provide compounds for functional imaging. Theoretically, the fluorine atoms can produce detectible signal if concentrated in vesicles inside neurons. Prior to committing more costly resources to the project, evidence was sought for uptake of the molecules into neurons in living organisms. Two 19F tag configurations of seven or nine atoms were investigated. Crayfish aggression provided a paradigm for obtaining preliminary data on the scarce new molecules. After establishing that 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) elicited serotonin-like effects, the fluorine tagged versions (PF-5-HTP) were investigated; then, the elevated aggression produced by these precursors to serotonin was blocked by coadministering fluoxetine. Treatment order effects and interrater reliability of the behavioral inventory were evaluated. Preliminary evidence that these imaging compounds are taken up into neurons obtained by studying crayfish behavior later found support using more sophisticated neuroscience techniques.
Setting: A comprehensive noise-reduction project was initiated in response to low patient-satisfaction scores on an inpatient neuroscience unit at St Luke's Hospital and Health Network. The effects of noise on the health of patients and staff provided additional rationale for the project.Methods: The performance-improvement model of Plan, Do, Check, Act, along with a literature review, was used to identify the negative effects of noise on patients and staff. Baseline decibel (dB) readings were obtained in ongoing data collection six times a day. Preproject and postproject patient surveys were completed. Comparisons of patient-satisfaction scores related to noise level were completed before and after staff education.Results: Before project initiation, dB readings were found to be well above the hospital environment recommendations. Initial pre-education readings were as high as 78.1 dB; standard recommended levels are 40 dB. In April 2008, before project initiation, patient-satisfaction scores ranked in the second percentile in the Press Ganey large hospital grouping. Postproject scores rose to the 95th percentile by July 2008.
Many studies of drug self-administration in primates have shown that faster infusions of a drug are more reinforcing than slower infusions. Similar effects have not been shown in rats. We assessed the influence of delivery rate by allowing rats to choose between the same doses of intravenous cocaine delivered over two different infusion speeds. Rats were trained in chambers containing two nose-poke response devices. In Experiment 1, responses in one nose-poke delivered 0.3 mg/kg/injection of cocaine over 10 s, and responses in the other delivered the same dose over 100 s. In Experiment 2, the same procedure was used, but with 1.0 mg/kg/injection dose delivered over 1.7 versus 100 s. During acquisition, most rats preferred the faster infusion. When the delivery rates associated with the nose pokes were reversed, rats trained with 0.3 mg/kg/injection failed to switch nose-poke preference, but half the rats trained with 1.0 mg/kg/injection did switch. In Experiment 3, the choice was between 1 mg/kg cocaine delivered over 1.7 s and no reinforcement. Here, rats quickly learned to respond in the nose-poke associated with cocaine and quickly switched their choice during reversal. In Experiment 4, two groups of rats were allowed to choose between food delivered with a delay of 1 versus 5 s or 1 versus 10 s, respectively. Rats preferred the shorter delay during initial training. In reversal, some rats in the 1 vs 5 s group failed to reverse, while all the rats in the 1 vs 10 s group reversed. These results show that faster infusions of cocaine are clearly more reinforcing during acquisition, but delivery rate may not be as important to the maintenance of self-administration once it has been established. The results with food suggest that these findings represent general principles of behavior and are not unique to drug self-administration.
Neuronal cells in isolation or as an assembly exhibit bursting behavior on two different time scales. We introduce a simple one-dimensional model which requires only one phase variable to describe the phenomenon of parabolic bursting. The analysis in the continuum limit reveals that for any unimodal distribution of frequencies, the qualitative properties of the full and the reduced model are identical. Further, we derive analytically an exact low-dimensional description of a globally coupled network of bursting oscillators for our model. Study of the stability for this low-dimensional model reveals different dynamical signatures in the parameter space. We demonstrate that the structure of the parameter space remains independent of the number of spikes per burst.
Sensory transduction in the cochlea and vestibular labyrinth depends on fluid movements that deflect the hair bundles of mechanosensitive hair cells. Mechanosensitive transducer channels at the tip of the hair cell stereocilia allow K(+) to flow into cells. This unusual process relies on ionic gradients unique to the inner ear. Linking genes to deafness in humans and mice has been instrumental in identifying the ion transport machinery important for hearing and balance. Morphological analysis is difficult in patients, but mouse models have helped to investigate phenotypes at different developmental time points. This review focuses on cellular ion transport mechanisms in the stria vascularis that generate the major electrochemical gradients for sensory transduction.
The myelin sheath is an extension of the oligoddendrocyte (OL) plasma membrane enriched in lipids that ensheaths the axons of the central and peripheral nervous system. Here, we review the involvement of glycosphingolipids in myelin/OL functions, including the regulation of OL differentiation, lipid raft-mediated trafficking and signaling, and neuron-glia interactions.
Local field potential (LFP) oscillations are often accompanied by synchronization of activity within a widespread cerebral area. Thus, the LFP and neuronal coherence appear to be the result of a common mechanism that underlies neuronal assembly formation. We used the olfactory bulb as a model to investigate: (1) the extent to which unitary dynamics and LFP oscillations can be correlated and (2) the precision with which a model of the hypothesized underlying mechanisms can accurately explain the experimental data. For this purpose, we analyzed simultaneous recordings of mitral cell (MC) activity and LFPs in anesthetized and freely breathing rats in response to odorant stimulation. Spike trains were found to be phase-locked to the gamma oscillation at specific firing rates and to form odor-specific temporal patterns. The use of a conductance-based MC model driven by an approximately balanced excitatory-inhibitory input conductance and a relatively small inhibitory conductance that oscillated at the gamma frequency allowed us to provide one explanation of the experimental data via a mode-locking mechanism. This work sheds light on the way network and intrinsic MC properties participate in the locking of MCs to the gamma oscillation in a realistic physiological context and may result in a particular time-locked assembly. Finally, we discuss how a self-synchronization process with such entrainment properties can explain, under experimental conditions: (1) why the gamma bursts emerge transiently with a maximal amplitude position relative to the stimulus time course; (2) why the oscillations are prominent at a specific gamma frequency; and (3) why the oscillation amplitude depends on specific stimulus properties. We also discuss information processing and functional consequences derived from this mechanism.
In the fourth in a series of six articles on packages of care for mental disorders in low- and middle-income countries, Vivek Benegal and colleagues discuss the treatment of alcohol use disorders.
Alpha-herpesviruses, including human herpes simplex virus 1 &amp; 2, varicella zoster virus and the swine pseudorabies virus (PRV), infect the peripheral nervous system of their hosts. Symptoms of infection often include itching, numbness, or pain indicative of altered neurological function. To determine if there is an in vitro electrophysiological correlate to these characteristic in vivo symptoms, we infected cultured rat sympathetic neurons with well-characterized strains of PRV known to produce virulent or attenuated symptoms in animals. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made at various times after infection. By 8 hours of infection with virulent PRV, action potential (AP) firing rates increased substantially and were accompanied by hyperpolarized resting membrane potentials and spikelet-like events. Coincident with the increase in AP firing rate, adjacent neurons exhibited coupled firing events, first with AP-spikelets and later with near identical resting membrane potentials and AP firing. Small fusion pores between adjacent cell bodies formed early after infection as demonstrated by transfer of the low molecular weight dye, Lucifer Yellow. Later, larger pores formed as demonstrated by transfer of high molecular weight Texas red-dextran conjugates between infected cells. Further evidence for viral-induced fusion pores was obtained by infecting neurons with a viral mutant defective for glycoprotein B, a component of the viral membrane fusion complex. These infected neurons were essentially identical to mock infected neurons: no increased AP firing, no spikelet-like events, and no electrical or dye transfer. Infection with PRV Bartha, an attenuated circuit-tracing strain delayed, but did not eliminate the increased neuronal activity and coupling events. We suggest that formation of fusion pores between infected neurons results in electrical coupling and elevated firing rates, and that these processes may contribute to the altered neural function seen in PRV-infected animals.
IFN-alpha/beta plays a critical role in limiting viral spread, restricting viral tropism and protecting mice from neurotropic coronavirus infection. However, the IFN-alpha/beta dependent mechanisms underlying innate anti-viral functions within the CNS are poorly understood. The role of RNase L in viral encephalomyelitis was explored based on its functions in inhibiting translation, inducing apoptosis, and propagating the IFN-alpha/beta pathway through RNA degradation intermediates. Infection of RNase L deficient (RL(-/-)) mice with a sub-lethal, demyelinating mouse hepatitis virus variant revealed that the majority of mice succumbed to infection by day 12 p.i. However, RNase L deficiency did not affect overall control of infectious virus, or diminish IFN-alpha/beta expression in the CNS. Furthermore, increased morbidity and mortality could not be attributed to altered proinflammatory signals or composition of cells infiltrating the CNS. The unique phenotype of infected RL(-/-) mice was rather manifested in earlier onset and increased severity of demyelination and axonal damage in brain stem and spinal cord without evidence for enhanced neuronal infection. Increased tissue damage coincided with sustained brain stem infection, foci of microglia infection in grey matter, and increased apoptotic cells. These data demonstrate a novel protective role for RNase L in viral induced CNS encephalomyelitis, which is not reflected in overall viral control or propagation of IFN-alpha/beta mediated signals. Protective function is rather associated with cell type specific and regional restriction of viral replication in grey matter and ameliorated neurodegeneration and demyelination.
Mentoring and coaching, as they are currently practised, are relatively new techniques for working with people. The roots of the current approach can be traced back to the psychotherapist Carl Rogers, who developed a new 'person-centred approach' to counselling and quickly realised that this approach was also appropriate for many types of relationship, from education to family life. Rogers' thinking was deeply influenced by dialogues with his friend, the existentialist philosopher Martin Buber. Developments in psychology building upon this new person-centred approach include transactional analysis (TA) and neurolingusitic programming (NLP). More recently, solutions-focused approaches have been used and a related approach to leadership in the business environment-strengths-based leadership-has been developed. In recent years, developments in neuroscience have greatly increased understanding not only of how the brain is 'wired up' but also of how it is specifically wired to function as a social organ. The increased understanding in these areas can be considered in the context of emotional and social intelligence. These concepts and knowledge have been drawn together into a more structured discipline with the development of the approach known as positive psychology, the focus of which is on the strengths and virtues that contribute to good performance and authentic happiness.
Tens of putative interacting partners of the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) have been identified, yet the physiologic role of PrP(C) remains unclear. For the first time, however, a recent paper has demonstrated that the absence of PrP(C) produces a lethal phenotype. Starting from this evidence, here we discuss the validity of past and more recent literature supporting that, as part of protein platforms at the cell surface, PrP(C) may bridge extracellular matrix molecules and/or membrane proteins to intracellular signaling pathways.
There are several eye fields in the primate frontal cortex. The number and location of these oculomotor control zones remain controversial, especially in the human brain. In the monkey, the frontal eye field (FEF) is located in the rostral bank of the arcuate sulcus at approximately the level of the posterior end of the sulcus principalis, the supplementary eye field (SEF) is located on the dorsomedial frontal cortex, and the cingulate eye field (CEF) in the dorsal bank of the cingulate sulcus. In the human frontal cortex, the location of the FEF varies depending on the method used, electrical stimulation or functional neuroimaging, to establish it. Some investigators have argued that the SEF is located on the medial wall of the frontal lobe but its presumed location remains controversial. The location of the CEF in the human brain is not known. The present article reviews electrophysiological and functional neuroimaging evidence regarding the location of these frontal oculomotor areas in the macaque monkey and human brains and, in light of new findings in the human brain, attempts to reconcile the differences observed in the location of these eye fields using the different techniques. Together, these data suggest the existence of at least four eye fields in the frontal cortex, i.e. the FEF, the SEF, the CEF, and a premotor eye field, and suggest that their anatomical relationships are preserved from monkey to human brain.
A voluminous literature describes the relationship between disturbed sleep and depression. The breakdown of sleep is one of the cardinal features of depression and often also heralds its onset. Frequent arousals, periods of wakefulness and a short sleep onset REM latency are typical polysomnographic features of depression. The short latency to REM sleep has been attributed to the combination of a monoaminergic deficiency and cholinergic supersensitivity and these irregularities have been proposed to form the biological basis of the disorder. A similar imbalance between monoaminergic and cholinergic neurotransmission has been found in narcolepsy, a condition in which frequent awakenings, periods of wakefulness and short sleep onset REM latencies are also characteristic findings during sleep. In many cases of narcolepsy, this imbalance appears to result from a deficiency of hypocretin but once established, whether in depression or narcolepsy, this disequilibrium sets the stage for the dissociation or premature appearance of REM sleep and for the dissociation of the motor inhibitory component of REM sleep or cataplexy. In the presence of this monoaminergic/cholinergic imbalance, gammahydroxybutyrate (GHB) may acutely further reduce the latency of REM sleep and induce cataplexy, in both patients with narcolepsy or depression. On the other hand, the repeated nocturnal application of GHB in patients with narcolepsy improves the continuity of sleep, prolongs the latency to REM sleep and prevents cataplexy. Evidence to date suggests that GHB may restore the normal balance between monoaminergic and cholinergic neurotransmission. As such, the repeated use of GHB at night and the stabilization of sleep over time makes GHB an effective treatment for narcolepsy and a potentially effective treatment for depression.
In mammalian brain, the somatostatin (SRIF: somatotropin release-inhibiting factor) family is composed of two peptides: SRIF and cortistatin (CST), which interact with five different receptor subtypes, sst(1-5). This review summarizes the properties of these receptors, the involvement of somatostatinergic systems in Alzheimer's disease (SRIF/acetylcholine (Ach), SRIF/amyloid beta peptides, and SRIF/tau interactions) and their role in cognition from early studies using cysteamine as an SRIF depleting substance to the use of subtype selective analogues and knockout mice, and modulation of synaptic plasticity. The current SRIF story illustrates how cognition and emotion are intimately integrated in brain function.
Findings derived from neuroimaging of the structural and functional organization of the human brain have led to the widely supported hypothesis that neuronal networks of temporally coordinated brain activity across different regional brain structures underpin cognitive function. Failure of integration within a network leads to cognitive dysfunction. The current discussion on Alzheimer's disease (AD) argues that it presents in part a disconnection syndrome. Studies using functional magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography and electroencephalography demonstrate that synchronicity of brain activity is altered in AD and correlates with cognitive deficits. Moreover, recent advances in diffusion tensor imaging have made it possible to track axonal projections across the brain, revealing substantial regional impairment in fiber-tract integrity in AD. Accumulating evidence points towards a network breakdown reflecting disconnection at both the structural and functional system level. The exact relationship among these multiple mechanistic variables and their contribution to cognitive alterations and ultimately decline is yet unknown. Focused research efforts aimed at the integration of both function and structure hold great promise not only in improving our understanding of cognition but also of its characteristic progressive metamorphosis in complex chronic neurodegenerative disorders such as AD.

Adult neurogenesis occurs in the subgranular zone (SGZ) and subventricular zone (SVZ). New SGZ neurons migrate into the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus (DG). New SVZ neurons seem to enter the association neocortex and entorhinal cortex besides the olfactory bulb. Alzheimer disease (AD) is characterized by neuron loss in the hippocampus (DG and CA1 field), entorhinal cortex, and association neocortex, which underlies the learning and memory deficits. We hypothesized that, if the AD brain can support neurogenesis, strategies to stimulate the neurogenesis process could have therapeutic value in AD. We reviewed the literature on: (a) the functional significance of adult-born neurons; (b) the occurrence of endogenous neurogenesis in AD; and (c) strategies to stimulate the adult neurogenesis process. We found that: (a) new neurons in the adult DG contribute to memory function; (b) new neurons are generated in the SGZ and SVZ of AD brains, but they fail to differentiate into mature neurons in the target regions; and (c) numerous strategies (Lithium, Glatiramer Acetate, nerve growth factor, environmental enrichment) can enhance adult neurogenesis and promote maturation of newly generated neurons. Such strategies might help to compensate for the loss of neurons and improve the memory function in AD.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a very efficient treatment for severe depression. However, cognitive side effects have raised concern to whether ECT can cause cellular damage in vulnerable brain regions. A few recent animal studies have reported limited hippocampal cell loss, while a number of other studies have failed to find any signs of cellular damage and some even report that electroconvulsive seizures (ECS; the animal counterpart of ECT) has neuroprotective effects. We previously have described gliogenesis in response to ECS. Loss of glial cells is seen in depression and de novo formation of glial cells may thus have an important therapeutic role. Glial cell proliferation and activation is however also seen in response to neuronal damage. The aim of the present study was to further characterize glial cell activation in response to ECS. Two groups of rats were treated with 10 ECS using different sets of stimulus parameters. ECS-induced changes in the morphology and expression of markers typical for reactive microglia, astrocytes and NG2+ glial cells were analyzed immunohistochemically in prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, hypothalamus, piriform cortex and entorhinal cortex. We observed changes in glial cell morphology and an enhanced expression of activation markers 2 h following ECS treatment, regardless of the stimulus parameters used. Four weeks later, few activated glial cells persisted. In conclusion, ECS treatment induced transient glial cell activation in several brain areas. Whether similar processes play a role in the therapeutic effect of clinically administered ECT or contribute to its side effects will require further investigations.
Objective: To increase understanding of effect size calculations among clinicians who over-rely on interpretations of P values in their assessment of the medical literature.Design: We review five methods of calculating effect sizes: Cohen's d (also known as the standardized mean difference)-used in studies that report efficacy in terms of a continuous measurement and calculated from two mean values and their standard deviations; relative risk-the ratio of patients responding to treatment divided by the ratio of patients responding to a different treatment (or placebo), which is particularly useful in prospective clinical trials to assess differences between treatments; odds ratio- used to interpret results of retrospective case-control studies and provide estimates of the risk of side effects by comparing the probability (odds) of an outcome occurring in the presence or absence of a specified condition; number needed to treat-the number of subjects one would expect to treat with agent A to have one more success (or one less failure) than if the same number were treated with agent B; and area under the curve (also known as the drug-placebo response curve)-a six-step process that can be used to assess the effects of medication on both worsening and improvement and the probability that a medication-treated subject will have a better outcome than a placebo-treated subject.Conclusion: Effect size statistics provide a better estimate of treatment effects than P values alone.
Past measurement of vitality has included both emotional and physical components. Since aspects of physical vitality such as fatigue can be indicative of physical illness, the usefulness of existing measures of vitality to predict health is limited. This research was designed to examine the psychometric properties of a new Mental Vitality Scale and to test its associations with measures of cardiovascular health over the course of 2 years. The measure of mental vitality was administered in a two-part study using three different samples. In part 1, the reliability and validity of the scale was assessed with a student and a clinic sample. In part 2, medical data on mental and physical health were abstracted over a two-year period from 1041 patient records from a multi-specialty medical practice, and mental vitality assessed through a mailed questionnaire. The findings indicate that the Mental Vitality Scale is a valid and reliable questionnaire for measuring this construct. Mental vitality was also associated with reduced odds of several cardiovascular outcomes and prospective analyses suggest that mental vitality may serve a protective function in the development of cardiovascular disease. The results lend support for the importance of mental vitality as a construct that may be relevant for considering resilience in relation to cardiovascular disease.
The Structure of Temperament Questionnaire (STQ) was proposed by Rusalov in 1989 and subsequently tested in five languages. The questionnaire assesses four temperamental traits (Ergonicity, Plasticity, Tempo, and Emotionality) in three separate areas of activity: physical, verbal-social, and intellectual. The scales are all activity-specific. In 775 Canadian subjects, two temperament tests were compared, both developed on the basis of Pavlovian studies of the nervous system: the activity-specific approach (STQ) and the nonspecific Pavlovian Temperamental Survey (PTS). More significant sex differences were found on activity-specific scales of the STQ than on the nonspecific PTS scales. The pattern of correlations between the STQ scales and the time taken on an experimental task requiring a prolonged and intense word-assessment activity showed stronger correlations with the specific scales of the STQ measuring the dynamic aspects of social-verbal activity, and not with the PTS Strength of Excitation scale, which is based on a &quot;general arousal&quot; concept. The results supported the separation of temperament traits related to three different types of activities and opposed to &quot;general arousal&quot; theories of temperament.
J. S. Bowers, M. F. Damian, and C. J. Davis critiqued the computational model of serial order memory put forth in M. Botvinick and D. C. Plaut, purporting to show that the model does not generalize in a way that people do. They attributed this supposed failure to the model's dependence on context-dependent representations, translating this argument into a general critique of all parallel distributed processing models. The authors reply here, addressing both Bowers et al.'s criticisms of the Botvinick and Plaut model and the former's assessment of parallel distributed processing models in general.
Inattentional blindness refers to a failure to consciously detect an irrelevant object that appears without any expectation when attention is engaged with another task. The perceptual load theory predicts that task-irrelevant stimuli will reach awareness only when the primary task is of low load, which allows processing resources to spill over to processing task-irrelevant stimuli as well. We studied whether perceptual load has an effect on inattentional blindness for a task-irrelevant stimulus whose meaning is or is not relevant to the attentional goals of the observer. In the critical trial, a word appeared without any expectation in the center of a display of attended pictures. The results showed that, under both high and low load, unexpected words belonging to the attended semantic category were detected more often than semantically unrelated words. These results imply that task-irrelevant stimuli, whose meanings are relevant to the observer's task, enter awareness irrespective of perceptual load.
In the realm of animal models of psychopathology, social stress based procedures rely on robust theoretical prerequisites to meet construct validity criteria for the target syndromes. In order to further assess the relevance for human psychopathology of a social defeat based model in rats, known to elicit consistent behavioral and hormonal changes, we expanded its characterization on the basis of both behavioral parameters and peripheral biomarkers thought to be pertinent for clinical symptoms. Rats were subjected to 3 daily social defeat experiences that shortly thereafter led to the insurgence of defensive behaviors, anhedonia, and body weight loss. HPA axis showed an activated response when rats were sampled as early as after the first social defeat experience, while none of the peripheral immune, metabolic, and neurotrophic factors examined were concurrently affected. With the aim of determining the long-term bio-behavioral sequelae of the social defeat experience, rats were assessed also 3 weeks after the social defeats. At this time, behavioral changes were still observed, including decreased general activity and sociality in a social avoidance test, increased immobility and decreased escape responses in a forced swim test. These alterations were not paralleled by alterations in anhedonia nor HPA axis responses from controls, nor where evident changes in the humoral component of the immune response nor in brain derived neurotrophic factor levels, whereas a substantial increase in leptin levels was observed in previously socially defeated rats compared to control. Overall these data depict a very complex set of alterations induced both acutely and long-term by social stress in endocrinological and behavioral reactivity of rats.
Glutamate is the main excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, and plays an excitatory role in generation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis responses to stress. The current study assesses the role of kainate-preferring receptors in glutamatergic excitation of the HPA axis. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemical analyses confirmed the existence of the GluR5 kainate subunit in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). Importantly, GluR5 immunoreactivity was enriched in the external lamina of the median eminence, where it is co-localized with corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH). Intra-PVN infusion of LY382884 increased plasma adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), corticosterone and PVN c-Fos immunoreactivity. Infusions of LY382884 into the median eminence region, on the other hand, reduced restraint induced ACTH release without altering c-Fos expression. Together, these findings provide evidence for glutamate-mediated signaling in control of CRH release at the PVN and median eminence, mediated by way of kainate-preferring receptor complexes.







Lag 2 repetition costs are a performance cost observed when participants return to a task after just one intervening trial of a different task, compared to returning after a longer interval (ABA vs. CBA sequences, where A, B, C are tasks). This effect is known as backward inhibition (BI) and is thought to reflect the need to overcome inhibition applied specifically to Task &quot;A&quot; during disengagement at trial n - 1. Druey and Hubner (2007) have suggested that employment of such a specific inhibitory mechanism relies upon the cue and the target of the task overlapping temporally. We provide evidence across three experiments (including a direct replication attempt) that this is not the case, and that the presence of task-specific BI relies to some extent on the need to translate the cue-target relationship into working memory. Additionally, we provide evidence that faster responses in no overlap conditions are driven by low-level perceptual differences between target displays across overlap conditions. We conclude that BI is an effective sequential control mechanism, employed equally in cases of temporally overlapping and temporally separated cues and targets.

Cognitive Hearing Science or Auditory Cognitive Science is an emerging field of interdisciplinary research concerning the interactions between hearing and cognition. It follows a trend over the last half century for interdisciplinary fields to develop, beginning with Neuroscience, then Cognitive Science, then Cognitive Neuroscience, and then Cognitive Vision Science. A common theme is that an interdisciplinary approach is necessary to understand complex human behaviors, to develop technologies incorporating knowledge of these behaviors, and to find solutions for individuals with impairments that undermine typical behaviors. Accordingly, researchers in traditional academic disciplines, such as Psychology, Physiology, Linguistics, Philosophy, Anthropology, and Sociology benefit from collaborations with each other, and with researchers in Computer Science and Engineering working on the design of technologies, and with health professionals working with individuals who have impairments. The factors that triggered the emergence of Cognitive Hearing Science include the maturation of the component disciplines of Hearing Science and Cognitive Science, new opportunities to use complex digital signal-processing to design technologies suited to performance in challenging everyday environments, and increasing social imperatives to help people whose communication problems span hearing and cognition. Cognitive Hearing Science is illustrated in research on three general topics: (1) language processing in challenging listening conditions; (2) use of auditory communication technologies or the visual modality to boost performance; (3) changes in performance with development, aging, and rehabilitative training. Future directions for modeling and the translation of research into practice are suggested.
Prospective memory (PM) is the ability to remember to carry out an intended action in the future and it is an important function for everyday living. Studies have found that the neural basis of PM is located mainly in the prefrontal lobes (particularly in Brodmann Area 10) and patients with schizophrenia have functional deficits in this area. The present study provided a meta-analytic review of PM performances in patients with schizophrenia in 11 studies. A total of 485 patients with schizophrenia and 409 controls were included. Results showed that patients with schizophrenia exhibited impairments in all time- (d=-1.33), event- (d=-0.827), and activity-based (d=-0.729) PM, with time-based PM more impaired than event-based PM. In addition, PM was found to be significantly correlated with negative symptoms (r=-0.18), general psychopathology (r=-0.168), medication dosage (r=-0.119), duration of illness (r=-0.131), age (r=-0.23), education (r=0.249), IQ (r=0.439) and premorbid IQ (r=0.356). It has theoretical and clinical implications. Theoretically, the results indicate time-based PM involves more initiation than event-based PM. Clinically, the results indicate patients on high dose of antipsychotic medication and with long duration of illness need special attention from care givers for PM problems.






The controlled production of neurons in the postnatal dentate gyrus and throughout life is important for hippocampal learning and memory. The mechanisms underlying the necessary coupling of neuronal activity to neural stem/progenitor cell (NSPC) function remain poorly understood. Within the dentate subgranular stem cell niche, local interneurons appear to play an important part in this excitation-neurogenesis coupling via GABAergic transmission, which promotes neuronal differentiation and integration. Here we show that vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, a neuropeptide coreleased with GABA under specific firing conditions, is uniquely trophic for proliferating postnatal nestin-positive dentate NSPCs, mediated via the VPAC(2) receptor. We also show that VPAC(2) receptor activation shifts the fate of symmetrically dividing NSPCs toward a nestin-only phenotype, independent of the trophic effect. In contrast, selective VPAC(1) receptor activation shifts NSPC fate toward granule cell neurogenesis without any trophism. We confirm a trophic role for VPAC(2) receptors in vivo, showing reduced progeny survival and dentate neurogenesis in adult Vipr2(-/-) mice. We also show a specific reduction in type 2 nestin-positive precursors in vivo, consistent with a role for VPAC(2) in maintaining this cell population. This work provides the first evidence of differential fate modulation of neurogenesis by neurotransmitter receptor subtypes and extends the fate-determining effects of neurotransmitters to maintaining the nestin-positive pool of NSPCs. This differential receptor effect may support the independent pharmacological manipulation of precursor pool expansion and neurogenic instruction for therapeutic application in the treatment of cognitive deficits associated with a decline in neurogenesis.
Multipotent mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) represent a promising autologous source for regenerative medicine. Because MSCs can be isolated from adult tissues, they represent an attractive cell source for autologous transplantation. A straightforward therapeutic strategy in the field of stem cell-based regenerative medicine is the transplantation of functional differentiated cells as cell replacement for the lost or defective cells affected by disease. However, this strategy requires the capacity to regulate stem cell differentiation toward the desired cell fate. This therapeutic approach assumes the capability to direct MSC differentiation toward diverse cell fates, including those outside the mesenchymal lineage, a process termed transdifferentiation. The capacity of MSCs to undergo functional transdifferentiation has been questioned over the years. Nonetheless, recent studies support that genetic manipulation can serve to promote transdifferentiation. Specifically, forced expression of certain transcription factors can lead to reprogramming and alter cell fate. Using such a method, fully differentiated lymphocytes have been reprogrammed to become macrophages and, remarkably, somatic cells have been reprogrammed to become embryonic stem-like cells. In this review, we discuss the past and current research aimed at transdifferentiating MSCs, a process with applications that could revolutionize regenerative medicine.
Stem cell-based therapy is a promising treatment for neurodegenerative diseases. In our laboratory, a novel protocol has been developed to induce bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) into neurotrophic factors- secreting cells (NTF-SC), thus combining stem cell-based therapy with the NTF-based neuroprotection. These cells produce and secrete factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor. Conditioned medium of the NTF-SC that was applied to a neuroblastoma cell line (SH-SY5Y) 1 h before exposure to the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) demonstrated marked protection. An efficacy study was conducted on the 6-OHDA-induced lesion, a rat model of Parkinson's disease. The cells, either MSC or NTF-SC, were transplanted on the day of 6-OHDA administration and amphetamine-induced rotations were measured as a primary behavior index. We demonstrated that when transplanted posterior to the 6-OHDA lesion, the NTF-SC ameliorated amphetamine-induced rotations by 45%. HPLC analysis demonstrated that 6-OHDA induced dopamine depletion to a level of 21% compared to the untreated striatum. NTF-SC inhibited dopamine depletion to a level of 72% of the contralateral striatum. Moreover, an MRI study conducted with iron-labeled cells, followed by histological verification, revealed that the engrafted cells migrated toward the lesion. In a histological assessment, we found that the cells induced regeneration in the damaged striatal dopaminergic nerve terminal network. We therefore conclude that the induced MSC have a therapeutic potential for neurodegenerative processes and diseases, both by the NTFs secretion and by the migratory trait toward the diseased tissue.
Eleven infant boys presented with chin-up head posture, tonic downgaze and, on attempted upgaze, large-amplitude upward saccades with deceleration during the slow phase downward. The gaze-evoked upward saccades disappeared at the age of 2 or 3 years. In addition, they had high-frequency, small-amplitude horizontal pendular nystagmus that remained. Among these infant boys were 2 pairs of maternally related half-brothers, 2 cousins, and 2 siblings. Visual acuity ranged from 0.1 to 0.6, ERG-amplitudes (both A- and B-wave) were reduced, and severe myopia was found in 5 cases. Eight boys had CACNA1F mutations, and 1 boy had a NYX mutation, compatible with incomplete or complete congenital stationary nightblindness (iCSNB or cCSNB), respectively. This points to a defective synapse between the rod and the ON-bipolar cell causing the motility disorder: CACNA1F is located on the rod side of this synapse, whereas NYX is located on the side of the ON-bipolar cell. The coexistence of horizontal and vertical nystagmus has been previously described in dark-reared cats.

Local synapses formed by nondopamine cells within the ventral tegmental area (VTA) are thought to provide an important regulatory influence on the activity patterns of dopamine (DA) neurons. However, ultrastructural confirmation of intra-areal synapses formed by VTA neurons is lacking, and the synaptic targets of these connections have not been examined. We performed discrete injections of the specific anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHAL) and used electron microscopy to visualize immunoperoxidase labeling within the local collaterals of VTA cells. The phenotype of target neurons was determined by immunogold-silver labeling for GABA or for tyrosine hydroxylase within DA neurons. Within or immediately adjacent to the VTA injection sites, PHAL was incorporated into the soma and dendrites of both GABA and DA cells. Tracer was also detected within myelinated and unmyelinated axons as well as axon terminals. Some labeled terminals formed identifiable synapses, the majority of which (78%) had symmetric morphology (presumably inhibitory). Both DA and GABA dendrites were contacted by these intrinsic axons. Postembedding immunogold labeling verified that local axon collaterals arose mainly from GABA cells (DA neurons are not known to issue recurrent collaterals). Nevertheless, a few synapses with asymmetric morphology (presumably excitatory) were also noted; whether these derive from local glutamate neurons requires further investigation. Hence, our data provide ultrastructural support for the long standing assumption that GABA VTA neurons synapse locally onto DA cells. The findings also suggest the presence of disinhibitory and possibly excitatory circuitry intrinsic to the VTA.
This study evaluated the in vitro and in vivo characteristics of a new dopamine transporter (DAT) radioligand, [(18)F]fluoroethyl(FE)PE2I, by autoradiography from postmortem human brain and by positron emission tomography (PET) in three cynomolgus monkeys. In the autoradiography experiments, high [18F]FE-PE2I accumulation was observed in caudate and putamen that was selectively abolished by GBR12909 or beta-CIT but not by maprotiline. High doses of citalopram (&gt;5 microM) also inhibited [18F]FE-PE2I binding in the striatum. In vitro Ki of the radioligand was 12 nM at rodent dopamine transporter. [18F]FE-PE2I brain uptake measured by PET was approximately 4-5% of the injected dose, with highest uptake in striatum followed by midbrain and thalamus, lower uptake in neocortex, and lowest in cerebellum. Peak specific binding in striatum was reached approximately 40 min and in midbrain 20-30 min postinjection. The ratio-to-cerebellum was 7-10 in striatum and 1.5-2.3 in midbrain. BP(ND) measured with simplified reference tissue method using the cerebellum as reference region was 4.5 in striatum and 0.6 in midbrain. No displacement was shown after citalopram or maprotiline administration, while GBR12909 decreased the binding in striatum and midbrain to the level of cerebellum. [18F]FE-PE2I showed relatively fast elimination and metabolism with the presence of two metabolite peaks with similar retention time as the labeled metabolites of [11C]PE2I. [18F]FE-PE2I showed in vivo selectivity for the DAT and compared with [11C]PE2I, it showed faster kinetics and earlier peak equilibrium. The potential influence of the two radiometabolites on PET quantification requires further evaluation.
Despite the current enthusiasm for neuroimaging as a key method in translational neuroscience, there is a lack of debate about the nosological framework within which neuroimaging measures should be related to diagnostic categories. Here, the aim was to stimulate a debate about the role of cognitive neuroscience and neuroimaging in mediating between molecular/genetic, clinical diagnostic, and symptom-based descriptions of neuropsychiatric disorders. The diagnostic role of neuroimaging in translational neuroscience is stressed, namely, to be combined with cognitive measures to define cognitive-anatomical syndromes as an intermediate diagnostic category that mediates between clinical diagnoses and psychoreactive as well as neurobiological etiologic factors. This multilevel approach will be illustrated by reviewing recent insights into the cognitive-anatomical basis of inappropriate social behavior and social knowledge in frontotemporal dementia and by discussing its implications for the study of neuropsychiatric disorders such as major depressive disorder in which neuroanatomical abnormalities are more subtle.

This review outlines factors that differentiate botulinum toxin serotypes and focuses on the unique features of the commercially available form of BoNT-B (i.e., Myobloc/NeuroBloc). A series of preclinical studies in Cynomolgus monkeys are reviewed. Each of these studies used electrophysiologic measures of changes in the compound muscle action potential (CMAP) following supramaximal nerve stimulation to evaluate the direct effects of the toxin in the injected muscle, as well as the spread of the effects to non-injected muscles. The results of 14 studies were summarized, including several that compared the effects of equivalent doses of BoNT-A and BoNT-B injected into muscles on the opposite side of the same monkey. There is clear evidence that when equivalent doses of BoNT-A and BoNT-B are assessed, there is greater spread to both nearby and remote non-injected muscles associated with BoNT-A. Similar studies in the mouse model demonstrated that high, but non-lethal, doses of BoNT-A unilaterally injected into the foot resulted in spread of the effects across the midline to the opposite non-treated foot, while there was no evidence of bilateral effects with equivalent unilateral injections of BoNT-B. Finally, this review summarizes a series of studies in the trapezius and gastrocnemius muscles of monkeys demonstrating that when doses producing equivalent initial effects of BoNT-A and BoNT-B are compared, the duration of effects and the time course of recovery are almost identical across toxins.
Herding is a form of convergent social behaviour that can be broadly defined as the alignment of the thoughts or behaviours of individuals in a group (herd) through local interaction and without centralized coordination. We suggest that herding has a broad application, from intellectual fashion to mob violence; and that understanding herding is particularly pertinent in an increasingly interconnected world. An integrated approach to herding is proposed, describing two key issues: mechanisms of transmission of thoughts or behaviour between agents, and patterns of connections between agents. We show how bringing together the diverse, often disconnected, theoretical and methodological approaches illuminates the applicability of herding to many domains of cognition and suggest that cognitive neuroscience offers a novel approach to its study.
It is commonly assumed that we are conscious of our movements mainly because we can sense ourselves moving as ongoing peripheral information coming from our muscles and retina reaches the brain. Recent evidence, however, suggests that, contrary to common beliefs, conscious intention to move is independent of movement execution per se. We propose that during movement execution it is our initial intentions that we are mainly aware of. Furthermore, the experience of moving as a conscious act is associated with increased activity in a specific brain region: the posterior parietal cortex. We speculate that movement intention and awareness are generated and monitored in this region. We put forward a general framework of the cognitive and neural processes involved in movement intention and motor awareness.
Social species, from Drosophila melanogaster to Homo sapiens, fare poorly when isolated. Homo sapiens, an irrepressibly meaning-making species, are, in normal circumstances, dramatically affected by perceived social isolation. Research indicates that perceived social isolation (i.e. loneliness) is a risk factor for, and may contribute to, poorer overall cognitive performance, faster cognitive decline, poorer executive functioning, increased negativity and depressive cognition, heightened sensitivity to social threats, a confirmatory bias in social cognition that is self-protective and paradoxically self-defeating, heightened anthropomorphism and contagion that threatens social cohesion. These differences in attention and cognition impact on emotions, decisions, behaviors and interpersonal interactions that can contribute to the association between loneliness and cognitive decline and between loneliness and morbidity more generally.
Network analysis of functional brain imaging data is an innovative approach to study circuit abnormalities in neurodegenerative diseases. In Parkinson's disease, spatial covariance analysis of resting-state metabolic images has identified specific regional patterns associated with motor and cognitive symptoms. With functional imaging, these metabolic networks have recently been used to measure system-related progression and to evaluate novel treatment strategies. Network analysis is also being used to characterize specific functional biomarkers for Huntington's disease and Alzheimer's disease. These networks have been particularly helpful in uncovering compensatory mechanisms in genetically at-risk individuals. Ongoing developments in network applications are likely to enhance the role of functional imaging in the investigation of neurodegenerative disorders.
Understanding how molecular signaling pathways participate in behavioral responses requires determining precisely in which neuronal populations they are activated. The recent development of bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenic mice expressing a variety of reporters, epitope tagged-proteins or Cre recombinase driven by specific promoters, is a significant step forward in this direction. These mice help overcome the limitations of traditional approaches that examine an average of signaling events occurring in mixed populations of cells. Here, we review how recent studies using such tools have revisited the regulation of striatal signaling pathways, demonstrating the striking segregation between neurons expressing dopamine D1 and D2 receptors and significantly extending our overall knowledge of striatal neurons. Thus, BAC transgenic mice are changing the way to conceive experiments and provide an opportunity to fill the gaps between molecular and systems neurosciences.
Forebrain dopamine circuitry has traditionally been studied by two largely independent specialist groups: students of Parkinson's disease who study the nigrostriatal dopamine system that originates in the substantia nigra (SN), and students of motivation and addiction who study the role of the mesolimbic and mesocortical dopamine systems that originate in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). The anatomical evidence for independent nigrostriatal and mesolimbic dopamine systems has, however, long been obsolete. There is now compelling evidence that both nominal &quot;systems&quot; participate in reward function and addiction. Electrical stimulation of both SN and VTA is rewarding, blockade of glutamatergic or cholinergic input to either SN or VTA attenuates the habit-forming effects of intravenous cocaine, and dopamine in both nigrostriatal and mesocorticolimbic terminal fields participates in the defining property of rewarding events: the reinforcement of memory consolidation. Thus, the similarities between nigrostriatal and mesolimbic dopamine systems can be as important as their differences.
Animals that depend on smell for communication and survival extract multiple pieces of information from a single complex odor. Mice can collect information on sex, genotype, health and dietary status from urine scent marks, a stimulus made up of hundreds of molecules. This ability is all the more remarkable considering that natural odors are encountered against varying olfactory backgrounds; the olfactory system must therefore provide some mechanism for extracting the most relevant information. Here we discuss recent data indicating that the readout of olfactory input by mitral cells in the olfactory bulb can be modified by behavioral context. We speculate that the olfactory cortex plays a key role in tuning the readout of olfactory information from the olfactory bulb.
Raised intracranial pressure (ICP) in infants with hydrocephalus may cause (ir)reversible damage to the brain parenchyma but can be present without clinical signs and/or symptoms. Therefore, new, favorably noninvasive, detection methods are needed to distinguish between compensated hydrocephalus with normal intracranial pressure and slowly progressive hydrocephalus with increased intracranial pressure. Because early ischemic changes in the brain parenchyma are associated with increased intracranial pressure, transcranial Doppler (TCD) indices may be useful to detect increased intracranial pressure in infants with hydrocephalus. Twenty-four infants with hydrocephalus underwent noninvasive ICP measurement, magnetic resonance imaging and TCD before and after cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diversion. The TCD indices were paired to the anterior fontanelle pressure findings and compared for correlation. After CSF diversion, ICP decreased significantly from 21.8 cm H(2)O to 7.7 cm H(2)O (p&lt;0.005). The transsystolic time (TST) as measured with TCD increased significantly from 176 to 221 ms (p&lt;0.005), whereas the pulsatility index (PI) decreased significantly from 1.3 to 1.0 (p&lt;0.05). The resistance index (RI) decreased significantly from 0.73 to 0.63 (p&lt;0.05). Mean bloodflow velocity through the middle cerebral artery increased significantly from 55.5 to 75.8 cm/s (p&lt;0.005). TST has a strong correlation with the ICP (p&lt;0.005). Measuring TST with TCD can be helpful in the decision-making process about whether to perform CSF diversion in infants with hydrocephalus. Because TST is related solely to the relative changes in the flow velocity caused by intracranial physical properties, it has a closer relation to ICP than the PI and the RI.
We examined the amount of practice needed to improve performance on 10-AFC face- and texture identification tasks. On Day 1, subjects were grouped by amount of practice: a control group had 0 trials of practice, and several experimental groups had practice that ranged from 1 to 40 trials per condition. On Day 2, all groups performed 40 trials per condition of the trained task. The effect of practice was estimated by comparing performance across groups on Day 2. In both tasks, increasing practice was associated with greater learning, but surprisingly small amounts of practice were required to improve performance. In the face identification task, for example, only one trial per condition on Day 1 was required to increase performance relative to the control group at the start of testing on Day 2. In the texture identification task, five trials per condition on Day 1 were required to increase performance relative to the control group. In both tasks, the advantage associated with small amounts of practice declined during the Day 2 session due to larger within-session learning in the control group. Sleep had little to no effect on learning; performance depended primarily on the amount of preceding practice.
How does the brain control its sensory plasticity using performance feedback? We examined this question using various types of fake feedback in perceptual learning paradigm. We demonstrated that fake feedback indicating a larger performance improvement facilitated learning compared with genuine feedback. Variance of the fake feedback modulated learning as well, suggesting that feedback uncertainty can be internally evaluated. These results were explained by a computational model which controlled the learning rate of the visual system based on Bayesian estimation of performance gradient incorporating an optimistic bias. Our findings suggest that sensory plasticity might be controlled by high-level cognitive processes.
Amblyopia is a developmental abnormality that results from physiological alterations in the visual cortex and impairs form vision. It is a consequence of abnormal binocular visual experience during the &quot;sensitive period&quot; early in life. While amblyopia can often be reversed when treated early, conventional treatment is generally not undertaken in older children and adults. A number of studies over the last twelve years or so suggest that Perceptual Learning (PL) may provide an important new method for treating amblyopia. The aim of this mini-review is to provide a critical review and &quot;meta-analysis&quot; of perceptual learning in adults and children with amblyopia, with a view to extracting principles that might make PL more effective and efficient. Specifically we evaluate: 1). What factors influence the outcome of perceptual learning? 2). Specificity and generalization - two sides of the coin. 3). Do the improvements last? 4). How does PL improve visual function? 5). Should PL be part of the treatment armamentarium? A review of the extant studies makes it clear that practicing a visual task results in a long-lasting improvement in performance in an amblyopic eye. The improvement is generally strongest for the trained eye, task, stimulus and orientation, but appears to have a broader spatial frequency bandwidth than in normal vision. Importantly, practicing on a variety of different tasks and stimuli seems to transfer to improved visual acuity. Perceptual learning operates via a reduction of internal neural noise and/or through more efficient use of the stimulus information by retuning the weighting of the information. The success of PL raises the question of whether it should become a standard part of the armamentarium for the clinical treatment of amblyopia, and suggests several important principles for effective perceptual learning in amblyopia.



The cellular mechanisms underlying comodulation of neuronal networks are not elucidated in most systems. We are addressing this issue by determining the mechanism by which a peptide hormone, crustacean cardioactive peptide (CCAP), modulates the biphasic (protraction/retraction) gastric mill (chewing) rhythm driven by the projection neuron MCN1 in the crab stomatogastric ganglion. MCN1 activates this rhythm by slow peptidergic (CabTRP Ia) and fast GABAergic excitation of the reciprocally inhibitory central pattern generator neurons LG (protraction) and Int1 (retraction), respectively. MCN1 synaptic transmission is limited to the retraction phase, because LG inhibits MCN1 during protraction. Bath-applied CCAP also excites both LG and Int1, but selectively prolongs protraction. Here, we use computational modeling and dynamic-clamp manipulations to establish that CCAP prolongs the gastric mill protractor (LG) phase and maintains the retractor (Int1) phase duration by activating the same modulator-activated inward current (I(MI)) in LG as MCN1-released CabTRP Ia. However, the CCAP-activated current (I(MI-CCAP)) and MCN1-activated current (I(MI-MCN1)) exhibit distinct time courses in LG during protraction. This distinction results from I(MI-CCAP) being regulated only by postsynaptic voltage, whereas I(MI-MCN1) is also regulated by LG presynaptic inhibition of MCN1. Hence, without CCAP, retraction and protraction duration are determined by the time course of I(MI-MCN1) buildup and feedback inhibition-mediated decay, respectively, in LG. With I(MI-CCAP) continually present, the impact of the feedback inhibition is reduced, prolonging protraction and maintaining retraction duration. Thus, comodulation of rhythmic motor activity can result from convergent activation, via distinct dynamics, of a single voltage-dependent current.
The principal components of neuronal excitability include synaptic and intrinsic membrane parameters. While recent studies indicate that cocaine exposure can induce widespread changes in synaptic function in the neural circuits for reward, intrinsic firing properties have received much less attention. Using whole-cell recording in ex vivo brain slices from cocaine-treated mice, we studied the intrinsic firing characteristics of medium-spiny projection neurons of the nucleus accumbens--a key node in the circuit that controls reward-directed behavior. Our data demonstrate that repeated in vivo cocaine (5 x 15 mg/kg, i.p., once daily, 5 d) induces opposite changes in neurons of the two main subdivisions of the accumbens, the shell and the core. While shell neurons exhibit an initial depression in firing capacity (1-3 d abstinence) that persists for at least 2 weeks, core neurons exhibit increased firing capacity during early abstinence (1-3 d) that declines to basal levels within 2 weeks. Shared adaptations between addictive drugs may mediate core processes of addiction. We find that amphetamine exposure (5 x 5 mg/kg, i.p., once daily, 5 d) that induced a similar degree of locomotor sensitization as cocaine also induced an indistinguishable pattern of NAc intrinsic plasticity. Finally, we provided evidence that opposite regulation of A-type potassium current is an important factor in this bidirectional intrinsic plasticity for both cocaine and amphetamine. We propose that a persistent disparity in core/shell excitability might be an important mediator of the changes in reward circuit activity that drive drug-seeking behavior in animal models of addiction.
The molecular mechanisms underlying activity-dependent neural circuit growth and plasticity during early brain development remain poorly understood. Protein kinase Mzeta (PKMz), an endogenous constitutively active kinase associated with late-phase long-term synaptic potentiation and memory in the mature brain, is expressed in the embryonic Xenopus retinotectal system with heightened levels during peak periods of dendrite growth and synaptogenesis. In vivo rapid time-lapse imaging of actively growing tectal neurons and comprehensive three-dimensional tracking of dynamic dendritic growth behavior finds that altered PKMz activity affects morphologic stabilization. Exogenous expression of PKMz within single neurons stabilizes dendritic filopodia by increasing dendritic filopodial lifetimes and decreasing filopodial additions, eliminations, and motility, whereas long-term in vivo imaging demonstrates restricted expansion of the dendritic arbor. Alternatively, blocking endogenous PKMz activity in individual growing tectal neurons with an inhibitory peptide (zeta-inhibitory peptide) destabilizes dendritic filopodia and over long periods promotes excessive arbor expansion. Furthermore, inhibiting endogenous PKMz throughout the tectum decreases colocalization of immunostained presynaptic and postsynaptic markers, SNAP-25 and PSD-95, respectively, suggesting impaired synapse maintenance. Together, these results implicate PKMz activity in restricting dendritic arborization during embryonic brain circuit development through synaptotropic stabilization of dynamic processes.
Color is important for segmenting objects from backgrounds, which can in turn facilitate visual search in complex scenes. However, brain areas involved in orienting the eyes toward colored stimuli in our environment are not believed to have access to color information. Here, we show that neurons in the intermediate layers of the monkey superior colliculus (SC), a critical structure for the production of saccadic eye movements, can respond to isoluminant color stimuli with the same magnitude as a maximum contrast luminance stimulus. In contrast, neurons from the superficial SC layers showed little color-related activity. Crucially, visual onset latencies were 30-35 ms longer for color, implying that luminance and chrominance information reach the SC through distinct pathways and that the observed color-related activity is not the result of residual luminance signals. Furthermore, these differences in visual onset latency translated directly into differences in saccadic reaction time. The results demonstrate that the saccadic system can signal the presence of chromatic stimuli only one stage from the brainstem premotor circuitry that drives the eyes.
It is well established that long, descending axons of the adult mammalian spinal cord do not regenerate after a spinal cord injury (SCI). These axons do not regenerate because they do not mount an adequate regenerative response and growth is inhibited at the injury site by growth cone collapsing molecules, such as chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs). However, whether axons of axotomized spinal interneurons regenerate through the inhibitory environment of an SCI site remains unknown. Here, we show that cut axons from adult mammalian spinal interneurons can regenerate through an SCI site and form new synaptic connections in vivo. Using morphological and immunohistochemical analyses, we found that after a midsagittal transection of the adult feline spinal cord, axons of propriospinal commissural interneurons can grow across the lesion despite a close proximity of their growth cones to CSPGs. Furthermore, using immunohistochemical and electrophysiological analyses, we found that the regenerated axons conduct action potentials and form functional synaptic connections with motoneurons, thus providing new circuits that cross the transected commissures. Our results show that interneurons of the adult mammalian spinal cord are capable of spontaneous regeneration after injury and suggest that elucidating the mechanisms that allow these axons to regenerate may lead to useful new therapeutic strategies for restoring function after injury to the adult CNS.
Periodic spontaneous activity represents an important attribute of the developing nervous system. The entorhinal cortex (EC) is a crucial component of the medial temporal lobe memory system. Yet, little is known about spontaneous activity in the immature EC. Here, we investigated spontaneous field potential (fp) activity and intrinsic firing patterns of medial EC layer III principal neurons in brain slices obtained from rats at the first two postnatal weeks. A fraction of immature layer III neurons spontaneously generated prolonged (2-20 s) voltage-dependent intrinsic bursting activity. Prolonged bursts were dependent on the extracellular concentration of Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](o)). Thus, reduction of [Ca(2+)](o) increased the fraction of neurons with prolonged bursting by inducing intrinsic bursts in regularly firing neurons. In 1 mm [Ca(2+)](o), the percentages of neurons showing prolonged bursts were 53%, 81%, and 29% at postnatal day 5 (P5)-P7, P8-P10, and P11-P13, respectively. Prolonged intrinsic bursting activity was blocked by buffering intracellular Ca(2+) with BAPTA, and by Cd(2+), flufenamic acid (FFA), or TTX, and was suppressed by nifedipine and riluzole, suggesting that the Ca(2+)-sensitive nonspecific cationic current (I(CAN)) and the persistent Na(+) current (I(Nap)) underlie this effect. Indeed, a 0.2-1 s suprathreshold current step stimulus elicited a terminated plateau potential in these neurons. fp recordings at P5-P7 showed periodic spontaneous glutamate receptor-mediated events (sharp fp events or prolonged fp bursts) which were blocked by FFA. Slow-wave network oscillations become a dominant pattern at P11-P13. We conclude that prolonged intrinsic bursting activity is a characteristic feature of developing medial EC layer III neurons that might be involved in neuronal and network maturation.
Given previous reports of strong interactions between vision and somatic senses, we investigated whether vision of the body modulates pain perception. Participants looked into a mirror aligned with their body midline at either the reflection of their own left hand (creating the illusion that they were looking directly at their own right hand) or the reflection of a neutral object. We induced pain using an infrared laser and recorded nociceptive laser-evoked potentials (LEPs). We also collected subjective ratings of pain intensity and unpleasantness. Vision of the body produced clear analgesic effects on both subjective ratings of pain and the N2/P2 complex of LEPs. Similar results were found during direct vision of the hand, without the mirror. Furthermore, these effects were specific to vision of one's own hand and were absent when viewing another person's hand. These results demonstrate a novel analgesic effect of non-informative vision of the body.
Cross-adaptation is widely used to probe whether different stimuli share common neural mechanisms. For example, that adaptation to second-order stimuli usually produces little aftereffect on first-order stimuli has been interpreted as reflecting their separate processing. However, such results appear to contradict the cue-invariant responses of many visual cells. We tested the novel hypothesis that the null aftereffect arises from the large difference in the backgrounds of first- and second-order stimuli. We created second-order faces with happy and sad facial expressions specified solely by local directions of moving random dots on a static-dot background, without any luminance-defined form cues. As expected, adaptation to such a second-order face did not produce a facial-expression aftereffect on the first-order faces. However, consistent with our hypothesis, simply adding static random dots to the first-order faces to render their backgrounds more similar to that of the adapting motion face led to a significant aftereffect. This background similarity effect also occurred between different types of first-order stimuli: real-face adaptation transferred to cartoon faces only when noise with correlation statistics of real faces or natural images was added to the cartoon faces. These findings suggest the following: (1) statistical similarities between the featureless backgrounds of the adapting and test stimuli can influence aftereffects, as in contingent adaptation; (2) weak or null cross-adaptation aftereffects should be interpreted with caution; and (3) luminance- and motion-direction-defined forms, and local features and global statistics, converge in the representation of faces.

Functionally relevant large scale brain dynamics operates within the framework imposed by anatomical connectivity and time delays due to finite transmission speeds. To gain insight on the reliability and comparability of large scale brain network simulations, we investigate the effects of variations in the anatomical connectivity. Two different sets of detailed global connectivity structures are explored, the first extracted from the CoCoMac database and rescaled to the spatial extent of the human brain, the second derived from white-matter tractography applied to diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI) for a human subject. We use the combination of graph theoretical measures of the connection matrices and numerical simulations to explicate the importance of both connectivity strength and delays in shaping dynamic behaviour. Our results demonstrate that the brain dynamics derived from the CoCoMac database are more complex and biologically more realistic than the one based on the DSI database. We propose that the reason for this difference is the absence of directed weights in the DSI connectivity matrix.
The question of interaction between ongoing neuronal activity and evoked responses has been addressed for different species, sensory systems and measurement modalities. Among other findings, there is converging evidence for an interaction of occipital alpha-rhythm amplitude with the visual evoked potential. Here, we test the hypothesis that the modulatory role of an ongoing rhythm might not be confined to the visual system and the occipital alpha rhythm, but instead may be generalized to other sensory systems. Using an online EEG analysis approach, we investigated the influence of the Rolandic alpha-rhythm on the somatosensory evoked potential (SEP). We triggered vibrotactile stimulation during periods of high Rolandic alpha-rhythm amplitude. Analysis revealed significant effects of pre-stimulus Rolandic alpha amplitude on the amplitude of the N140 and P260 components of the SEP, known to be linked to cognitive processing, but not on early sensory components. The N140-P260 complex shows a different focus in topography than the early sensory components and the pre-stimulus Rolandic alpha rhythm. These results indicate an involvement of Rolandic alpha-rhythm in higher cognitive processing. In more general terms--and in the context of similar studies in the visual system--our findings suggest that modulation of late EP components by ongoing rhythms might be a characteristic and possibly universal feature of sensory systems.
Exposure to novel contexts produce heightened states of arousal and biochemical changes in the brain to consolidate memory. However, processes permitting simple exposure to unfamiliar contexts to elevate sympathetic output and to improve memory are poorly understood. This shortcoming was addressed by examining how novelty-induced changes in peripheral and/or central arousal modulates memory for Pavlovian fear conditioning. Male rats were either exposed to the conditioning chamber for 5-min or given no exposure 24 h before conditioning with five tone-shock (0.35 mA) pairings. Retention was assessed 48 h later in a different context. Non-pre-exposed animals exhibited significantly greater freezing during conditioned stimulus (CS) presentations than did pre-exposed animals (P &lt; 0.05). The improvement in retention produced by novelty was attenuated by pretraining a blockade of peripheral beta-adrenergic receptors with sotalol (6 mg/kg, i.p.). Study 2 revealed that novelty-induced increases in peripheral autonomic output are conveyed to the brain by visceral afferents that synapse upon brainstem neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). Blocking AMPA receptor activity in the NTS with CNQX (1.0 microg) significantly reduced freezing to the CS in non-pre-exposed animals (P &lt; 0.01). Study 3 showed that elevating epinephrine levels in habituated animals influences learning through mechanisms similar to those produced by novelty-induced arousal. Pre-exposed animals given epinephrine (0.1 mg/kg) froze significantly more than saline controls (P &lt; 0.01), and this effect was attenuated by intra-NTS infusion of CNQX. The findings demonstrate that novelty-induced arousal or increasing sympathetic activity with epinephrine in pre-exposed animals enhances memory through adrenergic mechanisms initiated in the periphery and transmitted centrally via the vagus/NTS complex.
Learning impairments and the instability of memory are defining characteristics of cognitive aging. However, it is unclear if deficits in the expression of new memories reflect an accelerated decay of the target memory or a consequence of inefficient learning. Here, aged mice (19-21-mo old) exhibited acquisition deficits (relative to 3-5-mo old mice) on three learning tasks, although these deficits were overcome with additional training. When tested after a 30-d retention interval, the performance of aged animals was impaired if initial learning had been incomplete. However, if trained to equivalent levels of competence, aged animals exhibited no retention deficits relative to their young counterparts. These results suggest that age-related &quot;memory&quot; impairments can be overcome through a more effective learning regimen.
Psychologists and neurobiologists have a long-standing interest in understanding how the context surrounding the events of our lives is represented and how it influences our behavior. The hippocampal formation emerged very early as a major contributor to how context is represented and functions. There is a large literature examining its contribution that on the surface reveals an array of conflicting outcomes and controversy. This review reveals that these conflicts can be resolved by building Nadel and Willner's dual-process theory of context representations. Two general conclusions emerge: (1) There are two neural systems that can support context representations and functions-a neocortical system composed primarily of perirhinal and postrhinal cortices and a hippocampal system that includes perirhinal, postrhinal, entorhinal cortices, and the hippocampal formation. (2) These two systems are not equivalent-some context representations and functions are uniquely supported by the hippocampal system. These conclusions are discussed in the context of canonical ideas about the special properties of the hippocampal system that enable it to make unique contributions to memory.

Patients with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) may not respond to antidepressants for 8 weeks or longer. A biomarker that predicted treatment effectiveness after only 1 week could be clinically useful. We examined a frontal quantitative electroencephalographic (QEEG) biomarker, the Antidepressant Treatment Response (ATR) index, as a predictor of response to escitalopram, and compared ATR with other putative predictors. Three hundred seventy-five subjects meeting DSM-IV criteria for MDD had a baseline QEEG study. After 1 week of treatment with escitalopram, 10 mg, a second QEEG was performed, and the ATR was calculated. Subjects then were randomly assigned to continue with escitalopram, 10 mg, or change to alternative treatments. Seventy-three evaluable subjects received escitalopram for a total of 49days. Response and remission rates were 52.1% and 38.4%, respectively. The ATR predicted both response and remission with 74% accuracy. Neither serum drug levels nor 5HTTLPR and 5HT2a genetic polymorphisms were significant predictors. Responders had larger decreases in Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (Ham-D(17)) scores at day 7 (P=0.005), but remitters did not. Clinician prediction based upon global impression of improvement at day 7 did not predict outcome. Logistic regression showed that the ATR and early Ham-D(17) changes were additive predictors of response, but the ATR was the only significant predictor of remission. Future studies should replicate these results prior to clinical use.
We examined the Antidepressant Treatment Response (ATR) index as a predictor of differential response and remission to escitalopram, bupropion, or a combination of the two medications, in subjects with major depressive disorder (MDD). Three hundred seventy-five subjects had a baseline quantitative electroencephalographic (QEEG) study preceding 1 week of treatment with escitalopram, 10 mg, after which a second QEEG was performed and the ATR index was calculated. Subjects then were randomized to continue escitalopram, switch to bupropion, or receive a combination of the two. Clinical response was assessed using the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale at 49 days of treatment. Accuracy of ATR in predicting response and remission was calculated. There were no significant differences between response and remission rates in the three treatment groups. A single ATR threshold was useful for predicting differential response to either escitalopram or bupropion monotherapy. Subjects with ATR values above the threshold were more than 2.4 times as likely to respond to escitalopram as those with low ATR values (68% vs. 28%). Subjects with ATR values below the threshold who were switched to bupropion treatment were 1.9 times as likely to respond to bupropion alone as those who remained on escitalopram treatment (53% vs. 28%). The ATR index did not provide a useful prediction of response to combination treatment. The ATR index may prove useful in predicting responsiveness to different antidepressant medications.
In a study of the effects of normal and pathological aging on semantic-related brain activity, 29 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 19 controls subjects (10 young and 9 older controls) performed a version of the Pyramids and Palm Trees Test that had been adapted for use during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Young and older controls activated the left inferior and middle frontal gyri, precuneus and superior parietal lobule. Right frontal and left temporal cortices were activated only in the young. The AD group activated only the left prefrontal and cingulate cortex. Separate analyses of high- and low-performing AD subgroups showed a similar pattern of activation in the left frontal lobe, although activiation was more widespread in low performers. High performers significantly deactivated anterior midline frontal structures, however, while low performers did not. When the older adult and AD groups were combined, there was a significant positive correlation between left frontal and parietal activation and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score (covarying for age), suggesting a disease effect. A significant negative correlation between activation in the left temporal cortex and age (covarying for MMSE score) reflected a possible age effect. These differential effects suggest that semantic activation paradigms might aid diagnosis in those cases for whom conventional assessments lack the necessary sensitivity to detect subtle changes.
Polymorphisms within the DRD1, DRD2, DRD3, DAT1, 5-HTTLPR and HTR2A genes are being studied for association with lithium prophylaxis in a sample of 155 Sardinian unrelated probands affected by bipolar disorder (BP). No significant association was shown between the polymorphisms of the genes studied and response to lithium treatment.
The present study included a total of 628 patients with schizophrenia and 588 healthy controls to replicate the genetic association between the PEMT gene and schizophreia. However, our results in this study failed to confirm our earlier finding that the C allele was preferentially transmitted by parents to their offspring affected with schizophrenia in a family-based study among the Chinese population.
In order to assess the potential benefit in human lives if all geographical regions in the US (Northeast, South, Midwest, and West) achieved the lowest suicide and homicide rates observed within these regions, age-, race- and gender-adjusted suicide and homicide rates for each of the four regions were calculated based on data retrieved using the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention database for 1999-2004. Data on known risk factors were retrieved from online sources. Overall suicide rates (10.42 per 100,000) exceeded homicide rates (6.97 per 100,000). Almost 27% (12,942 lives per year) of the 288,222 suicide and homicide deaths during the study period might have been avoided if all US regions achieved the mortality rate reported by the Northeast. A firearm was used in 55% of all suicides and 66% of all homicides. In the total estimate of avoidable deaths, firearm suicides (90%) and firearm homicides (75%) were overrepresented. The Northeast had the lowest access to firearms (20%) contrasted to almost double in the other regions, whereas greater firearms availability was related to unrestricted firearm legislation. Measures to restrict firearms availability should be highly prioritized in the public health agenda in order to achieve an impressive benefit in human lives.
We studied the effect of chronic hypobaric hypoxia (CHx; 10-11% O(2)) on the response to hypercapnia (15% CO(2)) of individual solitary complex (SC) neurons from adult rats. We simultaneously measured the intracellular pH and firing rate responses to hypercapnia of SC neurons in superfused medullary slices from control and CHx-adapted adult rats using the blind whole cell patch clamp technique and fluorescence imaging microscopy. We found that CHx caused the percentage of SC neurons inhibited by hypercapnia to significantly increase from about 10% up to about 30%, but did not significantly alter the percentage of SC neurons activated by hypercapnia (50% in control vs. 35% in CHx). Further, the magnitudes of the responses of SC neurons from control rats (chemosensitivity index for activated neurons of 166+/-11% and for inhibited neurons of 45+/-15%) were the same in SC neurons from CHx-adapted rats. This plasticity induced in chemosensitive SC neurons by CHx appears to involve intrinsic changes in neuronal properties since they were the same in synaptic blockade medium.
The type I cells are the chemoreceptive elements of the carotid bodies and are critical in defining the ventilatory response to hypoxia and hypercapnia. Recent evidence has suggested that histamine is released by the carotid body in response to hypoxia and acts as an excitatory neurotransmitter. Here we use isolated neonatal rat type I cells to assess the presynaptic actions of histamine and define the receptor subtypes that mediate them. All four histamine receptor subtypes are expressed on the type I cells, however activation of these receptors with histamine or selective agonists caused no rise in intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) and histamine did not augment calcium entry or modulate macroscopic currents evoked in type I cells. Thus activation of histamine receptors on type I cells is unlikely to provide a presynaptic positive feedback mechanism during chemotransduction and any excitatory role attributed to the actions of histamine is likely to come from a postsynaptic effect on the carotid sinus nerve (CSN).
Dental implants on irradiated and often grafted bone, in patients previously treated for head and neck cancer is a controversial issue. For some specialists, particularly in North-America they constitute a formal contra indication. However, a review of 21 studies reported mainly by European specialists argues that these implants can be done with an acceptable rate of complications, confirming our clinical observation. Patients have reported significant improvements in their quality of life after dental implantation.
A national hearing screening in newborns was introduced in Switzerland in the early 2000s. Since then, the number of maternities which applies has considerably increased. Test results are collected in a national database, giving a good overview of the quality of screening and incidence of deafness in Switzerland. The diagnosis and rehabilitation of deafness is earlier than before. This, combined to modem technologies allows mainstream integration of almost every deaf child.
This article presents a series of tumors of the posterior fossa. Imbalance or dizziness motivate patients to consult while they often neglect a hearing loss. However, any unilateral hearing impairment of any kind, even transitory, requires testings to rule out a retrocochlear lesion. In this series, 23% of vestibular schwannomas manifested by a sudden deafness, with a recovery of hearing in half of them.
Patients displaying vertigo associated with cervical symptoms: what is the origin? Diagnosis of cervical vertigo is sometimes retained. It remains very controversial. Indeed there is neither a convincing pathological mechanism nor a diagnostic test. Despite lack of strong benefit evidence, manual therapy can be offered to selected patients.
The development of a vestibular implant for the rehabilitation of bilateral vestibular loss is funded on a concept comparable to that of the cochlear implant used in the rehabilitation of bilateral deafness. This paper carries an overview of the main aspects of such a development and describes the first experiments done in human subjects in Geneva.
Vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) is inhibited by (-)-vesamicol [(-)-trans-2-(4-phenylpiperidino)cyclohexanol], which binds tightly to an allosteric site. The tertiary alkylamine center in (-)-vesamicol is protonated and positively charged at acidic and neutral pH and unprotonated and uncharged at alkaline pH. Deprotonation of the amine has been taken to explain loss of (-)-vesamicol binding at alkaline pH. However, binding data deviate from a stereotypical bell shape, and more binding occurs than expected at alkaline pH. The current study characterizes the binding of (-)-vesamicol from pH 5 to pH 10 using filter assays, (-)-[3H]vesamicol (hereafter called [3H]vesamicol), and human VAChT expressed in PC12(A123.7) cells. At acidic pH, protons and [3H]vesamicol compete for binding to VAChT. Preexposure or long-term exposure of VAChT to high pH does not affect binding, thus eliminating potential denaturation of VAChT and failure of the filter assay. The dissociation constant for the complex between protonated [3H]vesamicol and VAChT decreases from 12 nM at neutral pH to 2.1 nM at pH 10. The simplest model of VAChT that explains the behavior requires a proton at site 1 to dissociate with pK1 = 6.5 +/- 0.1, a proton at site A to dissociate with pKA = 7.6 +/- 0.2, and a proton at site B to dissociate with pKB = 10.0 +/- 0.1. Deprotonation of the site 1 proton is obligatory for [3H]vesamicol binding. Deprotonation of site A decreases affinity (2.2 +/- 0.5)-fold, and deprotonation of site B increases affinity (18 +/- 4)-fold. Time-dependent dissociation of bound [3H]vesamicol is biphasic, but equilibrium saturation curves are not. The contrasting phasicity suggests that the pathway to and from the [3H]vesamicol binding site exists in open and at least partially closed states. The potential significance of the findings to development of PET and SPECT ligands based on (-)-vesamicol for human diagnostics also is discussed.

Previous studies have demonstrated that some anticonvulsant drugs can modulate tolerance to the opioid analgesia. In the present study, the effects of lamotrigine (LTG) on the development and expression of tolerance to the morphine-induced antinociception were evaluated using tail-flick test. To assess the LTG effects on tolerance development, the animals received LTG (3, 10 or 30 mg/kg; i.p.), 30-min prior to morphine (50 mg/kg; s.c.) administration during tolerance induction period once daily for 3 days. Also, to evaluate the effects of LTG on tolerance expression, different doses of LTG were administered 30-min before challenge dose of morphine (4 mg/kg; s.c.) following morphine-induced tolerance. In each experiment the antinociceptive response to the challenge dose of morphine was evaluated before (on day 1) and after tolerance induction (on day 4) every 30-min till 2 h by tail-flick test. Furthermore, the analgesic effect of various doses of LTG alone or with the challenge dose of morphine was evaluated as well. The results showed that LTG at the doses of 10 and 30 mg/kg could inhibit the development of tolerance. Also, LTG at the dose of 30 mg/kg attenuated the expression of morphine-induced tolerance. LTG alone injection was associated significantly with higher latency period when compared to the control group. Moreover, LTG (10 and 30 mg/kg) significantly enhanced antinociceptive effect of morphine challenge dose in non-tolerant animals. These data indicated that, while LTG can attenuate both development and expression of morphine-induced tolerance, it can enhance morphine-induced antinociception. These effects may have important clinical implications.
The vast majority of research on optic flow (retinal motion arising because of observer movement) has focused on its use in heading recovery and guidance of locomotion. Here we demonstrate that optic flow processing has an important role in the detection and estimation of scene-relative object movement during self movement. To do this, the brain identifies and globally discounts (i.e., subtracts) optic flow patterns across the visual scene-a process called flow parsing. Remaining motion can then be attributed to other objects in the scene. In two experiments, stationary observers viewed radial expansion flow fields and a moving probe at various onscreen locations. Consistent with global discounting, perceived probe motion had a significant component toward the center of the display and the magnitude of this component increased with probe eccentricity. The contribution of local motion processing to this effect was small compared to that of global processing (experiment 1). Furthermore, global discounting was clearly implicated because these effects persisted even when all the flow in the hemifield containing the probe was removed (experiment 2). Global processing of optic flow information is shown to play a fundamental role in the recovery of object movement during ego movement.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE)-induced activation of low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDL) family members reduces inflammatory responses by suppressing c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation. We aimed to identify which specific receptor family member mediates the effect of apoE on inflammation in primary cultures of microglia. Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1)-deficient (LRP1-/-) microglia were derived from mice using tissue-specific loxP/Cre recombination. Using a peptide formed from the receptor-binding region of apoE (EP), we found that LRP1 mediates the effects of apoE on microglial inflammation. Microglial LRP1 was also essential for EP to suppress JNK activation induced by lipopolysaccharide.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the Substantia Nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Parkinsonian patients and animal models of PD show inflammatory phenomena such as microglial activation and cytokine production that could modulate the progression of the disease, since they play a crucial role in the degenerative process. Since acute phase proteins (APPs) are involved in a number of homeostatic alterations and inflammatory processes, we analyzed the levels of APPs in primates before and after treatment with MPTP. A significant increase in C-reactive protein (CRP), serum amyloid A (SAA) and haptoglobin (HP) levels after MPTP treatment. These results demonstrate that MPTP induces a systemic generalized inflammatory reaction after specific dopaminergic neurotoxicity insult, suggesting that the inflammatory process in Parkinsonism may affect other immune-inflammatory responses outside the brain.
Many neuropsychological studies have shown that the Digit Symbol Test (DST) of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) is useful for screening for dysfunctions of the brain. However, it remains unclear which brain areas are actually involved in the performance of DST and what brain functions are used for executing this test. In this study, we examined the cortical areas related to cognitive aspects of DST using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and determined executive brain functions involved in this test on the basis of fMRI results. Eleven healthy young adults (mean=21.6 years) performed a modified DST (mDST) task and its control task, which required a simple graphomotor response during fMRI data acquisition. The direct comparison of brain activations between the mDST task and the control task revealed greater activations in a fronto-parietal cortical network, including the bilateral inferior frontal sulci, left middle frontal gyrus (close to the frontal eye field) and left posterior parietal cortex. These activations are interpreted as reflecting the visual search process and/or the updating process of working memory during the mDST task execution. Furthermore, we found a positive correlation between the number of correct responses and activations in the bilateral inferior frontal regions, suggesting that these prefrontal areas have a crucial role in the performance of DST in a healthy young adult population.
