A major issue in speech production research is the question of how speakers retrieve words from the so-called mental lexicon. Current models of lexical retrieval converge on the assumption that category associates of a target word are semantically activated during speech planning. However, the question of whether these competitors are also phonologically activated is less agreed on. Past research has addressed this issue by testing whether lexical retrieval of a picture name (e.g. sheep) affects, or is affected by, the processing of a word that is phonologically related to a semantic category associate to the picture name (e.g. goal, phonologically related to goat). Behavioral studies have failed to obtain such so-called mediated priming effects, but have been questioned on the grounds of possibly insufficient task sensitivity. As such priming effects have reliably been obtained with event-related brain potentials in word recognition, we used this approach for testing these effects in lexical retrieval during speech planning. Our results consistently demonstrate the absence of mediated priming effects, putting strong constraints on the activation flow in the mental lexicon during speech planning.

Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is an adult-onset disorder characterized by progressive eyelid drooping (ptosis), swallowing difficulties (dysphagia), and proximal limb weakness. The autosomal dominant form of this disease is caused by expansions of a (GCG)6 repeat to (GCG)8-13 in the PABPN1 gene. These mutations lead to the expansion of a polyalanine stretch from 10 to 12-17 alanines in the N-terminal domain of PABPN1. Mutated PABPN1 (mPABPN1) induces the formation of muscle intranuclear inclusions that are thought to be the hallmark of this disease. In this review, we discuss: 1) OPMD genetics and PABPN I function studies; 2) diseases caused by polyalanine expansions and cellular polyalanine toxicity; 3) mPABPN1-induced intranuclear inclusion toxicity; 4) role of oligomerization of mPABPNI in the formation and toxicity of OPMD intranuclear inclusions and; 5) recruitment of subcellular components to the OPMD inclusions. We present a potential molecular mechanism for OPMD pathogenesis that accounts for these observations.

The present study demonstrated that endotheline-1 (ET-1) stimulated a biphasic (transient and sustained) increase in [Ca(2+)](i) and signaling was blocked by BQ123 and inhibited by BQ788. RT-PCR analysis revealed that ET(A) was expressed more than ET(B) mRNA-suggesting that ET(A) is the major receptor. Simply reintroducing Ca(2+) in the buffer stimulated a sustained increase in [Ca(2+)](i) and the effect was inhibited by U73122, thapsigargin (TG), miconazole and SKF96365. When measured in Ca(2+)-free buffer, the ET-1-stimulated Ca(2+) transient decreased by 73% and the reintroduction of Ca(2+) induced a large sustained increase in [Ca(2+)](i). These effects were not affected by nifedipine, but were inhibited by miconazole and SKF96365-indicating that the sustained increase in [Ca(2+)](i) mediated by ET-1 was mostly due to capacitative Ca(2+) entry (CCE). The ET-1-induced CCE was inhibited by phorbol ester (PMA) but was enhanced by GF109203X; it was also enhanced by 8-bromo-cyclic AMP (8-Br-cAMP) but was inhibited by H89. Thus, protein kinase C (PKC) negatively regulated and cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) positively regulated the ET-1-mediated CCE in these cells.
Numbers of catecholaminergic neurons are known to decline with aging. Whether projections of these neurons to the forebrain are similarly affected is not known. High densities of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-ir) fibers are found in the hippocampal formation (CA1-3, dentate gyrus) and in the amygdala of normal adult mice. We report here that densities of TH-ir fibers in the amygdala and hippocampus in aged mice (21-26 months) decrease dramatically and in a subregion-specific fashion. There is a reduction of 35% in the dentate gyrus, while hippocampal regions CA1 through CA3 are almost entirely spared. In the amygdala the lateral, basolateral, basomedial, and central nucleus were affected, with fiber reduction ranging from 19% to 34%. These results indicate that the age-related decline of TH-ir catecholaminergic cell bodies in the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area induces substantial losses of TH-ir fibers in the amygdala and dentate gyrus, but not in other areas of the hippocampal formation. This suggests that region-specific factors may be implicated in the regulation of maintenance vs. degeneration of TH-ir fibers during aging.
Most people with episodic tension-type headache (TTH) treat themselves with over-the-counter analgesics. In the absence of clear evidence of dose-related efficacy of the two most commonly used analgesics, aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) and paracetamol (acetaminophen), this study compared two doses of each with placebo. In a double-blind, double-dummy, randomized parallel-groups comparative trial, 638 consenting subjects aged 16-65 years with episodic TTH (but not migraine) by IHS criteria were recruited from the UK general population by advertisement. They treated one episode of moderate or severe TTH with a single dose of 500 or 1000 mg aspirin, 500 or 1000 mg paracetamol or placebo. The primary objective was to compare aspirin 1000 mg with placebo, and the primary end-point was subjective pain relief (total or worthwhile) 2 h after treatment ('response'). Additionally, pain intensity on a 100-mm visual analogue scale and functional impairment were monitored regularly for 4 h and at 24 h, although rescue medication was allowed after 2 h. The analysis was of the intention-to-treat population of 542 who took treatment (all providing outcome data). Treatment groups were matched at baseline. Aspirin 1000 mg (75.7% response rate; P = 0.0009) and to a lesser extent aspirin 500 mg (70.3%; P = 0.011) and paracetamol 1000 mg (71.2%; P = 0.007), but not paracetamol 500 mg (63.8%; P = 0.104), were statistically more effective than placebo despite a high placebo-response rate (54.5%). Outcome was not affected by headache intensity at baseline. Secondary end-points including functional recovery (by median times of 4.0-13.5 h) were consistent with these findings, although a minority of subjects recorded long-duration functional impairment (37-54 h). Adverse events reported by 13.4-18.9% of subjects were mild or moderate, and transient. No safety concerns arose.



This work investigates whether the brain assigns special cortical areas for the processing of kinetic contours. In human imaging experiments, we compared the brain activity produced in the so-called 'kinetic occipital' area ('KO') when humans perceive shapes generated from kinetic boundaries or from equiluminant colors. 'KO' was activated whenever subjects perceived shapes, no matter how they were derived; it is therefore not specialized for the processing of kinetic contours. The application of independent component analysis (ICA) to imaging data obtained when subjects viewed 22 min of an action movie showed that the time course of activity in 'KO' correlates better with activity in area V3 than with activity in two adjacent areas, V5 and LO. We thus consider 'KO' to be part of the V3 family of areas, and use the terminology of Smith et al. (J Neurosci 18:3816-3830, 1998), to refer to it as area V3B. Recordings from orientation-selective cells in the macaque V3 complex show that the great majority have the same orientational specificity when tested with oriented lines generated from kinetic stimuli or from luminance differences. We conclude that there is no present evidence for a visual area specialized for the processing of kinetic contours in the primate visual brain.
An event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) paradigm was used to specify those brain areas supporting the processing of sentence-level semantic and syntactic information. Hemodynamic responses were recorded while participants listened to correct, semantically incorrect and syntactically incorrect sentences. Both anomalous conditions recruited larger portions of the superior temporal region than correct sentences. Processing of semantic violations relied primarily on the mid-portion of the superior temporal region bilaterally and the insular cortex bilaterally, whereas processing of syntactic violations specifically involved the anterior portion of the left superior temporal gyrus, the left posterior frontal operculum adjacent to Broca's area and the putamen in the left basal ganglia. A comparison of the two anomalous conditions revealed higher levels of activation for the syntactic over the semantic condition in the left basal ganglia and for the semantic over the syntactic condition in the mid-portion of the superior temporal gyrus, bilaterally. These data indicate that both semantic and syntactic processes are supported by a temporo-frontal network with distinct areas specialized for semantic and syntactic processes.
The total number of cells--including both neurons and glial cells - was estimated in the neocortical part of the human fetal telencephalon in 22 normal brains within four major developmental zones: the cortical plate/marginal zone, the subplate, the intermediate zone and the ventricular/subventricular zone. The fetal ages ranged from 13 to 41 weeks of gestation. The cellular growth in the human fetal forebrain appears to be two-phased: one rapid, exponential phase from 13 to 20 weeks of gestation and a second and slower phase, which increases linearly, from approximately 22 weeks of gestation to term. From 13 to 20 weeks of gestation the total number of cells increases by a factor of 4.3 from 3 x 10(9) cells to 13 x 10(9) cells at 20 weeks of gestation. From mid-gestation to term, the total cell number increases by a factor of 2.9 to 38 x 10(9) cells in the newborn infant. Studying cellular growth in the normal human fetal brain is important since it may serve as a useful parameter for the assessment of cortical growth in non-invasive and histological studies, and thus improve the analysis of fetal brain disturbances.
The lateral hypothalamus (LH) and the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) exert an influence on many aspects of ingestive behavior. These nuclei receive projections from several areas carrying gustatory and viscerosensory information, and send axons to these nuclei as well, including the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST). Gustatory responses of NST neurons are modulated by stimulation of the LH and the CeA, and by several physiological factors related to ingestive behavior. We investigated the effect of both LH and CeA stimulation on the activity of 215 taste-responsive neurons in the hamster NST. More than half of these neurons (113/215) were modulated by electrical stimulation of the LH and/or CeA; of these, 52 cells were influenced by both areas, often bilaterally. The LH influenced more neurons than the CeA (101 versus 64 cells). Contralateral stimulation of these forebrain areas was more often effective (144 responses) than ipsilateral (74). Modulatory effects were mostly excitatory (102 cells); 11 cells were inhibited, mostly by ipsilateral LH stimulation. A subset of these cells (n = 25) was examined for the effects of microinjection of DL-homocysteic acid (DLH), a glutamate receptor agonist, into the LH and/or CeA. The effects of electrical stimulation were completely mimicked by DLH, indicating that cell somata in and around the stimulating sites were responsible for these effects. Other cells (n = 25) were tested for the effects of electrical stimulation of the LH and/or CeA on the responses to taste stimulation of the tongue (32 mM sucrose, NaCl and quinine hydrochloride, and 3.2 mM citric acid). Responses to taste stimuli were enhanced by the excitatory influence of the LH and/or CeA. These data demonstrate that descending influences from the LH and CeA reach many of the same cells in the gustatory NST and can modulate their responses to taste stimulation.
(S)-Glutamic acid (Glu), the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, operates through ionotropic as well as metabotropic receptors and is considered to be involved in certain neurological disorders and degenerative brain diseases that are currently without any satisfactory therapeutic treatment. Until recently, development of selective Glu receptor agonists had mainly been based on lead compounds, which were frequently naturally occurring excitants structurally related to Glu. These Glu receptor agonists generally contain heterocyclic acidic moieties, which has stimulated the use of bioisosteric replacement approaches for the design of subtype-selective agonists. Furthermore, most of these leads are conformationally restricted and stereochemically well-defined Glu analogs. Crystallization of the agonist binding domain of the GluR2 subunit of the (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subtype of ionotropic Glu receptors in the presence or absence of an agonist has provided important information about ligand-receptor interaction mechanisms. The availability of these binding domain crystal structures has formed the basis for rational design of ligands, especially for the AMPA and kainate subtypes of ionotropic Glu receptors. This mini-review will focus on structure-activity relationships on AMPA and kainate receptor agonists with special emphasis on stereochemical and three-dimensional aspects.



Thirty-four patients with right hemispheric cerebrovascular accident and 31 control subjects were examined with a new picture scanning task, the Two Part Picture, as well as with two picture scanning tasks and conventional tests from the Behavioural Inattention Test (BIT). The sensitivity of these tasks in detecting visuospatial neglect was evaluated, and compared to conventional neglect tests. The three pictures varied markedly in their ability to identify neglect. The Two Part Picture was clearly the most sensitive picture scanning task, also showing high agreement with the conventional tests of the BIT. The Two Part Picture is recommended as a useful detector for screening of visuospatial neglect.

Musicologists and linguists have often suggested that the prosody of a culture's spoken language can influence the structure of its instrumental music. However, empirical data supporting this idea have been lacking. This has been partly due to the difficulty of developing and applying comparable quantitative measures to melody and rhythm in speech and music. This study uses a recently-developed measure for the study of speech rhythm to compare rhythmic patterns in English and French language and classical music. We find that English and French musical themes are significantly different in this measure of rhythm, which also differentiates the rhythm of spoken English and French. Thus, there is an empirical basis for the claim that spoken prosody leaves an imprint on the music of a culture.

In addition to their deficit in overt face recognition, patients with prosopagnosia also have difficulties in matching sequentially presented unfamiliar faces. Here we assessed the possibility that covert matching of faces was present in a case with prosopagnosia using event-related potentials (ERPs). The participants (patient FE and normal controls) were challenged with a face-identity matching task, in which they decided whether two sequentially presented photographs of unfamiliar faces represented the same person. Only internal face features were used and the two faces in a pair differed in emotional expression. FE failed to overtly match these stimuli. In contrast, the ERPs revealed evidence of covert matching. If the two faces within a pair of stimuli depicted different posers, then the response to the second face contained an enhanced N300 compared to the situation where the identity of the faces was the same. The latency of the N300 was the same as a similar component found in controls. These results suggest that some cases with prosopagnosia have a covert ability to match unfamiliar faces, with similar temporal dynamics as controls, which in contrast with the idea that a generalized slowing of face processing occurs in all cases of prosopagnosia.


The astrocytomas represent the most common primary tumors of the brain. Despite efforts to improve the treatment of astrocytomas, these tumors and in particular the high-grade astrocytoma termed glioblastoma multiforme still carry a poor prognosis. In recent years, there has been an intensive effort to gain an understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms that contribute to the pathogenesis of astrocytomas as a first step toward the development of better treatments for these devastating tumors. Here, we will review our current understanding of the signaling pathways that underlie glial transformation. Studies of astrocytomas have led to the identification of two major groups of signaling proteins whose abnormalities contribute to gliomagenesis: the cell cycle pathways and the growth factor-regulated signaling pathways. Among the cell cycle proteins, the p16-cdk4-pRb and ARF-MDM2-p53 cell cycle arrest pathways play a prominent role in glial transformation. In addition, deregulation of polypeptide growth factors acting via receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) and of intracellular signals, including the lipid phosphatase PTEN, that regulate cellular responses to RTKs plays a critical role in gliomagenesis. In addition to the identification of the signaling proteins targeted in glial transformation, the cell-of-origin of astrocytomas has been investigated. Genetic modeling of astrocytomas in mice suggests that neuroepithelial precursor cells represent preferred cellular substrates of gliomas or that either astrocytes or precursor cells constitute potential cells-of-origin of astrocytomas. During normal brain development, neuroepithelial precursor cells, including neural stem cells, differentiate into astrocytes. As the mechanisms that control gliogenesis during normal brain development become better understood, it will be important to determine if deregulation of these mechanisms might contribute to the pathogenesis of astrocytomas. The elucidation of the molecular underpinnings of astrocytomas holds the promise of improved treatment options for patients with these devastating brain tumors.
Evidence for neuronal self-repair following insults to the adult brain has been scarce until very recently. Ischaemic insults have now been shown to trigger neurogenesis from neural stem cells or progenitor cells located in the dentate subgranular zone, the subventricular zone lining the lateral ventricle, and the posterior periventricle adjacent to the hippocampus. New neurons migrate to the granule cell layer or to the damaged CA1 region and striatum, where they express morphological markers characteristic of those neurons that have died. Some evidence indicates that these neurons can re-establish connections and contribute to functional recovery.
Semaphorins constitute one of the largest families of repulsive and attractive growth cone guidance proteins. They affect the growth cone's actin cytoskeleton through interactions with receptor complexes composed of ligand-binding, signal-transducing, and modulatory subunits. Our understanding of the intracellular signal transduction machinery linking semaphorins to actin dynamics is limited; however, recent advances provide a more comprehensive view of the molecular basis of neuronal semaphorin signaling.
To obtain the correct number of each neuronal subtype, there must be mechanisms to control progenitor pool size, and factors that control the differentiation of these progenitors into specific types of neurons. In the dorsal spinal cord, recent advances have begun to define these mechanisms. Eight dorsal interneuron populations have now been classified according to their expression of molecular markers, their projection patterns, neurotransmitter type, and/or function. The ability to identify progenitor cells and neurons in the dorsal spinal cord on the basis of the genes they express has provided a framework for identifying extrinsic factors that establish proliferation rate and dorsal-ventral polarity in the developing neural tube; furthermore, this ability has helped define roles for basic helix-loop-helix and homeodomain transcription factors in neuronal cell-type specification.


Many of the pro-inflammatory cytokines that are released in response to immune/inflammatory insults exert marked stimulatory influences on the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical axis. Thus, they provoke the release of glucocorticoids that, in turn, temper the ensuing immune/inflammatory response, and thereby complete a homeostatic neuroendocrine loop. The mechanisms by which cytokines cause glucocorticoid release are complex and can be affected by repeated or sustained cytokine exposure, gender and age, or counter-regulatory mechanisms.
The recent appreciation that two G-protein-coupled receptors, metabotropic glutamate and cannabinoid, are trans-synaptically linked by a small lipid messenger has profound implications, both for control of synaptic transmission and for novel therapeutic strategies. There is much evidence for this assertion and on the significance of this dual receptor cooperation for modulation of synaptic transmission in the central nervous system.
Somatostatin (SOM) is a regulatory peptide produced throughout the central nervous system and in most major peripheral organs. In humans, the SOM stable analogue octreotide (OCT) is used to treat opioid-resistant pain. In animal models, SOM and OCT are analgesics and SOM released from the peripheral endings of sensory neurones exerts anti-inflammatory actions. The expression of SOM in sensory neurones can be modulated by the trophic factor glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). Recent data show that GDNF modulates activity-induced release of endogenous SOM from both central and peripheral terminals of adult sensory neurones. This novel mechanism deserves exploration as a potential new therapeutic strategy to control two major features of inflammation: pain and leukocyte recruitment.
A greater understanding of the mechanisms that produce chronic pain states has led to a search for novel agents with the potential to produce analgesia by directly modulating specific processes involved in the transduction, transmission, modulation, perception, and encoding of pain. It is hoped that compounds directed at these specific targets will produce better analgesics with an improved side-effect profile. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor has been shown to play an important role in pain modulation and has become a target for potential analgesic compounds. Antagonists to the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor were antinociceptive in a number of animal models, and analgesic in experimental pain models in healthy subjects and in chronic neuropathic pain syndromes. In addition, these compounds have demonstrated the ability to prevent the development of tolerance to opioid analgesic therapy. This has led to investigations of therapies that combine an opioid agonist with an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist.
A procedure is described for quantitating the transfer of information about inducing increased intake of distinctively-flavored foods or fluids among common laboratory rodents. The method provides a simple, efficient, non-invasive way to produce robust, long-lasting changes in appetitive behaviors of laboratory rodents that can be used in studies of the neuroanatomical, neurochemical or genetic substrates of learning and memory.
Two methods for recording extracellular neuronal activity in unanesthetized, unrestrained rats are described in this unit. Both use chronically-implanted bundles of fine microwires to record electrophysiological activity. One method provides recordings of single and/or multiple unit activity from individual wires in a bundle (monotrode). Discrimination of individual neuronal potentials is based on action potential amplitude, or on a combination of action potential amplitude and shape. The second method uses a 2- to 4-microwire array (stereotrode-tetrode) to yield multiple unit recordings. Discrimination of individual neuronal potentials is based on action potential shapes and the relative amplitude of action potentials recorded simultaneously on the different wires in the array. These methods can provide stable, long-term recording of neuronal activity during a variety of behavioral paradigms.
Gene targeting by homologous recombination allows the introduction of specific mutations into any cloned gene. This unit provides a protocol in which the gene of interest is inactivated by interrupting its coding sequence with a positive selectable marker. A negative selectable marker is included in the construct outside the region of target gene homology in order to enrich for clones in which the target gene has undergone homologous recombination. The altered target gene is then expressed in embryonic stem cells. A support protocol describes a method for transient expression of Cre recombinase to remove sequences between lox sites, which can also be used as a selection method.
Studies have demonstrated that proinsulin C-peptide stimulates the activities of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase and endothelial nitric oxide synthase, both of which are enzyme systems of importance for nerve function and known to be deficient in type 1 diabetes. The aim of this randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study was to investigate whether C-peptide replacement improves nerve function in patients with type 1 diabetes. Forty-nine patients without symptoms of peripheral neuropathy were randomized to either 3 months of treatment with C-peptide (600 nmol/24 h, four doses s.c.) or placebo. Forty-six patients (15 women and 31 men, aged 29 years, diabetes duration 10 years, and HbA(1c) 7.0%) completed the study. Neurological and neurophysiological measurements were performed before and after 6 and 12 weeks of treatment. At baseline the patients showed reduced nerve conduction velocities in the sural nerve (sensory nerve conduction velocity [SCV]: 50.9 +/- 0.70 vs. 54.2 +/- 1.2 m/s, P &lt; 0.05) and peroneal nerve (motor nerve conduction velocity: 45.7 +/- 0.55 vs. 53.5 +/- 1.1 m/s, P &lt; 0.001) compared with age-, height-, and sex-matched control subjects. In the C-peptide treated group there was a significant improvement in SCV amounting to 2.7 +/- 0.85 m/s (P &lt; 0.05 compared with placebo) after 3 months of treatment, representing 80% correction of the initial reduction in SCV. The change in SCV was accompanied by an improvement in vibration perception in the patients receiving C-peptide (P &lt; 0.05 compared with placebo), whereas no significant change was detectable in cold or heat perception. In conclusion, C-peptide administered for 3 months as replacement therapy to patients with early signs of diabetic neuropathy ameliorates nerve dysfunction.
Individuals with developmental dyslexia show impairments in processing that require precise timing of sensory events. Here, we show that in a test of auditory temporal acuity (a gap-detection task) children ages 6-9 years with dyslexia exhibited a significant deficit relative to age-matched controls. In contrast, this deficit was not observed in groups of older reading-impaired individuals (ages 10-11 years; 12-13 years) or in adults (ages 23-25 years). It appears, therefore, that early temporal resolution deficits in those with reading impairments may significantly ameliorate over time. However, the occurrence of an early deficit in temporal acuity may be antecedent to other language-related perceptual problems (particularly those related to phonological processing) that persist after the primary deficit has resolved. This result suggests that if remedial interventions targeted at temporal resolution deficits are to be effective, the early detection of the deficit and early application of the remedial programme is especially critical.

N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors play a prominent role in the pathogenesis of epilepsy, yet few studies have used NMDA as a convulsant in whole animals. In developing rats, systemic NMDA induces seizures with a unique seizure phenotype (&quot;emprosthotonic&quot; or hyperflexion seizures) and electrographic pattern (electrodecrement). These features are not seen in kainic acid-induced seizures, suggesting that seizures activated by NMDA might cause different long-term consequences. Therefore, we investigated the effects of NMDA seizures during development on cognitive function and susceptibility to seizures in adulthood. Rat pups (P12-20) were injected with saline (n=36) or NMDA (n=64) at convulsant doses (15-30mg/kg, i.p.). After NMDA injection, a characteristic sequence of seizure activity was seen: initial behavioral arrest, followed by hyperactivity, agitation, and then emprosthotonus and generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Seizures were terminated 30min later by ketamine (50mg/kg, i.p.). On P85, rats underwent behavioral testing in the water maze. Rats that had experienced NMDA seizures as pups took significantly longer to learn the platform location over 5 days of testing, compared to controls. On P90, rats were injected with pentylenetetrazol (PTZ, 50mg/kg, i.p.) to assess their susceptibility to generalized seizures. NMDA-treated rats had decreased latency and increased duration of class V PTZ seizures. Cresyl violet-stained sections of cortex and hippocampus had no obvious cell loss or gliosis. In summary, NMDA causes a unique seizure phenotype in the developing brain, with subsequent deficits in spatial learning and an increased susceptibility to PTZ seizures in adulthood. This study provides additional evidence for long-term alterations of neuronal excitability and cognitive capacity associated with seizures during development.
Mutations in the alpha 1 subunit of the voltage-gated sodium channel (SCN1A) have been increasingly recognized as an important cause of familial epilepsy in humans. However, the functional consequences of these mutations remain largely unknown. We identified a mutation (D188V) in SCN1A segregating with generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures (GEFS) in a large kindred. Compared to wild-type sodium channels, in vitro expression of channels harboring the D188V mutation were found to be more resistant to the decline in amplitude that is normally observed over the course of high frequency pulse trains. This small change on a single aspect of channel function is compatible with an increase in membrane excitability, such as during sustained and uncontrolled neuronal discharges. These data suggest that this specific effect on sodium channel function could be a general mechanism in the pathophysiology of epilepsies caused by mutations in sodium channels in humans.

Bipolar disorder (BPD) is characterised by episodes of excitement interspersed with periods of depression. The role of genetic factors in BPD is indicated by studies in monozygotic twins showing 40-70 % of concordance. Studies using genetic markers showed linkage of genes for affective disorders in different chromosome regions, emphasising the polygenic and multifactorial traits. The main goal of our research is to search non-synonymous SNPs (those that result in modifications in protein sequence) in genes that can be associated with psychiatric diseases as suggested by genomic mapping and/or by physiological function of the protein. Using DNA sequencing we could confirm a new non-synonymous SNP in the conservative domain of the ALOX12 gene (17p13.1), suggested by EST alignment. This SNP is an alteration from G to A that leads to a change of an arginine (A) to a glutamine in one of the most important domains of the protein. This SNP was evaluated by DNA sequencing in 182 patients with BPD and 160 control individuals. An increased presence of allele A among patients (60 % in controls and 73.1 % in cases; chi(2) = 6.581, P = 0.010; OR = 1.8095, 95 % CI = 1.1477-2.853) was found, suggesting an association of this polymorphism with the BPD in this Brazilian sample.
Data suggest both presynaptic and postsynaptic changes contribute to activity-dependent long-term synaptic plasticity. We have shown that pairing elevation of intracellular [cyclic GMP], using the type V phosphodiesterase inhibitor zaprinast, with inhibition of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), is sufficient to elicit chemical long-term depression (CLTD) of synaptic transmission at Schaffer collateral-CA1 and mossy fibre-CA3 synapses in rat hippocampus. CLTD does not require synaptic activity, and selective postsynaptic drug injections do not affect it, suggesting it is presynaptically induced and expressed. To directly evaluate this hypothesis, we tested whether CLTD of transmitter release can be expressed in isolated presynaptic nerve terminals. Presynaptic nerve terminals (synaptosomes) were isolated from rat hippocampi by Percoll density gradient centrifugation. Synaptosomes were loaded with [3H]glutamate, and basal and depolarisation-induced release of [3H]glutamate measured in control medium versus medium containing zaprinast (20 microm) plus or minus the PKA inhibitor H-89 (10 microm). Zaprinast produced a significant decrease in basal [3H]glutamate release. However, only combining zaprinast with H-89 significantly depressed K+-evoked [3H]glutamate release. After a 20-min drug washout, basal release returned to normal in all conditions, but K+-evoked [3H]glutamate release was persistently reduced only by the combination of zaprinast plus H-89. Long-term reduction of [3H]glutamate release from synaptosomes was completely prevented by the PKG inhibitor KT5823 (5 microm). These data demonstrate the existence of a presynaptic, cyclic GMP-PKG dependent cascade capable of expressing LTD of glutamate release from isolated hippocampal nerve terminals.
Nerve fibre degeneration in the spinal cord is accompanied by astroglial proliferation. It is not known whether these cells proliferate in situ or are recruited from specific regions harbouring astroglial precursors. We found cells expressing nestin, characteristic of astroglial precursors, at the dorsal surface of the spinal cord on the operated side from 30 h after dorsal root injury. Nestin-expressing cells dispersed to deeper areas of the dorsal funiculus and dorsal horn on the operated side during the first few days after injury. Injection of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) 2 h before the end of the experiment, at 30 h after injury, revealed numerous BrdU-labelled, nestin-positive cells in the dorsal superficial region. In animals surviving 20 h after BrdU injection at 28 h postlesion, cells double-labelled with BrdU and nestin were also found in deeper areas. Labeling with BrdU 2 h before perfusion showed proliferation of microglia and radial astrocytes in the ventral and lateral funiculi on both sides of the spinal cord 30 h after injury. Nestin-positive cells coexpressed the calcium-binding protein Mts1, a marker for white matter astrocytes, in the dorsal funiculus, and were positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), but negative for Mts1 in the dorsal horn. One week after injury the level of nestin expression decreased and was undetectable after 3 months. Taken together, our data indicate that after dorsal root injury newly formed astrocytes in the degenerating white and grey matter first appear at the dorsal surface of the spinal cord from where some of them subsequently migrate ventrally, and differentiate into white- or grey-matter astrocytes.
For successful negotiation of our environment, humans must be readily able to switch from one task to another. This ability relies on 'executive control' processes and despite extensive efforts to detail the nature of these processes, there is little consensus as to how the brain achieves this critical function. Behavioural studies show that as subjects are given more time to prepare to switch task, performance improves; yet even with the longest preparation intervals, there remains an ineradicable performance cost on switch trials. As such, some elements of the switching process must wait until the stimulus to be acted upon has actually been presented. Here, using the methods of high-density mapping of brain potentials, we show that early visual processes are substantially different on switch trials than on later trials. Our data show that while there is clearly a degree of preparatory processing that occurs prior to a predictable switch of task, some elements of switching are only achieved after the switch stimulus has been presented. Our findings are discussed in the context of a new model of executive control processes that suggests that preparing to switch task may not be a separate (control) process per se, but rather, the beginning of a competition between the potentially relevant tasks, a competition that is ultimately resolved during the switch trial.
DeltaFosB-like proteins are particularly stable transcription factors that accumulate in the brain in response to chronic perturbations. In this study we have compared the time-course of striatal FosB/DeltaFosB-like immunoreactivity and prodynorphin mRNA expression after discontinuation of chronic cocaine treatment to intact rats and chronic L-DOPA treatment to unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned rats. The animals were killed between 3 h and 16 days after the last drug injection. In both treatment paradigms, the drug-induced FosB/DeltaFosB immunoreactivity remained significantly elevated in the caudate putamen even at the longest withdrawal period examined. The concomitant upregulation of prodynorphin mRNA, a target of DeltaFosB, paralleled the time-course of DeltaFosB-like immunoreactivity in the 6-OHDA-lesion/L-DOPA model, but was more transient in animals treated with cocaine. These results suggest that DeltaFosB-like proteins have exceptional in vivo stability. In the dopamine-denervated striatum, these proteins may exert sustained effects on the expression of their target genes long after discontinuation of L-DOPA pharmacotherapy.
A two-stage radial arm maze (RAM) task has been designed recently to demonstrate a specific age-related memory deficit in mice. It highlights the contrast between normal and deficient memory expression in a spatial discrimination problem depending on how to-be discriminated arms were presented to the animal. This specific deficit has been interpreted as a preferential loss in a relational/declarative form of memory, thereby implying an underlying hippocampal dysfunction. To test this hypothesis, neuronal activation measured by Fos immunostaining was compared in aged (21-23 months) and adult (4-6 months) mice trained in the aforementioned task and killed after a retention session consisting in age-insensitive probe trials, performed 6 days later (6-day RAM). Two comparison conditions were included: (i) repeated locomotor training on a treadmill (TM); (ii) the same RAM training, except for the use of a longer (30 days instead of six) retention interval (30-day RAM). Although all RAM groups displayed similar levels of performance at the end of the experiment, immediately before the mice were killed, significant between-group differences in brain activation were observed. In adult mice, 6-day RAM testing was associated with greater septal and hippocampal (CA1, CA3, DG) Fos expression than the TM condition. Lengthening the retention interval from 6 days to 30 days resulted in a significant decrease in RAM testing-induced Fos expression in most of the septo-hippocampal regions. With respect to adult mice, aged mice displayed reduced Fos expression (except for DG) and a lack of interrelationships between levels of Fos produced in each of the SH regions, in the 6-day RAM testing condition. Conversely, there was no effect of ageing on Fos expression associated with either TM training or 30-day RAM testing. These results are interpreted as reflecting age- (or time-) related alterations in recruiting of brain structures that underlie a relational/declarative form of memory expression.
Cholinergic interneurons innervate virtually all medium spiny striatal cells, but the relevance of this input in regulating the activity and afferent responsiveness of these cells remains unclear. Studies in anaesthetized animals and slice preparations have shown that iontophoretic acetylcholine (ACh) either weakly excites or inhibits striatal neurons. These differential responses may reflect cholinergic receptor heterogeneity but may be also related to the different activity states of recorded units and different afferent inputs specific in each preparation. Single-unit recording was combined with iontophoresis in awake, unrestrained rats to examine the effects of ACh and selective muscarinic (oxotremorine M or Oxo-M) and nicotinic agonists (nicotine or NIC) on dorsal and ventral striatal neurons. These effects were tested on naturally silent, spontaneously active and glutamate-stimulated units. We found that iontophoretic ACh primarily inhibited spontaneously active and glutamate-stimulated units; the direction of the ACh response, however, was dependent on the firing rate. The effects of ACh were generally mimicked by Oxo-M and, surprisingly, by NIC, which is known to excite units in most central structures, including striatal neurons in anaesthetized preparation. Given that NIC receptors are absent on striatal cells but located primarily on dopamine terminals, we assessed the effects of NIC after complete blockade of dopamine receptors induced by systemic administration of a mixture of D1 and D2 antagonists. During dopamine receptor blockade the number of NIC-induced inhibitions dramatically decreased and NIC had mainly excitatory effects on striatal neurons. Thus, our data suggest that under physiologically relevant conditions ACh acts as a state-dependent neuromodulator, and its action involves not only postsynaptic but also presynaptic cholinoreceptors located on dopamine- and glutamate-containing terminals.
The behavioural effects of cocaine are enhanced in animals with a prior history of repeated cocaine administration. This phenomenon, referred to as sensitization, is also associated with an increase in cocaine-evoked extracellular dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens. Behavioural and neurochemical sensitization has been demonstrated in rats with a prior history of cocaine self-administration and in those that had received experimenter-administered cocaine. Although it is clear that the repeated non-contingent administration also results in behavioural sensitization in the mouse, the issue of whether behavioural and neurochemical sensitization also occur in this species following intravenous cocaine self-administration has not been assessed. The present study used the technique of in vivo microdialysis in conjunction with operant self-administration to characterize cocaine-evoked locomotor activity and dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens in mice with a prior history of intravenous cocaine self-administration or those that had received yoked infusions of cocaine. Mice that had received contingent or non-contingent infusions of cocaine exhibited an enhanced behavioural response to cocaine and increased cocaine-evoked dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens. There was no difference between groups in the magnitude of this effect. Prior exposure to cocaine did not modify baseline dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens. These data demonstrate that mice with previous cocaine self-administration experience show an enhanced behavioural and dopamine response to cocaine in the nucleus accumbens. Furthermore, control over cocaine infusion does not significantly alter the magnitude of the sensitized behavioural and presynaptic dopamine responses observed in response to a challenge dose of cocaine.
Nitric oxide (NO) is known to regulate the release of arginine-vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT) by the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and the supraoptic nucleus (SON). The aim of the current study was to identify in these nuclei the NO-producing neurons and the NO-receptive cells in mice. The determination of NO-synthesizing neurons was performed by double immunohistochemistry for the neuronal form of NO synthase (NOS), and AVP or OT. Besides, we visualized the NO-receptive cells by detecting cyclic GMP (cGMP), the major second messenger for NO, by immunohistochemistry on hypothalamus slices. Neuronal NOS was exclusively colocalized with OT in the PVN and the SON, suggesting that NO is mainly synthesized by oxytocinergic neurons in mice. By contrast, cGMP was not observed in magnocellular neurons, but in GABA-, tyrosine hydroxylase- and glutamate-positive fibers, as well as in GFAP-stained cells. The cGMP-immunostaining was abolished by incubating brain slices with a NOS inhibitor (L-NAME). Consequently, we provide the first evidence that NO could regulate the release of AVP and OT indirectly by modulating the activity of the main afferents to magnocellular neurons rather than by acting directly on magnocellular neurons. Moreover, both the NADPH-diaphorase activity and the mean intensity of cGMP-immunofluorescence were increased in monoamine oxidase A knock-out mice (Tg8) compared to control mice (C3H) in both nuclei. This suggests that monoamines could enhance the production of NO, contributing by this way to the fine regulation of AVP and OT release and synthesis.
In this study, the effects of exogenously applied and endogenously released dopamine (DA), a powerful modulator of the lamprey locomotor network, are examined on excitatory glutamatergic synaptic transmission between reticulospinal axons and spinal neurons. Bath application of DA (1-50 micro m) reduced the amplitude of monosynaptic reticulospinal-evoked glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). The effect of DA was blocked by the D2-receptor antagonist eticlopride, and mimicked by the selective D2-receptor agonist 2,10,11 trihydroxy-N-propyl-noraporphine hydrobromide (TNPA). Bath application of the DA reuptake blocker bupropion, which increases the extracellular level of dopamine, also reduced the monosynaptic EPSP amplitude. This effect was also blocked by the D2-receptor antagonist eticlopride. To investigate if the action of DA was exerted at the presynaptic level, the reticulospinal axon action potentials were prolonged by administering K+ channel antagonists while blocking l-type Ca2+ channels. A remaining Ca2+ component, mainly dependent on N and P/Q channels, was depressed by DA. When DA (25-50 micro m) was applied in the presence of omega-conotoxin GVIA, a toxin specific for N-type Ca2+ channels, it failed to affect the monosynaptic EPSP amplitude. DA did not affect the response to extracellularly ejected d-glutamate, the postsynaptic membrane potential, or the electrical component of the EPSPs. DA thus acts at the presynaptic level to modulate reticulospinal transmission.
Dopamine may exert different actions depending on a number of factors. A common view is that D1 receptors may be responsible for excitatory actions whereas D2 receptors are involved in inhibitory actions. However, this position cannot be reconciled with several findings indicating otherwise. The role of dopamine on forebrain neural ensembles may be better understood in the light of functional states of the system. Pyramidal cortical neurons and striatal medium spiny neurons alternate between two membrane potential states ('up' and 'down') that could shape dopamine actions. It is proposed that D1 receptors can act as state-stabilizers by sustaining up states and thereby facilitating plasticity mechanisms by providing postsynaptic depolarization and increasing NMDA function. In this way, dopamine can sustain activity in depolarized units. This action is accompanied by a decrease in cell firing (perhaps mediated by D2 receptors), which renders the cells responsive only to strong stimuli. The result would be a net increase in signal-to-noise ratio in a selected assembly of neurons.
Although it is evident from numerous studies that patients with mood disorders generally have a deficient social functioning and a weak social network, little is known about these aspects of seasonal affective disorder (SAD) patients. We studied the social situation, the social network and the social functioning of SAD (n = 20) patients in comparison with matched suicide attempters (SA) with non-seasonal major depression, and with findings from other major depressive disorder (MDD) studies and community samples. The social situation and the clinical background of both the SAD and the SA groups were almost similar and the social networks were equally disadvantageous and weaker than those observed in some community/healthy populations. Furthermore, the data on global functioning and social adjustment of the SAD group were well comparable to those of other MDD patients and significantly worse than that of a community sample. Thus, the results indicate a considerable social impairment in SAD.
The use of symptoms generated by head up tilt (HUT) is not a useful tool in identifying chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). We investigated whether heart rate variability (HRV) assessed early during HUT might be useful. A sample of 46 female subjects (24 with CFS and 22 sedentary, age-matched healthy controls; CON) who had exhibited no difference in time to syncope during tilt was examined for HRV responses to 10 min of 70 degrees HUT after 5 min of baseline in the supine position. HRV data were analyzed by the method of coarse graining spectral analysis. Variables compared between groups included mean and standard deviation (SD(RRI)) of RR intervals (RRI), amplitudes of low- (A(LF); 0.04-0.15 Hz) and high-frequency (A(HF); &gt;0.15 Hz) harmonic as well as aperiodic, fractal (A(FR); 1/f(beta)) spectral components, the spectral exponent beta, and the difference in these values between baseline and HUT for each subject. In the supine baseline, only mean RRI was significantly (P &lt; 0.01) lower in CFS than in CON. During HUT, however, mean RRI (P &lt; 0.01), SD(RRI) (P &lt; 0.01), A(HF) (P &lt; 0.05), and A(FR) (P &lt; 0.01) were significantly lower in CFS than in CON. When the difference in values between baseline and HUT for each subject was examined, only the difference for A(FR) (deltaA(FR)) was significantly (P &lt; 0.01) lower in CFS than in CON, suggesting that A(FR)is a disease-specific response of HRV to HUT. When a cut-off level was set to deltaA(FR) = -2.7 msec, the sensitivity and the specificity in differentiating CFS from controls were 90% and 72%, respectively. The data suggest that a decrease in aperiodic fractal component of HRV in response to HUT can be used to differentiate patients with CFS from CON.
In two monkeys, we measured the initial vergence eye movements elicited by sudden forward motion on a linear sled. Animals faced a tangent screen and experienced the translation while in darkness, fixating a small, centered spot, or viewing a large-field pattern. Forward movements elicited convergent responses that were enhanced in the presence of the visual stimuli after a latent period. The enhancement was greater with the large-field pattern than with the small spot. The latencies of these visual effects were ultra-short and less than those reported for the vergence eye movements elicited by pure visual stimuli when applied in isolation. It is possible that these ultra-short latencies resulted from the fact that there were multiple visual cues available to sense the change in viewing distance, including binocular disparity, radial optic flow, size changes, and blur. Another possibility is that the very earliest visual effects during forward motion resulted from direct modulation of the otolith-mediated, translational vestibulo-ocular reflex.
Partial denervation of the extensor digitorum longus muscle by cutting the L4 spinal nerve in 3-day-old rats causes some of the remaining uninjured motoneurones to die. A previous study has shown that of the 12 motor units usually present in the remaining uninjured L5 spinal nerve, a significantly smaller number of motor units to extensor digitorum longus muscle is found in animals operated on at 3 days. This reduction can be caused by a greater sensitivity of neonatal motoneurones with axons in a partially denervated muscle, to excitotoxic effects of glutamate. Therefore an N-methyl- D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor antagonist, MK-801, was injected daily for 12 days after partial denervation at 3 days. Two months after the operation contractile properties, motor unit numbers and sizes were studied. Following MK-801 treatment, the reduction in muscle weight and force output of the partially denervated muscle was less than that in the untreated group. Moreover there were more motor units in MK-801 treated animals. After partial denervation only, 15% of the total number of motor units was present whereas when the same operation was followed by treatment with MK-801, 29% remained. The mean motor unit size in the untreated group was 69% while after treatment with MK-801 it was 152% of the control. Thus treatment with MK-801 after partial denervation of neonatal animals rescued some of the motoneurones destined to die, and allowed expansion of motor unit territory of most of the surviving motoneurones.
We investigated the extent to which humans can quickly adapt their goal-directed arm movements to perturbed feedback. We predicted that the magnitude of adaptation to a changed relationship between vision and kinesthesia would depend on the type of perturbation, being largest when the perturbation can be generalized within egocentric frames of reference. To test this prediction we asked subjects to align a real 5-cm cube so that they could feel, but not see, with a simulation that they saw via a mirror. Subjects made successive movements between target locations in a sequence of adaptation and test phases. During adaptation phases, subjects received continuous visual feedback about the position of the real cube. The feedback was either veridical or perturbed. The perturbations were consistent with either a uniform translation, a scaling or a rotation. The latter two were relative to a central position between all the targets. During test phases, subjects received no visual feedback. We compared test movement endpoints after perturbed feedback with ones after veridical feedback. We found about 40% adaptation to translation, 20% to scaling and 10% to rotation. This difference in magnitude is consistent with the ease with which the transformation can be generalized within egocentric frames of reference. Changing the task so that it required different arm postures did not change the magnitude of adaptation, so postural configuration of the arm does not appear to be critical. Nevertheless, transfer to the unexposed arm was incomplete for translations and rotations, though it was complete for scaling, suggesting that at least part of the adaptation is posture based. We conclude that the adaptation to different kinds of perturbations not only differs in extent but also involves different (egocentric) mechanisms.
Extracellular recordings of neuronal activity made in the lumbosacral spinal segments of the anesthetized cat have disclosed the existence of a set of neurons in Rexed's laminae III-VI that discharged in a highly synchronized manner during the occurrence of spontaneous negative cord dorsum potentials (nCDPs) and responded to stimulation of low-threshold cutaneous fibers (&lt;1.5x T) with mono- and polysynaptic latencies. The cross-correlation between the spontaneous discharges of pairs of synchronic neurons was highest when they were close to each other, and decreased with increasing longitudinal separation. Simultaneous recordings of nCDPs from several segments in preparations with the peripheral nerves intact have disclosed the existence of synchronized spontaneous nCDPs in segments S1-L4. These potentials lasted between 25 and 70 ms and were usually larger in segments L7-L5, where they attained amplitudes between 50 and 150 micro V. The transection of the intact ipsilateral hindlimb cutaneous and muscle nerves, or the section of the dorsal columns between the L5 and L6, or between the L6 and L7 segments in preparations with already transected nerves, had very small effects on the intersegmental synchronization of the spontaneous nCDPs and on the power spectra of the cord dorsum potentials recorded in the lumbosacral enlargement. In contrast, sectioning the ipsilateral dorsal horn and the dorsolateral funiculus at these segmental levels strongly decoupled the spontaneous nCDPs generated rostrally from those generated caudally to the lesion and reduced the magnitude of the power spectra throughout the whole frequency range. These results indicate that the lumbosacral intersegmental synchronization between the spontaneous nCDPs does not require sensory inputs and is most likely mediated by intra- and intersegmental connections. It is suggested that the occurrence of spontaneous synchronized nCDPs is due to the activation of tightly coupled arrays of neurons, each comprising one or several spinal segments. This system of neurons could be involved in the modulation of the information transmitted by cutaneous and muscle afferents to functionally related, but rostrocaudally distributed spinal interneurons and motoneurons, as well as in the selection of sensory inputs during the execution of voluntary movements or during locomotion.
In this study, we investigated the influence of smooth-pursuit eye movements on saccade initiation in response to a sudden jump of a continuously moving target. We replicated the finding by Tanaka et al. (1998) that saccadic eye movements in the direction opposite to preceding pursuit have longer latencies than those in the same direction. We confirmed that this asymmetry is indeed due to an inhibitory effect of smooth pursuit on saccade initiation in the opposite direction rather than facilitation of saccade initiation in the same direction. The inhibitory effect decreased strongly when subjects knew the jump direction in advance. This supports the notion that the prolonged latencies of backward saccades are not due to orbital mechanics or low-level motor processing. Furthermore, we found that the range of saccade directions inhibited by a pursuit movement is broad, covering all directions that did not have the same horizontal component as the pursuit direction. This is in contrast with the predictions of &quot;Inhibition of Saccade Return&quot; (ISR, Hooge and Frens 2000), which is restricted to a smaller confined area.
Previous work has shown that in a sequential cueing task, inhibition of the return of attention (IOR) can be observed for up to four or five loci. We have argued that the inhibition processes mediating IOR are associated with object-based representations, and it is object-based representations that are maintained in memory. Experiments presented here show that, compared with standard conditions in which a number of identical grey squares are cued, cueing empty locations tends to reduce the memory for prior inhibitory processes; while cueing objects which are distinctive in colour and shape tends to increase memory for inhibition. Converging with other recent findings, we conclude that memory for the inhibitory processes of attention facilitates visual search and that this memory is dependent on object-based representations.
Apoptosis has been implied in normal lens development in the embryo as well as in lens fibre differentiation. It has also been suggested to play a role in non-congenital cataract and in the formation of posterior subcapsular opacification, but data on the presence of apoptosis in human lens epithelium from cataractous lenses are scarce and conflicting. The present study aimed to investigate apoptosis in lens epithelium from patients undergoing cataract surgery. The amount of apoptosis detected was correlated to age, gender, type of cataract, medications and disease. Moreover, the ability of human lens epithelial cells in culture to respond to the apoptosis-inducing agent staurosporin by activation of caspase-3 was investigated. Human lens capsulotomy specimens were collected immediately after surgery, frozen and later analysed with respect to caspase-3 activity, using the fluorogenic substrate Ac-DEVD-AMC. Generally, the activity of caspase-3 detected in this manner was very low and in 23% of the specimens it was non-detectable. However, there were differences in caspase activity between lens epithelial cells from different types of cataract, where samples from lenses with posterior subcapsular cataract exhibited significantly lower caspase-3 activity than lenses with a clear subcapsular zone. Age, gender or medications did not show any correlation with caspase activity but human capsulotomy specimens from diabetic patients exhibited significantly lower caspase-3 activity. Staurosporin caused a concentration-dependent increase in caspase activity in cultured human lens epithelial cells and the amount of apoptotic nuclei was also increased as viewed by staining with Hoechst 33342, showing chromatin condensation and nuclear fragmentation. Similar results were obtained when fresh human lens capsulotomy specimens were exposed to 1000 nM staurosporin for 24 hr. To conclude, the present data indicate that human lens epithelial cells have the ability to respond to apoptosis-inducing agents with caspase-3 dependent apoptosis, and that even though the general level of apoptosis in human lens epithelium in vivo is low, there are differences in caspase-3 activity levels in lenses with or without posterior subcapsular cataract. The latter finding supports previous studies indicating that this type of cataract may result from defective differentiation, in which apoptosis may play an important role.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease, which affects the anterior horn cells of the spinal cord and cortical motor neurons. A pathophysiological role for mtDNA mutations was postulated based on the finding that cybrids obtained from mitochondria of sporadic ALS patients exhibited impaired respiratory chain activities, increased free radical scavenging enzymes, and altered calcium homeostasis. To date, however, no distinct mtDNA alterations associated with ALS have been reported. Therefore, we reexamined the hypotheses that mtDNA mutations accumulate in ALS and that cybrids generated from ALS patients' blood have impaired mitochondrial respiration. Cybrid cell lines were generated from 143B osteosarcoma rho(0) cells and platelet mitochondria of sporadic ALS patients or age-matched controls. We found no statistically significant differences in mitochondrial respiration between ALS and control cybrids, even when the electron transport chain was stressed with low concentrations of respiratory chain inhibitors. Mitochondrial respiratory chain enzyme activities were also normal in ALS cybrids, and there was no increase in free radical production. Therefore, we showed that mtDNA from platelets of ALS patients was able to restore normal respiratory function in rho(0) cells, suggesting that the presence of mtDNA mutations capable of affecting mitochondrial respiration was unlikely.
The hippocampal formation is a brain region sensitive to seizure development, a phenomenon thought to be mediated in part by mu-opioid receptor (MOR) activation. Previous studies have found a delayed increase in MOR immunoreactivity (IR) in the inner molecular layer (IML) of the dentate gyrus after experimentally induced seizures. However, whether these increases in MOR-IR are restricted to certain cell types or cellular compartments (i.e., presynaptic, postsynaptic, or glial profiles) has not been determined. Thus, the present study examined which subcellular profiles demonstrate changes in MOR-IR after kainic acid (KA)-induced seizures. Light microscopic (LM) analysis demonstrated seizure-induced increases in MOR-IR at three points of the IML (dorsal blade, ventral blade, and crest) at three levels of section (septal, mid-septotemporal, and temporal). Electron microscopic analysis of the IML revealed that MOR-IR was present in the same types of cellular profiles in both control and KA-treated rats. However, a significant increase in the number of MOR-labeled terminal profiles was revealed in KA-treated rats compared to controls. Additionally, some MOR-labeled terminals in KA-treated rats possessed excitatory-type morphology and contained enkephalin or dynorphin, peptides found in mossy fiber terminals. These data suggest that most of the seizure-induced increases in MOR expression in the IML are associated with terminals originating from several different neuronal populations, including granule cells, and possibly, surviving GABAergic interneurons, septal cholinergic, and/or supramamillary projection neurons.
Pyridostigmine, a carbamate acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor, is routinely employed in the treatment of the autoimmune disease myasthenia gravis. Due to its positively charged ammonium group, under normal conditions pyridostigmine cannot cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and penetrate the brain. However, several studies have suggested that under conditions in which the BBB is disrupted, pyridostigmine enters the brain, changes cortical excitability, and leads to long-lasting alterations in gene expression. The aim of this study was to characterize the mechanisms underlying pyridostigmine-induced changes in the excitability of central neurons. Using whole cell intracellular recordings in hippocampal neurons we show that pyridostigmine decreases repetitive firing adaptation and increases the appearance of excitatory postsynaptic potentials. In voltage clamp recordings, both pyridostigmine and acetylcholine (ACh) increased the frequency but not the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic currents. These effects were reversible upon the administration of the muscarinic receptor antagonist, atropine, and were not blocked by tetrodotoxin. We conclude that pyridostigmine, by increasing free ACh levels, causes muscarinic-dependent enhancement of excitatory transmission. This mechanism may explain central side effects previously attributed to this drug as well as the potency of AChE inhibitors, including nerve-gas agents and organophosphate pesticides, in the initiation of cortical synchronization, epileptic discharge, and excitotoxic damage.
Recurrent and spontaneous seizures in epilepsy result from poorly defined cell signaling aberrations thought to include synaptic and extracellular matrix remodeling. Here we have used a rat hippocampal kindling model to study cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) gene expression in epileptogenesis. COX-2, encoded in an early-response gene, increases in a synaptic activity-dependent fashion and also during kainic acid-induced hippocampal damage. We found that during kindling, COX-2 induction occurred initially only in hippocampal neurons, and then spread to neocortical neurons. When rats were rekindled 34 days later, this spreading of COX-2 expression persisted. Induction of hippocampal and neocortical cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)), an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of COX-2 substrate arachidonic acid (AA), occurred after 4 days of stimulation during kindling and rekindling. Moreover the COX-2 selective inhibitor nimesulide attenuated kindling development. We conclude that neuronal COX-2 gene induction and cPLA(2) activation are key signaling events in epileptogenesis.
A significant proportion of neurologic patients suffer electroencephalographic (EEG) seizures in the acute phase following traumatic or ischemic brain injury, including many without overt behavioral manifestations. Although such nonconvulsive seizures may exacerbate neuropathological processes, they have received limited attention clinically and experimentally. Here we characterize seizure episodes following focal cerebral ischemia in the rat as a model for brain injury-induced seizures. Cortical EEG activity was recorded continuously from both hemispheres up to 72 h following middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo). Seizure discharges appeared in EEG recordings within 1 h of MCAo in 13/16 (81%) animals and consisted predominantly of generalized 1-3 Hz rhythmic spiking. During seizures animals engaged in quiet awake or normal motor behaviors, but exhibited no motor convulsant activity. Animals had a mean of 10.6 seizure episodes within 2 h, with a mean duration of 60 s per episode. On average, seizures ceased at 1 h 59 min post-MCAo in permanently occluded animals and did not occur following reperfusion at 2 h in transiently occluded animals. In addition to seizures, periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs) appeared over penumbral regions in the injured hemisphere while intermittent rhythmic delta activity (IRDA) recurred in the contralateral hemisphere with frontoparietal dominance. PLEDs and IRDA persisted up to 72 h in permanent MCAo animals, and early onset of the former was predictive of prolonged seizure activity. The presentation of these EEG waveforms, each with characteristic features replicating those in clinical neurologic populations, validates rat MCAo for study of acutely induced brain seizures and other neurophysiological aspects of brain injury.
Evidence of oxidative stress is apparent in both acute and chronic neurodegenerative diseases, such as stroke, Parkinson's disease (PD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Increased generation of reactive oxygen species simply overwhelm endogenous antioxidant defences, leading to subsequent oxidative damage and cell death. Tissue culture and animal models have been developed to mimic some of the biochemical changes and neuropathology found in these diseases. In doing so, it has been experimentally demonstrated that oxidative stress plays a critical role in neuronal cell death. Antioxidant enzymes, such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) have demonstrated therapeutic efficacy in models of neurodegeneration. However, delivery and stability issues have reduced the enthusiasm to clinically develop these proteins. Most recently, SOD mimetics, small molecules which mimic the activity of endogenous superoxide dismutase, have come to the forefront of antioxidant therapeutics. This review will examine the experimental evidence supporting the use of scavengers of superoxide anions in treating some neurodegenerative diseases, such as stroke, PD and ALS, but also the pitfalls that have met antioxidant molecules in clinical trials.
RIMs are synaptic proteins that are essential for normal neurotransmitter release. We now show that while invertebrates contain only a single RIM gene, vertebrates contain four: two large genes encoding RIM1alpha (0.50 Mb) or RIM2alpha, 2beta, and 2gamma (0.50-0.75 Mb) and two smaller genes encoding RIM3gamma (14 kb) or RIM4gamma (55 kb). RIM1alpha and RIM2alpha consist of an N-terminal Zn(2+)-finger domain, central PDZ and C(2)A domains, and a C-terminal C(2)B domain; RIM2beta consists of a short beta-specific sequence followed by central PDZ and C(2)A domains and a C-terminal C(2)B domain; and RIM2gamma, 3gamma, and 4gamma consist of only a C(2)B domain. In the RIM2 gene, RIM2beta and 2gamma are transcribed from internal promoters. alpha- and beta-RIMs are extensively alternatively spliced at three canonical positions, resulting in &gt;200 variants that differ by up to 400 residues. Thus gene duplication, alternative splicing, and multiple promoters diversify a single invertebrate RIM into a large vertebrate protein family. The multiplicity of vertebrate RIMs may serve to fine-tune neurotransmitter release beyond a fundamental, evolutionarily conserved, and common function for RIMs.
Our understanding of the role that axoglial interactions play in node of Ranvier formation and maintenance remains incomplete. Previous studies of CNS myelinated fibers of CGT-null mice showed abnormalities in the arrangement of paranodal myelin loops and absence of a conspicuous component of the paranodal junction, the ridge-like intercellular transverse bands. Axolemmal sodium channel domains were largely preserved at nodes of Ranvier but displayed some abnormalities in form. Using a combination of freeze-fracture and immunocytochemical methods, we have found additional evidence documenting abnormalities in the size, shape, and location of axolemmal sodium channel clusters in CGT-null mice as well as evidence that these nodal abnormalities are complementary to the organization of paranodal myelin loops, despite the absence of transverse bands. We conclude that the differentiated form of the nodal axolemma and the distribution of axolemmal sodium channels depend on the conformation of paranodal axoglial contacts but not on the presence of transverse bands at the sites of contact.
Acute liver failure (ALF) results in alterations of energy metabolites and of glucose-derived amino acid neurotransmitters in brain. However, the dynamics of changes in glucose metabolism remain unclear. The present study was undertaken using (1)H and (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy to determine the rates of incorporation of glucose into amino acids and lactate via cell-specific pathways in relation to the severity of encephalopathy and brain edema in rats with ALF because of hepatic devascularization. Early (precoma) stages of encephalopathy were accompanied by significant 2- to 4.5-fold (P &lt;.001) increases of total brain glutamine and lactate concentrations. More severe (coma) stages of encephalopathy and brain edema led to a further significant increase in brain lactate but no such increase in glutamine. Furthermore, (13)C isotopomer analysis showed a selective increase of de novo synthesis of lactate from [1-(13)C]glucose resulting in 2.5-fold increased fractional (13)C enrichments in lactate at coma stages. [2-(13)C]glutamine, synthesized through the astrocytic enzyme pyruvate carboxylase, increased 10-fold at precoma stages but showed no further increase at coma stages of encephalopathy. (13)C-label incorporation into [4-(13)C]glutamate, synthesized mainly through neuronal pyruvate dehydrogenase, was selectively reduced at coma stages, whereas brain GABA synthesis was unchanged at all time points. In conclusion, increased brain lactate synthesis and impaired glucose oxidative pathways rather than intracellular glutamine accumulation are the major cause of brain edema in ALF. Future NMR spectroscopic studies using stable isotopes and real-time measurements of metabolic rates could be valuable in the elucidation of the cerebral metabolic consequences of ALF in humans.
The lengths and weights of metacarpals and metatarsals were measured in two collections of baboon skeletons-33 animals, all born and raised in the wild, and 60 animals, nearly all born and raised in captivity. For both length and weight, ratios were constructed for all possible pairings of the five bones in each individual hand and foot. The pattern of results was not identical for the two collections, but substantial sex differences existed in both collections for many of the ratios calculated. Nearly all of the large sex differences were in the direction of the length or weight ratio being smaller for males than for females. For the length ratios showing the largest sex differences, those differences were larger for the right hand than for the left, and larger for the left foot than for the right, but this pattern was less evident for the weight ratios. Some length ratios for human fingers show sex differences of the sort seen in the metacarpals and metatarsals of these baboons, and the human differences in relative length exist early in life. The implication is that the marked sex difference in androgen exposure during prenatal development may effect the relative size of the individual bones of the extremities in male and female humans and baboons. The relative sizes of the bones of the hand and foot may provide helpful supplemental information on the relations between species, thus making the study of hand and foot bones in other primates and mammals worthwhile.

Physiological levels of progesterone act in conjunction with androgens to facilitate copulatory behavior in male rats, mice, and lizards. Radiolabeled progesterone conjugated to bovine serum albumin measured specific binding sites in membrane fractions from male rats that were gonadectomized and testosterone treated, or remained gonadally intact, to determine the role of gonadal steroids on mPR binding. To determine whether behavioral experience could alter binding levels, males either remained sexually nave or became sexually experienced. In sexually nave males, the highest levels of specific binding occurred in the dorsal portions of the medial preoptic area, with only moderate levels of binding in ventral portions of the medial preoptic area and the dorsal and ventral medial hypothalamus. However, conjugated progesterone binding in these brain regions did not change as a function of testosterone or behavioral manipulations. In contrast, the amygdala responded to behavioral experience with significantly (4-fold) increased binding in gonadectomized, T-treated males with sexual experience. These data indicate that the neuronal plasticity for membrane-associated progesterone binding is regionally specific, being regulated by sexual experience following the reinstatement of testosterone levels, thus suggesting a functional role for plasma membrane activity of progesterone in male rat reproduction.
The human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class III region, located on chromosome 6p21, has been regarded as one of the susceptible loci for type 1 diabetes. Because it contains many genes related to inflammatory and immune responses, including tumor necrosis factor (TNF), lymphotoxin-alpha (LT-alpha), and allograft inflammatory factor 1 (AIF-1) genes, it is unclear which gene within the class III region is responsible for the susceptibility to the disease. We sequenced the AIF-1 gene region and detected three novel polymorphisms, all of which were diallelic and localized at introns. Then, we investigated AIF-1, TNF, and LT-alpha gene polymorphisms in 165 patients with type 1 diabetes, consisting of 90 patients with young-onset type 1 diabetes, 75 patients with adult-onset type 1 diabetes, and 200 control patients. We also analyzed TNF receptors type 1 (TNFR1) and type 2 (TNFR2) gene polymorphisms, located on chromosome 12p13 and 1p36, respectively. Although there were significant differences between type 1 diabetes patients and controls in the distributions of TNF promoter polymorphisms at position -1031 and -857, and LT-alpha gene NcoI polymorphism, none of them was independently associated with the disease after two-locus analysis with HLA class II alleles. We detected the significantly increased frequency of the -383C allele, located in the TNFR-1 promoter region, in both young-onset and adult-onset diabetes patients compared with controls. In addition, the -383C allele was found to be associated with higher expression of the TNFR1 gene than that of -383A allele in in vitro expression. These results suggest that the TNFR1 gene region might be a susceptible locus to type 1 diabetes in Japanese.

Although CD1d-restricted NKT cells have been implicated as a participant in the regulatory mechanism of autoimmune diseases, it remains unclear how they would regulate human autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS). Furthermore, although the NKT cells comprise CD4(+) and CD4(-) populations, prior studies have often represented them as simply a CD4(-) population. Given that CD4(+) and CD4(-) NKT cells may represent functionally distinct populations, it appears crucial to examine the individual NKT subset in autoimmune diseases. Here we studied the frequency and cytokine phenotypes of the CD4(+) and CD4(-) NKT cells in fresh peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and of alpha-galactosylceramide-stimulated short-term cell lines obtained during the remission or relapse phase of MS as compared with from healthy subjects (HS). Here we report that CD4(+) NKT line cells expanded from MS in remission (MS-rem) would produce a larger amount of IL-4 than those from HS or from MS in relapse (MS-rel). They were significantly biased for T(h)2 as judged by the IL-4/IFN-gamma balance. However, there was no functional bias toward T(h)1 or T(h)2 in CD4(-) NKT line cells from MS-rem due to the defects in both IFN-gamma and IL-4 production, compared with HS. Of note, although double-negative NKT cells in the periphery were greatly reduced, the reduction of CD4(+) NKT cells was only marginal, if any, in MS-rem compared with HS. The T(h)2 bias of CD4(+) NKT line cells from MS-rem may support an immunoregulatory role for the CD4(+) NKT cells in vivo.
We have used radioligand binding to synaptic membranes from distinct rat brain regions and quantitative autoradiography to investigate the postnatal evolution of acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-evoked up-regulation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptors in CNS areas undergoing synaptogenesis. Incubation of synaptosomal membranes or brain sections with purified AChE caused a developmentally modulated enhancement in the binding of [3H]-(S)-AMPA and the specific AMPA receptor ligand [3H]-(S)-5-fluorowillardiine, but did not modify binding to kainate neither N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. In all postnatal ages investigated (4, 7, 14, 20, 27, 40 days-old and adult rats), AChE effect on binding was concentration-dependent and blocked by propidium, BW 284c51, diisopropylfluorophosphonate and eserine, therefore requiring indemnity of both peripheral and active sites of the enzyme. AChE-mediated enhancement of [3H]-fluorowillardiine binding was measurable in all major CNS areas, but displayed remarkable anatomical selectivity and developmental regulation. Autoradiograph densitometry exhibited distinct temporal profiles and peaks of treated/control binding ratios for different cortices, cortical layers, and nuclei. Within the parietal, occipital and temporal neocortices, hippocampal CA1 field and cerebellum, AChE-potentiated binding ratios peaked in chronological correspondence with synaptogenesis periods of the respective AMPA-receptor containing targets. This modulation of AMPA receptors by AChE is a molecular mechanism able to transduce localized neural activity into durable modifications of synaptic molecular structure and function. It might also contribute to AChE-mediated neurotoxicity, as postulated in Alzheimer's disease and other CNS disorders.



Moderate, habitual physical activity improves health, possibly because of beneficial changes in immune function. For example, physical activity can increase natural killer cell cytotoxicity, T cell proliferation, and macrophage function but has minimal impact on antigen-driven B-2-mediated immunoglobulin (Ig) responses. The following studies tested whether physical activity selectively impacts nonantigen-driven B-1-natural IgM (nIgM) but not antigen-driven B-2 Ig. Adult male, pathogen-free Sprague-Dawley rats in a barrier facility voluntarily ran in wheels from 7 to 56 days or were housed in an enriched environment for 56 days. Rats received either no antigen or keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) to assess the B-2 response. Blood samples assessed serum nIgM, total IgG, total serum protein, anti-KLH IgM, and anti-KLH IgG. Physically active rats had higher serum nIgM after 7 days of running, and nIgM remained elevated over 56 days of running. In contrast, free-wheel running produced no changes in total IgG, total serum protein, anti-KLH IgM, and anti-KLH IgG. Environmental enrichment did not alter immune measures from controls. These results suggest that B-1, not B-2, cell responses are selectively impacted by physical activity. Because nIgM is important in multiple aspects of the immune response, an elevation in this innate humoral component could contribute to improved immunity in physically active organisms.
The pineal gland and its major output signal melatonin have been demonstrated to play a central role in the seasonal organization of the ruin lizard Podarcis sicula. Seasonal variations in the amplitude of the nocturnal melatonin signal, with high values in spring as compared to low values in summer and autumn, have been found in vivo. The authors examined whether the pineal gland of the ruin lizard contains autonomous circadian oscillators controlling melatonin synthesis and whether previously described seasonal variations of in vivo melatonin production can also be found in isolated cultured pineal glands obtained from ruin lizards in summer and winter. In vitro melatonin release from isolated pineal glands of the ruin lizard persisted for 4 days in constant conditions. Cultured explanted pineal glands obtained from animals in winter and summer showed similar circadian rhythms of melatonin release, characterized by damping of the amplitude of the melatonin rhythm. Although different photoperiodic conditions were imposed on ruin lizards before explantation of pineal glands, the authors did not find any indication for corresponding differences in the duration of elevated melatonin in vitro. Differences were found in the amplitude of in vitro melatonin production in light/dark conditions and, to a lesser degree, in constant conditions. The presence of a circadian melatonin rhythm in vitro in winter, although such a rhythm is absent in vivo in winter, suggests that pineal melatonin production is influenced by an extrapineal oscillator in the intact animal that may either positively or negatively modulate melatonin production in summer and winter, respectively.
Seasonal changes in day length enhance or suppress components of immune function in individuals of several mammalian species. Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) exhibit multiple changes in neuroendocrine, reproductive, and immune function after exposure to short days. The manner in which these changes are integrated into the host response to pathogens is not well understood. The present experiments tested the hypothesis that short-day changes in immune function alter the pathogenesis of septic shock and survival after challenge with endotoxin. Male and female Siberian hamsters raised in long-day photoperiods were transferred as adults to short days or remained in their natal photoperiod. Six to 8 weeks later, hamsters were injected i.p. with 0, 1, 2.5, 10, 25, or 50 mg/kg bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (the biologically active constituent of endotoxin), and survival was monitored for 96 h. Short days significantly improved survival of male hamsters treated with 10 or 25 mg/kg LPS and improved survival in females treated with 50 mg/kg LPS. Transfer from long to short days shifted the LD50 in males by approximately 90%, from 5.3 to 9.9 mg/kg, and in females from 11.1 to 15.0 mg/kg (+35%). Long-day females were more resistant than were males to lethal endotoxemia. In vitro production of the proinflammatory cytokine TNFalpha in response to LPS stimulation was significantly lower in macrophages extracted from short-day relative to long-day hamsters, as were circulating concentrations of TNFalpha in vivo after i.p. administration of LPS, suggesting that diminished cytokine responses to LPS in short days may mitigate the lethality of endotoxemia. Adaptation to short days induces changes in immune parameters that affect survival in the face of immune challenges.
Perhaps the most observable of the many circadian oscillations that have been described in both vertebrate and invertebrate animals is the daily alterations in periods of rest and activity. Recent studies in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster suggest that these periods of inactivity are not simply rest but share many of the fundamental components that define mammalian sleep. Thus, quiescent episodes are characterized by reduced awareness of the environment and are homeostatically regulated. Although this field is in its infancy, recent studies have focused on the interaction between circadian and homeostatic processes. These results indicate that components of the circadian clock may play a substantial role in mechanisms underlying sleep homeostasis at the molecular level. In this article, the author reviews recent advances obtained using Drosophila as a model system to elucidate fundamental components of sleep regulation.
Agonist-stimulated phosphoinositide turnover is accompanied by compensatory resynthesis of these lipids. Several lines of evidence suggest that resynthesis of phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) involves phosphorylation of diacylglycerol (DG) (salvage pathway) rather than acylation of glycerol phosphate (de novo pathway), although a contribution from the de novo pathway has not been ruled out. To determine the relative contribution of the de novo and salvage pathways in stimulated PtdIns resynthesis, an inhibitor of de novo synthesis (Triacsin C) was incubated simultaneously with the hormone agonist. Results indicate that at early times (90 min), hormone-stimulated PtdIns synthesis proceeds predominantly via the salvage pathway, although some de novo synthesis is also taking place. At later times (24 h), stimulated synthesis is solely via the de novo pathway. Increasing cellular DG content by either adding exogenous DG or treating cells with bacterial phospholipase C (bPLC) results in deacylation of the DG rather than phosphorylation; however, inhibition of this deacylation fails to stimulate phosphorylation by DG kinase (DGK), suggesting channeling of the DG substrate between PLC and DG kinase. Receptor activation is not required for activation of DGK, since treatment with a calcium ionophore induces the same Triacsin C-insensitive PtdIns synthesis. Depletion of the polyphosphoinositide pools by treatment with wortmannin prevents both hormone and A23187-induced polyphosphoinositide hydrolysis; however, A23187 is still able to induce hydrolysis of PtdIns and subsequent compensatory resynthesis. The inability of R59949 to inhibit either hormone-induced or ionophore-induced PtdIns resynthesis suggests that the alpha isoform is not involved; however, its possible that the channeling phenomenon prevents the inhibitor from gaining access to the diacylglycerol kinase enzyme. Further study will be required to determine which isoform catalyzes hormone-induced resynthesis of PtdIns.
Angiogenesis is an intricately regulated phenomenon. Its mechanisms in the ischemic brain have not been clearly elucidated. The authors investigated expression of angiogenesis-related genes using a complementary DNA (cDNA) array method as well as Western blotting and immunohistochemistry, and compared these studies with a temporal profile of angiogenesis in mouse brains after ischemia. The number of vessels significantly increased 3 days after injury, and proliferating endothelial cells increased as early as 1 day. This means that angiogenesis occurs immediately after the injury. Ninety-six genes implicated in angiogenesis were investigated with a cDNA array study. It was found that 42, 29, and 13 genes were increased at 1 hour, 1 day, and 21 days, respectively. Most of the well-known angiogenic factors increased as early as 1 hour. Vessel-stabilizing factors such as thrombospondins also increased. At 1 day, however, thrombospondins decreased to lower levels than in the control, indicating a shift from vascular protection to angiogenesis. At 21 days, many genes were decreased, but some involved in tissue repair were newly increased. Western blotting and immunohistochemistry showed findings compatible with the cDNA array study. Many molecules act in an orchestrated fashion in the brain after ischemia and should be taken into account for therapeutic angiogenesis for stroke.
A previous study in the lizard Gekko gecko has revealed that the distribution of DARPP-32 (a phosphoprotein related to the dopamine D(1)-receptor) largely resembles the pattern observed in birds and mammals, at least as far as basal ganglia structures are concerned. On the other hand, several specific features of DARPP-32 distribution in the gekkonid brain were noted that deserved further attention, e.g. cellular co-localization of DARPP-32 and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity in hypothalamic and caudal rhombencephalic areas. To assess the primitive or derived character of these features, DARPP-32 and TH antibodies have been applied to the brain of the turtle, Pseudemys scripta elegans, which belongs to a different radiation of reptiles. Areas in Pseudemys that are densely innervated by TH-immunoreactive fibers, such as the striatum and amygdaloid complex, display strong immunoreactivity for DARPP-32 in somata and neuropil. Strongly immunoreactive fiber plexuses were found in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and in the ventromedial part of the rhombencephalon. Cellular co-localization of DARPP-32 and TH was observed in the ventral hypothalamus but, in contrast to Gekko, not at caudal rhombencephalic levels. Moreover, cellular DARPP-32 immunoreactivity was not seen in the raphe nuclei and spinal cord of Pseudemys. Other notable species differences in DARPP-32 distribution were found in the olfactory bulb, dorsal ventricular ridge and pretectum. In conclusion, the present account on the distribution of DARPP-32 in Pseudemys confirms and extends previous findings in a gekkonid lizard. At the same time, however, it demonstrates that substantial species differences exist, some of which may be related to differences previously observed in the dopaminergic systems.

Cockroaches ( Periplaneta americana) orient their antennae toward moving objects based on visual cues. Presumably, this allows exploration of novel objects by the antennal flagellum. We used videographic and electrophysiological methods to determine if receptors on the flagellum are essential for triggering escape, or if they enable cockroaches to discriminate threatening from non-threatening objects that are encountered. When a flagellum was removed, and replaced with a plastic fiber, deflection of a &quot;prosthetic flagellum&quot; still activated the descending mechanosensory interneurons associated with escape and produced typical escape responses. However, escape was essentially eliminated by constraining the movement of the scape and pedicel at the antennal base. When cockroaches approached and briefly explored the surface of a spider or another cockroach with the flagellum, they produced escape significantly more often in response to subsequent controlled contact from a spider than from a cockroach. This discrimination did not depend on visual or wind-sensory input, but required flagellar palpation of the surface. The crucial sensory cues appear to involve texture rather than surface chemicals. These results indicate that cockroaches acquire basic information on stimulus identity during exploration of surfaces with flagellar receptors, but that basal receptors are triggers for escape behavior.
Cockroaches escape from predators by turning and then running. This behavior can be elicited when stimuli deflect one of the rostrally located and highly mobile antennae. We analyzed the behavior of cockroaches, under free-ranging conditions with videography or tethered in a motion tracking system, to determine (1) how antennal positional dynamics influence escape turning, and (2) if visual cues have any influence on antennal mediated escape. The spatial orientation of the long antennal flagellum at the time of tactile stimulation affected the direction of resultant escape turns. However, the sign of flagellar displacement caused by touch stimuli, whether it was deflected medially or laterally for example, did not affect the directionality of turns. Responsiveness to touch stimuli, and escape turn performance, were not altered by blocking vision. However, because cockroaches first orient an antenna toward stimuli entering the peripheral visual field, turn direction can be indirectly influenced by visual input. Finally, when vision was blocked, the run phase of escape responses displayed reduced average velocities and distances traveled. Our results suggest that tactile and visual influences are integrated with previously known wind-sensory mechanisms to achieve multisensory control of the full escape response.
Rapidly advancing research in neurobiology and the behavioral and social sciences, coupled with dramatic changes in the social and economic circumstances under which families are raising young children, has created a highly dynamic context for early childhood policy, service delivery, and child rearing in the United States. A recent report from the National Research Council and the Institute of Medicine, presents a critical analysis of that complex knowledge base and a set of recommendations designed to close the gap between what we know and what we do to promote the healthy development of young children. This article examines the report through the lens of developmental and behavioral pediatrics and highlights both exciting opportunities and sobering challenges.

Previous studies have demonstrated that fatty acid amide hydrolase, the enzyme responsible for the metabolism of anandamide, is inhibited by the acidic non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) ibuprofen with a potency that increases as the assay pH is reduced. Here we show that (R)-, (S)- and (R,S)-flurbiprofen, indomethacin and niflumic acid show similar pH-dependent shifts in potency to that seen with ibuprofen. Thus, (S)-flurbiprofen inhibited 2 microM [3H]anandamide metabolism with IC50 values of 13 and 50 microM at assay pH values of 6 and 8, respectively. In contrast, the neutral compound celecoxib was a weak fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibitor and showed no pH dependency (IC50 values approximately 300 microM at both assay pH). The cyclooxygenase-2-selective inhibitors nimesulide and SC-58125 did not inhibit fatty acid amide hydrolase activity at either pH. The data are consistent with the conclusion that the non-ionised forms of the acidic NSAIDs are responsible for the inhibition of fatty acid amide hydrolase.
A number of Indian medicinal plants have been used for thousands of years in the traditional system of medicine (Ayurveda). Amongst these are plants used for the management of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, loss of memory, degeneration of nerves and other neuronal disorders by the Ayurvedic practitioners. Though the etiology of neurodegenerative diseases remains enigmatic, there is evidence, which indicates that defective energy metabolism, excitotoxicity and oxidative damage may be crucial factors (Ann. Neurol. 38 (3) (1995) 357). The part of the Ayurvedic system that provides an approach to prevention and treatment of degenerative diseases is known as Rasayana, and plants used for this purpose are classed as rejuvenators. This group of plants generally possesses strong antioxidant activity (Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav. 43 (1992) 1175), but only a few have been investigated in detail. In the present study, three such rasayana plants were tested for the first time for their toxicity and free radical scavenging activity both in vitro and ex vivo. All the three plant infusions (up to 1 mg/ml) showed no toxic effects on the viability of PC12 cell line as judged by MTT-test. Both ethanolic extracts and water infusions of the plants were tested for their antioxidant activity in the 2,2'-azinobis-3-ethyl-benzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (ABTS*(+)) radical cation decolorization assay; inhibition of lipid peroxidation by plant infusions was carried out using spontaneous lipid peroxidation of rat brain homogenate, and IC50 values were determined. The results from the ABTS assay showed that the ethanolic extract of Sida cordifolia was found to be most potent (IC50 16.07 microg/ml), followed by Evolvulus alsinoides (IC50 33.39 microg/ml) and Cynodon dactylon (IC50 78.62 microg/ml). The relative antioxidant capacity for the water infusions was observed in the following order: E. alsinoides (IC50 172.25 microg/ml)&gt;C. dactylon (IC50 273.64 microg/ml)&gt;S. cordifolia (IC50 342.82 microg/ml). The results of water infusions of the plants on lipid peroxidation were as follows: E. alsinoides (IC50 89.23 microg/ml)&gt;S. cordifolia) (IC50 126.78 microg/ml)&gt;C. dactylon (IC50 608.31 microg/ml).
When 2 masked targets are presented in a rapid sequence, correct identification of the 1st hinders identification of the 2nd. Visual masking of the 2nd target plays a critical role during this 2nd-target deficit, or &quot;attentional blink&quot; (AB). The object substitution hypothesis (B. Giesbrecht &amp; V. Di Lollo, 1998) predicts that late-stage visual processes involved in object substitution mediate masking of the 2nd target during AB, whereby stronger masking should produce a more severe deficit. Six experiments are presented, together testing this hypothesis. Although masking by object substitution was observed, it did not interact with the AB. An alternative hypothesis is proposed stating that mostly early-stage visual processes mediate the masking effects that are critical to the AB.
Nitric oxide (NO), generated by phagocytes at inflammation sites, contributes to regulate immune responses through autocrine and paracrine actions on bystander cells. Among the latter are dendritic cells (DCs). Little is known about regulation of DC function by NO, especially in the human system. We exposed human monocyte-derived DCs to the NO donor (z)-1-[2-(2-aminoethyl)-N-(2-ammonioethyl)amino] diazen-1-ium-1,2 diolate (DETA-NO) during their maturation process induced by treatment with tumor necrosis factor alpha or lipopolysaccharide or by CD40 activation. We report here that after exposure to DETA-NO, DCs exhibit a significantly increased ability to activate T lymphocytes stimulated by mycobacterial antigens, Staphylococcus aureus Cowen strain B, allo-antigens, or cross-linking of the CD3-T cell receptor complex. This effect persists after removal of DETA-NO, depends on the generation of cyclic guanosine 5'-monophosphate, and is a result of enhanced release by DCs of soluble factors, in particular interleukin (IL)-12. This modulation of DC function is a result of a synergism between NO and the various maturation stimuli, as neither enhanced T cell activation nor IL-12 release was observed after DC exposure to DETA-NO only. These results provide the first evidence that NO acts as a cosignaling molecule regulating human DC response to maturation stimuli.
The specific problems of consent for the mentally incompetent are reviewed. Scientific research is essential to test the validity of present treatments and to develop new ones. The respective roles of the physician and the researcher have to be clearly defined. The vulnerability of psychiatric patients has to be taken into consideration in such a way that some research can be conducted. It is emphasised that the ethical restrictions for research, although highly justified and necessary, are in part responsible for the relatively slow progress in the application of modern neurosciences to psychiatric diseases.
Eighty veteran psychiatric outpatients were evaluated for depressive personality disorder on the Depressive Personality Disorder Inventory (DPDI). It was predicted that those classified with depressive personality would report higher levels of interpersonal loss, negative perceptions of their parents, and higher levels of perfectionism than psychiatric control subjects. Nine of the 12 measures of these variables were significantly greater in those with depressive personality compared with psychiatric control subjects. When statelike depression was controlled for, seven of the nine variables still significantly differed between the two groups. Hierarchical regression analysis and discriminant function analysis found that these variables predicted 9% of the variance in the DPDI above and beyond statelike depression, and that a combination of these variables correctly classified 91% of the depressive personalities and 88% of the psychiatric control subjects. It is concluded that, as hypothesized, depressive personality disorder is associated with loss, negative parental perceptions, and perfectionism, and that these relationships are not accounted for exclusively by a depressed mood.
The Na+-dependent glutamate transporter EAAT3 facilitates glutamate uptake into neurons as well as many other cell types. GTRAP3-18 (JWA, Arl6ip5) is a novel protein that interacts with EAAT3 and negatively modulates EAAT3-mediated glutamate uptake. Previous studies suggest that retinoic acid (RA) decreases Na+-dependent glutamate uptake and increases GTRAP3-18 protein expression. However, the RA used in those studies was complexed with methyl-beta-cyclodextrin (MebetaCD). In the present study we found that MebetaCD, but not RA, significantly reduced Na+-dependent EAAT3-mediated [3H]glutamate uptake in human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells. MebetaCD also significantly increased GTRAP3-18 protein expression in HEK293 cells as well as in rat hypothalamic neuron cultures. Intracerebroventricular administration of MebetaCD to the mouse brain resulted in a significant increase in GTRAP3-18 immunoreactivity in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. In conclusion, we have shown that MebetaCD reduces EAAT3-mediated glutamate uptake and induces the expression of GTRAP3-18 protein.
Activation of integrin receptors in neurons can promote cell survival and synaptic plasticity, but the underlying signal transduction pathway(s) is unknown. We report that integrin signaling prevents apoptosis of embryonic hippocampal neurons by a mechanism involving integrin-linked kinase (ILK) that activates Akt kinase. Activation of integrins using a peptide containing the amino acid sequence EIKLLIS derived from the alpha chain of laminin protected hippocampal neurons from apoptosis induced by glutamate or staurosporine, and increased Akt activity in a beta1 integrin-dependent manner. Transfection of neurons with a plasmid encoding dominant negative Akt blocked the protective effect of the integrin-activating peptide, as did a chemical inhibitor of Akt. Although inhibitors of phosphoinositide-3 (PI3) kinase blocked the protective effect of the peptide, we found no increase in PI3 kinase activity following integrin stimulation suggesting that PI3 kinase was necessary for Akt activity but was not sufficient for the increase in Akt activity following integrin activation. Instead, we show a requirement for ILK in integrin receptor-induced Akt activation. ILK was activated following integrin stimulation and dominant negative ILK blocked integrin-mediated Akt activation and cell survival. Activation of ILK and Akt were also required for neuroprotection by substrate-associated laminin. These results establish a novel pathway that signals cell survival in neurons in response to integrin receptor activation.
The influence of transport mechanisms at the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and blood-CSF barrier (choroid plexus) on the CNS distribution of anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) drugs was examined using guinea-pig brain perfusion and incubated choroid plexus models. 2',3'-dideoxyinosine (ddI) passage across the BBB was demonstrated to be via non-saturable (Kd = 0.22 +/- 0.3 microL/min/g) and saturable (Km = 20.1 +/- 15.0 microm, Vmax = 6.5 +/- 2.1 pmol/min/g) processes. Cross competition studies implicated an equilibrative nucleoside transporter in this influx. The brain distribution of ddI was unchanged in the presence of additional nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). ddI transport from blood into choroid plexus was demonstrated to involve an organic anion transporting polypeptide 2-like transporter. The NRTIs, abacavir, 3'-azido 3'-deoxythymidine and (-)-beta-L-2',3'-dideoxy-3'-thiacytidine, competed with ddI for transporter binding sites at the choroid plexus, altering the tissue concentration of ddI. This has clinical implications as the choroid plexus is a site of HIV replication, and suboptimal CNS concentrations of anti-HIV drugs could result in neurological complications. Furthermore, this may promote the selection of drug resistant variants of HIV within the CNS, which could re-infect the periphery and lead to HIV therapy failure. This study indicates that understanding drug interactions at the transporter level could prove valuable when selecting drug combinations to treat HIV within the CNS.
Nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons release dopamine from dendrites in substantia nigra and axon terminals in striatum. The cellular mechanisms for somatodendritic and axonal dopamine release are similar, but somatodendritic and nerve terminal dopamine release may not always occur in parallel. The current studies used in vivo microdialysis to simultaneously measure changes in dendritic and nerve terminal dopamine efflux in substantia nigra and ipsilateral striatum respectively, following intranigral application of various drugs by reverse dialysis through the nigral probe. The serotonin releasers (+/-)-fenfluramine (100 micro m) and (+)-fenfluramine (100 micro m) significantly increased dendritic dopamine efflux without affecting extracellular dopamine in striatum. The non-selective serotonin receptor agonist 1-(m-chlorophenyl)-piperazine (100 micro m) elicited a similar pattern of dopamine release in substantia nigra and striatum. NMDA (33 micro m) produced an increase in nigral dopamine of a similar magnitude to mCPP or either fenfluramine drug. However, NMDA also induced a concurrent increase in striatal dopamine. The D2 agonist quinpirole (100 micro m) had a parallel inhibitory effect on dopamine release from dendritic and terminal sites as well. Taken together, these data suggest that serotonergic afferents to substantia nigra may evoke dendritic dopamine release through a mechanism that is uncoupled from the impulse-dependent control of nerve terminal dopamine release.
The excitatory amino acid transporters (EAAT) removes neurotransmitters glutamate and aspartate from the synaptic cleft. Most CNS glutamate uptake is mediated by EAAT2 into glia, though nerve terminals show evidence for uptake, through an unknown transporter. Reverse-transcriptase PCR identified the expression of EAAT1, EAAT2, EAAT3 and EAAT4 mRNAs in primary cultures of mouse cortical or striatal neurones. We have used synaptosomes and glial plasmalemmal vesicles (GPV) from adult mouse and rat CNS to identify the nerve terminal transporter. Western blotting showed detectable levels of the transporters EAAT1 (GLAST) and EAAT2 (Glt-1) in both synaptosomes and GPVs. Uptake of [3H]D-aspartate or [3H]L-glutamate into these preparations revealed sodium-dependent uptake in GPV and synaptosomes which was inhibited by a range of EAAT blockers: dihydrokainate, serine-o-sulfate, l-trans-2,4-pyrrolidine dicarboxylate (PDC) (+/-)-threo-3-methylglutamate and (2S,4R )-4-methylglutamate. The IC50 values found for these compounds suggested functional expression of the 'glial, transporter, EAAT2 in nerve terminals. Additionally blockade of the majority EAAT2 uptake sites with 100 micro m dihydrokainate, failed to unmask any functional non-EAAT2 uptake sites. The data presented in this study indicate that EAAT2 is the predominant nerve terminal glutamate transporter in the adult rodent CNS.
Heptahelical opioid receptors utilize Gi proteins to regulate a multitude of effectors including the classical adenylyl cyclases and the more recently discovered mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs). The c-Jun NH2-terminal kinases (JNKs) belong to one of three subgroups of MAPKs. In NG108-15 neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cells that endogenously express delta-opioid receptors, delta-agonist dose-dependently stimulated JNK activity in a pertussis toxin-sensitive manner. By using COS-7 cells transiently transfected with the cDNAs of delta-opioid receptor and hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged JNK, we delineated the signaling components involved in this pathway. Sequestration of Gbetagamma subunits by transducin suppressed the opioid-induced JNK activity. The possible involvement of the small GTPases was also examined. Expression of dominant negative mutants of Rac and Cdc42 blocked the opioid-induced JNK activation, and a partial inhibition was observed in the presence of the dominant negative mutant of Ras. In contrast, the dominant negative mutant of Rho did not affect the opioid-induced JNK activation. In addition, the receptor-mediated JNK activation was dependent on Src family tyrosine kinases, but independent of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase and EGF receptor tyrosine kinases. Collectively, these results demonstrate functional regulation of JNK by the delta-opioid receptor, and this pathway requires Gbetagamma, Src kinases and the small GTPases Rac and Cdc42.
In bovine adrenal chromaffin cells (BACC) histamine promotes a rapid increase in the intracellular levels of Ca2+ together with the release of catecholamines and the phosphorylation of the catecholamine biosynthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). In this study we investigated the role of the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2), stress activated protein kinase (p38) and Jun N-terminal kinases (JNK) on the histamine-induced activation and phosphorylation of TH. We found that in BACC histamine produced a rapid, long lasting and histamine type-1 (H1) receptor-dependent increase in the phosphorylation levels of ERK1/2, p38 and JNK which was accompanied by a H1 receptor-dependent increase in TH activity. This increase in TH activity was partially blocked by the MEK1/2 inhibitor U0126 but was unaffected by the p38 antagonist SB203580 or the JNK blocker JNKI1. To study the effect of MAPK inhibition on histamine-induced TH phosphorylation, we generated phospho-specific antibodies against the different phosphorylated forms of TH. Treatment with U0126 totally inhibited the histamine-induced phosphorylation of TH at Ser31, without affecting the phosphorylation of either Ser40 or Ser19. Neither SB203580 nor JNKI1 treatments produced any significant modification of the histamine-induced TH phosphorylation. Our data support the hypothesis that the up-regulation of the ERK1/2 pathway, but not that of p38 or JNK, promoted by histamine is involved in the phosphorylation of TH at Ser31 and that this phosphorylation event is required for the full activation of this enzyme.
Although all cells in the body require energy to survive and function properly, excessive calorie intake over long time periods can compromise cell function and promote disorders such as cardiovascular disease, type-2 diabetes and cancers. Accordingly, dietary restriction (DR; either caloric restriction or intermittent fasting, with maintained vitamin and mineral intake) can extend lifespan and can increase disease resistance. Recent studies have shown that DR can have profound effects on brain function and vulnerability to injury and disease. DR can protect neurons against degeneration in animal models of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases and stroke. Moreover, DR can stimulate the production of new neurons from stem cells (neurogenesis) and can enhance synaptic plasticity, which may increase the ability of the brain to resist aging and restore function following injury. Interestingly, increasing the time interval between meals can have beneficial effects on the brain and overall health of mice that are independent of cumulative calorie intake. The beneficial effects of DR, particularly those of intermittent fasting, appear to be the result of a cellular stress response that stimulates the production of proteins that enhance neuronal plasticity and resistance to oxidative and metabolic insults; they include neurotrophic factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), protein chaperones such as heat-shock proteins, and mitochondrial uncoupling proteins. Some beneficial effects of DR can be achieved by administering hormones that suppress appetite (leptin and ciliary neurotrophic factor) or by supplementing the diet with 2-deoxy-d-glucose, which may act as a calorie restriction mimetic. The profound influences of the quantity and timing of food intake on neuronal function and vulnerability to disease have revealed novel molecular and cellular mechanisms whereby diet affects the nervous system, and are leading to novel preventative and therapeutic approaches for neurodegenerative disorders.
Increasing evidence shows that the rostral agranular insular cortex (RAIC) is important in the modulation of nociception in humans and rats and that dopamine and GABA appear to be key neurotransmitters in the function of this cortical region. Here we use immunocytochemistry and path tracing to examine the relationship between dopamine and GABA related elements in the RAIC of the rat. We found that the RAIC has a high density of dopamine fibers that arise principally from the ipsilateral ventral tegmental area/substantia nigra (VTA/SN) and from a different set of neurons than those that project to the medial prefrontal cortex. Within the RAIC, there are close appositions between dopamine fibers and GABAergic interneurons. One target of cortical GABA appears to be a dense band of GABAB receptor-bearing neurons located in lamina 5 of the RAIC. The GABAB receptor-bearing neurons project principally to the amygdala and nucleus accumbens with few or no projections to the medial prefrontal cortex, cingulate gyrus, the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus or contralateral RAIC. The current anatomical data, together with previous behavioral results, suggest that part of the dopaminergic modulation of the RAIC occurs through GABAergic interneurons. GABA is able to exert specific effects through its action on GABAB receptor-bearing projection neurons that target a few subcortical limbic structures. Through these connections, dopamine innervation of the RAIC is likely to affect the motivational and affective dimensions of pain.
Oxytocin and vasopressin reduce the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic responses in magnocellular neuroendocrine cells of the supraoptic nucleus (SON). To test whether synaptic glutamate release is modulated by these neuropeptides, we examined the combined effect of vasopressin and oxytocin on depolarization-induced glutamate and aspartate release from acutely dissected rat SON or fronto-parietal cortex punches. Glutamate release was stimulated with 60 mm K+ for 5-10 min and measured using ion exchange chromatography or high-performance liquid chromatography. During depolarization with high K+, extracellular glutamate levels increased, on average, to 204% of control values. In the presence of vasopressin/oxytocin, K+-stimulated glutamate and aspartate release were significantly reduced by 34% and 62%, respectively, in the SON. Treatment with the aminopeptidase inhibitor amastatin did not mimic the effects of exogenous vasopressin/oxytocin on glutamate or aspartate release, suggesting that, under the conditions tested here, amastatin treatment may produce more complex effects. The effects of exogenous neuropeptides are likely mediated by oxytocin and/or vasopressin receptors, as the oxytocin- and V1a-receptor antagonist, Manning Compound (10-100 micro m), partially reversed the effects of vasopressin/oxytocin on SON glutamate release. In contrast, in cortical punches, glutamate release was enhanced by high K+, but vasopressin/oxytocin did not significantly reduce glutamate/aspartate release, consistent with the relatively sparse distribution of vasopressin/oxytocin receptors in fronto-parietal cortex. These findings suggest that locally released oxytocin and vasopressin may autoregulate SON magnocellular neuroendocrine cell activity in part by modulating the release of excitatory amino acids from afferent terminals targeting these cells and/or from other cellular sources.
We assessed health-related quality of life (QoL) and depression, using the SF-36 and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), in 20 orthostatic tremor (OT) patients. All dimensions of the SF-36 were markedly reduced in OT and depression was found in 11 patients. The BDI score correlated significantly with several SF-36 subscores. We conclude that OT strongly impacts on QoL. The results highlight the importance of recognizing and treating depression in patients with OT.
This paper reviews the clinical diagnostic approach to hereditary neuropathies in adults by analysing: elements that point to a neuropathy of inherited origin, different modalities of presentation, laboratory and instrumental diagnostic tests, including molecular tests, symptoms and signs of involvement of other organs. Different phenotypes may be identified according to: disease course; involvement of motor, sensory, autonomic fibres; site of lesion (neuropathy versus neuronopathy); calibre of involved fibres (small-fibre versus large-fibre neuropathy); presence of distinctive symptoms (neuropathic pain); involvement of other organs or apparatus. Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, Familial Amyloid Polyneuropathy, Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy, Fabry disease, Tangier disease, Porphyric Neuropathies, Refsum disease, Hereditary Neuropathy with liability to Pressure Palsies, Hereditary Neuralgic Amyotrophy, and other rare disorders involving the peripheral nervous system are reviewed.
The main clinical features of CADASIL (cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leucoencephalopathy) are stroke, dementia, and migraine. A reversible acute encephalopathy was the principal presentation in six of 70 patients in a British prevalence study. The episodes lasted seven to 14 days, presenting with fever, acute confusion, coma, and fits; there was full recovery but in two cases identical episodes recurred some years later. All patients had a previous history of migraine with aura and were originally misdiagnosed as viral encephalitis. CADASIL should be considered in acute unexplained encephalopathies. MRI white matter changes, previous migraine with aura, and a family history of stroke and dementia may be useful pointers to the diagnosis.

Neurosurgical and neuropathological resources on the internet are rapidly developing. Some excellent clinical, patient information, professional, academic, and teaching web sites are available. This review summarises the most useful online sites for neurosurgeons and neuropathologists in the United Kingdom and beyond. More general internet resources have been covered in the first article in this series.
The deep tendon reflexes (and the abdominal reflexes) are important physical signs which have a special place in neurological diagnosis, particularly in early disease when they alone may be abnormal. They act as &quot;hard&quot; signs in situations where clinical assessment is complicated by patient anxiety, and become more useful as clinical experience develops.

Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by abnormalities in oxidative processes, region-selective neuron loss, and diminished thiamine-dependent enzymes. Thiamine deficiency (TD) diminishes thiamine dependent enzymes, alters mitochondrial function, impairs oxidative metabolism, and causes selective neuronal death. In mice, the time course of TD-induced changes in neurons and microglia were determined in the brain region most sensitive to TD. Significant neuron loss (29%) occurred after 8 or 9 days of TD (TD8-9) and increased to 90% neuron loss by TD10-11. The number of microglia increased 16% by TD8 and by nearly 400% on TD11. Hemeoxygenase-1 (HO-1)-positive microglia were not detectable at TD8, yet increased dramatically coincident with neuron loss. To test the duration of TD critical for irrevocable changes, mice received thiamine after various durations of TD. Thiamine administration on TD8 blocked further neuronal loss and induction of HO-1-positive microglia, whereas other microglial changes persisted. Thiamine only partially reversed effects on TD9, and was ineffective on TD10-11. These studies indicate that irreversible steps leading to neuronal death and induction of HO-1-positive microglia occur on TD9. The results indicate that TD induces alterations in neurons. endothelial cells, and microglia contemporaneously. This model provides a unique paradigm for elucidating the molecular mechanisms involved in neuronal commitment to neuronal death cascades and contributory microglial activity.
We assessed the functional determinants of the properties of L-type Ca(2+) currents in hair cells by co-expressing the pore-forming Ca(V)1.3alpha(1) subunit with the auxiliary subunits beta(1A) and/or alpha(2delta). Because Ca(2+) channels in hair cells are poised to interact with synaptic proteins, we also co-expressed the Ca(V)1.3alpha(1) subunit with syntaxin, vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP), and synaptosome associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP25). Expression of the Ca(V)1.3alpha(1) subunit in human embryonic kidney cells (HEK 293) produced a dihydropyridine (DHP)-sensitive Ca(2+) current (peak current density -2.0 +/- 0.2 pA/pF; n = 11). Co-expression with beta(1A) and alpha(2delta) subunits enhanced the magnitude of the current (peak current density: Ca(V)1.3alpha(1) + beta(1A) = -4.3 +/- 0.8 pA/pF, n = 10; Ca(V)1.3alpha(1) + beta(1A) + alpha(2delta) = -4.1 +/- 0.6 pA/pF, n = 9) and produced a leftward shift of approximately 9 mV in the voltage-dependent activation of the currents. Furthermore, co-expression of Ca(V)1.3alpha(1) with syntaxin/VAMP/SNAP resulted in at least a twofold increase in the peak current density (-4.7 +/- 0.2 pA/pF; n = 11) and reduced the extent of inactivation of the Ca(2+) currents. Botulinum toxin, an inhibitor of syntaxin, accelerated the inactivation profile of Ca(2+) currents in hair cells. Immunocytochemical data also indicated that the Ca(2+) channels and syntaxin are co-localized in hair cells, suggesting there is functional interaction of the Ca(V)1.3alpha(1) with auxiliary subunits and synaptic proteins, that may contribute to the distinct properties of the DHP-sensitive channels in hair cells.
Visual stimuli are known to influence the perception of auditory stimuli in spatial tasks, giving rise to the ventriloquism effect. These influences can persist in the absence of visual input following a period of exposure to spatially disparate auditory and visual stimuli, a phenomenon termed the ventriloquism aftereffect. It has been speculated that the visual dominance over audition in spatial tasks is due to the superior spatial acuity of vision compared with audition. If that is the case, then the auditory system should dominate visual perception in a manner analogous to the ventriloquism effect and aftereffect if one uses a task in which the auditory system has superior acuity. To test this prediction, the interactions of visual and auditory stimuli were measured in a temporally based task in normal human subjects. The results show that the auditory system has a pronounced influence on visual temporal rate perception. This influence was independent of the spatial location, spectral bandwidth, and intensity of the auditory stimulus. The influence was, however, strongly dependent on the disparity in temporal rate between the two stimulus modalities. Further, aftereffects were observed following approximately 20 min of exposure to temporally disparate auditory and visual stimuli. These results show that the auditory system can strongly influence visual perception and are consistent with the idea that bimodal sensory conflicts are dominated by the sensory system with the greater acuity for the stimulus parameter being discriminated.
The ferret has become a model animal for studies exploring the development of the visual system. However, little is known about the receptive-field structure and response properties of neurons in the adult visual cortex of the ferret. We performed single-unit recordings from neurons in layer 4 of adult ferret primary visual cortex to determine the receptive-field structure and visual-response properties of individual neurons. In particular, we asked what is the spatiotemporal structure of receptive fields of layer 4 neurons and what is the orientation selectivity of layer 4 neurons? Receptive fields of layer 4 neurons were mapped using a white-noise stimulus; orientation selectivity was determined using drifting, sine-wave gratings. Our results show that most neurons (84%) within layer 4 are simple cells with elongated, spatially segregated, ON and OFF subregions. These neurons are also selective for stimulus orientation; peaks in orientation-tuning curves have, on average, a half-width at half-maximum response of 21.5 +/- 1.2 degrees (mean +/- SD). The remaining neurons in layer 4 (16%) lack orientation selectivity and have center/surround receptive fields. Although the organization of geniculate inputs to layer 4 differs substantially between ferret and cat, our results demonstrate that, like in the cat, most neurons in ferret layer 4 are orientation-selective simple cells.
Much of the acute cutaneous neurogenic inflammation after intradermal injection of capsaicin (CAP) in rats is mediated by dorsal root reflexes (DRRs), which cause the release of inflammatory agents from primary afferent terminals. Sympathetic efferents modulate neurogenic inflammation by interaction with primary afferent terminals. In this study, we examined if DRR-mediated flare after CAP injection is subject to sympathetic modulation. Changes in cutaneous blood flow on the plantar surface of the foot were measured using a laser Doppler flow meter. After CAP injection, cutaneous flare spread more than 20 mm away from the site of CAP injection. However, this CAP-induced flare was significantly reduced after surgical sympathectomy. Decentralization of postganglionic neurons did not affect the flare induced by CAP injection. If the foot of sympathectomized rats was pretreated with an alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonist (phenylephrine) by intra-arterial injection, the spread of flare induced by CAP injection could be restored. However, if the spinal cord was pretreated with a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline, to prevent DRRs, phenylephrine no longer restored the CAP-evoked flare. An alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist (UK14,304) did not affect the CAP-evoked flare in sympathectomized rats. In sympathetically intact rats, blockade of peripheral alpha(1)-adrenoceptors with terazosin profoundly reduced the flare induced by CAP injection, whereas blockade of peripheral alpha(2)-adrenoceptors by yohimbine did not obviously affect the flare. Therefore the pathogenesis of acute neurogenic inflammation in the intradermal CAP injection model depends in part on intact sympathetic efferents and alpha(1)-adrenoceptors. Peripheral alpha(1)-adrenoceptors thus modulate the ability of capsaicin sensitive afferents to evoke the release of inflammatory agents from primary afferents by DRRs.
Recently we have shown that acute ethanol (EtOH) exposure suppresses dorsal root-evoked synaptic potentials in spinal motoneurons. To examine the synaptic mechanisms underlying the reduced excitatory activity, EtOH actions on properties of action potential-independent miniature excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs and mIPSCs) were studied in spinal motoneurons of newborn rats. Properties of mEPSCs generated by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) and non-NMDA receptors and of mIPSCs mediated by glycine and gamma-aminobutyric acid-A receptors (GlyR and GABA(A)R) were examined during acute exposure to 70 and 200 mM EtOH. In the presence of 70 mM EtOH, the frequency of NMDAR- and non-NMDAR-mediated mEPSCs decreased to 53 +/- 5 and 45 +/- 7% (means +/- SE) of control values, respectively. In contrast, the frequency of GlyR- and GABA(A)R-mediated mIPSCs increased to 138 +/- 15 and 167 +/- 23% of control, respectively. Based on the quantal theory of transmitter release, changes in the frequency of miniature currents are correlated with changes in transmitter release, suggesting that EtOH decreased presynaptic glutamate release and increased the release of both glycine and GABA. EtOH did not change the amplitude or rise and decay times of either mEPSCs or mIPSCs, indicating that the presynaptic changes were not associated with changes in the properties of postsynaptic receptors/channels. Acute exposure to 200 mM EtOH increased mIPSC frequency two- to threefold, significantly higher than the increase induced by 70 mM EtOH. However, the decrease in mEPSC frequency was similar to that observed in 70 mM EtOH. Those findings implied that the regulatory effect of EtOH on glycine and GABA release was dose-dependent. Exposure to the higher EtOH concentration had opposite actions on mEPSC and mIPSC amplitudes: it attenuated the amplitude of NMDAR- and non-NMDAR-mediated mEPSCs to ~80% of control and increased GlyR- and GABA(A)R-mediated mIPSC amplitude by ~20%. EtOH-induced changes in the amplitude of postsynaptic currents were not associated with changes in their basic kinetic properties. Our data suggested that in spinal networks of newborn rats, EtOH was more effective in modulating the release of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters than changing the properties of their receptors/channels.
Cardiac sac network activity (cycle period tens of seconds to minutes) has long been known to alter pyloric network activity (cycle period approximately 1 s), but these effects have not been quantified. Some pyloric muscles extract cardiac sac timed variations in pyloric motor neuron firing, and consequently produce cardiac sac timed movements even though no cardiac sac neurons innervate them. Determining pyloric behavior therefore requires detailed description of cardiac sac effects on pyloric neural output. Pyloric muscle activity correlates well with motor neuron overall spike frequency (OSF, number of spikes per burst divided by cycle period). We therefore quantified the effects of cardiac sac activity on the OSF of all pyloric neurons in the lobster, Panulirus interruptus. The ventricular dilator (VD) neuron had a biphasic response, with its OSF first increasing and then decreasing during cardiac sac bursts. Lateral pyloric (LP) neuron OSF decreased during cardiac sac activity. The pyloric (PY) neurons had two responses, with OSF either decreasing or increasing just after the beginning of cardiac sac activity. The pyloric dilator (PD) neurons had a triphasic response, with OSF increasing slightly at the beginning of cardiac sac activity, decreasing during the cardiac sac burst, and strongly increasing after cardiac sac activity ended. The inferior cardiac (IC) neuron had a biphasic response, with OSF decreasing at the beginning of cardiac sac activity and strongly increasing when cardiac sac activity ceased. These data provide the quantitative description of cardiac sac effects on pyloric activity necessary to predict pyloric movement from pyloric neural output.
Pain is associated with negative affect such as anxiety and depression. The amygdala plays a key role in emotionality and has been shown to undergo neuroplastic changes in models of affective disorders. Many neurons in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) are driven by nociceptive inputs, but the role of the amygdala in persistent pain states is not known. This study is the first to address nociceptive processing by CeA neurons in a model of prolonged pain. Extracellular single-unit recordings were made from 41 CeA neurons in anesthetized rats. Each neuron's responses to brief mechanical stimulation of joints, muscles, and skin and to cutaneous thermal stimuli were recorded. Background activity, receptive field size, and threshold were mapped, and stimulus-response functions were constructed. These parameters were measured repeatedly before and after induction of arthritis in one knee by intraarticular injections of kaolin and carrageenan. Multireceptive (MR) amygdala neurons (n = 20) with excitatory input from the knee joint responded more strongly to noxious than to innocuous mechanical stimuli of deep tissue (n = 20) and skin (n = 11). After induction of arthritis, 18 of 20 MR neurons developed enhanced responses to mechanical stimuli and expansion of receptive field size. These changes occurred with a biphasic time course (early peak: 1-1.5 h; persistent plateau phase: after 3-4 h). Responses to thermal stimuli did not change (7 of 7 neurons), but background activity (16 of 18 neurons) and electrically evoked orthodromic activity (11 of 12 neurons) increased in the arthritic state. Nociceptive-specific (NS) neurons (n = 13) showed no changes of their responses to mechanical, thermal, and electrical stimulation after induction of arthritis. A third group of neurons did not respond to somesthetic stimuli under control conditions (noSOM neurons; n = 8) but developed prolonged responses to mechanical, but not thermal, stimuli in arthritis (5 of 8 neurons). These data suggest that prolonged pain is accompanied by enhanced responsiveness of a subset of CeA neurons. Their sensitization to mechanical, but not thermal, stimuli argues against a nonspecific state of hyperexcitability. MR neurons could serve to integrate and evaluate information in the context of prolonged pain. Recruitment of noSOM neurons increases the gain of amygdala processing. NS neurons preserve the distinction between nociceptive and nonnociceptive inputs.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDA-R) has pivotal roles in neural development, learning, memory, and synaptic plasticity. Functional impairment of NMDA-R has been implicated in schizophrenia. NMDA-R activation requires glycine to act on the glycine-B (GlyB) site of the NMDA-R as an obligatory co-agonist with glutamate. Extracellular glycine near NMDA-R is regulated effectively by a glial glycine transporter (GlyT1). Using whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings in prefrontal cortex (PFC) slices, we have shown that exogenous GlyB site agonists glycine and D-serine, or a specific GlyT1 inhibitor N[3-(4'-fluorophenyl)-3-(4'-phenylphenoxy)propyl]sarcosine (NFPS) in the presence of exogenous glycine (10 microM), potentiated synaptically evoked NMDA excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in vitro. Furthermore, in urethan-anesthetized rats, microiontophoretic NMDA pulses excite single PFC neurons. When these responses were blocked by approximately 50% to approximately 90% on continuous iontophoretic application of the GlyB site, antagonist (+)HA-966, intravenous NFPS (5 mg/kg), or a GlyB site agonist D-serine (50 mg/kg iv) reversed this (+)HA-966 block. NFPS may elevate endogenous glycine levels sufficiently to displace (+)HA-966 from the GlyB sites of the NMDA-R, thus enabling reactivation of the NMDA-Rs by iontophoretic NMDA applications. D-Serine (50-100 mg/kg iv) or NFPS (1-2 mg/kg iv) alone also augmented NMDA-evoked excitatory responses. These data suggest that direct GlyB site stimulation by D-serine, or blockade of GLYT1 to elevate endogenous glycine to act on unsaturated GlyB sites on NMDA-Rs, potentiated NMDA-R-mediated firing responses in rat PFC. Hence, blockade of GlyT1 to elevate glycine near the NMDA-R may activate hypofunctional NMDA-R, which has been implicated to play a critical role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
The physiological and pharmacological properties of the motoneuron membrane and action potential were investigated in larval zebrafish using whole cell patch current-clamp recording techniques. Action potentials were eliminated in tetrodotoxin, repolarized by tetraethylammonium (TEA) and 3,4-diaminopyridine (3,4-AP)-sensitive potassium conductances, and had a cobalt-sensitive, high-threshold calcium component. Depolarizing current injection evoked a brief (approximately 10-30 ms) burst of action potentials that was terminated by strong, outwardly rectifying voltage-activated potassium and calcium-dependent conductances. In the presence of intracellular cesium ions, a prolonged plateau potential often followed brief depolarizations. During larval development (hatching to free-swimming), the resting membrane conductance increased in a population of motoneurons, which tended to reduce the apparent outward rectification of the membrane. The conductances contributing to action potential burst termination are hypothesized to play a role in patterning the synaptically driven motoneuron output in these rapidly swimming fish.
Mirror-image allodynia is a mysterious phenomenon that occurs in association with many clinical pain syndromes. Allodynia refers to pain in response to light touch/pressure stimuli, which normally are perceived as innocuous. Mirror-image allodynia arises from the healthy body region contralateral to the actual site of trauma/inflammation. Virtually nothing is known about the mechanisms underlying such pain. A recently developed animal model of inflammatory neuropathy reliably produces mirror-image allodynia, thus allowing this pain phenomenon to be analyzed. In this sciatic inflammatory neuropathy (SIN) model, decreased response threshold to tactile stimuli (mechanical allodynia) develops in rats after microinjection of immune activators around one healthy sciatic nerve at mid-thigh level. Low level immune activation produces unilateral allodynia ipsilateral to the site of sciatic inflammation; more intense immune activation produces bilateral (ipsilateral + mirror image) allodynia. The present studies demonstrate that both ipsilateral and mirror-image SIN-induced allodynias are (1) reversed by intrathecal (peri-spinal) delivery of fluorocitrate, a glial metabolic inhibitor; (2) prevented and reversed by intrathecal CNI-1493, an inhibitor of p38 mitogen-activated kinases implicated in proinflammatory cytokine production and signaling; and (3) prevented or reversed by intrathecal proinflammatory cytokine antagonists specific for interleukin-1, tumor necrosis factor, or interleukin-6. Reversal of ipsilateral and mirror-image allodynias was rapid and complete even when SIN was maintained constantly for 2 weeks before proinflammatory cytokine antagonist administration. These results provide the first evidence that ipsilateral and mirror-image inflammatory neuropathy pain are created both acutely and chronically through glial and proinflammatory cytokine actions.
Uncontrollable shock produces a constellation of behavioral changes that are not observed after equivalent escapable shock. These include interference with escape and potentiation of fear conditioning. The activation of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) receptors within the caudal dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) during inescapable tailshock (IS) has been shown to be critical for the development of these behavioral changes. CRH binds to two receptor subtypes, both of which are found in the DRN. The present set of studies examined which CRH receptor subtype mediates the effects of IS. Intra-DRN administration of the CRH(2) receptor antagonist anti-sauvagine-30 before IS dose-dependently blocked IS-induced behavioral changes; the CRH(1) receptor antagonist 2-methyl-4-(N-propyl-N-cycloproanemethylamino)-5-chloro-6-(2,4,6-trichloranilino)pyrimidine (NBI27914), administered in the same manner, did not. Moreover, the highly selective CRH(2) receptor agonist urocortin II (Ucn II) dose-dependently caused behavioral changes associated with IS in the absence of shock. Ucn II was effective at doses 100-fold lower than those previously required for CRH. The relationship between CRH(2) receptors and DRN 5-HT is discussed.
The physiological roles of neuronal gap junctions in the intact brain are not known. The recent generation of the connexin-36 knock-out (Cx36 KO) mouse has offered a unique opportunity to examine this problem. Recent in vitro recordings in Cx36 KO mice suggested that Cx36 gap junction contributes to various oscillatory patterns in the theta (approximately 5-10 Hz) and gamma (approximately 30-80 Hz) frequency ranges and affects certain aspects of high-frequency (&gt;100 Hz) patterns. However, the relevance of these pharmacologically induced patterns to the intact brain is not known. We recorded field potentials and unit activity in the CA1 stratum pyramidale of the hippocampus in the behaving wild-type (WT) and Cx36 KO mice. Fast-field &quot;ripple&quot; oscillations (140-200 Hz) were present in both WT and KO mice and did not differ significantly in power, intraepisode frequency, or probability of occurrence. Thus, fast-field oscillations either may not require electrical synapses or may be mediated by a hitherto unknown class of gap junctions. Theta oscillations, recorded during either wheel running or rapid eye movement sleep, were not different either. However, the power in the gamma frequency band and the magnitude of theta-phase modulation of gamma power were significantly decreased in KO mice compared with WT controls during wheel running. This suggests that Cx36 interneuronal gap junctions selectively contribute to gamma oscillations.
Growth cones of cortical axons pause for many hours in preparation for axon branching. They become large and complex compared with small advancing growth cones. We wanted to investigate whether calcium transients regulate the advance of mammalian CNS growth cones. We found that spontaneous calcium transients in developing cortical neurons have characteristic patterns, frequencies, and amplitudes. Importantly, neurons with large paused growth cones exhibit high-frequency spontaneous calcium transients, which are rare in those with small advancing growth cones. The incidence, frequencies, and amplitudes of calcium transients are inversely related to rates of axon outgrowth. The transients are mediated primarily by L-type voltage-gated calcium channels, and silencing them with channel blockers promotes axon outgrowth. Thus calcium transients regulate growth cone advance by direct effects on the growth cone.
Hypothalamic astroglial erbB tyrosine kinase receptors are required for the timely initiation of mammalian puberty. Ligand-dependent activation of these receptors sets in motion a glia-to-neuron signaling pathway that prompts the secretion of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), the neuropeptide controlling sexual development, from hypothalamic neuroendocrine neurons. The neuronal systems that may regulate this growth factor-mediated back signaling to neuroendocrine neurons have not been identified. Here we demonstrate that hypothalamic astrocytes contain metabotropic receptors of the metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 subtype and the AMPA receptor subunits glutamate receptor 2 (GluR2) and GluR3. As in excitatory synapses, these receptors are in physical association with their respective interacting/clustering proteins Homer and PICK1. In addition, they are associated with erbB-1 and erbB-4 receptors. Concomitant activation of astroglial metabotropic and AMPA receptors results in the recruitment of erbB tyrosine kinase receptors and their respective ligands to the glial cell membrane, transactivation of erbB receptors via a mechanism requiring metalloproteinase activity, and increased erbB receptor gene expression. By facilitating erbB-dependent signaling and promoting erbB receptor gene expression in astrocytes, a neuron-to-glia glutamatergic pathway may represent a basic cell-cell communication mechanism used by the neuroendocrine brain to coordinate the facilitatory transsynaptic and astroglial input to LHRH neurons during sexual development.
Fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) signaling is essential for nervous system development. We have shown that, in the normal postnatal brain, the spatial and temporal expression pattern of FGFR3 parallels the appearance of differentiated oligodendrocytes and that in culture FGFR3 is expressed maximally at the critical stage in the lineage at which oligodendrocyte late progenitors (Pro-OLs) enter terminal differentiation. Therefore, FGFR3 expression is positioned ideally to have an impact on oligodendrocyte differentiation. In support of this we show that, during the onset and active phase of myelination in FGFR3-deficient mice, there are reduced numbers of differentiated oligodendrocytes in the forebrain, cerebellum, hindbrain, and spinal cord. Furthermore, myelination is delayed in parallel. Delay of oligodendrocyte differentiation also is observed in primary cell culture from this mutant. On the other hand, no differences are observed in the survival or proliferation of oligodendrocyte progenitors. This suggests that the decrease in the number of differentiated oligodendrocytes is attributable to a delay in the timing of their differentiation process. Astrocytes also express FGFR3, and in mice lacking FGFR3 there is an enhancement of the astrocytic marker glial fibrillary acidic protein expression in a region-specific manner. Thus our findings suggest that there are cell type- and region-specific functions for FGFR3 signaling and in particular emphasize a prominent role for FGFR3 as part of a system regulating the onset of oligodendrocyte terminal differentiation.
Long-term depression (LTD) is an activity-dependent weakening of synaptic efficacy at individual inhibitory synapses, a possible cellular model of learning and memory. Here, we show that the induction of LTD of inhibitory transmission recruits activated calcineurin (CaN) to dephosphorylate type-A GABA receptor (GABA(A)Rs) via the direct binding of CaN catalytic domain to the second intracellular domain of the GABA(A)R-gamma(2) subunits. Prevention of the CaN-GABA(A) receptor complex formation by expression of an autoinhibitory domain of CaN in the hippocampus of transgenic mice blocks the induction of LTD. Conversely, genetic expression of the CaN catalytic domain in the hippocampus depresses inhibitory synaptic responses, occluding LTD. Thus, an activity-dependent physical and functional interaction between CaN and GABA(A) receptors is both necessary and sufficient for inducing LTD at CA1 individual inhibitory synapses.
Using a rat model of drug craving, we found that the responsiveness to cocaine cues progressively increases or incubates over the first 60 d of cocaine withdrawal. Here we studied whether alterations in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein levels within the mesolimbic dopamine system are associated with this incubation phenomenon. BDNF is involved in synaptic plasticity and was found to enhance responding for cues associated with natural rewards. Rats were trained to press a lever to receive intravenous cocaine or oral sucrose for 6 hr/d for 10 d; each earned reward was paired with a tone-light cue. Resumption of lever-pressing behavior was then assessed on days 1, 30, or 90 of reward withdrawal. First, resistance to extinction was assessed during 6 hr in which lever presses were not reinforced and the cue was absent. Second, cue-induced reinstatement was assessed after extinction during 1 hr in which responding led to cue presentations. Other rats were killed without testing on days 1, 30, and 90 of reward withdrawal, and BDNF and nerve growth factor (NGF) protein levels were measured in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), accumbens, and amygdala. Lever pressing during extinction and cue-induced reinstatement tests of cocaine craving progressively increased after cocaine withdrawal. Time-dependent changes also were observed during the tests for sucrose craving, with maximal responding on day 30. BDNF, but not NGF, levels in the VTA, accumbens, and amygdala progressively increased after cocaine, but not sucrose, withdrawal. Time-dependent increases in BDNF levels may lead to synaptic modifications that underlie enhanced responsiveness to cocaine cues after prolonged withdrawal periods.
Several thousand new neurons are produced each day in the adult mammalian hippocampus, among which only excitatory granule cells (GCs) have thus far been identified. In the present study, we used mutant Semliki Forest Virus vectors to express enhanced green fluorescent protein in the hippocampus, and observed that approximately 14% of newly generated neurons in the dentate gyrus of adult rats are GABAergic basket cells (BCs). With the use of double whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from BC-GC pairs in hippocampal slices, we demonstrate that newly generated BCs in the dentate gyrus form inhibitory synapses with principal GCs. These data show for the first time that functional inhibitory neurons are recruited in the dentate gyrus of adult rats.
Studies that provided a blueprint for the Certified Neuroscience Registered Nurse (CNRN) examination were conducted in 1987, 1992, and 1997. In 2000, the American Board of Neuroscience Nursing (ABNN) formed a task force to re-examine the previous role delineation survey, obtain information to define current neuroscience nursing practice, and provide content validity for future CNRN examinations. Previous role delineation studies conducted by ABNN and a review of the literature provided the background for the study. The theoretical framework was the Nursing Intervention Classification (NIC) taxonomy and the methodology was a survey design. Computer Adaptive Technologies, Inc. (CAT), assisted the task force with survey development and data analysis. The survey, a three-part questionnaire, was mailed to 1,505 CNRNs and returned by 453 participants.

The mechanisms involved in the loss of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), seen in brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in cultured cells treated by beta-amyloid peptides (A betas), remain elusive. We give results to show that lipid peroxidation induced directly by A beta might be involved in the deficits of nAChRs. In the study, PC12 cells were treated by addition of 5 microM of A beta(25-35) and A beta(1-40), respectively, with or without a antioxidant, vitamin E. Besides significantly decreased MTT (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5,diphenyltetrazolium bromide) reduction, an increased lipid peroxidation was detected in the cells, but no protein oxidation. Significant reductions in [(3)H]epibatidine and [(125)I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites and in the protein levels of the alpha 3 and alpha 7 nAChR subunits were observed in the cells treated with A betas. Furthermore, A beta(25-35) decreased the level of ubiquinone-9 in PC12 cells, but did not change the amount of cholesterol, providing further evidence for lipid peroxidation. Interestingly, when PC12 cells were pretreated by antioxidant before the addition of A betas, the lipid peroxidation and the decreased ubiquinone resulted from A betas were prohibited. The decreases of nAChR binding sites and subunit proteins resulted from A betas were mostly prevented by the pretreatment with antioxidant. These findings suggest that lipid peroxidation stimulated by A betas might be a mechanism for the loss of nAChRs associated with the pathogenesis of AD.
Apoptotic death is a physiological process with regulatory mechanisms that are under the control of different molecules such as caspases. These are classified as initiators, such as caspases-8 and -9, and effectors, such as caspases-3 and -7. The participation of caspase-2 in the effector phase of apoptosis has been commonly observed in many cell types; however, it is able to act as an initiator caspase, depending on the apoptotic stimulus. Cerebellar granule cells (CGCs) undergo apoptosis when they are transferred from high potassium (K25) to low potassium (K5); this process seems to be mediated by caspase-3 activation. Staurosporine (STS), a full strength inhibitor of kinase proteins, also induces apoptosis in these cells. To characterize the caspase cascade induced by two stimuli in the same cell type we studied the activation of different caspases in CGCs treated with STS or K5. We found that both K5 and STS induce the activation of caspase-3. This result was confirmed by the proteolytic cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), an endogenous caspase-3 substrate. Caspase-2 was activated preferentially by STS, which showed a temporal course suggesting that this caspase was induced before caspase-3. The initiator caspase-9 was also activated by both K5 and STS, as well as cytochrome-c release. The results obtained in this study suggest that STS and K5 induced different activation caspase pathways for apoptotic cell death of CGCs.
All previous analyses of axonal responses to traumatic axonal injury (TAI) have described the ultrastructure of changes in the cytoskeleton and axolemma within 6 h of injury. In the present study we tested the hypothesis that there are, in addition, ultrastructural pathological changes up to 1 week after injury. TAI was induced in the adult guinea pig optic nerve of nine animals. Three animals were killed at either 4 h, 24 h, or 7 days (d) after injury. Quantitative analysis of the number or proportion of axons within 0.5-micro m-wide bins showed an increase in the number of axons with a diameter of less than 0.5 micro m at 4 h, 24 h, and 7 d, the presence of lucent axons at 24 h and 7 d and that the highest number of injured axons occurred about half way along the length of the nerve. A spectrum of pathological changes occurred in injured fibers-pathology of mitochondria; dissociation of myelin lamellae but little damage to the axon; loss of linear register of the axonal cytoskeleton; differential responses between microtubules (MT) and neurofilaments (NF) in different sizes of axon; two different sites of compaction of NF; loss of both NF (with an increase in their spacing) and MT (with a reduction in their spacing); replacement of the axoplasm by a flocculent precipitate; and an increased length of the nodal gap. These provide the first ultrastructural evidence for Wallerian degeneration of nerve fibers in an animal model of TAI.
Fifty-one psychiatric, veteran outpatients were assessed for personality disorders on the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis II Disorders (SCID-II; First, Gibbon, Spitzer, Williams, &amp; Benjamin, 1997a) and were also administered the NEO Personality Inventory-Revised (NEO-PI-R; Costa &amp; McCrae, 1992). Results were compared to Trull and Widiger's (1997) hypotheses about the profiles of such patients and similar past studies. Correlations between NEO-PI-R facets and SCID-II personality disorder symptom clusters generally occurred in the expected direction. Facets hypothesized to be associated with a given personality disorder were able to predict variance in their respective SCID-II personality disorder scores for seven of ten personality disorders. In general, results support the facet-level conceptualizations of these disorders, except for Obsessive-Compulsive Personality Disorder.
Muscarinic receptors can mediate both contractile and relaxant responses in smooth muscle. The stomach fundus from wild-type mice possesses a neuronal M(1) receptor that mediates relaxation to carbamylcholine and (4-hydroxy-2-butynyl)-1-trimethylammonium-3-chlorocarbanilate chloride (McN-A-343) but is masked by M(3) receptor-mediated contraction to both agonists. When the M(3) receptor was deleted, cholinergic-induced relaxation was unmasked. M(1) receptor antagonism with pirenzepine, nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibition with N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride, and inhibition of neuronal activation with tetrodotoxin abolished relaxation to McN-A-343 in tissues from M(3) receptor knockout mice, supporting the neuronal localization of an M(1) receptor that activated NO release to effect relaxation. However, the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin did not affect contraction or relaxation to carbamylcholine in stomach fundus from wild-type or M(3) receptor knockout mice, indicating that cyclooxygenase products played no role in these responses. The neuronal M(1) receptor modulated relaxation induced by carbamylcholine and McN-A-343 but not relaxation induced by electric field stimulation of the stomach fundus. These data support the presence of M(1) receptor-mediated relaxation in the stomach and suggest that when the M(3) receptor is eliminated or blocked, M(1) receptor-mediated gastric relaxation may be enhanced, possibly leading to alterations in gastric emptying and subsequent effects on body weight.
The heritability of nociception and antinociception has been well established in the mouse. The pharmacogenetics of morphine analgesia are fairly well characterized, but far less is known about other analgesics. The purpose of this work was to begin the systematic genetic study of non-mu-opioid analgesics. We tested mice of 12 inbred mouse strains for baseline nociceptive sensitivity (49 degrees C tail-withdrawal assay) and subsequent antinociceptive sensitivity to systemic administration of (trans)-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)-cyclohexyl]benzeneacetamide methane-sulfonate hydrate (U50,488; 10-150 mg/kg), a kappa-opioid receptor agonist; (R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenylmethanone (WIN55,212-2; 0.5-480 mg/kg), a synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist; epibatidine (7.5-150 microg/kg), a nicotinic receptor agonist; clonidine (0.1-5 mg/kg), an alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor agonist; and, for purposes of comparison, the prototypic mu-opioid receptor agonist, morphine (5-200 mg/kg). Robust interstrain variability was observed in nociceptive sensitivity and in the antinociceptive effects of each of the drugs, with extreme-responding strains exhibiting antinociceptive potencies differing up to 37-fold. Unexpectedly, we observed moderate-to-high genetic correlations of strain sensitivities to the five drugs (r = 0.39-0.77). We also found moderate-to-high correlations between baseline nociceptive sensitivity and subsequent analgesic response to each drug (r = 0.33-0.68). The generalizability of these findings was established in follow-up experiments investigating morphine and clonidine inhibition of formalin test nociception. Despite the fact that each drug activates a unique receptor, our results suggest that the potency of each drug is affected by a common set of genes. However, the genes in question may affect antinociception indirectly, via a primary action on baseline nociceptive sensitivity.
Noda epileptic rat (NER) is a mutant rat, which spontaneously exhibits a tonic-clonic convulsion from 14 weeks of age. An intracellular recording study was performed to elucidate the abnormal excitability of NER hippocampal CA3 neurons. The recorded neurons were classified into two groups, group A and B neurons, according to the responses to a single stimulation of mossy fibers. In group A neurons, a stimulus elicited a long-lasting depolarization shift accompanying repetitive firings followed by after-hyperpolarization. In group B neurons, the same stimulus elicited a single spike without a long-lasting depolarization shift. Bath application of 1 mM Cd(2+), a nonselective Ca(2+) channel blocker, completely inhibited the abnormal excitation in group A neurons. We further examined the character of Ca(2+) spikes in NER CA3 neurons. Ca(2+) spikes were completely blocked by 10 microM Cd(2+) in group A neurons, but not in either group B or control neurons, suggesting that Ca(2+) channels in NER group A neurons have the hypersensitivity to Cd(2+). Analysis using subtype specific blockers of Ca(2+) channel raised the possible involvement of T-type Ca(2+) channels. These results suggest that Ca(2+) channel dysfunction is involved in the abnormal excitability of CA3 pyramidal neurons and pathogenesis of epilepsy in NER.
PSD-95 is one of the most abundant proteins found in the postsynaptic density of excitatory synapses. However, the precise functional role played by PSD-95 in regulating synaptic transmission and plasticity remains undefined. To address this issue, we have overexpressed PSD-95 in cortical pyramidal neurons in organotypic brain slices using particle-mediated gene transfer and assessed the consequences on synaptic transmission and plasticity. The AMPA receptor/NMDA receptor (AMPAR/NMDAR) ratio of evoked EPSCs recorded at +40 mV was greater in PSD-95-transfected pyramidal neurons than in controls. This difference could not be accounted for by a change in rectification of AMPAR-mediated synaptic currents since the current-voltage curves obtained in controls and in PSD-95-transfected neurons were indistinguishable. However, the amplitude of AMPAR-mediated evoked EPSCs was larger in PSD-95-transfected neurons compared to matched controls. Paired-pulse ratio analysis suggested that overexpression of PSD-95 did not alter presynaptic release probability. Transfection of PSD-95 was further accompanied by an increase in the frequency, but not amplitude, of AMPAR-mediated mEPSCs. Together, these results indicate that transfection of PSD-95 increased AMPAR-mediated synaptic transmission. Furthermore, they suggest that this phenomenon reflects an increased number of synapses expressing AMPARs rather than an increased number or function of these receptors at individual synapses. We tested the consequences of these changes on synaptic plasticity and found that PSD-95 transfection greatly enhanced the probability of observing long-term depression. These results thus identify a physiological role for PSD-95 and demonstrate that this protein can play a decisive role in controlling synaptic strength and activity-dependent synaptic plasticity.
Spontaneous miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) recorded in central neurons are usually highly variable in amplitude due to many factors such as intrinsic postsynaptic channel fluctuations at each release site, site-to-site variability between release sites, electrotonic attenuation due to variable dendritic locations of synapses, and the possibility of synchronous multivesicular release. A detailed knowledge of these factors is essential for the interpretation of mIPSC amplitude distributions and mean quantal size. We have studied glycinergic mIPSCs in two auditory brainstem nuclei, the rat anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN) and the mouse medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB). Our previous results have demonstrated the location of glycinergic synapses on these neurons to be somatic, thus avoiding electrotonic complications. Spontaneous glycinergic mIPSCs were recorded from AVCN and MNTB neurons in brainstem slices, in the presence of TTX to block action potentials, and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione, (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid and bicuculline to block glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic currents. Ruthenium red (RuR), which was used to increase the frequency of mIPSCs, significantly changed the shape of most (90 %) mIPSC amplitude distributions by increasing the proportion of large-amplitude mIPSCs. The possibility was investigated (following previous evidence at GABAergic synapses) that large-amplitude glycinergic mIPSCs are due to synchronous multivesicular release initiated by presynaptic calcium sparks from ryanodine-sensitive calcium stores. Interval analysis of mIPSCs indicated that the number of potentially undetected (asynchrony &lt; 0.5 ms) multivesicular mIPSCs was low in comparison with the number of large-amplitude mIPSCs. Ryanodine, thapsigargin and calcium-free perfusate did not reduce the frequency of large-amplitude mIPSCs (&gt; 150 pA), arguing against a significant role for presynaptic calcium stores. Our results support previous evidence suggesting that RuR increases miniature postsynaptic current (mSC) frequency by a mechanism that does not involve presynaptic calcium stores. Our results also indicate that at glycinergic synapses in the AVCN and MNTB, site-to-site variability in mIPSC amplitude, rather than multivesicular release, is a major factor underlying the large range of amplitudes of glycinergic mIPSCs.

Stimulation of human H1 and H2-histamine receptors (HRs) primarily activates signaling pathways to increase intracellular calcium [Ca2+]i and cyclic AMP (cAMP), respectively. Activation of H2-HR in human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells by histamine and dimaprit increases both cAMP formation and [Ca2+]i, as determined by cAMP-scintillation proximity assays and fluorescence imaging plate reader (FLIPR) assays. In HEK cells expressing relatively high levels of H2-HR (Bmax=26 pmol/mg protein), histamine and dimaprit are full agonists in eliciting cAMP responses with pEC50 values of 9.30 and 7.72 that are 1000-fold more potent than their respective pEC50 values of 6.13 and 4.91 for increasing [Ca2+]i. The agonist potencies decrease for both responses at lower H2-HR density (5 pmol/mg protein) and dimaprit exhibits partial agonist behavior for the [Ca2+]i response. The inverse agonists ranitidine and cimetidine more potently inhibit cAMP production in the higher expressing H2-HR line. Histamine also activated both signaling pathways via human H1-HRs highly expressed (Bmax=17 pmol/mg protein) in HEK cells, with a 1000-fold greater potency for [Ca2+]i vs. cAMP responses (pEC50=7.86 and 4.82, respectively). These studies demonstrate a markedly different potency for activation of multiple signaling pathways by H1- and H2-HRs that may contribute to the selectivity of histamine responses in vivo.


Neuroanatomical structures may be profoundly or subtly affected by the interplay of genetic and environmental factors, age, and disease. Such effects are particularly true in healthy ageing individuals and in those who have neurodegenerative diseases. The ability to use imaging to identify structural brain changes associated with different neurodegenerative disease states would be useful for diagnosis and treatment. However, early in the progression of such diseases, neuroanatomical changes may be too mild, diffuse, or topologically complex to be detected by simple visual inspection or manually traced measurements of regions of interest. Computerised methods are being developed that can capture the extraordinary morphological variability of the human brain. These methods use mathematical models sensitive to subtle changes in the size, position, shape, and tissue characteristics of brain structures affected by neurodegenerative diseases. Neuroanatomical features can be compared within and between groups of individuals, taking into account age, sex, genetic background, and disease state, to assess the structural basis of normality and disease. In this review, we describe the strengths and limitations of algorithms of existing computer-assisted tools at the most advanced stage of development, together with available and foreseeable evidence of their usefulness at the clinical and research level.
Partial volume averaging of signal from multiple sclerosis lesions influences biexponential fitting of the water T2 relaxation as used for tissue/CSF segmentation of spectroscopic volumes. Periventricular volumes-of-interest comprising CSF, lesion and normal-appearing white matter in varying proportion were studied. The relaxation of the localized water signal was measured at 12 echo times (STEAM, geometric spacing from 30 ms to 2000 ms, least-squares fit). Magnetization transfer (MT) was applied to identify contributions of tissue signal to the CSF component. The T2 of the longlived component (T2(long)=433-1782 ms) and its prolongation after MT were inversely correlated to the MT ratio. Hence, short T2(long) is associated with overestimation of CSF partial volume, and thus metabolite concentrations. A T2-correction for the CSF partial volume was suggested and applied to the quantification of MR spectra of large MS lesions. The T2 of bulk CSF (2280+/-87 ms) and the influence of the TE sampling scheme were also studied.
In a differential display screening for genes regulated by retinoic acid in the developing chick limb bud, we have isolated a novel gene, termed rigf, retinoic-acid induced growth factor, that encodes a protein belonging to the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) family. Rigf transcripts were found in the posterior region of the limb bud in a region-specific manner as well as in other embryonic tissues and regions, including the notochord, head and trunk mesenchyme, retinal pigment epithelium, and branchial arches. Several manipulations revealed that retinoic acid and sonic hedgehog signaling pathways regulate rigf expression in the limb bud. VEGF family members, which promote the migration, differentiation and proliferation of endothelial cells in both blood and lymphatic vessels, are important factors for the formation of blood and lymphatic vasculatures during development. We demonstrated that the anterior border of the rigf expression domain in the limb bud corresponds with the position of the primary central artery (the subclavian artery in the forelimb), which is a main artery for supplying blood to the limb. These observations taken together with results from some experimental manipulations suggest that the limb tissue attracts blood vessels into the limb bud and that rigf is involved in the pattern formation of blood vessels in the limb.
There is evidence suggesting that the primary (idiopathic) mental disorders are due to epimutations involving genes that determine the structure of the brain. Although in the past it has been suggested that the genes underlying the primary mental disorders may be unidentifiable, recent developments in neuroscience suggest otherwise. This paper outlines various epigenetic strategies that may help identify the genes underlying these disorders.
As a fundamental rule of nature, the shape of a functioning organ should never be considered accidental. Since the principal rules for a self-organizing neural network are not sufficient for determining the shape and anatomic features of the brain, these must be governed by other rules. Ontogeny of the global shape of the brain is guided by radial glial fibers. The rules defining the growth pattern of radial glial fibers, therefore, should be the rules for a self-organization for the shape of the brain. In this work, the overall shape and structural anatomic detail of the human brain was successfully simulated utilizing self-organization rules of heat convection represented by Boussinesq partial differential equations. The result suggests that radial glial fibers may grow in Markovian fashion, guided by gaseous substrates moving miniature distances according to a convection schema. The result also holds implication that the shape of the brain has specific physical meaning in the creation of a virtual sphere, which in turn ensures equivalence of columns within the entire cortex, the well-known vital fundamental of brain organization.


Intracellular calcium handling by rat olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) is implicated in their support for regrowth of adult CNS neurites in a coculture model of axonal regeneration. Pretreatment of OECs with BAPTA-AM to sequester glial intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) reduces significantly the numbers of cocultured neurons regrowing neurites. The mean resting [Ca(2+)](i) of OECs cultured alone or with neurons was 300 nM in an external solution containing 2.5 mM calcium ([Ca(2+)](o)). In high [K(+)](o) or zero [Ca(2+)](o), resting [Ca(2+)](i) significantly decreased. [Ca(2+)](i) significantly increased when [Ca(2+)](o) was increased to 20 mM, lonomycin, thapsigargin, and thimerosal increased [Ca(2+)](i), and caffeine, ryanodine, and cyclopiazonic acid were without effect. Of the receptor agonists tested, none induced a change in [Ca(2+)](i). The calcium influx induced by high [Ca(2+)](o) was blocked by La(3+) and SKF96365, partially inhibited by Cd(2+), and insensitive to Ni(2+) and nifedipine. Pretreatment of OECs with La(3+) reduced neurite regrowth in cocultures in a concentration-dependent manner over the range that blocked the non-voltage-gated calcium flux through a putative TRP-like channel, which, we propose, is activated in OEC-mediated axonal regeneration.
To understand the mechanisms of retinal atrophy in cathepsin D-deficient mice, the postnatal development of their retinae was analyzed. TUNEL-positive cells appeared abundantly in the outer nuclear layer (ONL) and slightly in the inner nuclear layer (INL). Nitric oxide synthase (NOS) was induced in microglial cells which invaded retinal layers and phagocytosed dead cell debris, while NOS inhibitors prevented cell death in the INL but not in the ONL. Caspases 9 and 3 were activated only in the ONL after P15. Moreover, no atrophic change was detected in the retina of mice deficient in cathepsin B or L. These results suggest that cathepsin D is essential for the metabolic maintenance of retinal photoreceptor cells and that its deficiency induces apoptosis of the cells, while the loss of INL neurons is mediated by NO from microglial cells.
Two functional types of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are expressed when human embryonic kidney cells are permanently transfected with equal amounts of human alpha4 and beta2 subunit cDNAs. Most (82%) of these nAChRs exhibit an EC(50) of 74 +/- 6 microM for ACh, a much lower sensitivity than the remaining fraction (EC(50) of 0.7 +/- 0.4 microM) or than expected from expression of equal amounts of alpha4 and beta2 mRNAs in Xenopus laevis oocytes. We have found three conditions that can increase the number of nAChRs with high sensitivity to activation. These are: 1) transient transfection with additional beta2 subunits, 2) overnight incubation in nicotine, or 3) overnight culture at 29 degrees C. Using metabolic labeling with [(35)S]methionine to measure subunit stoichiometry, we found that the majority of nAChRs had a stoichiometry of (alpha4)(3)(beta2)(2). Overnight treatment with nicotine increased the number of nAChRs and increased the proportion of the (alpha4)(2)(beta2)(3) stoichiometry. Alternate alpha4beta2 nAChR stoichiometries with distinct functional properties raise the possibility for an interesting mode of synaptic regulation for nicotinic signaling in the mammalian brain.
In this study, we analyzed the intracellular mechanisms leading to basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF)-dependent production of NO in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)-K1 cells and a possible physiological role for such an effect. bFGF induces NO production through the activation of the endothelial form of NO synthase (eNOS), causing a subsequent increase in the cGMP levels. In these cells, the activation of eNOS by bFGF is Ca(2+)- and mitogen-activated protein kinase-independent. The translocation of the enzyme from the plasma membrane, where it is located in caveolae bound to caveolin 1, to the cytosol is the crucial step for the synthesis of NO through the eNOS isoform. We demonstrate that bFGF activates a sphingomyelinase to synthesize ceramide, which, in turn, allows the dissociation of eNOS from caveolin 1 and its translocation to the cytosol in the active form, where it catalyzes the synthesis of NO. In fact, drugs interfering with sphingomyelinase activity blocked bFGF activation of eNOS, and an increase in ceramide content was detected after bFGF treatment. Moreover, in fibroblasts derived from patients with Niemann-Pick disease, in which the enzyme is genetically inactive, bFGF is unable to elicit eNOS activation. The NO produced after bFGF treatment, through the activation of guanylyl cyclase and protein kinase G, mediates a mitogen-activated protein kinase-independent cell proliferation. In conclusion, our data show that, in CHO-K1 cells, bFGF regulates the activity of eNOS through a novel intracellular pathway, involving the induction of ceramide synthesis and that the NO released participates in bFGF proliferative activity.
Food restriction leads to a paradoxical increase in physical activity and further suppression of food intake, such as observed in anorexia nervosa.(1,2) To understand this pathophysiological process, we induced physical hyperactivity and self-starvation in rats by restricting food in the presence of running wheels. Normally, decreased melanocortin receptor activity will prevent starvation.(3,4) However, we found that self-starvation increased melanocortin receptors in the ventral medial hypothalamus, a brain region involved in eating behavior.(5) Suppression of melanocortin receptor activity, via central infusion of Agouti-related protein (AgRP), increased survival rate in these rats by counteracting physical hyperactivity, food intake suppression as well as deregulated body temperature. We conclude that self-starvation may result from insufficient suppression of central melanocortin receptor activity.

The 42-amino-acid isoform of beta-amyloid Abeta42 in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) has recently been proposed as a biochemical marker for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and subcortical white-matter dementia (SWD). In both of these conditions, concentration of CSF-Abeta42 is reduced. We quantified CSF-Abeta42 from patients fulfilling strict clinical criteria for multiple system atrophy (MSA; n = 36), Parkinson's disease (PD; n = 48) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP; n = 15). The study groups were consecutively recruited among patients referred to a movement disorder unit, and 32 healthy, age-matched volunteers were used as controls. The CSF concentration of Abeta42 was significantly reduced in the MSA group (P &lt; 0.001), whereas the PD and PSP groups did not differ from controls. On an individual basis, low content of Abeta42 was seen in 9 MSA patients regardless of age and disease duration. Three PD patients with long disease duration also had low concentrations but all PSP patients were normal. We conclude that the reduced CSF-Abeta42 concentration may be a clue to the pathogenesis of MSA. There is a decreased production, or more possible, an increased consumption of CSF-Abeta42. The analysis of this protein may also become a supplement to the clinical differentiation of parkinsonian syndromes in a movement disorder unit.
Tremor is one of the cardinal signs of Parkinson's disease (PD) but its response to antiparkinsonian medication is variable. It has been postulated that pramipexole may have a stronger antiparkinsonian tremor effect than pergolide, another direct acting dopamine agonist medication, possibly because the former has preferential affinity for the dopamine D3 receptor. The purpose of this pilot study was to compare the effects of a single oral dose of either pramipexole (Pr) or pergolide (Pe) or placebo (Pl) on parkinsonian tremor and the motor (part III) subsection of the UPDRS. Ten patients (6 men, 4 women), mean age 65.3 years, mean duration from diagnosis of 2.6 years, with tremor dominant PD were recruited. On three separate occasions a single dose of pramipexole (salt) 500 microg, pergolide 500 microg or placebo were administered in random order to each patient, who were pretreated with domperidone and had their antiparkinsonian medication withheld from midnight before study. After each medication patients were assessed at baseline and then every 30 min for 4 hr using a 0 to 10 tremor rating scale and the UPDRS (part III) in a double-blind protocol. Adverse effects were systematically recorded. The results demonstrate that 500 microg of either pramipexole or pergolide reduced PD rest tremor scores to a similar degree, which at peak effect was significantly greater than placebo (respectively Pe v Pl: P &lt; 0.006, Pr v Pl: P &lt; 0.033). The two active drugs also had weaker beneficial effects on the UPDRS part III. Pergolide, however, was significantly more likely than pramipexole to cause nausea (P = 0.005) or vomiting (P = 0.014).
Thalamic deep brain stimulation (DBS) is proven to suppress tremor in Parkinson's disease (PD) and essential tremor (ET). However, there are few reports on its long-term efficacy. We studied the efficacy of DBS at 2 years and 6-7 years after electrode implantations in the ventrointermediate nucleus of the thalamus in 39 patients (20 PD, 19 ET) with severe tremor. Twenty-five of the patients completed the study. Evaluations were done in a double-blind manner with the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and Essential Tremor Rating Scale (ETRS). DBS decreased tremor sum scores in PD (P &lt; 0.025) compared to the preoperative baseline (median, 7; Q25-75, 6-9) both at 2 years (median, 2; Q25-75, 2-3.5; n = 16) and at 6 to 7 years (median, 2.5; Q25-75, 0.5-3; n = 12). Stimulation on improved tremor sum as well as sub scores (P &lt; 0.025) compared to stimulation off conditions. In ET, thalamic stimulation improved (P &lt; 0.025) kinetic and positional tremor at both follow-up periods (n = 18 and n = 13, respectively) with significant improvements (P &lt; 0.025) in hand-function tests. PD but not ET patients showed a general disease progression. Stimulation parameters were remarkably stable over time. We conclude that high-frequency electric thalamic stimulation can efficiently suppress severe tremor in PD and ET more than 6 years after permanent implantation of brain electrodes.
The present study was designed to determine the potential of CB1 cannabinoid receptor modulating compounds in the treatment of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa)-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease. In the reserpine-treated rat model of parkinsonism, administration of a high dose of L-dopa (150 mg/kg) but not of Cl-APB (0.5 mg/kg) or quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg) produced a hyperkinetic state characterised by an increase in horizontal and vertical activity, which likely represent correlates of antiparkinsonian and dyskinetic activity, respectively. Injection of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR141716 (0.1-3 mg/kg) reduced the increase in vertical activity elicited by L-dopa without affecting the increase in horizontal activity. Injection of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 (0.1-3 mg/kg) reduced the L-dopa-induced increase in vertical activity and, at the highest dose only (3 mg/kg), also reduced horizontal activity elicited by L-dopa. WIN55,212-2 (1 mg/kg) reduced motor activity induced by both the D1 receptor agonist Cl-APB (0.5 mg/kg) and the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg) in the reserpine-treated rat. SR141716 (1 mg/kg) had no effects on motor activity induced by Cl-APB (0.5 mg/kg) nor quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg) in the reserpine-treated rat. Injection of the inhibitor of endocannabinoid transport AM404 (0.1-1 mg/kg) did not affect the increase in horizontal or vertical activity elicited by L-dopa (150 mg/kg) in the reserpine-treated rat. The data suggest that both CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonists and agonists can modulate the behavioural effects of L-dopa and may be useful for the treatment of the dyskinesia associated with long-term L-dopa treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). The loss of these neurons is associated with a glial response composed mainly of activated microglial cells and, to a lesser extent, of reactive astrocytes. This glial response may be the source of trophic factors and can protect against reactive oxygen species and glutamate. Alternatively, this glial response can also mediate a variety of deleterious events related to the production of pro-oxidant reactive species, and pro-inflammatory prostaglandin and cytokines. We discuss the potential protective and deleterious effects of glial cells in the SNpc of PD and examine how those factors may contribute to the pathogenesis of this disease.
Asymmetric cell division is important in generating cell diversity from bacteria to mammals. Drosophila melanogaster neuroblasts are a useful model system for investigating asymmetric cell division because they establish distinct apical-basal cortical domains, have an asymmetric mitotic spindle aligned along the apical-basal axis, and divide unequally to produce a large apical neuroblast and a small basal daughter cell (GMC). Here we show that Discs large (Dlg), Scribble (Scrib) and Lethal giant larvae (Lgl) tumour suppressor proteins regulate multiple aspects of neuroblast asymmetric cell division. Dlg/Scrib/Lgl proteins show apical cortical enrichment at prophase/metaphase, and then have a uniform cortical distribution. Mutants have defects in basal protein targeting, a reduced apical cortical domain and reduced apical spindle size. Defects in apical cell and spindle pole size result in symmetric or inverted neuroblast cell divisions. Inverted divisions correlate with the appearance of abnormally small neuroblasts and large GMCs, showing that neuroblast/GMC identity is more tightly linked to cortical determinants than cell size. We conclude that Dlg/Scrib/Lgl are important in regulating cortical polarity, cell size asymmetry and mitotic spindle asymmetry in Drosophila neuroblasts.

Affective experience has been described in terms of two primary dimensions: intensity and valence. In the human brain, it is intrinsically difficult to dissociate the neural coding of these affective dimensions for visual and auditory stimuli, but such dissociation is more readily achieved in olfaction, where intensity and valence can be manipulated independently. Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we found amygdala activation to be associated with intensity, and not valence, of odors. Activity in regions of orbitofrontal cortex, in contrast, were associated with valence independent of intensity. These findings show that distinct olfactory regions subserve the analysis of the degree and quality of olfactory stimulation, suggesting that the affective representations of intensity and valence draw upon dissociable neural substrates.


The neurokinin (NK) receptors, NK(1) and NK(2), which are activated by substance P (SP) and NKA, have been identified as potential therapeutic targets in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Here we have investigated the effects of a novel dual NK(1) and NK(2) receptor antagonist, namely DNK333 upon responses elicited by [Sar(9), Met(O(2))(11)]-SP (SMSP) and [betaAla(8)]-NKA(4-10) in isolated human colon mucosa mounted in Ussing chambers. A selective NK(1) receptor antagonist, SR140333 and NK(2) receptor antagonist, SR48968 have been tested for comparison. Additions of SMSP (100 nM) or [betaAla(8)]-NKA(4-10) (100 nM) increased basal short-circuit current and responses to both peptides were inhibited by DNK333, while SR140333 only inhibited SMSP and SR48968 blocked only [betaAla(8)]-NKA(4-10) responses. SR140333 did not attenuate [betaAla(8)]-NKA(4-10) effects and SR48968 had no effect upon SMSP responses. Carbachol (1 micro M) responses were not altered by any of the three NK antagonists. We conclude that activation of either NK(1) or NK(2) receptors can stimulate epithelial ion transport in human colon mucosa and that the novel dual antagonist, DNK333 may be of potential therapeutic interest in the treatment of IBD and IBS.
In the mammalian brain 5-HT(1B) receptors are present as autoreceptors regulating the release of serotonin (5-HT) by inhibitory feedback. The antagonistic properties of NAS-181 ((R)-(+)-2-[[[3-(Morpholinomethyl)-2H-chromen-8-yl]oxy]methyl] morpholine methane sulfonate), a new selective antagonist for the rodent 5-HT(1B) receptor, were determined by using an agonist-induced decrease of extracellular 5-HT. The 5-HT(1B) receptor agonist CP93129 (0.030.3 microM) applied by reversed microdialysis, dose-dependently reduced 5-HT levels in rat frontal cortex. The suppressant effect of CP93129 (0.1 microM) was smaller in the presence of fluvoxamine (3-10 microM), a 5-HT reuptake inhibitor. The effects of NAS-181 on CP93129 were compared with GR127935, a mixed 5-HT (1B/1D) receptor antagonist, and SB224289, a 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist. Both in the presence and absence of fluvoxamine, the suppressant effect of CP93129 on extracellular 5-HT was attenuated by NAS-181 (1 microM) and GR127935 (10 microM), but not by SB224289 (1 microM). In the absence of fluvoxamine, GR127935, SB224289 and NAS-181 all reduced 5-HT levels, suggesting partial agonistic properties of these compounds. In conclusion, the results show that NAS-181 is a potent 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist.
Multi-electrode recordings in neural tissue contain the action potential waveforms of many closely spaced neurons. While we can observe the action potential waveforms, we cannot observe which neuron is the source for which waveform nor how many source neurons are being recorded. Current spike-sorting algorithms solve this problem by assuming a fixed number of source neurons and assigning the action potentials given this fixed number. We model the spike waveforms as an anisotropic Gaussian mixture model and present, as an alternative, a reversible-jump Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm to simultaneously estimate the number of source neurons and to assign each action potential to a source. We derive this MCMC algorithm and illustrate its application using simulated three-dimensional data and real four-dimensional feature vectors extracted from tetrode recordings of rat entorhinal cortex neurons. In the analysis of the simulated data our algorithm finds the correct number of mixture components (sources) and classifies the action potential waveforms with minimal error. In the analysis of real data, our algorithm identifies clusters closely resembling those previously identified by a user-dependent graphical clustering procedure. Our findings suggest that a reversible-jump MCMC algorithm could offer a new strategy for designing automated spike-sorting algorithms.


The early growth response 2 (EGR2) transcription factor plays a crucial role in peripheral nerve myelination. Mutations of this gene are associated with a wide variety of demyelinating neuropathies differing from each other in the severity of nerve injury. Although the expression of EGR2 mutants inhibits the transactivation of myelin gene promoters, the exact molecular mechanism by which these mutations cause the alteration of the myelination process is still unknown. Recently, it was reported that EGR2 is directly involved in the transcriptional regulation of Connexin 32, a myelin gene frequently mutated in peripheral neuropathies. Here we describe the differential effect of two EGR2 mutants; while mutant D355V partially induces Cx32 promoter, mutant R381H does not. Furthermore, we show that a sequence located at -216, recognized by the wild-type and the mutant D355V recombinant proteins, is relevant for promoter transactivation.
Epilepsy, a functional disturbance of the CNS and induced by abnormal electrical discharges, manifests by recurrent seizures. Although new antiepileptic drugs have been developed during recent years, still more than one third of patients with epilepsy are refractory to treatment. Therefore, the search for new mechanisms that can regulate cellular excitability are of utmost importance. Three currently available drugs are of special interest because they have novel mechanisms of action and are especially effective for partial onset seizures. Vigabatrin is a selective and irreversible GABA-transaminase inhibitor that greatly increases whole-brain levels of GABA. Tiagabine is a potent inhibitor of GABA uptake into neurons and glial cells. Topiramate is considered to produce its antiepileptic effect through several mechanisms, including modification of Na(+)-and/or Ca(2+)-dependent action potentials, enhancement of GABA-mediated Cl- fluxes into neurons, and inhibition of kainate-mediated conductance at glutamate receptors of the AMPA/kainate type. This review will discuss these mechanisms of action at the cellular and molecular levels.
Astrocytes are now known to be involved in the most integrated functions of the central nervous system. These functions are not only necessary for the normally working brain but are also critically involved in many pathological conditions, including stroke. Astrocytes may contribute to damage by propagating spreading depression or by sending proapoptotic signals to otherwise healthy tissue via gap junction channels. Astrocytes may also inhibit regeneration by participating in formation of the glial scar. On the other hand, astrocytes are important in neuronal antioxidant defense and secrete growth factors, which probably provide neuroprotection in the acute phase, as well as promoting neurogenesis and regeneration in the chronic phase after injury. A detailed understanding of the astrocytic response, as well as the timing and location of the changes, is necessary to develop effective treatment strategies for stroke patients.

The 5HT3 receptor antagonist alosetron has been tested in several trials on irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) patients. The aim of the present meta-analysis was to determine its effect on adequate relief of pain or global improvement of symptoms in IBS patients. Six large, multicentre, randomized, placebo-controlled trials fulfilled pre-set criteria for high quality and were included in the meta-analysis; 1762 patients were randomized to alosetron treatment and 1356 to placebo. Seventy-five per cent of the patients experienced diarrhoea-predominant IBS and 93% were females. The pooled odds ratio for adequate relief of pain or global symptoms improvement was 1.81 [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.57-2.10). The average number of patients needed to treat with alosetron for one patient to achieve improvement over placebo treatment was seven (95% CI 5.74-9.43). The present analysis shows that alosetron 1 mg b.i.d. positively impacts global symptoms, and pain and discomfort in non-constipated IBS female patients. One in four patients treated with alosetron may develop constipation. The efficacy of alosetron is unclear in male patients.
Although it is accepted that functional changes of the cortex can occur in patients with white matter diseases of the brain and might have an adaptive role in limiting the clinical consequences of subcortical injury, the pathological substrates able to elicit such cortical changes are still unknown. This multiparametric magnetic resonance study of a patient with an early diagnosis of subacute combined degeneration suggests that demyelination alone does not necessarily induce adaptive functional changes of the cerebral cortex.
An influential model of conceptual knowledge claims that objects are represented in a distributed network of cortical areas that store information about different types of attributes, such as form, colour, and motion (A. Martin et al., 2000, in: The Cognitive Neurosciences, 2nd ed., MIT Press, Cambridge). Two specific claims of this account are that (a) the motions and actions associated with objects (along with other attributes) are automatically activated whenever the object concept is evoked and (b) topographically distinct neural regions are responsible for motion/action attributes pertaining to objects in the categories of tools and animals. We used fMRI to examine the neural activation associated with conceptual processing of nouns referring to animals and tools and for verbs referring to tool-associated actions (e.g., drilling, painting) and biological actions (e.g., walking, jumping). We found that object names and their associated actions activated the same set of neural regions (left fusiform gyrus, superior and middle temporal cortex) consistent with the claim that word tool and animal concepts implicitly activate the actions associated with them. However, there was no evidence of category specificity for either objects or actions, with essentially the same activations for the form and motion attributes of both living and nonliving categories.
We determined the reproducibility of both the direction and the effect size of the word frequency effect (WFE) as it relates to associative semantic judgments. Sixteen volunteers were scanned twice. At the group level of analysis, signal change and voxel counting could both reproducibly detect the existence of a WFE. However, signal change data showed less intersession variation, particularly in the left inferior frontal gyrus. The effect size of WFE was well reproduced only with signal change measurements. In consideration of the signal change data, statistical threshold did not have a major effect on the detection or determination of the effect size. In general, while the direction of the WFE was reasonably reproducible at the individual level, the effect size was far less well reproduced. These findings suggest that with existing techniques, fMRI may be used to track changes in brain activation stemming from improvement in language proficiency at the group level but not at the individual level.
Macroscopic magnetic field inhomogeneities severely limit sensitivity of blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) functional MRI (fMRI) in frontal and central brain regions close to brain stem. A single-shot multiecho echo-planar imaging method (TurboPEPSI) was developed that combines quantitative T(2)* mapping with gradient compensation of local susceptibility inhomogeneities in multiple volumes of interest (VOIs). Gradient compensation was optimized in individual subjects based on magnetic field mapping and applied at selected echo times, interleaved with acquisition of uncompensated echoes. Intrinsic T(2)* values from uncompensated echoes were obtained in real-time simultaneously with effective T(2)* values from gradient compensated echoes. It is demonstrated that up to three VOIs can be compensated in a single excitation, in addition to collecting uncompensated data, using 8-echo acquisition on a clinical 1.5 Tesla scanner. A theory was developed to optimize the sequence of uncompensated and compensated echoes to achieve maximum BOLD sensitivity. Gradient compensation increased effective T(2)* values in left and right amygdala on average by 18.8 +/- 7.5 ms, while maintaining sensitivity in uncompensated brain areas. In orbitofrontal cortex effective T(2)* values increased by 22.2 +/- 5.3 ms. A CO(2) challenge paradigm was used to demonstrate that this gradient compensation method significantly enhances BOLD signal changes in amygdala as compared to conventional echo-planar imaging (EPI) and uncompensated TurboPEPSI.
A saccade involves both a step in eye position and an obligatory shift in spatial attention. The traditional division of saccades into two types, the &quot;reflexive&quot; saccade made in response to an exogenous stimulus change in the visual periphery and the &quot;voluntary&quot; saccade based on an endogenous judgement to move gaze, is supported by lines of evidence which include the longer onset latency of the latter and the differential effects of lesions in humans and primates on each. It has been supposed that differences between the two types of saccade derive from differences in how the spatial attention shifts involved in each are processed. However, while functional imaging studies have affirmed the close link between saccades and attentional shifts by showing they activate overlapping cortical networks, attempts to contrast exogenous with endogenous (&quot;covert&quot;) attentional shifts directly have not revealed separate patterns of cortical activation. We took the &quot;overt&quot; approach, contrasting whole reflexive and voluntary saccades using event-related fMRI. This demonstrated that, relative to reflexive saccades, voluntary saccades produced greater activation within the frontal eye fields and the saccade-related area of the intraparietal sulci. The reverse contrast showed reflexive saccades to be associated with relative activation of the angular gyrus of the inferior parietal lobule, strongest in the right hemisphere. The frequent involvement of the right inferior parietal lobule in lesions causing hemispatial neglect has long implicated this parietal region in an important, though as yet uncertain, role in the awareness and exploration of space. This is the first study to demonstrate preferential activation of an area in its posterior part, the right angular gyrus, during production of exogenously triggered rather than endogenously generated saccades, a finding which we propose is consistent with an important role for the angular gyrus in exogenous saccadic orienting.
Changes in intrinsic optical signals could be related to cell swelling; however, the evidence is not compelling. We measured light transmittance, ECS volume fraction (alpha), and extracellular K+ in rat spinal cord slices during electrical stimulation and the application of elevated potassium, NMDA, or anisoosmotic solutions. Dorsal root stimulation (10 Hz/1 min) induced an elevation in extracellular K+ to 6-8 mM, a light transmittance increase of 6-8%, and a relative ECS volume decrease of less than 5%; all of these changes had different time courses. The application of 6 or 10 mM K+ or NMDA (10(-5) M) had no measurable effect on alpha, but light transmittance increased by 20-25%. The application of 50 or 80 mM K+ evoked a 72% decrease in alpha while the light transmittance increase remained as large as that in 6 or 10 mM K+. While the change in alpha persisted throughout the 45-min application, light transmittance, after peaking in 6-8 min, quickly returned to control levels and decreased below them. Astrocytic hypertrophy was observed in 6, 10, and 50 mM K+. The same results followed the application of 10(-4) M NMDA or hypotonic solution (160 mmol/kg). The elevation of extracellular K+ after NMDA application, corresponding to increased neuronal activity, had a similar time course as the light transmittance changes. Furosemide, Cl(-)-free, or Ca(2+)-free solution blocked or slowed down the decreases in alpha, while the light transmittance increases were unaffected. In hypertonic solution (400 mmol/kg), alpha increased by 30-40%, while light transmittance decreased by 15-20%. Thus, light transmittance changes do not correlate with changes in ECS volume but are associated with neuronal activity and morphological changes in astrocytes.

This study was aimed at defining normative values of latency and amplitude of the compound muscle action potential (CMAP) from the orbicularis oculi muscle, obtained by transcranial magnetic stimulation. We evaluated the dependence of latency and amplitude on the age of the subjects, in order to calculate cut-off values for each age decade. A total of 120 healthy normal subjects, aged 15-78 years, were studied. CMAP from the orbicularis oculi muscle, pars inferior, was excited by means of transcranial magnetic stimulation of the homolateral scalp. A suitable mathematical model was developed to evaluate the mean variation of the latency and amplitude of CMAP for each age decade in the studied population. Mean values were, respectively, 4.62+/-0.40 ms for latency and 4.17+/-0.72 mV for amplitude. We found an increase in latency of about 0.12 ms for every ten years, that became 0.15 ms if referring only to subjects over 20 years, and a decrease in amplitude of 0.18 mV each ten years. Normality interval values for the latency and amplitude were calculated for each age decade. Our data, obtained in a representative population for range of age of evaluated subjects, provide normality values and variability coefficients useful for future confronting works.
The total amount of hyperphosphorylated tau protein (p-tau load), present as neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), neuropil threads or plaque neurites, was quantified in the frontal cortex of 109 cases of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 35 cases of familial AD due to missense mutations in the presenilin-1, presenilin-2 and amyloid precursor protein genes. p-tau load was inversely correlated with age at onset of illness in both sporadic and familial AD but not with duration of disease. There was no difference in p-tau load between cases of familial AD and others with sporadic AD, matching the familial cases for apolipoprotein E (APO E) genotype. However, p-tau was greater in cases of familial and sporadic AD in the presence of APO E epsilon4 allele and increased with gene dose. Conversely, p-tau load tended to be lower when epsilon2 allele was present. In sporadic AD, tau load was highly significantly correlated with amyloid beta40 (Abeta40), but not Abeta42(43), load. These data indicate that the burden of pathological tau deposited in the brain in both familial and sporadic AD is favoured in the presence of APO E epsilon4 allele and also related to the amount of Abeta40, this also being higher when epsilon4 allele is present. Abeta40 plaques are rich in microglial cells and it is possible that p-tau pathology in AD is triggered by reaction of microglial cells to the presence of Abeta40 and not this peptide directly.
We investigated the functional interaction between neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptors using nerve terminals and cultured rat hippocampal neurons, and we evaluated the involvement of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCCs) in NPY receptors-induced inhibition of Ca(2+) influx and glutamate release. The KCl-evoked release of glutamate from hippocampal synaptosomes was inhibited by 1 microM NPY and this effect was insensitive to either BIBP3226 (Y1 receptor antagonist) or L-152,804 (Y5 receptor antagonist), but was sensitive to BIIE0246 (Y2 receptor antagonist). We could also pharmacologically dissect the NPY receptors activity by using Y1, Y2 and Y5 receptor agonists ([Leu(31),Pro(34)]NPY, NPY13-36, NPY (19-23)-(Gly(1),Ser(3),Gln(4),Thr(6),Ala(31),Aib(32),Gln(34))-pancreatic polypeptide (PP), respectively), and in all the cases we observed that these agonists could inhibited the KCl-induced release of glutamate. However, the selective and specific co-activation of both Y1 and Y2 or Y2 and Y5 receptors resulted in non-additive inhibition, and this effect was prevented in the presence of the Y2 antagonist, but was insensitive to the Y1 or Y5 receptor antagonist. Moreover, as we previously showed for Y1 receptors, we also observed that the activation of Y5 receptors inhibited the glutamate release in the dentate gyrus and CA3 subregion, without significant effect in the CA1 subregion of the hippocampus. The same qualitative results were obtained when we investigated the role of NPY Y1 and Y2 receptors in modulating the changes in [Ca(2+)](i) due to KCl depolarisation in cultured hippocampal neurons. The inhibitory effect of nitrendipine (L-type VGCC blocker) or omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTx; N-type VGCC blocker) was not potentiated by the simultaneous activation of Y1 or Y2 receptors. Moreover, the exocytotic release of glutamate was inhibited by omega-agatoxin IVA (omega-Aga; P-/Q-type VGCC blocker), and this VGCC blocker did not potentiate Y1, Y2 or Y5 receptor-mediated inhibition of glutamate release. Also, the effect of ionomycin in inducing the exocytotic release of glutamate from hippocampal synaptosomes was insensitive to the activation of NPY receptors. In the present paper, we identified a role for NPY Y1, Y2 and Y5 receptors in modulating the exocytotic release of glutamate and the [Ca(2+)](i) changes in the rat hippocampus. In conditions of co-activation, there appears to exist a physiological cross-talk between Y1 and Y2 and also between Y2 and Y5 receptors, in which Y2 receptors play a predominant role. Moreover, we also show that Y1 and Y2 receptors exert their inhibitory action by directly modulating L-, N-, and P-/Q-type VGCCs, whereas the inhibition of glutamate release mediated by the Y5 receptors seems to involve P-/Q-type VGCCs.
Autosomal Dominant Nocturnal Frontal Lobe Epilepsy (ADNFLE) is associated in some kindreds with mutations in the genes encoding the alpha 4 or beta 2 subunits of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). Functional characterisation of the described ADNFLE mutations in oocyte preparations has produced conflicting results, with some studies suggesting hypofunction but others showing increased ligand sensitivity or delayed desensitisation. Knockout mice were studied to investigate extreme hypofunction of alpha 4 nAChRs in vivo. Mutant (Mt) and control mice underwent epidural electroencephalographic (EEG) recording for 2 h in the untreated state and for 1 h following administration of the gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) antagonist, pentylenetetrazole (PTZ, 80 mg/kg). No spontaneous seizures occurred and no EEG differences were observed between the genotypes in drug nave mice. Following PTZ, however, Mt mice showed markedly increased mortality compared to controls (85 vs 30%, P&lt;0.001). Mts also had a greater number of generalised clonic seizures in the first 40 min following injection. In the same period, the EEGs of Mt mice showed an excess of spikes (P=0.033), multi-spike complexes (P=0.002) and continuous fast activity (P=0.017) compared to controls. These findings demonstrate that intact alpha 4 nAChR subunits provide significant in vivo protection against the proconvulsant effects of GABA antagonism.
The microdialysis technique was used to examine interactions between 5-HT(1A) and galanin receptors in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), by measuring the extracellular levels of 5-HT in the ventral hippocampus of awake rats. The rats were pretreated with the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist (R,S)-8-OH-DPAT (0.3 mg/kg, s.c.) or saline. 8-OH-DPAT caused a time-dependent reduction of basal 5-HT levels down to 43-48% at 40 min while at 140 min, the hippocampal 5-HT had returned to control values. At that time point, the rats received a second injection of 8-OH-DPAT or galanin (0.15, 0.5 and 1.5 nmol/0.5 microl) infused into the lateral ventricle. The second injection of 8-OH-DPAT caused a significantly smaller reduction of hippocampal 5-HT levels. In contrast, galanin at all three doses in the 8-OH-DPAT-pretreated groups, was significantly more potent in reducing 5-HT levels (maximal reduction to 74%, 52% and 49%, respectively) than it was in saline-pretreated rats (maximal reduction to 96%, 85% and 69%, respectively). The inhibitory effect of galanin (1.5 nmol) on extracellular 5-HT levels in the rat hippocampus was significantly attenuated by co-administration of the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonists WAY-100635 (0.3 and 0.6 mg/kg s.c.) and, to a lesser extent, with pindolol (20 mg/kg s.c.). These data provide direct in vivo evidence of agonistic 5-HT(1A)-galanin receptor interaction at the presynaptic level. Furthermore, the findings indicate that a down-regulation of the somato-dendritic 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors, following their stimulation with 8-OH-DPAT and possibly also indirectly with 5-HT reuptake inhibitors, may be compensated by a subsequent 'sensitization' of the inhibitory galanin receptors in the DRN. Thus, the enhanced galanin receptor-mediated inhibition of 5-HT neurotransmission may contribute to the pathophysiology of depression or to the reduced and delayed efficacy of antidepressant therapies.
The GABA(A) receptor system provides the major inhibitory control in the CNS, with the alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 2 subunit combination being the most abundant and widely distributed form of the receptor. The alpha1 subunit knock-out (alpha1 KO) mice had a surprisingly mild overt phenotype, despite having lost approximately 60% of all GABA(A) receptors. The alpha1 KO mice had normal spontaneous locomotor activity, but were more sensitive to the sedating/ataxic effects of diazepam than wildtype (WT) mice. Pharmacological modulation of dopamine and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors also produced altered responses in alpha1 KO mice compared with WT mice. As expected, the NMDA receptor antagonist MK801, amphetamine and cocaine increased locomotor activity in WT mice. Although MK801 increased locomotor activity in alpha1 KO mice, amphetamine and cocaine induced stereotypy not hyperlocomotion. Binding studies showed no gross changes in the total number of D1, D2 or NMDA receptors. Furthermore, pre-pulse inhibition of acoustic startle and the effects of cocaine in conditioned place preference were similar in both alpha1 KO and WT mice, indicating selective rather that global changes in response to dopaminergic agents. These data demonstrate subtle changes in behaviours mediated by neurotransmitters other than GABA in alpha1 KO mice and suggest that compensation may have occurred beyond the GABAergic system.

Numerous human imaging studies have revealed an absolute or relative metabolic hypofunction within the prefrontal cortex, thalamus and temporal lobes of schizophrenic patients. The former deficit correlates with cognitive deficits and negative symptoms, whereas the latter correlates with positive symptomologies. There is also general consensus that schizophrenia is associated with decreased parvalbumin expression in the prefrontal cortex. Since the drug phencyclidine can induce a psychosis resembling schizophrenia in humans, we have examined whether repeated phencyclidine (PCP) treatment to rats could produce similar metabolic and neurochemical deficits to those occurring in schizophrenia and whether these deficits could be modulated by antipsychotic drugs. We demonstrate here that chronic intermittent exposure to PCP (2.58 mg kg(-1) i.p.) elicits a metabolic hypofunction, as demonstrated by reductions in the rates of glucose utilization, within the prefrontal cortex, reticular nucleus of thalamus and auditory system, key structures displaying similar changes in schizophrenia. Moreover, chronic PCP treatment according to this regime also decreases parvalbumin mRNA expression in the rat prefrontal cortex and reticular nucleus of the thalamus. Chronic coadministration of haloperidol (1 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) or clozapine (20 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) with PCP did not modulate PCP-induced reductions in metabolic activity in the rat prefrontal cortex, but reversed deficits in the structures of the auditory system. Clozapine, but not haloperidol, reversed PCP-induced decreases in parvalbumin expression in prefrontal cortex GABAergic interneurons, whereas both drugs reversed the deficits in the reticular nucleus of the thalamus. These data provide important new information, which strengthen the validity of chronic PCP as a useful animal model of schizophrenia, when administered according to this protocol. Furthermore, we propose that reversal of PCP-induced reductions in parvalbumin expression in the prefrontal cortex may be a potential marker of atypical antipsychotic activity in relation to amelioration of cognitive deficits and negative symptoms of schizophrenia.
Systemic administration of the muscarinic-receptor antagonists atropine and scopolamine produces cognitive deficits in humans, nonhuman primates and rodents. In humans, these deficits resemble symptoms of dementia seen in Alzheimer's disease. The passive avoidance (PA) task has been one of the most frequently used animal models for studying cholinergic mechanisms in learning and memory. The present study examined the ability of two selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonists WAY 100635 and NAD-299 (robalzotan) and two acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors tacrine and donepezil to attenuate the impairment of PA retention caused by the nonselective muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine in the rat. Although demonstrating differences in their temporal kinetics, both WAY 100635 and NAD-299 attenuated the impairment of PA caused by scopolamine (0.3 mg/kg s.c.). Donepezil did not block the PA deficit caused by the 0.3 mg/kg dose of scopolamine, but it prevented the inhibitory effects of the 0.2 mg/kg dose of scopolamine. In contrast, tacrine was effective vs both the 0.2 and 0.3 mg/kg doses of scopolamine. These results indicate that (1). a functional 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonism can attenuate the anterograde amnesia produced by muscarinic-receptor blockade, and (2). the AChE inhibitors tacrine and donepezil differ in their ability to modify muscarinic-receptor-mediated function in vivo. These results suggest that 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonists may have a potential in the treatment of cognitive symptoms in psychopathologies characterized by reduced ACh transmission such as Alzheimer's disease.
Our previous study showed that the saliency of a target increases the gain of smooth pursuit initiation. In this study, we examined the interocular transfer of this effect in five humans. A square red frame surrounding the target was used as a cue to indicate the initial target position. In the cue condition, the responses were similar, irrespective of the eye to which the cue was presented, and were significantly larger than in the no-cue condition. The result suggests that central pathways that receive input from both eyes mediate the effect of saliency on smooth pursuit initiation.
Under glucose-deprived conditions, astrocytes rapidly underwent death due to their increased susceptibility to endogenously produced peroxynitrite (Gila 31, 155-164; J. Neuroimmunol. 112, 55-62; J. Neurochem. 74, 1989-1998). In the present study, the cell membrane-permeable synthetic superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimetic cyclam manganese(III) 1,4,8,11-tetraazacyclodecane (Mn(III)-cyclam) completely inhibited the death of glucose-deprived immunostimulated astrocytes. However, the structurally related compounds Ni(II)-cyclam, Co(II)-cyclam, and H(2)-cyclam, which lacks metals, had no or a little cytoprotective effect. Of the cyclams used in this study, only Mn(III)-cyclam completely scavenged the peroxynitrite produced in glucose-deprived immunostimulated astrocytes and significantly blocked the depolarization of mitochondrial transmembrane potential in those cells. The present results suggest that cell membrane-permeable synthetic SOD mimetics such as Mn(III)-cyclam may be potential therapeutic agents for various diseases associated with the endogenous production of peroxynitrite.
The present experiments were performed to clarify the brain sites whose activity is affected exclusively by cortical spreading depression (CoSD). For this purpose, Fos protein, a product of an immediate early gene, was used as a marker of neuronal activation. Because Fos can be induced by many manipulations such as stress stimuli, we verified CoSD-induced Fos expression by excluding the influence of other factors such as anaesthesia and surgical manipulation. CoSD was induced by applying a KCl solution directly to the dura mater over the cerebral cortex, and Fos expression in the brain was assessed by immunohistochemistry using antibodies against Fos protein. We found that during CoSD, Fos expression was increased specifically in the magnocellular region of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), as well as in the ipsilateral cortex, whereas reduced Fos expression was observed in both the parvocellular region of the PVN and the whole cortex contralateral to the CoSD site. Consistent with the reduced Fos expression, approximately 40% of neurons in the contralateral cortex revealed a suppression of electrical activity during CoSD. These results suggest that in addition to the ipsilateral cortex, CoSD affects Fos expression exclusively in the PVN and the contralateral cortex.
Optical imaging of activity-dependent pH changes using neutral red has revealed a novel form of propagated activity in the cerebellar cortex: spreading acidification and depression (SAD). Evoked by surface stimulation, SAD is characterized by a propagation geometry that reflects the parasagittal architecture of the cerebellum, high speed of propagation across several folia, and a transient depression of the molecular layer circuitry. The properties of SAD differentiate it from other forms of propagating activity in the nervous system including spreading depression and Ca++ waves. Involving several factors, SAD is hypothesized to be a regenerative process that requires a functioning parallel fibers-Purkinje cell circuit, glutamatergic neurotransmission, and is initiated by increased neuronal excitability. Three possible neuronal and glia substrates in the cerebellar cortex could account for the propagation geometry of SAD. Recently, the authors demonstrated that blocking voltage-gated Kv1.1 potassium channels plays a major role in the generation of SAD. This observation has lead to the hypothesis that the episodic and transient disruption in cerebellar function that characterizes episodic ataxia type 1, a Kv1.1 channelopathy, is due to SAD occurring in the cerebellar cortex.
The striatum and its dense dopaminergic innervation originating in the midbrain, primarily from the substantia nigra pars compacta and the ventral tegmental area, compose the mesostriatal dopamine (DA) systems. The nigrostriatal system is involved mainly in motor coordination and in disorders such as Tourette's syndrome, Huntington's disease, and Parkinson's disease. The dopaminergic projections from the ventral tegmental area to the striatum participate more in the processes that shape behaviors leading to reward, and addictive drugs act upon this mesolimbic system. The midbrain DA areas receive cholinergic innervation from the pedunculopontine tegmentum and the laterodorsal pontine tegmentum, whereas the striatum receives dense cholinergic innervation from local interneurons. The various neurons of the mesostriatal systems express multiple types of muscarinic and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors as well as DA receptors. Especially in the striatum, the dense mingling of dopaminergic and cholinergic constituents enables potent interactions. Evidence indicates that cholinergic and dopaminergic systems work together to produce the coordinated functioning of the striatum. Loss of that cooperative activity contributes to the dysfunction underlying Parkinson's disease.
The Charcot library was officially created at the Salptrire Hospital in 1907 after the donation of the private library of Jean-Martin Charcot, which Dr. Charcot had accumulated progressively throughout his professional career. Increased by several other endowments (the most important being the collection of the Resident's Library, begun in 1886) and other private donations, the library became officially affiliated with the Paris VI University in 1985. It now functions as an entity oriented toward the neurosciences and offers a large number of 19th-century books (including all of Charcot's manuscripts) and more recent documents. Digitization of the most classic holdings, including atlases, will soon make them accessible through the library's web site.

A 54-year-old male with chronic renal failure due to diabetic nephropathy suffered dysphagia and left facial spasm without head trauma during a hemodialysis session. CT scan revealed a right acute epidural hematoma. MRI and cerebral angiography did not reveal any abnormalities in the intracranial vasculature. The occurrence of intracranial spontaneous epidural hematoma in a haemodialysis patient has not been reported. During hemodialysis, the intracranial pressure transiently increases and rapidly recovers. It is assumed that the decreasing intracranial pressure caused epidural hematoma.
Naturally occurring estrogen-like molecules in plants (phytoestrogens), present via soy, in animal diets are known to alter brain morphology and reproductive endocrine parameters. This study characterized dietary phytoestrogens' effect on retinal thickness in male and female Long-Evans rats. Experiment 1a and 1b: upon arrival (50 day-old) animals received either a phytoestrogen-rich diet (containing 600 microg phytoestrogen/g diet; referred to as Phyto-600) or a diet low in phytoestrogens (Phyto-free). Males remained on these diets until 140 days of age (females until 160 days of age). In both sexes a significant (but opposite) diet difference in retinal thickness was identified. Male Phyto-600 and female Phyto-free animals had significantly greater retinal thickness compared to Phyto-free males and Phyto-600 females, respectively. Experiment 2: male or female rats were raised from conception on either the Phyto-600 or Phyto-free diet until sacrifice at 75 days of age. Consistent with experiment 1, males exposed to the Phyto-600 diet lifelong had significantly greater retinal thickness than lifelong fed Phyto-free males (no significant differences were identified in females). These data suggest that phytoestrogens influence rat retinal characteristics in a sexually dimorphic manner (more robust effect in males vs. females) and that this influence can occur even in adulthood.
We have previously shown that brain ferritin H expression, which has been associated with iron utilization, is developmentally regulated. Because retinoic acid (RA) regulates gene expression and is involved in cellular differentiation, we tested the hypothesis that RA regulates ferritin H during brain development and neuronal differentiation. RA, administered to rats on postnatal day 1, produced a 4-fold increase in brain ferritin H mRNA (p &lt; 0.01) after 24 h. To examine whether RA-stimulated neuronal differentiation contributed to this up-regulation, ferritin and ferritin H mRNA were measured in human neuronal precursor cells (NTera-2, NT2) before and after 4-weeks of RA-stimulated differentiation into post-mitotic neurons. Differentiation resulted in a 2-fold increase in both ferritin and ferritin H mRNA (p &lt; 0.05). Immunocytochemistry and Northern analysis showed significant elevations in ferritin expression that began as early as 24 h after RA treatment. While there was also a significant increase in the labile iron pool after RA treatment, this did not occur until 72 h. These data show that RA regulates ferritin H expression during rat brain development and neuronal differentiation and suggests a new role for RA in brain iron metabolism.
Nine children with infratentorial brain abscesses were treated at our institution over a 3-year period. Seven of them were boys and two were girls. In five cases, the abscesses were otogenic, and in two cases, the cause was tubercular (including one case of tubercular otitis). There were three cases of abscess formation in dermoids. All cases were managed with primary excision of the abscess. The average hospital stay was 12 days, and there was no mortality. The most common complication was hydrocephalus, noticed in three patients, of whom one eventually required shunt placement. Our policy of primary excision of these abscesses has yielded gratifying results. This approach also resulted in minimal morbidity and a substantially shortened hospital stay. Moreover, primary excision yields definitive histopathology of the lesion, especially in cases of tubercular and dermoid etiologies.
Although considered a relatively new subspecialty, child neurology traces its origins to the Hippocratic descriptions of seizures and other neurologic conditions in children. Its true beginnings can be traced to the 1600s and 1700s with classical descriptions of chorea, hydrocephalus, spina bifida, and polio. It was, however, the remarkable clinical and scientific advances in neurology and pediatrics at the end of the 19th century that helped create its scientific foundation. Like other pediatric disciplines, child neurology evolved into a distinct clinical and scientific specialty early in the 20th century. Remarkable advances in the neurosciences, particularly in the fields of genetics, molecular biology, metabolism, immunology and nutrition, have greatly advanced our understanding of how the brain develops and responds to environmental influences. Advances in neuroimaging, electroencephalography, electromyography, muscle histology, biochemistry, and neuropharmacology have considerably improved our ability to evaluate and treat children with neurological disorders. These advances have allowed new and expanding approaches, unique to children, in the fields of epilepsy, neurodegenerative and neurometabolic disorders, nervous system infections, demyelinating diseases and tumors, neonatal neurological conditions, and neuromuscular diseases. They have also led to a better understanding of the neurobiologic basis of common problems such as global developmental delay, cerebral palsy, and autism. As remarkable as the advances have been in the past century, the accelerating pace of our understanding of the fundamental mechanisms responsible for brain development will lead to even greater achievements in the clinical care of children with neurological disorders in the 21st century
The melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) is involved in several physiological processes, including body weight regulation and grooming behaviour in rats. It has also been suggested that the MC4R mediates the effects of melanocortin ligands on neuropathic pain. Selective compounds are needed to study the exact role of the MC4R in these different processes. We describe here the development and evaluation of new melanocortin compounds that are selective for the MC4R as compared with the other centrally expressed receptors, MC3R and MC5R. First, a library of 18 peptides, in which a melanocortin-based sequence was systematically point-mutated, was screened for binding to and activity on the MC3R, MC4R and MC5R. Compound Ac-Nle-Gly-Lys-D-Phe-Arg-Trp-Gly-NH(2) (JK1) appeared to be the most selective MC4R compound, based on affinity. This compound is 90- and 110-fold selective for the MC4R as compared to the MC3R and MC5R, respectively. Subsequent modification of JK1 yielded compound Ac-Nle-Gly-Lys-D-Nal(2)-Arg-Trp-Gly-NH(2) (JK7)(,) a selective MC4R antagonist with 34-fold MC4R/MC3R and 109-fold MC4R/MC5R selectivity. The compounds were active in vivo as determined in a grooming assay and a model for neuropathic pain in rats. Intravenous (i.v.) injections suggested that they were able to pass the blood-brain barrier.The compounds identified here will be useful in further research on the physiological roles of the MC4R.
Atipamezole, a selective alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist, enhances recovery of sensorimotor function after focal cerebral ischemia in rats. The aim of the present study was to further characterize the effects of atipamezole treatment combined with enriched-environment housing in ischemic rats by evaluating spontaneous exploratory activity in the cylinder test. The right middle cerebral artery (MCA) of rats was occluded for 120 min using the intraluminal filament method. Atipamezole (1.0 mg/kg) or 0.9% NaCl was administered on postoperative days 2 through 11 and 15, 19, and 23. Spontaneous behavior of rats in a transparent cylinder was videotaped before, and 6 and 23 days after surgery 20 min after drug administration. Constant asymmetry in forelimb use was observed in the cylinder test on postoperative days 6 and 23. Ischemic rats used the impaired forelimbs (contralateral to lesion) during lateral exploration less than did sham-operated rats (P&lt;.001). Ischemic rats also preferred to turn contralateral to the lesion (P&lt;.05). Atipamezole increased the simultaneous, but not independent, use of the forelimbs during lateral exploration (P&lt;.05). The data suggest that noradrenergic manipulation does not significantly enhance recovery in a test that does not depend on practice following focal cerebral ischemia.
The analysis of plastic changes in the nervous system is based on the assumption that the nervous system is not a static system but rather one that changes over time. Neural plasticity can be studied at many levels, beginning with behavior and then becoming progressively more microscopic by descending to the level of cerebral maps, synaptic organization, physiologic activities, molecular structure, and mitosis. This article considers each level in turn and then briefly describes how an understanding of the principles of plasticity can be used to initiate treatments for cerebral injury.
We derive and study two-dimensional generalizations of integrate-and-fire models which can be found from a piecewise linear idealization of the FitzHugh-Nagumo or Morris-Lecar model. These models give rise to new properties not present in one-dimensional integrate-and-fire models. A detailed analytical study of the models is presented. In particular, (i) for the piecewise linear FitzHugh-Nagumo model, we determine analytically the bistability regime between stationary solutions and oscillations, that is, typical for class-II models. (ii) In the piecewise Morris-Lecar model, we find a noncanonical class-I transition from a stationary state to oscillations with logarithmic dependence similar to that found for leaky integrate-and-fire models. (iii) Furthermore, we establish a relation to the recently proposed resonate-and-fire model and show that a short input current pulse can trigger several spikes.
Neuromedin B (NMB) is a mammalian bombesin (BN)-like peptide that exerts its function via the neuromedin B receptor (NMB-R). The NMB/NMB-R system is involved in stress response, and therefore we examined behavioral properties in female mice lacking NMB-R using a restraint-induced stress paradigm. Thirty minutes of restraint in a wire mesh cage constituted a sufficient stress stimulus for mice as evidenced by elevated blood glucose concentrations in stressed wild-type and NMB-R-deficient mice. Using a one-trial passive avoidance test, stressed NMB-R-deficient mice exhibited a marked reduction in memory performance. NMB-R-deficient mice exhibited elevated spontaneous activity in a novel environment compared to non-stressed mutant mice after 30-min stress, and a similar difference was also observed between stressed/non-stressed wild-type mice. An elevated plus maze test showed that the stress stimulus had no effect on anxiety in either wild-type or NMB-R-deficient mice. Furthermore, pain response of wild-type and NMB-R-deficient mice induced by electric foot shock was not affected under either stressed or non-stressed conditions. These results indicate that impaired memory performance in stressed NMB-R-deficient mice is not a consequence of changes in spontaneous activity, anxiety, or pain response, and suggest that the NMB/NMB-R pathway may play a role in regulating the stress response via the neural system that controls learning and memory.
The consistently better performance seen by teams in various sporting contexts when playing at home is referred to as the 'home advantage'. Various explanations have been put forward to account for this robust phenomenon, though none has yet focussed on possible hormonal factors. In an initial study, we showed that salivary testosterone levels in soccer players were significantly higher before a home game than an away game.In a second study involving a different group of soccer players, this finding was replicated over two home games, two away games, and three training sessions. Perceived rivalry of the opposing team was important as testosterone levels were higher before playing an 'extreme' rival than a 'moderate' rival. Self-reported measures of mood in both studies were not linked to testosterone level. The present results corroborate and extend earlier findings on the relationships between testosterone, territoriality, and dominance in human competitive encounters and further suggest an important role for testosterone in the home advantage seen in various team sports.
Changes in day length alter several indices of immune function in Siberian hamsters. These experiments tested the hypothesis that photoperiodic changes in immune function are integrated at an organismal level as reflected by the ability to heal a cutaneous wound. Given the well-documented effects of psychological stressors on immune function, we also tested the hypothesis that photoperiod modulates the effects of acute stress on wound healing. Male hamsters were housed in long (16L:8D; LD) or short (8L:16D; SD) day lengths for 8+/-2 weeks. SD-treatment was sufficient to induce winter reproductive status. Hamsters then received a dermal punch wound. Hamsters were subjected to either 2 h of daily restraint stress or a control treatment for 3 days prior to and 5 days after wounding. Wounds were digitally photographed daily, and wound size was measured to quantify healing. Wounds of LD hamsters healed significantly faster than did those of SD hamsters. Restraint stress significantly accelerated healing in SD hamsters. The results suggest that the enhancing effects of short-term psychological stressors on immune function are apparent only when reproductive function is suppressed. In nature, enhanced wound healing coincident with the breeding season and territorial defense may be adaptive.
Several prostaglandin analogues used for glaucoma treatment have been shown to cause increased iridial pigmentation as side-effect. In the present study we identified the types of prostanoid receptors and cyclooxygenase (COX) enzymes that are expressed in human iridial melanocytes isolated from eyes of different colours. Iris specimens were obtained during trabeculectomy surgery, or from enucleated eyes, and the iridial melanocytes were isolated and cultivated. The transcription of the DP, EP1, EP2, EP3, EP4, FP, IP and TP prostanoid receptor genes as well as the COX-1 and COX-2 enzyme genes was investigated using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Of the prostanoid receptors the FP receptor gene was found to be most consistently transcribed in the melanocytes isolated from both blue- and hazel-coloured eyes. No RNA of the DP, EP2 and TP receptor genes could be detected, whereas the EP1, EP3, EP4 and IP receptor genes were found to be transcribed in melanocytes from some eyes. The COX-2 gene was found to be transcribed, but the COX-1 gene less consistently. There was no difference in gene transcription pattern between melanocytes originating from eyes treated with latanoprost, and eyes not previously treated with the prostaglandin. These results indicate that the FP prostanoid receptor gene is transcribed in cultivated human iridial melanocytes of both blue and hazel eyes, whereas the other prostanoid receptor genes seem to be transcribed much less frequently, or not at all. Surprisingly, the COX-2 rather than the COX-1 gene, was found to be transcribed in the melanocytes.
Deep brain stimulation is becoming the most frequently used neurosurgical treatment for patients with complex Parkinson's disease. This paper reports on the creation of a clinical nurse specialist role in a Scottish hospital's movement disorder team to support patients going through this treatment and their families, working with the neuroscience nurses and multidisciplinary team.
The advent of proteomics techniques has been enthusiastically accepted in most areas of biology and medicine. In neuroscience, a host of applications was proposed ranging from neurotoxicology, neurometabolism, determination of the proteome of the individual brain areas in health and disease, to name a few. Only recently, the limitations of the method have been shown, hampering the rapid spreading of the technology, which in principle consists of two-dimensional gel electrophoresis with in-gel protein digestion of protein spots and identification by mass-spectrometrical approaches or microsequencing. The identification, including quantification using specific software, of brain protein classes, like enzymes, cytoskeleton proteins, heat shock proteins/chaperones, proteins of the transcription and translation machinery, synaptosomal proteins, antioxidant proteins, is a clear domain of proteomics. Furthermore, the concomitant detection of several hundred proteins on a gel allows the demonstration of an expressional pattern, rather generated by a reliable, protein-chemical method than by immunoreactivity, proposed by protein-arrays. An additional advantage is that hitherto unknown proteins, so far only proposed from their nucleic acid structure, designated as hypothetical proteins, can be identified as brain proteins. As to shortcomings and disadvantages of the method we would point to the major problem, the failure to separate hydrophobic proteins. There is so far no way to analyse the vast majority of these proteins in gels. Several other analytical problems need to be overcome, but once the latter problem can be solved, there is nothing to stop the method for a large scale analysis of membrane proteins in neuroscience.
The hypothesis that sleep promotes learning and memory has long been a subject of active investigation. This hypothesis implies that sleep must facilitate synaptic plasticity in some way, and recent studies have provided evidence for such a function. Our knowledge of both the cellular neurophysiology of sleep states and of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity has expanded considerably in recent years. In this article, we review findings in these areas and discuss possible mechanisms whereby the neurophysiological processes characteristic of sleep states may serve to facilitate synaptic plasticity. We address this issue first on the cellular level, considering how activation of T-type Ca(2+) channels in nonREM sleep may promote either long-term depression or long-term potentiation, as well as how cellular events of REM sleep may influence these processes. We then consider how synchronization of neuronal activity in thalamocortical and hippocampal-neocortical networks in nonREM sleep and REM sleep could promote differential strengthening of synapses according to the degree to which activity in one neuron is synchronized with activity in other neurons in the network. Rather than advocating one specific cellular hypothesis, we have intentionally taken a broad approach, describing a range of possible mechanisms whereby sleep may facilitate synaptic plasticity on the cellular and/or network levels. We have also provided a general review of evidence for and against the hypothesis that sleep does indeed facilitate learning, memory, and synaptic plasticity.
Alpha-synuclein is a presynaptic protein that is implicated in the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative diseases. Missense mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene are linked to familial cases of Parkinson's disease (PD), and it has further been shown that alpha-synuclein is a major constituent of the Lewy bodies in sporadic PD and dementia with Lewy body (DLB). The contribution of alpha-synuclein to the pathological changes in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been currently a matter of scientific debate. Some reports hypothesized that alpha-synuclein may play a role in amyloid beta/A4 protein (Abeta) aggregation in senile plaques, whereas recent reports challenged this finding by showing a lack of alpha-synuclein-immunoreactivity in Abeta plaques. In this review, we report on recent findings on the physiological and pathological role of alpha-synuclein and try to elucidate its possible contribution to AD pathology.
Myo-inositol monophosphatase 1 (IMPase 1) is one of the targets for the mood-stabilizing action of lithium. Inhibition of IMPase is the basis for the &quot;inositol depletion hypothesis&quot; for the molecular action of lithium. To better understand the precise action of chronic (up to 4 weeks) lithium treatment on IMPase 1 activity, we measured IMPase 1 activity using both a colorimetric and a radiometric assay in rats (53-58 days old) fed a diet containing 0.2% lithium carbonate. Our results show that IMPase 1 activity increases substantially in the various brain regions analyzed, even doubling in some regions in the following order, after chronic treatment: hippocampus&gt;cerebellum&gt;striatum&gt;cerebral cortex&gt;brain stem. Both the qualitative and quantitative increases of IMPase 1 activity by chronic lithium treatment were substantiated by Western blot analysis of hippocampal and cerebral cortex regions. We conclude that the increased IMPase 1 activity is an adaptational response to chronic lithium treatment, and may involve direct or indirect stimulation of IMPA1 (which encodes IMPase 1) and/or turnover of the enzyme. The increased enzyme activity may alter critical neurochemical processes involving either free myo-inositol, the precursor of inositol based signaling system or other metabolic pathways, since IMPase 1 also utilizes selective sugar phosphates, such as galactose-1-phosphate, as substrates. One or more of these signal and metabolic pathways may be associated with lithium's psychotherapeutic mood-stabilizing action.
Stress plays an important role in the development of affective disorders. Women show a higher prevalence for these disorders than men. The course of a depression is thought to be positively influenced by social support. The authors have used a chronic mild stress model in which rats received footshocks daily for 3 weeks. Since rats are social animals we hypothesized that &quot;social support&quot; might reduce the adverse effects of chronic stress. To test this hypothesis, male and female rats were housed individually or socially in unisex groups of four rats. An open field test was repeated four times during the 3 weeks of treatment. Neuronal activation in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) and dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) in response to stress was measured the last day with c-fos. Chronic stress exposure increased locomotor activity in the open field, especially during the first minute. This was most pronounced in the individually housed females. In females, social housing prevented the stress-induced increase of locomotor activity, while in males social housing had no effect. Fos immunoreactive (FOS-ir) in the PVN was increased in all stress-exposed groups, except for the socially housed females due to a higher FOS-ir in controls. Individually housed males and socially housed females showed increased FOS-ir in the DRN and the increase was almost significant in socially housed males. In conclusion: These results show that social housing can enhance coping with stress in female rats, whereas in male rats group housing did not have a positive influence on stress-sensitivity.







A federal law, the &quot;Approbationsordnung fr Arzte&quot;, regulates Medical education in Germany. In 2002 a revised version of this law demanded of the medical faculties to implement interdisciplinary and problem-based (PBL) courses in their curriculum. Already in 1998 the faculty of medicine of the TU Dresden decided to reform the traditional curriculum. The reform-curriculum is being created in close co-operation with the Harvard Medical School. It is a hybrid curriculum retaining traditional elements as lectures and bedside teaching with PBL-tutorials and a special doctor-patient-communication-training, which is based on role-play exercises. Psychosomatic Medicine is taught together with neurology and psychiatry as a major topic of the 7,5-week PBL-course &quot;Nervous System and Psyche&quot; but there are also lectures and special skills training exercises in other PBL-courses like &quot;Oncology&quot; or &quot;Emergency medicine&quot;. Data of the external evaluation showed, that the students accepted psychosomatic topics of the curriculum very well. This paper describes concept, implementation and evaluation data of the PBL-course &quot;Nervous System and Psyche&quot;.
Three experiments investigated whether reading aloud is affected by a semantic variable, imageability. The first two experiments used English, and the third experiment used Japanese Kanji as a way of testing the generality of the findings across orthographies. The results replicated the earlier findings that readers were slower and more error prone in reading low-frequency exception words when they were low in imageability than when they were high in imageability (Strain, Patterson, &amp; Seidenberg, 1995). This result held for both English and Kanji even when age of acquisition was taken into account as a possible confounding variable, and the imageability effect was stronger in Kanji compared to English.
Early studies suggested visual form perception impairment in schizophrenia. To re-examine this claim and characterise the deficit neuropsychologically, 41 schizophrenic patients were administered tests sensitive to different levels of visual object perception and recognition. Intellectually well-preserved patients were examined separately on these and additional tests. Single case analysis was also applied to four patients showing varying degrees of general intellectual impairment. As a group, the patients showed little impairment on tests of early visual object perception, but greater impairment on higher-level visual processing tests, in particular object recognition and naming. This held true for patients with preserved general intellectual function. Single case analysis suggested that patients with schizophrenia have a selective deficit affecting object recognition and identification, with a pattern similar to visual associative agnosia in neurological patients.
Integration of information provided simultaneously by audition and vision was studied in a group of 18 schizophrenic patients. They were compared to a control group, consisting of 12 normal adults of comparable age and education. By administering two tasks, each focusing on one aspect of audio-visual integration, the study could differentiate between a spatial integration deficit and a speech-based integration deficit. Experiment 1 studied audio-visual interactions in the spatial localisation of sounds. Experiment 2 investigated integration of auditory and visual speech. The schizophrenic group performed as the control group on the sound localisation task, but in the audio-visual speech task, there was an impairment in lipreading as well as a smaller impact of lipreading on auditory speech information. Combined with findings about functional and neuro-anatomical specificity of intersensory integration, the data suggest that there is an integration deficit in the schizophrenic group that is related to the processing of phonetic information.
Patients with schizophrenia have information processing deficits which can be measured using visual backward-masking (VBM) tasks. There are two types of visual pathways: transient and sustained. The former is more sensitive to low spatial frequency (LSF) and the latter to high spatial frequency (HSF) stimuli. It has been hypothesized that the VBM deficit in schizophrenia is due to an overactive transient channel response to the mask. To examine this hypothesis, patients with schizophrenia and comparison volunteers were tested on a traditional backward-masking task as well as on tasks that altered the mask to bias stimulation toward transient (LSF) or sustained (HSF) channels. Medication effects and relationship to symptomatology were also examined. Patients with schizophrenia showed a significant deficit on the traditional backward-masking task and were also significantly impaired on the LSF- and HSF-masking tasks, though a differential deficit was not found on the latter two tasks. A U-shaped function, indicative of masking by interruption, was found on the LSF- and HSF-masking tasks. Masking performance was not altered when the same patients were tested on and off medication, and performance was related to positive and negative symptoms. In conclusion, the finding of a deficit in patients with schizophrenia on tasks producing a U-shaped function suggests that an aberrant transient response to the mask is producing increased interruption of the sustained response to the target.



Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the commonest inflammatory demyelinating disease of the human central nervous system (CNS). In MS, CNS inflammation is associated with demyelination and axonal degeneration, which leads to clinical presentation. Expression and cellular localization of CCL2/MCP-1 and CCR2 in MS have been described in the three compartments: brain, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood. Evidence from descriptive, transgenic, knockout and neutralizing studies of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) points towards a nonredundant role of CCL2 and CCR2 in the recruitment of inflammatory infiltrate into the CNS. Hence, CCL2 and CCR2 may be targets for specific and effective treatment in MS.
We successfully constructed a retrovirus expression vector pRev-TRE-NT3. The supernatant with highest retroviral titers was obtained by transfection of two retrovirus vector, pRev-TRE-NT3 and pRev-Tet-On, into an ecotropic Ecopack-293 cells. Primarily cultured rat olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) were co-infected with retrovirus following pRev-TRE-NT-3 and pRev-Tet-On system of produced retrovirus. By adding different concentrations of Doxycline, genetically modified OECs were induced to secrete human NT-3. The secreted NT-3 in OEC culture supernatant was detected with western-blot, and its biological activity was confirmed by the growth bioassay of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells. The results are as follows: (1) 0.78 kb hNT-3 cDNA was harvested and successfully cloned into pRev-TRE vector by PCR and restriction enzyme digestion methods. The constructed plasmid was identified with electrophoresis, and the direction of hNT-3 cDNA inserting pRev-TRE vector was integrated correctly; (2) NT-3-modified OEC culture supernatant contained 28 kd NT-3 which can bind NT-3 antibody in western-blotting assay, and NT-3 expression was concentration-dependent on Doxycline. NT-3 was not detected in control groups; and (3) Numerous DRG cells migrated from DRG tissue mass in NT-3-modified OECs experimental groups, and these cells had long and thin processes with strong dioptre. These processes formed complicated networks. As for unmodified OEC control groups, a few DRG cells migrated from the tissue mass, and the processes of these cells were rather short. In blank groups, no cells migrated and grew. And their processes in control groups are significantly shorter than NT-3-modified OECs experimental groups. Our results indicate that Tet-On-regulated NT-3 expression in OECs was efficient, offering novel material of in vivo transplantation for the repair of CNS injury.






In an earlier paper (Fichter, M. M., Quadflieg, N. (1999). Alcoholism in homeless men in the mid-nineties: results from the Bavarian Public Health Study on Homelessness. European Archives of Psychiatry and Clinical Neuroscience 249:34-44), we reported data on alcoholism and comorbidity in 265 homeless men in Munich. There-as in this paper-we divided the sample into three groups based on a lifetime diagnosis of alcohol dependence (N = 187), alcohol abuse (N = 17), and no diagnosis of alcoholism (N = 61) at baseline assessment. This study reports a three-year prospective longitudinal assessment of the original representative sample of homeless men in Munich. Interviews at baseline and at follow-up included the SCID-I and covered several other areas (cognitive impairment, somatic complaints, use of medical services, and other psychosocial variables). Of 247 homeless men still alive, at three-year follow-up, 185 (74.9%) were successfully traced and personally interviewed. Alcohol dependency in homeless men at first wave assessment (as compared to men not manifesting alcohol abuse or dependence) was associated with a higher proportion of homelessness at three-year follow-up, an increase of alcohol consumption at three-year follow-up, reduction of monthly income, higher death rate, and high use of general medical services but very low utilization of (specific substance) user treatment services. Alcoholism in homeless men constitutes a posited risk factor for an unfavorable course over time with regard to such a person's living situation and health status in spite of more utilization of medical services.
We examined whether injections of the local anesthesia procaine into the nucleus accumbens core disrupts locomotion more readily than those into the medial ventral striatum. Spontaneous locomotion decreased during the first 10 min immediately following injections of procaine into the core. When procaine was co-administered with d-amphetamine into the core, the injections also decreased amphetamine-induced locomotion during the initial 10 min. On the other hand, no detectable effect on spontaneous or amphetamine-induced locomotion was found when procaine was injected into the medial ventral striatum, including the medial shell and medial olfactory tubercle. We replicated our recent finding that cocaine injections into the core induced delayed, modest locomotion, while cocaine injections into the medial ventral striatum induced immediate, vigorous locomotion. Injections of amphetamine into the core induced as equally vigorous locomotion as that of the medial ventral striatum. These results show that the neurons of the core involved in locomotion are more vulnerable to local anesthesia than the neurons of the medial ventral striatum. In other words, cocaine at the doses inducing vigorous locomotion in the medial ventral striatum induces local anesthesia when applied to the core.
Dopamine D1 receptors have critical neuromodulatory influences on the working memory functions of the prefrontal cortex, a brain region affected in many neuropsychiatric disorders. When D1 receptor agents are administered to rats or monkeys performing working memory tasks, an &quot;inverted U&quot; dose/response function is typically observed, whereby either too little or too much D1 receptor stimulation impairs working memory. There are two subtypes of D1 receptors, the D1A and the D1B (also known as the D1 and D5, respectively), but the relative contributions of these subtypes to prefrontal cortical function are not known, as there are no pharmacological agents that can distinguish between these receptors. Thus, genetically altered mice are needed to address this question. However, it is not known whether the mouse prefrontal cortex contains both D1A and D1B receptor subtypes, nor is it known whether mice will exhibit responses to D1 receptor agonists similar to those seen in rats and monkeys. The current study examined these issues by immunostaining the mouse brain with specific antibodies directed at the D1A and D1B receptor subtypes and by assessing the effects of increasing doses of a D1 receptor agonist, SKF81297, on spatial working memory performance in mice. Results indicate that mice are generally similar to monkeys and rats, expressing both D1A and D1B receptors in the prefrontal cortex and exhibiting an inverted &quot;U&quot; dose/response curve when administered SKF81297.
Little is known of the biochemical processes of cognitive decline during 'healthy' aging. Biological markers in body fluids, such as blood, could provide insight in those processes. In the present studies serum concentrations of different markers have been correlated to cognitive functioning of cognitively healthy aging individuals over a period of six years (mean age 57 years, SD 11, n = 93). Markers were related to mechanisms known to be involved in Alzheimer's disease, including inflammation, cholesterol homeostasis and homocysteine homeostasis. Domains of cognitive function addressed were cognitive speed (Letter-Digit Coding test), attention and information processing (Stroop test), and memory (Word Learning test: Total Words and Delayed Recall). Baseline concentrations of haptoglobine, homocysteine, lathosterol and lanosterol were negatively correlated with cognitive functioning on the Stroop test over the whole follow-up period of six years. Concentrations of all markers, i.e. haptoglobine, C-reactive protein, homocysteine, lathosterol and lanosterol, were also negatively correlated with functioning on the Word Learning test (Delayed Recall and for some markers also with the Total Words) over the whole six-years follow-up period. In conclusion, concentrations of serum markers related to inflammation, homocysteine and cholesterol homeostasis are not only associated with Alzheimer's disease, but also with cognitive functioning in the cognitively healthy aging population.
Ca(2+) entry through the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptors has the power to determine whether neurons survive or die. Too much NMDA receptor activity is harmful to neurons - but so is too little. Is it a case of too much or too little Ca(2+) influx causing cell death or do other factors, such as receptor location or receptor-associated proteins, play a role? Understanding the mechanisms behind this dichotomous signalling is an important area of molecular neuroscience with direct clinical implications.
The neurons in the antennal lobe of the locust had been shown to encode the identity of odorants using spatially distributed synchronized patterns of neural activity. Recent work describes how such neural patterns are detected. By using non-linear membrane properties, one set of target neurons, the Kenyon cells of the mushroom bodies, are able to act as coincidence detectors, sensitive to synchronized activity. In addition, the specific circuitry between the antennal lobe and the mushroom body refines the spatial-temporal selectivity of the Kenyon cells. In this process, the neural representation of odor identity is transformed from a dense spatial-temporal code into a sparse code.
Combinatorial transcription codes are used widely in the developing nervous system to specify the development of many distinct cell types. Although this strategy maximizes the use of small numbers of proteins, the molecular basis for imposing specificity remains unclear. A recent study has addressed this question by demonstrating that the favoring of hexameric complexes of specific LIM homeodomain proteins over tetramers could dictate the choice between motor neuron versus interneuron fate.
Although binocular neurons in the primary visual cortex are sensitive to retinal disparity, their activity does not constitute an unambiguous disparity signal. A multi-spatial-scale neural model for disparity computation is developed to examine how population activity might be interpreted to overcome ambiguities at the single neuron level. The model incorporates a front end that encodes disparity by a family of complex cell-like energy units and a second stage that reads the population activity. Disparity is recovered by matching the population response to a set of canonical templates, derived from the mean response to white noise stimuli at a range of disparities. Model predictions are qualitatively consistent with a variety of psychophysical results in the literature, including the effects of spatial frequency on stereoacuity and bias in perceived depths, and the effect of standing disparity on increment thresholds. Model predictions are also consistent with data on qualitative appearance of complex stimuli, including depth averaging, transparency, and corrugation. The model also accounts for the non-linear interaction of disparities in compound grating stimuli. These results show that a template-match approach reduces ambiguities in individual and pooled neuronal responses, and allows for a broader range of percepts, consistent with psychophysics, than other models. Thus, the pattern of neural population activity across spatial scales is a better candidate for the neural correlate of depth perception than the activity of single neurons or the pooled activity of multiple neurons.
Previous research revealed significant individual variations in opsin genes and cone photopigments in several species of platyrrhine (New World) monkeys and showed that these in turn can yield significant variations in color vision. To extend the understanding of the nature of color vision in New World monkeys, electroretinogram flicker photometry was used to obtain spectral sensitivity measurements from representatives of four platyrrhine genera (Cebus, Leontopithecus, Saguinus, Pithecia). Animals from each genus were found to be polymorphic for middle to long-wavelength (M/L) sensitive cones. The presence of a short-wavelength sensitive photopigment was established as well so these animals conform to the earlier pattern in predicting that all male monkeys are dichromats while, depending on their opsin gene array, individual females can be either dichromatic or trichromatic. Across subjects a total of five different M/L cone pigments were inferred with a subset of three of these present in each species.

Well-defined correlations between morphology, electrophysiological properties and the types of synaptic inputs received are established for myenteric neurons in the guinea pig ileum. However, in the distal colon, the correlations between AH electrophysiological properties, presence of fast excitatory post-synaptic potentials (EPSPs) and neuronal shape have been inadequately resolved and it is unknown whether any colon neurons receive synaptic inputs that generate sustained excitation. In this work, we have used intracellular recording, dye filling via the recording electrode, and immunohistochemistry to classify distal colon neurons. Neurons (24 of 168) had Dogiel type II morphology and 42% of these were dendritic type II neurons, compared to about 10% in the ileum. All Dogiel type II neurons had AH electrophysiological properties, including a prolonged post-spike after-hyperpolarization (AHP). None of these received fast excitatory post-synaptic potentials, 11 of 22 tested exhibited sustained slow post-synaptic excitation (SSPE) in response to 1 Hz pre-synaptic stimulation and 13 of 15 tested were immunoreactive for calbindin. Neurons (127) had Dogiel type I, filamentous or other uniaxonal cell shape and S type electrophysiology. Neurons of this group had fast excitatory post-synaptic responses to stimulation of synaptic inputs, but did not exhibit a prolonged post-spike after-hyperpolarization or sustained slow post-synaptic excitation. Another group of neurons (17) had both AH electrophysiological characteristics and fast excitatory post-synaptic potentials. These neurons had Dogiel type I, filamentous or other uniaxonal shapes, but none had Dogiel type II morphology and none showed sustained slow post-synaptic excitation. It is concluded that Dogiel type II neurons are all AH neurons and are probably intrinsic sensory neurons that could be involved in long-term changes in excitability in the colon. All other neurons are monoaxonal; these are motor neurons and interneurons, and most are S neurons, electrophysiologically. A small number of monoaxonal neurons display AH electrophysiology and also receive fast excitatory synaptic inputs. These include motor and interneurons, but not sensory neurons.
The calcineurin-mediated pathway is involved in skeletal and cardiac hypertrophy and vascular development in vivo, but the relationship between this pathway and the phenotype of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) remains unknown. Using visceral SMCs in culture as a model system of differentiated SMCs, we investigated the role of the calcineurin-mediated pathway in maintaining the differentiated phenotype of SMCs, which depends on the insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I)-triggered activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K)/protein kinase B (PKB(Akt)) pathway. Treatment with calcineurin inhibitors, cyclosporin A or FK506, or the forced expression of the natural calcineurin inhibitor, CAIN, induced SMC dedifferentiation. Notably, suppression of the promoter activities of the SMC molecular markers caldesmon and alpha1 integrin by blocking the PI3-K/PKB(Akt) pathway was rescued by the forced expression of constitutively active calcineurin Aalpha, suggesting that the calcineurin-mediated pathway is critical for maintaining the differentiated phenotype of SMCs and works downstream of the PI3-K/PKB(Akt) pathway.
We investigated the effects of protons and calcium ions on the voltage-dependent gating of the hyperpolarization-activated, nonselective cation channel current, I(h), in rod photoreceptors. I(h) is a cesium-sensitive current responsible for the peak-plateau sag during the rod response to bright light. The voltage dependence of I(h) activation shifted about 5 mV per pH unit, with external acidification producing positive shifts and alkalinization producing negative shifts. Increasing external [Ca(2+)] from 3 to 20 mM resulted in a large (approximately 17 mV) positive shift in I(h) activation. External [Ca(2+)] (20 mM) blocked pH-induced shifts in activation. Cytoplasmic acidification produced by 25 mM sodium acetate led to a negative shift in inactivation (-9 mV) and internal alkalinization produced with 20 mM ammonium chloride resulted in a positive shift (+6 mV). Surface charge binding and screening theory (Gouy-Chapman-Stern) accounted for the observed shifts in I(h) activation, with the best fit achieved when protons and calcium ions were assumed to bind to distinct sites on the membrane. Since light induces changes in the retinal ionic environment, these results permit us to gauge the degree to which rod light responses could be modified via alterations in I(h) activation.
Oxidative stress (OS) is a primary pathogenic mechanism of nigral dopaminergic (DA) cell death in Parkinson's disease (PD). Oxidative damage, Lewy body formation and decreased mitochondrial complex I activity are the consistent pathological findings in PD. In nigral DA neurons, however, it is unknown whether any gene expressional changes induced by OS contribute to the typical PD pathology. Here, using microarray analysis, we identified several groups of genes in the nigral DA cell line, SN4741 [J. Neurosci. 19 (1999) 10; J. Neurochem. 76 (2001) 1010], that were regulated by OS. Approximately 36 significantly regulated genes that encode functional molecules of nuclear subunits of mitochondrial complex I, exocytosis and membrane trafficking proteins, markers for OS and oxidoreductases, regulatory molecules of apoptosis and unidentified EST clones were further analysed. OS modulated the expression of specific genes, of which physiological dysfunctions have been implicated in PD. For instance, the expression of the nuclear-encoded subunits of mitochondrial complex I, B8 and B17, were significantly down-regulated by OS, possibly contributing to selective defect in mitochondrial complex I activity in PD. Furthermore, syntaxin 8 and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) are most dramatically up-regulated by OS in DA cells. Syntaxin 8 is a SNARE protein, regulating lipid vesicle docking and fusion as well as early endosome membrane recycling. Lipid membranes are significantly oxidative-damaged in PD. HO-1 is an important cytoplasmic constituent of Lewy bodies, a pathological hallmark of idiopathic PD. Thus, our findings provide novel molecular probes that may be useful in unraveling the molecular mechanism(s) of OS-induced pathogenesis in PD. Further functional characterization of the affected genes including ESTs can help elucidate the underlying molecular pathology as well as develop biomarkers for monitoring degenerating DA neurons in PD.
The antioxidant enzyme Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase has so far been considered costitutively expressed and exclusively localized into cytosol. In this paper we investigated Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase export in neuroblastoma SK-N-BE cells by flow cytometry analysis, confocal immunofluorescence analysis and enzyme-linked immunosorbed assay. Immunofluorescence analysis shows that the enzyme is exported by microvesicular granules; moreover the treatment of cells with brefeldin A and with 2-deoxy-D-glucose and sodium azide strongly decreases the amount of CuZn superoxide dismutase detected in the medium. Therefore the involvement of ATP-dependent mechanisms, likely including BFA-sensitive intracytoplasmic vesicles in Cu,Zn SOD export from SK-N-BE cells, has to be hypothesized. Microvesicular-mediated Cu,Zn SOD export in neurons could represent a relevant phenomenon able to influence cell excitability that is affected by reactive oxygen species.
Characteristics of the cellular response to oxygen deprivation and subsequent reoxygenation (hypoxia/reoxygenation) include redirection of energy metabolism, increased glucose utilization and expression of oxygen-regulated proteins. Inhibition of protein synthesis during early reoxygenation period prevented effective astrocyte adaptation to hypoxia/reoxygenation, resulting in eventual cell death. To elucidate the role of astrocytes in the central nervous system in response to hypoxia/reoxygenation, we analyzed the cDNA library derived from the cultured rat astrocytes subjected to 24 h of hypoxia followed by reoxygenation by differential display, and isolated a cDNA corresponding to Na/K ATPase alpha1 subunit. The expression of Na/K ATPase alpha1 subunit mRNA as well as beta1subunit mRNA was transiently increased after reoxygenation, whereas hypoxia itself did not induce any gene expression change. Na/K ATPase alpha1 subunit protein was transiently increased, whereas the protein expression for Na/K ATPase beta1 subunit showed sustained induction after reoxygenation. Overexpression of beta1 subunit in HEK 293 cells subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation promoted survival of the cells. These findings suggest that Na/K ATPases may contribute to maintain the cellular environment of astrocytes subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation.
Presenilins (PS1/PS2) play a critical role in proteolysis of beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta APP) to generate beta-amyloid, a peptide important in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Nevertheless, several regulatory functions of PS1 have also been reported. Here we demonstrate, in neuroblastoma cells, that PS1 regulates the biogenesis of beta APP-containing vesicles from the trans-Golgi network and the endoplasmic reticulum. PS1 deficiency or the expression of loss-of-function variants leads to robust vesicle formation, concomitant with increased maturation and/or cell surface accumulation of beta APP. In contrast, release of vesicles containing beta APP is impaired in familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD)-linked PS1 mutant cells, resulting in reduced beta APP delivery to the cell surface. Moreover, diminution of surface beta APP is profound at axonal terminals in neurons expressing a PS1 FAD variant. These results suggest that PS1 regulation of beta APP trafficking may represent an alternative mechanism by which FAD-linked PS1 variants modulate beta APP processing.
Leptin inhibits appetite by activating several neuroendocrine systems, including the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal cortical (HPA) axis. In turn, elevated glucocorticoids can increase circulating leptin. We therefore measured plasma leptin in 12 normal women and eight normal men administered low-dose physostigmine (PHYSO) and arginine vasopressin (AVP) to stimulate the HPA axis. The subjects underwent four test sessions 5-7 days apart: PHYSO (8 microg/kg IV), AVP (0.08 U/kg IM), PHYSO + AVP, and saline control. Serial blood samples were taken before and after pharmacologic challenge and analyzed for leptin, adrenocorticotropin (ACTH)1-39, cortisol, and AVP. Estradiol and testosterone also were measured at each test session. PHYSO and AVP produced no side effects in about half the subjects and predominantly mild side effects in the other half, with no significant female-male differences. Correlations between side effects (absent or present) after PHYSO or AVP and the corresponding leptin responses were nonsignificant. Baseline plasma leptin concentrations were significantly higher in the women than in the men (p &lt; 0.003). Leptin concentrations following PHYSO remained unchanged from baseline, indicating that the short-lived ACTH and cortisol increases produced by PHYSO did not affect leptin secretion. In contrast, AVP administration, while also increasing ACTH and cortisol, suppressed leptin, to a significantly greater degree in the women than in the men (p = 0.01). This significant suppression of leptin by AVP has not been previously described; physiologically, it may be part of a negative feedback regulatory system between central leptin and its activation of the HPA axis, by inhibition of leptin production or acceleration of its clearance.



Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we investigated the neural substrates for computing time intervals. Five right-handed males were asked to judge if a digit probe belonged to a string of digits presented immediately before but to provide their response only after 1.5s had elapsed. This time estimation condition, compared with control working memory and motor tasks, was associated with increased activity in the middle occipital gyri, in the right inferior parietal lobe, and bilaterally in the prefrontal cortex. We argue that activity elicited in the occipital lobe provides duration information about visual stimuli that can be quantified at the level of the inferior parietal lobe. Comparison with time reference information depends on the bilateral prefrontal cortex.
Modern surgical techniques cannot guarantee functional recovery following peripheral nerve injuries. Research into factors that may influence nerve regeneration has therefore assumed a prominent potential therapeutic role. We report here on the development of an approach to allow for direct manipulation of the microenvironment of regenerating peripheral nerve axons. We show that solutions can be delivered directly to this local milieu in vivo and that such a delivery can be performed multiple times over an extended period, potentially facilitating studies of multiple molecular players that act locally. We also demonstrate that the bundle of regenerated axons are amenable to morphological analysis by 21 days and that the injection system remains patent for at least 21 days.
High-frequency activation of excitatory synapses produces long-term depression (LTD) at inhibitory synapses in rat visual cortex. The LTD generation mechanism was studied by recording inhibitory postsynaptic potentials from layer V cells in response to layer IV stimulation under pharmacological blockade of excitatory synaptic transmission. LTD occurred after depolarizing current pulses applied to postsynaptic cells elicited repetitive firing. LTD induction was facilitated by a bath application of an L-type Ca(2+) channel activator, 1,4-Dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-5-nitro-4-[2-(trifluoromethyl) phenyl]-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid, methyl ester (BAY K 8644), while it was prevented by either the bath application of L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker nifedipine or postsynaptic loading of Ca(2+) chelator 1,2-bis-(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N',-tetraaceticacid (BAPTA). These results suggest that LTD induction is at least partly mediated by Ca(2+) entry through L-type Ca(2+) channels in association with postsynaptic action potentials.
The study of cognitive aging seeks to determine the psychological and neural mechanisms underlying age-related decline in cognitive performance. New methods in functional brain imaging are beginning to provide possible answers to questions regarding age-related cognitive decline.
Coiled coils are well-known as oligomerization domains, but they are also important sites of protein-protein interactions. We determined the NMR solution structure and backbone (15)N relaxation rates of a disulfide cross-linked, two-chain, 37-residue polypeptide containing the 34 C-terminal residues of striated muscle alpha-tropomyosin, TM9a(251-284). The peptide binds to the N-terminal region of TM and to the tropomyosin-binding domain of the regulatory protein, troponin T. Comparison of the NMR solution structure of TM9a(251-284) with the X-ray structure of a related peptide [Li, Y., Mui, S., Brown, J. H., Strand, J., Reshetnikova, L., Tobacman, L. S., and Cohen, C. (2002) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 99, 7378-7383] reveals significant differences. In solution, residues 253-269 (like most of the tropomyosin molecule) form a canonical coiled coil. Residues 270-279, however, are parallel, linear helices, novel for tropomyosin. The packing between the parallel helices results from unusual interface residues that are atypical for coiled coils. Y267 has poor packing at the coiled-coil interface and a lower R(2) relaxation rate than neighboring residues, suggesting there is conformational flexibility around this residue. The last five residues are nonhelical and flexible. The exposed surface presented by the parallel helices, and the flexibility around Y267 and the ends, may facilitate binding to troponin T and formation of complexes with the N-terminus of tropomyosin and actin. We propose that unusual packing and flexibility are general features of coiled-coil domains in proteins that are involved in intermolecular interactions.

The amphibian Xenopus laevis can adapt the color of its skin to the light intensity of the background. A key peptide in this adaptation process is alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), which is derived from proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and released by the endocrine melanotrope cells in the pituitary pars intermedia. In this study, the presence of alpha-MSH in the brain, cranial placode derivatives, and retina of developing Xenopus laevis was investigated using immunocytochemistry, to test the hypothesis that POMC peptide-producing neurons and endocrine cells have a common embryonic origin and a common function, i.e., controlling each other's activities and/or being involved in the process of physiological adaptation. The presence of alpha-MSH-positive cells in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, ventral hypothalamic nucleus, epiphysis, and endocrine melanotrope and corticotrope cells, which are all involved in regulation of adaptation processes, has been detected from stage 37/38 onward. This is consistent with the presumed common origin of these cells, the anterior neural ridge (ANR) of the neural-plate-stage embryo. The olfactory epithelium and the otic and epibranchial ganglia also contain alpha-MSH, indicating that these placodal derivatives originate from a common placodal domain continuous with the ANR. Furthermore, we demonstrate the presence of alpha-MSH in a subpopulation of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), which is possibly also derived from the ANR. Immunoreactivity for alpha-MSH in RGCs that are located in the dorsal part of the retina is dependent on the background light intensity, suggesting that these cells are involved in the regulation of background adaptation. Taken together, the results support the hypothesis that POMC peptide-producing cells have a common embryonic origin and are involved in adaptation processes.
CSP function is vital to synaptic transmission, however; the precise nature of its role remains controversial. Conflicting reports support either a role for CSP: (i) in exocytosis or (ii) in the regulation of transmembrane calcium fluxes. Here we have examined the self-association of CSP to form oligomers that are stable upon SDS-PAGE. To understand the structural requirements for CSP self-association a series of CSP deletion mutants were constructed, expressed, and purified. This analysis revealed an interesting pattern of oligomerization. Amino acids between 83 and 136 were observed to be important for self-association. The recombinant CSP oligomers as well as the CSP monomers directly associate with Ni(2+)-NTA agarose. Thus CSP-CSP interactions may be an important consideration for current working models of CSP chaperone activity at the synapse.

The dorsal (DRN) and median raphe nuclei (MRN) are two major sources of serotonergic projections to forebrain that are involved in regulation of behavioral state and motor activity, and implicated in affective disorders such as depression and schizophrenia. To investigate afferent influences on serotonergic neurons, this study compared the role of endogenous GABA and glutamate in the DRN and MRN using microdialysis and measurement of locomotor activity in freely behaving rats. Local infusion of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline increased serotonin (5-HT) efflux in the DRN but not the MRN. In contrast, infusion of glutamate receptor antagonists produced larger decreases in 5-HT efflux in the MRN compared with the DRN. Moreover, glutamate receptor antagonists attenuated the increase in 5-HT efflux produced by GABA receptor blockade in the DRN. Thus, the disinhibitory effect of GABA blockers could be ascribed in part to an enhanced influence of glutamate. Measurements of locomotor activity indicate that changes in 5-HT were not simply correlated with behavioral activity induced by drug infusion. In summary, the role of inhibitory and excitatory afferents was strikingly different in the DRN and MRN. GABA afferents were the predominant tonic influence on serotonergic neurons in the DRN. In contrast, glutamatergic but not GABAergic afferents had a strong tonic influence on serotonergic neurons in the MRN.
Whether the decrease in food intake that occurs at the onset of anorexia in tumor bearing (TB) rats is related to a change in the hypothalamic neuropeptide Y (NPY) system was tested by comparing NPY expression in sham operated Fischer Control and anorectic TB rats. Coronal cryocut sections of their fixed brain were processed by the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method with NPY polyclonal antibodies. NPY-immunoreactive fibers were widely distributed throughout the forebrain, but were most prominent in the hypothalamic paraventricular, suprachiasmatic, arcuate and periventricular nuclei. NPY-immunoreactive neurons were visualized in Control and anorectic TB rats in the preoptic region, the arcuate nucleus, and occasionally in the lateral hypothalamus. Semiquantitative image analysis showed a significant decrease in the NPY immunostaining in some hypothalamic nuclei of the anorectic TB rats, most prominently in the supraoptic nucleus, the parvocellular portion of the paraventricular nucleus, and, to a lesser extent, the suprachiasmatic and arcuate nuclei. No changes in NPY innervation were seen in the ventromedial nucleus and the lateral hypothalamus. The data support the hypothesis of an altered hypothalamic NPY system at the onset of anorexia in TB rats and also reveal the hypothalamic nuclei through which NPY influences food intake.
Axonal selection of synaptic partners is generally believed to determine wiring specificity in the nervous system. However, we have recently found evidence for specific dendritic targeting in the olfactory system of Drosophila: second order olfactory neurons (Projection Neurons) from the anterodorsal (adPN) and lateral (lPN) lineages send their dendrites to stereotypical, intercalating but non-overlapping glomeruli. Here we show that POU domain transcription factors, Acj6 and Drifter, are expressed in adPNs and lPNs respectively, and are required for their dendritic targeting. Moreover, misexpression of Acj6 in lPNs, or Drifter in adPNs, results in dendritic targeting to glomeruli normally reserved for the other PN lineage. Thus, Acj6 and Drifter translate PN lineage information into distinct dendritic targeting specificity. Acj6 also controls stereotypical axon terminal arborization of PNs in a central target, suggesting that the connectivity of PN axons and dendrites in different brain centers is coordinately regulated.
Cerebral auditory areas were delineated in the awake, passively listening, rhesus monkey by comparing the rates of glucose utilization in an intact hemisphere and in an acoustically isolated contralateral hemisphere of the same animal. The auditory system defined in this way occupied large portions of cerebral tissue, an extent probably second only to that of the visual system. Cortically, the activated areas included the entire superior temporal gyrus and large portions of the parietal, prefrontal, and limbic lobes. Several auditory areas overlapped with previously identified visual areas, suggesting that the auditory system, like the visual system, contains separate pathways for processing stimulus quality, location, and motion.



In an object-centered representation, the position of the subparts of an object are encoded with respect to a set of axes and an origin centered on the object. Several physiological and neuropsychological results support the existence of such representations in humans and monkeys. An explicit representation would involve neurons with invariant response properties in object-centered coordinates. We consider an alternative scheme using basis functions in which the cells have retinotopic receptive fields modulated by the orientation of the object and task-related signals. We show that this alternative is consistent with single-cell data, is computationally efficient, and accounts for object-centered hemineglect, a syndrome observed in humans after fronto-parietal lesions.
Gamma frequency oscillations (30-100 Hz) have been suggested to underlie various cognitive and motor functions. Here, we examine the generation of gamma oscillation currents in the hippocampus, using two-dimensional, 96-site silicon probes. Two gamma generators were identified, one in the dentate gyrus and another in the CA3-CA1 regions. The coupling strength between the two oscillators varied during both theta and nontheta states. Both pyramidal cells and interneurons were phase-locked to gamma waves. Anatomical connectivity, rather than physical distance, determined the coupling strength of the oscillating neurons. CA3 pyramidal neurons discharged CA3 and CA1 interneurons at latencies indicative of monosynaptic connections. Intrahippocampal gamma oscillation emerges in the CA3 recurrent system, which entrains the CA1 region via its interneurons.
Little is known about how GABAergic inputs interact with excitatory inputs under conditions that maintain physiological concentrations of intracellular anions. Using extracellular and gramicidin perforated-patch recording, we show that somatic and dendritic GABA responses in mature cortical pyramidal neurons are depolarizing from rest and can facilitate action potential generation when combined with proximal excitatory input. Dendritic GABA responses were excitatory regardless of timing, whereas somatic GABA responses were inhibitory when coincident with excitatory input but excitatory at earlier times. These excitatory actions of GABA occur even though the GABA reversal potential is below action potential threshold and largely uniform across the somato-dendritic axis, and arise when GABAergic inputs are temporally or spatially isolated from concurrent excitation. Our findings demonstrate that under certain circumstances GABA will have an excitatory role in synaptic integration in the cortex.
The morphogenesis of dendritic spines, the major sites of excitatory synaptic transmission in the brain, is important in synaptic development and plasticity. We have identified an ephrinB-EphB receptor trans-synaptic signaling pathway which regulates the morphogenesis and maturation of dendritic spines in hippocampal neurons. Activation of the EphB receptor induces translocation of the Rho-GEF kalirin to synapses and activation of Rac1 and its effector PAK. Overexpression of dominant-negative EphB receptor, catalytically inactive kalirin, or dominant-negative Rac1, or inhibition of PAK eliminates ephrin-induced spine development. This novel signal transduction pathway may be critical for the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton controlling spine morphogenesis during development and plasticity.
The central serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmitter system is an important modulator of diverse physiological processes and behaviors; however, the transcriptional mechanisms controlling its development are largely unknown. The Pet-1 ETS factor is a precise marker of developing and adult 5-HT neurons and is expressed shortly before 5-HT appears in the hindbrain. Here we show that in mice lacking Pet-1, the majority of 5-HT neurons fail to differentiate. Remaining ones show deficient expression of genes required for 5-HT synthesis, uptake, and storage. Significantly, defective development of the 5-HT system is followed by heightened anxiety-like and aggressive behavior in adults. These findings indicate that Pet-1 is a critical determinant of 5-HT neuron identity and implicate a Pet-1-dependent program in serotonergic modulation of behavior.
alpha-Synuclein is a major component of Lewy bodies in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) as well as of neuronal/glial inclusions in a subset of neurodegenerative disorders collectively termed synucleinopathies. Here we studied by immunohistochemistry the accumulation of alpha-synuclein in transgenic (TG) Drosophila overexpressing wild-type (WT) or familial PD-linked mutant (i.e. A30P and A53T) alpha-synuclein in neurons, with special reference to the phosphorylation at Ser129, that is characteristic of human synucleinopathy lesions. Progressive accumulation of human alpha-synuclein was widely observed in the cell bodies and neurites of major neuronal nuclei in TG Drosophila brains, and phosphorylation of alpha-synuclein at Ser129 was detected in a limited subset of neurons approximately 1 week after alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity was first detected. Phosphorylated alpha-synuclein was most abundant in A53T mutant, followed by A30P and WT Drosophila. These results suggest that accumulation and phosphorylation of alpha-synuclein is recapitulated in neurons of alpha-synuclein transgenic Drosophila, that underscores the relevance of this model to human synucleinopatheis.
The mossy fibers of the hippocampus display NMDA-receptor independent long-term plasticity. A number of studies addressed the role of mossy fiber long-term plasticity in memory, but have provided contrasting results. Here, we have exploited a genetic model, the rab3A null-mutant, which is characterized by the absence of both mossy fiber long-term potentiation and long-term depression. This mutant was backcrossed to 129S3/SvImJ and C57Bl/6J to obtain standardized genetic backgrounds. Spatial working memory, assessed in the eight-arm radial maze, was unchanged in rab3A null-mutants. Moreover, one-trial cued and contextual fear conditioning was normal. Long-term spatial memory was tested in the Morris water maze. Two different versions of this task were used, an 'easy' version and a 'difficult' one. On both versions, no differences in search time and quadrant preferences were observed. Thus, despite the elimination of mossy fiber long-term plasticity, these tests revealed no impairments in mnemonic capabilities. We conclude that spatial, contextual and working memory do not depend on mossy fiber plasticity.
The neurobiologic mechanisms underlying the recovery process following stroke are poorly understood. The present study investigated glutamatergic and gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA)-ergic receptor densities following experimental stroke in rats exposed to different environmental housing or pharmacologic interventions. About 2 days after transient (120 min) middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion, the rats were singly housed in standard cages or were moved to an enriched environment and treated for 10 days with either 0.9% NaCl or with the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist, atipamezole (1.0 mg/kg, s.c.). The limb-placing, foot-slip, and water-maze tests were used to assess behavioral deficits and recovery following ischemia. The rats were decapitated on day 25 after the operation and their brains were processed for [3H]MK-801, [3H]D,L,-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), [3H]kainate, and [3H]muscimol autoradiography. Receptor binding site densities were different between sham-operated rats and ischemic rats only in the lesion core and lateral ventroposterior thalamic nucleus. Ischemic rats housed in an enriched environment and treated with atipamezole had better performance in the limb-placing test. The deficit in the water-maze test was most pronounced in ischemic rats housed in standard cages. There were a number of correlations between the behavioral data and receptor binding densities in ischemic rats. For example, recovery in the limb-placing test correlated with [3H]AMPA receptor binding sites in the contralateral frontal cortex (r=0.616, P&lt;0.05), hindlimb cortex (r=0.649, P&lt;0.05), and parietal cortex (r=0.674, P&lt;0.05) in ischemic rats housed in an enriched environment. There were similar correlations between limb-placing recovery and [3H]kainate binding sites in the contralateral cortices in ischemic rats housed in standard cages. In addition, there were particularly strong clustered correlations between swimming speed in the water-maze test and [3H]AMPA receptor binding sites in the hippocampal subregions in the ischemic rats housed in an enriched environment. The present results suggest that transient focal cerebral ischemia does not induce significant long-term changes in glutamatergic and GABAergic receptors in areas remote from the infarct area. The correlational data, however, suggest an important role for the contralateral cortex in the behavioral outcome and maintenance of the recovered state of ischemic rats, depending on housing conditions. In addition, attenuation of spatial learning deficits observed in ischemic rats housed in an enriched environment might be due to an increase in the swimming speed through hippocampal AMPA receptor-mediated mechanisms.
Ts65Dn mice are partially trisomic for a segment of murine chromosome 16 similar to the gene segment on human chromosome 21 affected in Down's syndrome (DS). These animals display cognitive deficits, neurochemical imbalances, and cholinergic degeneration resembling alterations in DS and early onset Alzheimer's disease. The loss of basal forebrain cholinergic phenotype in Ts65Dn mice begins at approximately 6 months of age and may be due to an improperly functioning neurotrophic system. We compared 4 and 6 month-old Ts65Dn mice in a water-escape radial-arm maze task to investigate working and reference memory before and after the reported onset of cholinergic decline. Both 4 and 6 month-old Ts65Dn mice exhibited impaired performance compared to age-matched controls. However, the younger Ts65Dn mice displayed the capability to learn all working and reference memory measures, while the older Ts65Dn mice did not. Ts65Dn mice failed to maintain performance as working memory load increased, and the ability to handle an increasing working memory load also diminished with age. Collectively, these data suggest that major alterations in cognitive function occur in Ts65Dn mice between the ages of 4 and 6 months.
Tolving argues that one form of explicit memory, autobiographical memory is uniquely human and has no nonhuman animal antecedents. We suggest that a form of memory used by humans and nonhuman animals, dead reckoning, shares a common limbic structure, including the cingulate cortex and hippocampus, and involves similar processes in recognition of self-action. Thus, it may be homologous to, and an antecedent of, autobiographical memory in humans.
Amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta), the pathogenic agent of Alzheimer's disease (AD), is a physiological metabolite in the brain. We have focused our attention and effort on elucidating the unresolved aspect of Abeta metabolism: proteolytic degradation. Among a number of Abeta-degrading enzyme candidates, we used a novel in vivo paradigm to identify a member of the neutral endopeptidase family, neprilysin, as the major Abeta catabolic enzyme. Neprilysin deficiency results in defects in the metabolism of endogenous Abeta 40 and 42 in a gene dose-dependent manner. Our observations suggest that even partial down-regulation of neprilysin activity, which could be caused by aging, can contribute to AD development by promoting Abeta accumulation. Moreover, we discuss the fact that an aging-dependent decline of neprilysin activity, which leads to elevation of Abeta concentrations in the brain, is a natural process that precedes AD pathology. In this Perspective, we hypothesize that neprilysin down-regulation has a role in sporadic AD (SAD) pathogenesis, and we propose that this knowledge be used for developing preventive and therapeutic strategies through use of a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR).

Skilled motor behavior relies on the brain learning both to control the body and predict the consequences of this control. Prediction turns motor commands into expected sensory consequences, whereas control turns desired consequences into motor commands. To capture this symmetry, the neural processes underlying prediction and control are termed the forward and inverse internal models, respectively. Here, we investigate how these two fundamental processes are related during motor learning. We used an object manipulation task in which subjects learned to move a hand-held object with novel dynamic properties along a prescribed path. We independently and simultaneously measured subjects' ability to control their actions and to predict their consequences. We found different time courses for predictor and controller learning, with prediction being learned far more rapidly than control. In early stages of manipulating the object, subjects could predict the consequences of their actions, as measured by the grip force they used to grasp the object, but could not generate appropriate actions for control, as measured by their hand trajectory. As predicted by several recent theoretical models of sensorimotor control, our results indicate that people can learn to predict the consequences of their actions before they can learn to control their actions.


Molecular chaperones and their functions in protein folding have been implicated in several neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease, which are characterized by accumulation of protein aggregates (e.g., alpha-synuclein and huntingtin, respectively). These aggregates have been shown in various experimental systems to respond to changes in levels of molecular chaperones suggesting the possibility of therapeutic intervention and a role for chaperones in disease pathogenesis. It remains unclear whether chaperones also play a role in Alzheimer's disease, a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by beta-amyloid and tau protein aggregates. Here, we report an inverse relationship between aggregated tau and the levels of heat shock protein (Hsp)7090 in tau transgenic mouse and Alzheimer's disease brains. In various cellular models, increased levels of Hsp70 and Hsp90 promote tau solubility and tau binding to microtubules, reduce insoluble tau and cause reduced tau phosphorylation. Conversely, lowered levels of Hsp70 and Hsp90 result in the opposite effects. We have also demonstrated a direct association of the chaperones with tau proteins. Our results suggest that up-regulation of molecular chaperones may suppress formation of neurofibrillary tangles by partitioning tau into a productive folding pathway and thereby preventing tau aggregation.
The accumulation of endogenous bile acids contributes to hepatocellular damage during cholestatic liver disease. To examine the controversy regarding the therapeutic use of ursodeoxycholate (UDCA) in cholestatic patients, we investigated the possible cytoprotection or synergistic effects of UDCA against chenodeoxycholate (CDCA)-induced injury to isolated rat hepatocytes. Our aim was to investigate the role of the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) in the mechanism of cytotoxicity caused by UDCA plus CDCA. Although not toxic by itself, UDCA potentiated the mitochondrial depolarization, ATP depletion and cell killing caused by CDCA. Fructose maintained ATP levels and prevented bile acid-induced cell killing. Cyclosporine A (CyA), a potent inhibitor of the MPT, substantially reduced mitochondrial depolarization, ATP depletion and cell killing caused by CDCA. Our results demonstrate that the synergistic cytotoxicity by UDCA plus CDCA is mediated by impairment of mitochondrial function, an event that is expressed via induction of the MPT.
A new series of benzodiazepine-containing gamma-secretase inhibitors with potential use in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease is disclosed. Structure-activity relationships of the pendant hydrocinnamate side-chain which led to the preparation of highly potent inhibitors are described.
Assembly of specialized membrane domains, both of the plasma membrane and of the ER, is necessary for the physiological activity of striated muscle cells. The mechanisms that mediate the structural organization of the sarcoplasmic reticulum with respect to the myofibrils are, however, not known. We report here that ank1.5, a small splice variant of the ank1 gene localized on the sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane, is capable of interacting with a sequence of 25 aa located at the COOH terminus of obscurin. Obscurin is a giant sarcomeric protein of approximately 800 kD that binds to titin and has been proposed to mediate interactions between myofibrils and other cellular structures. The binding sites and the critical aa required in the interaction between ank1.5 and obscurin were characterized using the yeast two-hybrid system, in in vitro pull-down assays and in experiments in heterologous cells. In differentiated skeletal muscle cells, a transfected myc-tagged ank1.5 was found to be selectively restricted near the M line region where it colocalized with endogenous obscurin. The M line localization of ank1.5 required a functional obscurin-binding site, because mutations of this domain resulted in a diffused distribution of the mutant ank1.5 protein in skeletal muscle cells. The interaction between ank1.5 and obscurin represents the first direct evidence of two proteins that may provide a direct link between the sarcoplasmic reticulum and myofibrils. In keeping with the proposed role of obscurin in mediating an interaction with ankyrins and sarcoplasmic reticulum, we have also found that a sequence with homology to the obscurin-binding site of ank1.5 is present in the ank2.2 isoform, which in striated muscles has been also shown to associate with the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Accordingly, a peptide containing the COOH terminus of ank2.2 fused with GST was found to bind to obscurin. Based on reported evidence showing that the COOH terminus of ank2.2 is necessary for the localization of ryanodine receptors and InsP3 receptors in the sarcoplasmic reticulum, we propose that obscurin, through multiple interactions with ank1.5 and ank2.2 isoforms, may assemble a large protein complex that, in addition to a structural function, may play a role in the organization of specific subdomains in the sarcoplasmic reticulum.
Zebra finch males sing and females do not, and the underlying neural circuitry in males is more developed than that in females. Sex steroid hormones influence the development of sex differences in this circuitry, including differences in androgen receptor (AR) expression, although the role of androgens has been controversial. We isolated a cDNA encoding a portion of the zebra finch AR and used in situ hybridization to examine the spatiotemporal pattern of AR mRNA expression in the brain during late embryonic development and at hatching. We detected AR mRNA in all the major subdivisions of the brain as early as embryonic day 10. No qualitative sex differences in AR mRNA expression patterns were observed. Cells lining the ventral arm of the lateral telencephalic ventricles expressed AR mRNA on embryonic day 11 and posthatching day 1, as did cells lining the third ventricle at all three developmental stages examined, suggesting that androgens may play a role in early stages of cellular proliferation, migration, or differentiation. AR mRNA was also detected in the hippocampus, neostriatum, septum, ventromedial archistriatum, hypothalamic regions, dorsal mesencephalon, and in and around the brainstem nucleus tracheosyringealis. Our results suggested that androgens act early in neural development and therefore may contribute to the process of sexual differentiation.
We compared beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) levels in the serum, CSF and brain (hippocampus) and correlated these with spatial learning in APP+PS1 transgenic mice. Compared with non-transgenic littermates, male 14-month-old APP + PS1 mice were impaired in spatial learning in the water maze. Among the APP + PS1 mice, only the hippocampal insoluble Abeta42 level correlated with spatial memory (r = -0.44). The levels of insoluble Abeta40 and Abeta42 were highly correlated (r = 0.92), and also correlated with soluble hippocampal Abeta42 (r = 0.64/0.69), which further correlated with the CSF Abeta42 (r = 0.52). None of these parameters correlated with serum Abeta40 levels. These findings support the role of insoluble Abeta42 in memory dysfunction and suggest a model with several pools (insoluble, extracellular soluble, CSF) of Abeta being in partial equilibrium with each other.
It has been proposed on the basis of behavioural data that grammaticality judgments in implicit artificial grammar learning paradigms are largely driven by priming based on fragment familiarity. A prediction that follows from this account is that neural deactivation, a common correlate of repetition priming, should be observed for grammatical compared to ungrammatical stimuli. We conducted an event-related fMRI study to investigate neuronal correlates of such fragment-based priming. In a study phase, participants performed a short-term memory task on a series of strings of pseudofont characters. Scanning was performed in a subsequent test phase in which participants classified new strings as either grammatical or ungrammatical. Test strings differed systematically from training strings in terms of exemplar and fragment similarity. Behaviourally, participants classified strings as grammatical based on fragment familiarity. Differential activity was evident during string classification as reduced activity in left lateral occipital complex and bilateral lingual gyri for strings with high fragment familiarity compared to strings with low fragment familiarity. Thus, consistent with the hypothesis, neuronal facilitation in extrastriate occipital regions may constitute one basis of implicit grammaticality decisions based on fragment priming.
Caspase-3-deficient 129/Sv mice show hyperplasia of the forebrain at embryonic day (E) 10.5, which suggests that caspase-3-dependent programmed cell death (PCD) plays an essential role in brain morphogenesis prior to neurogenesis. However, little is known about region-specific caspase-3-dependent PCD in the developing forebrain. We examined the PCD region in the early developmental brain at E9.5 by whole mount terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end-labeling (TUNEL). In addition to hindbrain, TUNEL-reactivity was detected in the ventral forebrain and in the caudal portion of the front nasal region, just behind the regions expressing fgf-8 and otx-2. It has been shown recently that brain hyperplasia induced by caspase-3-deficiency is mouse strain-dependent; such that brain abnormalities were observed in caspase-3-deficient 129/Sv mice but not in caspase-3-deficient C57BL/6 mice. We examined the caspase-3-dependent PCD in the ventral forebrain of 129/Sv and C57BL/6 mouse embryos (E8.5-9 and E9.5) by double staining of TUNEL and antiserum against the active form of caspase-3 (anti-m3D175). TUNEL/anti-m3D175 reactivity in the ventral forebrain was mouse strain-dependent, such that many TUNEL/anti-m3D175-positive cells were detected in the ventral forebrains of 129/Sv mice, but were not observed in C57BL/6 mice. Thus, it is likely that this region is the site of the strain-specific caspase-3-dependent PCD. A strain-dependent 'modulator' that regulates both caspase-3-dependent and -independent cell death pathways may control PCD in the ventral forebrain at E8.5-9.5.
Using tau protein extracts from Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain tissue, we generated a monoclonal antibody (mAb DC11) which decorated neurofibrillary pathology in brain derived from AD patients on immunohistochemistry, and which lacked reactivity with healthy brain tissue. The same pattern of DC11 specificity was observed on Western blot. The main constituent of structures decorated by DC11 is microtubule-associated protein tau. In Western blot, DC11 recognized neither native healthy tau nor its full length recombinant counterpart. However, the mAb showed strong immunoreactivity with truncated tau (residues tau151-421), thus indicating the requirement for a conformational epitope. Importantly, the DC11 epitope was phosphorylation independent. The immunochemical parameters of mAb show that DC11 could represent a novel structural probe with the specificity for conformation of pathological tau present in AD brains.
Recent evidence indicates that serotonin (5-HT)1A receptor agonists may abrogate excitotoxic brain damage. We investigated whether a single i.p. injection of the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg, protects cholinergic neurons of the rat magnocellular nucleus basalis (MBN) against NMDA excitotoxicity when administered at post-injury intervals ranging from 6 to 96 h. Drug effects on passive avoidance learning and on the density of cortical cholinergic innervation, a measure of neuronal survival in the damaged MBN, were analyzed. Our results demonstrate that 8-OH-DPAT, when administered up to 24 h post-lesion, significantly attenuates both behavioral and neuroanatomical consequences of NMDA excitotoxicity on cholinergic MBN neurons; and support the hypothesis that 5-HT1A receptor agonists may interfere with delayed neuronal death in vivo that is of significance in the pharmacological treatment of neurological disorders associated with excitotoxic neuronal damage.
We studied the neural activation associated with the expectancy of emotional stimuli using whole brain fMRI. Fifteen healthy subjects underwent fMRI scanning during which they performed a warned reaction task using emotional pictures carrying pleasant, unpleasant, or neutral content. The task involved an expected or unexpected condition. Data were analyzed by comparing the images acquired under the different conditions. In the expected condition, compared with the unexpected condition, significant activation was observed in the medial, inferior and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Whereas the expectancy of pleasant stimuli produced activation in the left dorsolateral and left medial prefrontal cortex as well as in the right cerebellum, the expectancy of unpleasant stimuli produced activation in the right inferior and right medial prefrontal cortex, the right amygdala, the left anterior cingulate cortex, and bilaterally in the visual cortex. These results suggest that the expectancy of emotional stimuli is mediated by the prefrontal area including the medial, inferior, and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, our data suggest that left frontal activation is associated with the expectancy of pleasant stimuli and that right frontal activation is associated with the expectancy of unpleasant stimuli. Finally, our findings suggest that the amygdala and anterior cingulate cortex may play an important role in the expectancy of unpleasant stimuli and that the input of this negative information is modulated by these specific brain areas.
Nedd5 is a septin protein enriched in brain and associates with the exocyst complex, a protein complex required for neurite outgrowth in neuroendocrine PC12 cells. In this study, we further investigate the association between Nedd5 and the exocyst complex as well as the role of Nedd5 in neurite outgrowth in differentiating PC12 cells. The endogenous Nedd5 is enriched at the perinuclear region in undifferentiated PC12 cells and radiates outward, from the perinuclear region toward the growth cone, upon NGF-induced PC12 neuronal differentiation. Nedd5, as well as other septin proteins, co-immunoprecipitates with the exocyst complex and tubulin from rat brain lysate. Interestingly, the over-expression of a GTPase-defective Nedd5 mutant promotes aberrant neurite sprouting in PC12 cells. These results demonstrate that Nedd5 and other septin proteins are associated with both the exocyst complex and microtubules and uncover a putative role for the Nedd5 GTPase activity in neurite outgrowth. Taken together, these findings suggest that Nedd5 may be required for polarized neurite outgrowth, perhaps, by facilitating the exocyst complex function during neuronal differentiation.
Spreading depression (SD) has been linked to several neurological disorders as epilepsy, migraine aura, trauma, and cerebral ischemia, which were also influenced by disorderliness of the brain redox homeostasis. To investigate whether local tissue oxidation directly induces SD, we oxidized a restricted local area of the rat cerebral cortex using photo-dynamic tissue oxidation (PDTO) technique and examined the cerebral blood flow (CBF) and direct current (DC) potential in and around the oxidized area. Intensive PDTO induced prolonged depolarization only in the photo-oxidized area, which led to global changes of CBF and DC potential: synchronous negative shifts of DC potential (with an amplitude of approximately 20 mV) and hyperperfusion of CBF occurred. The changes in DC potential and CBF spread at a rate of around 3mm/min beyond the oxidized area to the whole hemisphere of the cerebral cortex, indicating that intensive local oxidation induces SD in the rat brain.
We assessed muscarinic M(1), M(2) and M(4) receptor subtypes in the hippocampus of Alzheimer's and control brains by receptor autoradiography using ligands such as [(125)I]muscarinic toxin-1 ([(125)I]MT-1, M(1) selective), [(3)H]AFDX-384 (M(2) partially selective) and [(125)I]muscarinic toxin 4 ([(125)I]M(4) toxin-1, M(4) selective). Our results revealed a significant decrease in muscarinic M(4) receptor binding in the dentate gyrus and CA4 regions of brain sections from Alzheimer's patients compared to controls. No changes in the density of M(1) or M(2) receptor binding were observed. Our findings suggest that, relative to other muscarinic receptor subtypes, the M(4) receptor could be the subtype which is selectively compromised in Alzeheimer's disease (AD).
Expression of the inducible transcription factor c-Fos was mapped in mouse brain to identify neural circuits selectively involved in response to cold and hot external temperatures. Male C57BL/6J mice were exposed acutely or repeatedly (seven sessions) to 10 or 34 degrees C in sound-attenuated chambers. Control mice were acclimated to exposure to the experimental room at 20 degrees C. All animals were sacrificed at 90 min for immunohistochemical analysis. A statistically significant induction of c-Fos was observed in the shell of nucleus accumbens and posterior medial cortical amygdala only following the acute thermal exposure, showing a significant habituation of the response to repeated treatments, a finding arguing against specificity of responses in these nuclei to thermal exposures. In contrast, expression of c-Fos was significantly increased following both acute and repeated thermal exposures in subregions of hypothalamus (the median and medial preoptic nuclei, the paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus and the posterior hypothalamic area), septum (the ventral and dorsal portions of the lateral septum), midbrain (the periaqueductal gray and the intermediate layers of superior colliculus), as well as in the dentate gyrus and the paraventricular nucleus of thalamus, suggesting specificity of their responses to external temperatures. Expression of c-Fos was also significantly increased in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus following acute thermal exposures versus control mice, but not versus mice repeatedly exposed to cold and hot temperatures, providing modest support for thermal specificity of c-Fos response in this nucleus. While thermal sensitivity of hypothalamic structures has been previously confirmed by many authors, the present study identifies a number of structures previously not found to be responsive to changes in external temperature, and lays ground for future work important for identification of neural circuits involved in thermoregulation.
The mitochondrial permeability transition (mPT) is considered to be an important mediator of apoptosis and necrosis, and is specifically blocked by cyclosporin A (CsA). CsA has been shown to exert a potent neuroprotective action in vivo when allowed to cross the blood-brain barrier in various animal models of acute neurological insults and neurodegenerative disease. The neuroprotective effect of CsA is considered to be mediated through specific inhibition of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) and through inhibition of neuronal calcineurin activity. Characterization of mPT has mainly been performed in liver and heart mitochondria, and some brain studies have reported a decreased inhibitory effect of CsA and questioned the importance of mPT in brain-derived mitochondria. We have used the de-energized model of swelling to examine the mPT in brain-derived non-synaptosomal mitochondria. Ca(2+)-induced swelling was evaluated by electron microscopy and by measurement of spectrophotometric alterations in light scattering. Permeability transition was readily induced in a majority of the mitochondria at a wide range of Ca(2+) levels and was powerfully inhibited by CsA with a half-maximal effect at approximately 23 nM CsA. The swelling kinetics and CsA effects were comparable to previous findings in de-energized liver and heart mitochondria. Careful characterization of mPT and CsA effects in brain-derived mitochondria is the first step in evaluating newly developed CsA analogues capable of crossing the blood-brain barrier and preferentially entering the brain. The importance of CsA causing a shift of the mitochondrial sensitivity to Ca(2+) in neurological disorders is discussed.
We examined whether early maternal separation influenced the susceptibility to behavioural sensitization produced by repeated intravenous (i.v.) injections of cocaine in adult female rats. For the first 21 days of life litters were separated from their mother for either 15 min (MS-15) or 180 min/day (MS-180). Control animals were subjected only to regular cage changes (animal facility reared; AFR). In adulthood, these three groups did not differ in their locomotor response to placement in a novel environment or to an acute i.v. injection of cocaine. After six additional daily injections of either saline or cocaine and following a 7-day drug-free interval, sensitization was assessed by giving all rats a challenge i.v. injection of cocaine. Rats exposed to either period of maternal separation (MS-15 or MS-180) showed significantly less robust sensitization than AFR rats. Therefore, early maternal separation decreased susceptibility to behavioural sensitization produced by cocaine in adulthood and the specific duration of maternal separation had no effect on this outcome.
The GABA(A) receptor is an important target for a variety of general anesthetics, including halogenated ethers such as isoflurane and halogenated ethers such as chloroform. Bromoform is a halogenated alkane that exhibits anesthetic properties and has been shown by X-ray crystallography to bind to model anesthetic targets. In this study we report the ability of bromoform to potentiate GABA-induced current in recombinant GABA(A) receptors composed of alpha(1)beta(2)gamma(2s) subunits. Recent studies have shown that specific point mutations in the transmembrane (TM) region of the GABA(A) receptor alpha-subunit can selectively abolish the modulatory activity of specific general anesthetics, and that molecular volume is a key determinant of anesthetic activity. The action of bromoform was examined in a series of mutant receptors and compared with the activity profiles of three other volatile anesthetics. The pharmacological profile of bromoform at the mutant receptors used in this study was similar to that seen with halothane, and distinct from that observed for isoflurane and chloroform. The molecular volume of bromoform is closest to that of halothane, and therefore our data are consistent with the idea that molecular volume is an important determinant of inhaled anesthetic activity at the GABA(A) receptor.
Rats with bilateral ibotenic acid lesions of ventral subiculum were tested in an eight-arm radial maze task for spatial learning and memory functions. The performance of the lesioned rats was severely impaired relative to control rats in both acquisition and retention of the spatial task. Following subicular lesions, profound neurodegeneration of the CA1 and CA3 sub sectors of hippocampus and entorhinocortical layers I, II, III, V and VI was observed. These results support the concept that neurons in the ventral subiculum are a part of the neural network along with the above neurons, which could be involved in the processing of spatial information.
Studies have shown that cocaine alters the function of recombinant 5-HT(3) receptors and that behavioral responses to cocaine are affected by 5-HT(3) receptor ligands. However, the actions of cocaine on brain 5-HT(3) receptors have not been characterized because these receptors are not abundantly expressed in most neuronal populations. We examined the effect of cocaine on 5-HT(3) receptor function in cultured hippocampal neurons from transgenic mice overexpressing the receptor. Cocaine competitively inhibited 5-HT(3) receptors with an IC(50) of approximately 4 microM, indicating that brain 5-HT(3) receptors are important targets for the actions of this commonly abused substance.
SCN5A encodes the alpha subunit of the cardiac muscle and intestinal smooth muscle mechanosensitive Na(+) channel. Mechanosensitivity in the intestine requires an intact cytoskeleton. We report, using laser capture microdissection, single cell PCR, and immunohistochemistry, that syntrophins, scaffolding proteins, were expressed in human intestinal smooth muscle cells. The distribution of syntrophin gamma 2 was similar to that of SCN5A. Yeast two-hybrid and glutathione S-transferase pull-down experiments show that SCN5A and syntrophin gamma 2 co-express and that the PDZ domain of syntrophin gamma 2 directly interacts with the C terminus of SCN5A. In native cells, disruption of the C terminus-syntrophin gamma 2 PDZ domain interaction using peptides directed against either region result in loss of mechanosensitivity. Co-transfection of syntrophin gamma 2 with SCN5A in HEK293 cells markedly shifts the activation kinetics of SCN5A and reduces the availability of Na(+) current. We propose that syntrophin gamma 2 is an essential Na(+) channel-interacting protein required for the full expression of the Na(+) current and that the SCN5A-syntrophin gamma 2 interaction determines mechanosensitivity and current availability.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a key mediator in many physiological processes and one of the major receptors through which NO exerts its effects is soluble guanylyl cyclase. Guanylyl cyclase converts GTP to cyclic GMP as part of the cascade that results in physiological processes such as smooth muscle relaxation, neurotransmission, inhibition of platelet aggregation and immune response. The properties of A-350619, a novel soluble guanylyl cyclase activator, were examined to determine the modulatory effect on the catalytic properties of soluble guanylyl cyclase. A-350619 increased V(max) from 0.1 to 14.5 micromol/min/mg (145 fold increase), and lowered K(m) from 300 to 50 microM (6 fold decrease). When YC-1 (another sGC activator) and A-350619 were combined, a 156 fold increase in V(max) and a 5 fold decrease in Km were observed, indicating that the modulation of the enzyme brought about by YC-1 and A-350619 are not additive, suggesting a common binding site. Activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase by A-350619 was partially inhibited by ODQ, a specific inhibitor of soluble guanylyl cyclase by oxidation of the enzyme heme. YC-1 and A-350619 after pre-treatment with N-omega-nitro-L-arginine, an NO-synthase inhibitor, relaxed cavernosum tissue strips in a dose-dependent manner with EC(50) of 50 microM and 80 microM, respectively. Addition of SNP potentiated the relaxation effect of YC-1 and A-350619, shifting the dose-response curve to the left to 3 microM and 10 microM, respectively. Consistent with its biochemical activity, A-350619 (1 micromol/kg) alone induced penile erection in a conscious rat model. Activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase in cavernosum tissue as an alternate method of enhancing the effect of NO may provide a novel treatment of sexual dysfunction.


Neurotransmitters such as acetylcholine and GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) mediate rapid synaptic transmission by activating receptors belonging to the gene superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels (LGICs). These channels are pentameric proteins that function as signal transducers, converting chemical messages into electrical signals. Neurotransmitters activate LGICs by interacting with a ligand-binding site, triggering a conformational change in the protein that results in the opening of an ion channel. This process, which is known as 'gating', occurs rapidly and reversibly, but the molecular rearrangements involved are not well understood. Here we show that optimal gating in the GABA(A) receptor, a member of the LGIC superfamily, is dependent on electrostatic interactions between the negatively charged Asp 57 and Asp 149 residues in extracellular loops 2 and 7, and the positively charged Lys 279 residue in the transmembrane 2-3 linker region of the alpha1-subunit. During gating, Asp 149 and Lys 279 seem to move closer to one another, providing a potential mechanism for the coupling of ligand binding to opening of the ion channel.
Alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors have been identified mostly as postsynaptic receptors mediating fast glutamatergic synaptic transmission. However, neurochemical studies based on the modulation of neurotransmitter release have suggested the existence of presynaptic AMPA receptors. We have used a recently described technique that allows a high-purity fractionation of the pre- and postsynaptic proteins of synaptic junctions to evaluate the distribution of the different AMPA receptor subunits in rat hippocampal synapses. Surprisingly, we found very high levels of GluR1- and GluR2/3-like immunoreactivity in the presynaptic fraction, but also in the postsynaptic and extrasynaptic fractions. GluR4-like immunoreactivity was much less abundant but was still detected, predominantly in the postsynaptic fraction. This methodology appears to be far more sensitive than the classical immunogold electron microscopy to determine the localization of synaptic receptors.
Light-exposure of the chick embryo induces development of asymmetry in the thalamofugal visual projections to the Wulst regions of the forebrain since the embryo is turned so that it occludes its left and not its right eye. This asymmetry can be reversed by occluding the embryo's right eye and exposing its left eye to light. Here we show that three sub-regions of the thalamus (two in the dorsolateral anterior thalami (DLA) and one more caudal) have differing asymmetries of contralateral and/or ipsilateral projections. Hence the effect of asymmetrical light stimulation is regionally specific within the thalamus. Lateralised light stimulation appears to promote the development of ipsilateral projections from DLA pars dorsolateralis pars anterioris and contralateral projections from the caudal regions (the nucleus superficialis parvocellularis especially) but it may suppress the development of contralateral projections from the nucleus dorsolateralis anterior thalami pars lateralis rostralis. We also show that the light stimulation causes lateralised expression of c-fos and receptors for neurotransmitters.
In the present study the anatomical projections from the medial cerebellum to the prefrontal cortex (PFC) were investigated in healthy human subjects, using high frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic (rTMS) stimulation and electroencephalography (EEG). Medial cerebellar rTMS, compared to placebo induced a significant shift in anterior asymmetry, from left to right dominance in the fast (30-50 Hz) EEG spectrum, whereas occipital and lateral cerebellum stimulation did not show such an effect. Moreover elevations in mood and alertness were reported again after medial cerebellar stimulation only. Taken together, these data confirm and further specify the assumed cerebellar modulation of PFC activity and affect.
In the 1950s, the incidence of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, or Lytico) and parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC, or Bodig) on the island of Guam was much higher than anywhere else in the world. From the late 1960s to the early 1980s, the incidence of both disorders has decreased. The objective of the present study was to ascertain whether the decreasing incidence continued until the end of the century (1999). The average annual incidence of ALS and PDC was calculated for each 5-year period from 1940 to 1999, utilizing registration records of all ALS and PDC cases on Guam during that period. The results of this study confirmed that the incidence of ALS declined steadily during the past 40 years. The incidence of PDC also declined until the late 1980s but, unlike ALS, showed a slight increase from 1980 to 1999. The rapid decrease in incidence is not likely to be due to genetic factors. Instead, it is most likely to be the results of radical socioeconomic, ethnographic, and ecologic changes brought about by the rapid westernization of Guam.
A microbore column liquid chromatographic method for the simultaneous determination of norepinephrine (NE), serotonin (5-HT), and 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5HIAA) in microdialysis samples from rat brain is described. The method is based on precolumn derivatization of NE, 5HT, and 5HIAA with benzylamine in the presence of potassium hexacyanoferrate(III) resulting in the corresponding highly fluorescent and stable benzoxazole derivatives. A 15-microl sample was mixed with 15 microl derivatization reagent solution containing 0.3M 3-cyclohexylaminopropanesulfonic acid buffer (pH 12.0), 0.5M benzylamine, 10mM potassium hexacyanoferrate(III), and methanol (1/1/1/12, v/v/v/v). The derivatization was carried out at 50 degrees C for 20 min. The benzylamine derivatives of NE, 5HT, and 5HIAA were separated on a reversed-phase column (100 x 1.0mm i.d., packed with C18 silica, 5 microm) within 30 min. The mobile phase consisted of 15 mM acetate buffer (pH 5.0) and acetonitrile (31%, v/v); the flow rate was 50 microl/min. The detection limits (signal-to-noise ratio of 3) for NE, 5HT, and 5HIAA in the injection volume of 20 microl were 90, 210, and 260 amol, respectively. Microdialysis samples were collected in 7.5-min intervals from the probes implanted in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of awake rats. The basal levels of NE, 5HT, and 5HIAA in the dialysates from the hippocampus were 4.2+/-0.5, 4.9+/-0.6, and 934.1 +/- 63.4 fmol/20 microl, and those from the prefrontal cortex were 6.0+/-1.2,5.51.3, and 669.1 +/- 96.0 fmol/20 microl (mean +/- SE, n=25), respectively. The NE and 5HT levels were altered by perfusion of high-potassium or low-calcium solution and following antidepressant drugs imipramine and desipramine. It is concluded that the new fluorescence derivatization method in combination with microbore column liquid chromatography allows the simultaneous determination of NE, 5HT, and 5HIAA in the microdialysis samples at higher sensitivity, providing easier maintenance in routine use than that achieved by high-performance liquid chromatographic methods with electrochemical detection.
CBP/p300 recruitment to enhancer-bound complexes is a key determinant in promoter activation by many transcription factors. We present a novel mechanism of activating such complexes and show that pre-assembled Elk-1-p300 complexes become activated following Elk-1 phosphorylation by changes in Elk-1-p300 interactions rather than recruitment. It is known that Elk-1 binds to promoter in the absence of stimuli. However, it is unclear how activation of Elk-1 by mitogen-acivated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated phosphorylation leads to targeted gene transactivation. We show that Elk-1 can interact with p300 in vitro and in vivo in the absence of a stimulus through the Elk-1 C-terminus and the p300 N-terminus. Phosphorylation on Ser383 and Ser389 of Elk-1 by MAPK enhances this basal binding but, most importantly, Elk-1 exhibits new interactions with p300. These interaction changes render a strong histone acetyltransferase activity in the Elk-1-associated complex that could play a critical role in chromatin remodeling and gene activation. The pre-assembly mechanism may greatly accelerate transcription activation, which is important in regulation of expression of immediate-early response genes, in particular those involved in stress responses.
Oligodendrocytes, the myelin-producing cells in the central nervous system, represent a large portion of the total number of cells in the human brain. Using cell-specific markers and antibodies to ventral homeodomain transcription factors, NKX2.1 and DLX2, we show here that a subpopulation of early oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) in the human telencephalon may originate in the ganglionic eminence (GE). DLX2-labeled OPCs form a well-delineated stream of cells connecting the GE subventricular zone (SVZ) to the cortical intermediate zone through the anterior cortical SVZ. This population of cells is labeled by early OPCs markers, PDGFRalpha, Olig1, and NG2, and not with either neuronal, astrocyte, or late OPCs markers. Intriguingly, numerous CD68(+) microglia/macrophages, nestin(+) neural stem cells, and CD34(+) hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are also present in both the GE stream and the cortical SVZ. These cells could be colabeled with DLX2 as well as early OPCs markers. A separate subpopulation of early OPCs, present in the GE and cortical SVZ, did not express either DLX2 or CD68. These findings suggest that different subpopulations of early OPCs, characterized with different sets of transcription factors and cell-specific markers, are present in human forebrain. These subpopulations may have different origins; one may originate in the cortical SVZ, while others may come from the GE and/or outside the CNS as hematopoietic stem cells.
The assembly and maintenance of the muscle sarcomere requires a complex interplay of actin- and myosin-associated proteins. Myotilin is a thin filament-associated Z-disc protein that consists of two Ig-domains flanked by a unique serine-rich amino-terminus and a short carboxy-terminal tail. It binds to alpha-actinin and filamin c and is mutated in limb girdle muscular dystrophy 1A (LGMD1A). Here we show that myotilin also directly binds F-actin, efficiently cross-links actin filaments alone or in concert with alpha-actinin and prevents filament disassembly induced by Latrunculin A. Myotilin forms dimers via its carboxy-terminal half, which may be necessary for the actin-bundling activity. Overexpression of full-length myotilin but not the carboxy-terminal half induces formation of thick actin cables in non-muscle cells devoid of endogenous myotilin. The expression of myotilin in muscle cells is tightly regulated to the later stages of in vitro myofibrillogenesis, when preassembled myofibrils begin to align. Expression of either amino- or carboxy-terminally truncated myotilin fragments but not wild-type myotilin in differentiating myocytes leads to myofibril disarray. The disease association and functional characteristics indicate an indispensable role for myotilin in stabilization and anchorage of thin filaments, which may be a prerequisite for correct Z-disc organization.
CD40 ligand (CD154) expression has been shown to be regulated, in part, at the posttranscriptional level by a pathway of &quot;regulated instability&quot; of mRNA decay throughout a time course of T cell activation. This pathway is modulated at late times of activation by the binding of a stability complex (termed complex I) to a CU-rich region in the 3' untranslated region of the CD154 message. We have undertaken experiments to extend these findings and to analyze the cis-acting elements and trans-acting factors involved in this regulation. We have previously shown that the minimal binding sequence for complex I is a 63 nt CU-rich motif. However, our current study shows that when this site was deleted additional complex binding was observed upstream and downstream of the minimal binding region. Only after deletion of an extended region (termed Delta1515) was complex binding completely abolished. Analysis of complex binding using competition experiments revealed that the three adjacent regions bound related but not identical complexes. However, all three sites appeared to have a 55-kDa protein as the RNA-binding protein. Deletion of the Delta1515 region resulted in reduced transcript stability as measured by both in vitro and in vivo decay assays. Finally, using Abs against known RNA-binding proteins, we identified the polypyrimidine tract-binding protein (or heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein I) as a candidate RNA-binding component of complex I.
Accumulating evidence indicates that recognition by TCRs is far more degenerate than formerly presumed. Cross-recognition of microbial Ags by autoreactive T cells is implicated in the development of autoimmunity, and elucidating the recognition nature of TCRs has great significance for revelation of the disease process. A major drawback of currently used means, including positional scanning synthetic combinatorial peptide libraries, to analyze diversity of epitopes recognized by certain TCRs is that the systematic detection of cross-recognized epitopes considering the combinatorial effect of amino acids within the epitope is difficult. We devised a novel method to resolve this issue and used it to analyze cross-recognition profiles of two glutamic acid decarboxylase 65-autoreactive CD4(+) T cell clones, established from type I diabetes patients. We generated a DNA-based randomized epitope library based on the original glutamic acid decarboxylase epitope using class II-associated invariant chain peptide-substituted invariant chains. The epitope library was composed of seven sublibraries, in which three successive residues within the epitope were randomized simultaneously. Analysis of agonistic epitopes indicates that recognition by both TCRs was significantly affected by combinations of amino acids in the antigenic peptide, although the degree of combinatorial effect differed between the two TCRs. Protein database searching based on the TCR recognition profile proved successful in identifying several microbial and self-protein-derived mimicry epitopes. Some of the identified mimicry epitopes were actually produced from recombinant microbial proteins by APCs to stimulate T cell clones. Our data demonstrate the importance of the combinatorial nature of amino acid residues of epitopes in molecular mimicry.
Using diffusion tensor (DT) MRI and histogram analysis, we measured mean diffusivity ((-)D) of basal ganglia grey matter (GM) from eight patients with acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), 10 patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), and 10 healthy controls. Patients with ADEM had higher average (-)D (p=0.02) and lower (-)D histogram peak height (p=0.008) of the basal ganglia GM than patients with MS. Microscopic tissue damage occurs in the basal ganglia of ADEM patients, but not in MS patients with a similar burden of MRI-visible brain lesions.
Estrogen rapidly enhances dopamine (DA) activity in the striatum and nucleus accumbens as well as behavioral responses to psychomotor stimulants in female rats but not males. This experiment was conducted to investigate the role of pulsatile estrogen treatment on and sex differences in the development and expression of sensitization of cocaine-induced rotational behavior in rats with unilateral striatal DA denervation. Four groups were tested: ovariectomized (OVX) females treated with 5 microg of estradiol benzoate (OVX+E), OVX females, castrated (CAST) males, and intact males. Animals received estrogen or vehicle 30 min before cocaine (0, 5, 10, or 20 mg/kg, i.p.) on 4 consecutive days, followed by 3 d without treatment for 3 weeks. At the conclusion of the experiment, animals were withdrawn from hormone and/or cocaine for 10 d, and all groups underwent a challenge test with 10 mg/kg cocaine. We report here that OVX+E females exhibit significantly greater sensitization of rotational behavior with a faster rate of sensitization than the three other groups. There is also a sex difference independent of gonadal hormones: OVX females exhibit a greater magnitude of sensitization of rotational behavior than do CAST males at 20 mg/kg cocaine. Furthermore, on the challenge test, OVX+E animals tested without estrogen treatment continue to exhibit greater rotational behavior than do all other groups. Thus, estrogen enhances sensitization to cocaine, there are sex differences in behavioral sensitization, and sensitization that develops under conditions with estrogen persists even when estrogen levels are low.
Dendritic spines are sources of synaptic contact that can be altered by experience and, as such, may be involved in memories for that experience. Here we tested whether the acquisition of new memories is associated with changes in the density of dendritic spines. Adult male rats were trained using the trace eyeblink conditioning paradigm, an associative learning task that requires the hippocampus for acquisition. Additional groups were exposed to the same number of stimuli presented in an explicitly unpaired manner or were naive. Twenty-four hours later, the density of dendritic spines was measured using Golgi impregnation. Trace conditioning was associated with an increase in the density of dendritic spines on the pyramidal cells of area CA1 of the hippocampus, an effect that was prevented by blocking acquisition of the learned response with a competitive NMDA receptor antagonist. Training with delay conditioning, a similar task that does not require the hippocampus, also produced an increase in spine density. The learning-induced increase in dendritic spine density was specific to basal dendrites of pyramidal cells in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Changes did not occur on their apical dendrites or on cells in the dentate gyrus or somatosensory cortex. These results suggest that the formation and expression of associative memories increase the availability of dendritic spines and the potential for synaptic contact.
To make decisions about sensory stimuli, the brain must weigh the evidence that supports or opposes the alternative interpretations. In the present study, we evaluated the hypothesis that a quantity reflecting the weight of sensory evidence is represented in brain circuits responsible for the behavioral response used to indicate the decision. We trained monkeys to decide the direction of random-dot motion and to indicate their decision with an eye movement to one of two choice targets. We interrupted decision formation with electrical microstimulation of the frontal eye field, causing an evoked eye movement that is influenced by ongoing oculomotor activity. For the &quot;pro-saccade&quot; version of the task, in which the correct target was at a known location in the direction of motion, the microstimulus-evoked eye movement reflected both the impending pro-saccadic response and the temporal accumulation of motion information used to select that response. In contrast, for the &quot;colored-target&quot; task, in which the correct target was of a particular color but at an unpredictable location, little ongoing oculomotor activity was evident. The results suggest that formation of the decision and formation of the behavioral response share a common level of neural organization, but only when the decision is associated with a specific, predictable movement.
In the developing nervous system, patterned spontaneous activity affects a variety of developmental processes. Thus, it is important to identify the earliest time that such activity occurs and to characterize the underlying circuitry. In isolated mouse spinal cord-limb preparations, highly rhythmic spontaneous activity occurred as early as embryonic day 11 (E11)-E12, when many lumbosacral motoneurons were still migrating and extending their peripheral projections. This activity required both electrical and chemical transmission, and acetylcholine, rather than glutamate, provided the main excitatory drive. Our data are consistent with motoneurons themselves playing a critical role in generating such activity by making excitatory connections on each other and on GABAergic interneurons via dihydro-beta-erythroidine hydrobromide (DHbetaE)-insensitive nicotinic receptors. This resulted in the generation of local bursts. Consistent with these observations, E12-E12.5 mouse motoneurons retrogradely labeled by HRP were observed to have extensive axon collaterals that projected locally within the lateral motor column and to interneuron-containing regions dorsal and medial of the lateral motor column. Cholinergic axons, presumably from motoneurons, were also observed in the ventral and lateral funiculi. However, for local bursts to propagate throughout the cord, a second DHbetaE-sensitive cholinergic pathway that also involved glycinergic interneurons was required. This circuit characterization should facilitate the use of genetic mutations that alter specific subpopulations of interneurons or cholinergic transmission to determine how modifying different aspects of this early activity affects subsequent development of the spinal motor circuit.
Parkinson's disease is characterized by tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, and postural abnormalities ascribed to the loss of nigrostriatal dopamine (DA). Symptoms similar to the human condition can be produced in the rat by DA-depleting 6-hydroxydopamine injections made into the nigrostriatal system. After a unilateral lesion, the rat symptoms include sensory and motor impairments and turning biases reflecting motor abnormalities to the contralateral-to-depletion side of the body. In addition, a number of studies on skilled reaching report impairments in the use of the ipsilateral limb. It is suggested that the ipsilateral deficit is secondary to the contralateral motor impairments however. Here we re-examine how rats with unilateral DA depletion use their ipsilateral limb for skilled reaching for food. We provide the first description of an impairment on the ipsilateral-to-depletion side of the body of the rat and the first demonstration of amelioration of the defect using behavioral therapy. Video analysis of rats reaching for single pellets of food with the ipsilateral limb revealed that, although limb advancement and food grasping were normal, paw supination and food release to the mouth were impaired. Consequently, the animals were unable to transport a grasped food pellet to the mouth. Behavioral therapy, consisting of training in a simpler reaching task, strikingly lessened the impairment and improved reaching movements to the point that the rats could transport the food to the mouth. The results are discussed in relation to possible causes of the ipsilateral impairment, its treatment, and to relevant research on human Parkinson patients, indicating that they display bilateral improvements after unilateral treatments.
Neuronal dystrophy is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) that is not observed in other neurodegenerative disorders that lack amyloid deposition. Treatment of cortical neurons with fibrillar amyloid beta (Abeta) peptides induces progressive neuritic dystrophy accompanied by a marked loss of synaptophysin immunoreactivity (Grace et al., 2002). Here, we report that fibrillar Abeta-induced neuronal dystrophy is mediated by the activation of focal adhesion (FA) proteins and the formation of aberrant FA structures adjacent to Abeta deposits. In the AD brain, activated FA proteins are observed associated with the majority of senile plaques. Clustered integrin receptors and activated paxillin (phosphorylated at Tyr-31) and focal adhesion kinase (phosphorylated at Tyr-297) are mainly detected in dystrophic neurites surrounding Abeta plaque cores, where they colocalize with hyperphosphorylated tau. Deletion experiments demonstrated that the presence of the LIM domains in the paxillin C terminus and the recruitment of the protein-Tyr phosphatase (PTP)-PEST to the FA complex are required for Abeta-induced neuronal dystrophy. Therefore, both paxillin and PTP-PEST appear to be critical elements in the generation of the dystrophic response. Paxillin is a scaffolding protein to which other FA proteins bind, leading to the formation of the FA contact and initiation of signaling cascades. PTP-PEST plays a key role in the dynamic regulation of focal adhesion contacts in response to extracellular cues. Thus, in the AD brain, fibrillar Abeta may induce neuronal dystrophy by triggering a maladaptive plastic response mediated by FA protein activation and tau hyperphosphorylation.
Glutamate receptors and calcium have been implicated as triggering factors in the induction of tolerance by ischemic preconditioning (IPC) in the brain. However, little is known about the signal transduction pathway that ensues after the IPC induction pathway. The main goals of the present study were to determine whether NMDA induces preconditioning via a calcium pathway and promotes translocation of the protein kinase C epsilon (epsilonPKC) isozyme and whether this PKC isozyme is key in the IPC signal transduction pathway. We corroborate here that IPC and a sublethal dose of NMDA were neuroprotective, whereas blockade of NMDA receptors during IPC diminished IPC-induced neuroprotection. Calcium chelation blocked the protection afforded by both NMDA and ischemic preconditioning significantly, suggesting a significant role of calcium. Pharmacological preconditioning with the nonselective PKC isozyme activator phorbol myristate acetate could not emulate IPC, but blockade of PKC activation with chelerythrine during IPC blocked its neuroprotection. These results suggested that there might be a dual involvement of PKC isozymes during IPC. This was corroborated when neuroprotection was blocked when we inhibited epsilonPKC during IPC and NMDA preconditioning, and IPC neuroprotection was emulated with the activator of epsilonPKC. The possible correlation between NMDA, Ca2+, and epsilonPKC was found when we emulated IPC with the diacylglycerol analog oleoylacetyl glycerol, suggesting an indirect pathway by which Ca2+ could activate the calcium-insensitive epsilonPKC isozyme. These results demonstrated that the epsilonPKC isozyme played a key role in both IPC- and NMDA-induced tolerance.
Common symptoms of different neurodegenerative diseases start to develop in the second half of the human life. Several of these diseases, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, are accompanied by severe disturbances of protein metabolism and homeostasis in the brain. Because microglial cells are, to some extent, responsible for the maintenance of this homeostasis, age-related functional changes of the microglia are important. We established, therefore, the preparation of cultures of primary microglial cells isolated from adult animals in comparison to the widely used standard model, primary microglial cells isolated from newborn animals. In addition, we investigated changes in the activation and in the protein homeostasis within these cells. The protein turnover seems to be significantly impaired in microglial cells isolated from adult animals and this seems to be accompanied by a decline in proteasomal function, but not in the protease content. We were also able to demonstrate higher cell surface molecule expression and a higher basal NO release of microglia isolated from adult animals in comparison to the microglia isolated from newborn rats; however, the PMA stimulated oxidative burst was abolished completely in cells from adult animals. Microglia from adult animals were also not able to upregulate their protein metabolism after activation. From these investigations it was concluded that microglial cells from adult animals have significantly different metabolic properties in comparison to the widely used microglial cells from newborn animals.
We examined the vulnerability to excitotoxicity of rat oligodendrocytes in dissociated cell culture at different developmental stages. Mature oligodendrocytes that express myelin basic protein were resistant to excitotoxic injury produced by kainate, whereas earlier stages in the oligodendrocyte lineage were vulnerable to this insult. To test the hypothesis that the sensitivity of immature oligodendrocytes and the resistance of mature oligodendrocytes to kainate toxicity were due to differences in membrane responsiveness to kainate, we used whole-cell patch-clamp recording. Oligodendrocyte precursors in cultures vulnerable to kainate toxicity responded to 500 microM kainate with large inward currents, whereas mature myelin basic protein-expressing oligodendrocytes in cultures resistant to kainate toxicity showed no clear response to application of this agonist. We assayed expression of glutamate receptor subunits (GluR) -2, -4, -6, -7, and KA2 using immunoblot analysis and found that expression of all of these glutamate receptors was significantly down-regulated in mature oligodendrocytes. These results suggest a striking developmental regulation of glutamate receptors in oligodendrocytes and suggest that the vulnerability of oligodendrocytes to non- N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity might be much greater in developing oligodendrocytes than after the completion of myelination.
Familial hemiplegic migraine is associated with at least 13 different missense mutations in the alpha1A Ca(2+) channel subunit. Some of these mutations have been shown to affect the biophysical properties of alpha1A currents. To date, no study has examined the influence of such mutations on the G-protein regulation of channel function. Because G-proteins inhibit movement of the voltage sensor, we examined the effects of the R192Q mutation, which neutralizes a positive charge in the first S4 segment. Human wild-type (WT) or R192Q mutant channels were expressed in human embryonic kidney tsA-201 cells along with dopamine D2 receptors. Application of quinpirole induced fast (approximately 1 s), pertussis toxin-sensitive inhibition of alpha1A(WT) and alpha1A(R192Q) Ca(2+) currents, consistent with the activation of a membrane-delimited pathway. alpha1A(WT) Ca(2+) currents were inhibited by 62.9 +/- 0.9 % (n = 27), whereas alpha1A(R192Q) Ca(2+) currents were inhibited by only 47.9 +/- 1.8 % (n = 35; P &lt; 0.001). Concentration-response analysis showed that only the extent of inhibition was affected, with no change in agonist potency (EC(50) = 1 nM). Prepulse facilitation, which is a characteristic of voltage-dependent inhibition, was also reduced by the R192Q mutation. However, the kinetics of facilitation and slow activation were not affected, suggesting that G-protein-Ca(2+) channel affinity was unchanged. These results show that the R192Q mutation reduces the G-protein inhibition of P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels, probably by altering mechanisms by which Gbetagamma subunit binding induces a change in channel gating. Altered G-protein modulation and the consequent reduced presynaptic inhibition may contribute to migraine attacks by favouring a persistent state of hyperexcitability.

Neuropsychiatric symptoms in the acute thyrotoxic phase of Graves' disease suggest involvement of brain processes. Short-echo-time proton MRS was used to measure the cerebral metabolite profile in newly diagnosed and untreated Graves' disease. Sixteen patients with Graves' disease and 18 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers were studied. The patients had significantly reduced total choline and myo-inositol in the acute phase of Graves' thyrotoxicosis compared with the healthy volunteers.
Conjugate eye deviation seen on clinical examination helps to localize pathology in acute ischemic stroke. Eye deviation can also be assessed on a CT head scan. The authors found that CT eye deviation reliably lateralizes to the ischemic hemisphere (positive predictive value 93%) without reference to clinical examination. In an era of thrombolysis and rapid decision making in acute ischemic stroke, eye deviation on CT can help quickly direct attention to the affected hemisphere.
The authors describe the clinical course, postmortem findings, and characterization of a novel autoantibody (anti-M-phase phosphoprotein-1 [anti-MPP-1]) in a patient with a longstanding acquired demyelinating polyneuropathy and neuronopathy. Postmortem examination identified active sensory neuron degeneration, sensory axon loss, and widespread peripheral nerve demyelination. A possible pathophysiologic role of anti-MPP-1 is not yet identified.
Shortly after initiation of mirtazapine (a noradrenergic and serotonergic antidepressant) treatment in four patients with parkinsonism, the authors observed the appearance of REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD). In the two patients with severe motor symptoms, RBD was accompanied by hallucinations and confusion. These disturbances resolved with drug discontinuation, and remained resolved by 12- to 24-month follow-up, suggesting that RBD can be triggered by a drug lacking anticholinergic activity.
The physiological role of basal laminae (BL) and connective tissue (meninges and their projections) in the adult brain is unknown. We recently described novel forms of BL, termed fractones, in the most neurogenic zone of the adult brain, the subependymal layer (SEL) of the lateral ventricle. Here, we investigated the organization of BL throughout the hypothalamus, using confocal and electron microscopy. New types of BL were identified. First, fractones, similar to those found in the lateral ventricle wall, were regularly arranged along the walls of the third ventricle. Fractones consisted of labyrinthine BL projecting from SEL blood vessels to terminate immediately beneath the ependyma. Numerous processes of astrocytes and of microglial cells directly contacted fractones. Second, another form of BL projection, termed anastomotic BL, was found between capillaries in dense capillary beds. The anastomotic BL enclosed extraparenchymal cells that networked with the perivascular cells coursing in the sheaths of adjacent blood vessels. Vimentin immunoreactivity was often detected in the anastomotic BL. In addition, the anastomotic BL overlying macrophages contained numerous fibrils of collagen. We also found that the BL located at the pial surface formed labyrinthine tube-like structures enclosing numerous fibroblast and astrocyte endfeet, with pouches of collagen fibrils at the interface between the two cell types. We suggest that cytokines and growth factors produced by connective tissue cells might concentrate in BL, where their interactions with extracellular matrix proteins might contribute to their effects on the overlying neural tissue, promoting cytogenesis and morphological changes and participating in neuroendocrine regulation.
Prevertebral sympathetic ganglia contain a unique population of final motor neurons receiving convergent synaptic inputs not only from spinal preganglionic neurons, but also from peripheral intestinofugal neurons projecting from the gut. We used quantitative confocal and ultrastructural immunohistochemistry to determine how this increased synaptic convergence is accommodated by sympathetic final motor neurons in the celiac ganglion of guinea pigs. Terminals of intestinofugal neurons were identified by their immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal peptide. Stereologic analyses were based on transects and point counts at confocal and ultrastructural levels. The relative amount of dendritic neuropil in the medial regions of the ganglion was approximately 2.5 times greater than in the lateral regions of the ganglion, consistent with the 2 to 3 times difference in average dendritic field size of neurons in these regions. The total numbers of boutons and synaptic profiles showed significant positive correlations with the relative amount of neuropil in a region. However, the overall density of synaptic boutons was twice as high in the medial region of the ganglion compared with the lateral regions. Because the relative density of preganglionic synapses was similar in each region, this difference was due to the selective projection of intestinofugal inputs to neurons in the medial celiac ganglion, where they provided 45% of synaptic contacts. These results show that, compared with vasoconstrictor neurons, sympathetic neurons regulating gastrointestinal activity support a higher number of convergent inputs in two ways: in addition to having larger dendritic fields, they also have a twofold higher density of synapses.

The sensory neuron specific sodium channel Na(v)1.8/SNS exhibits depolarized voltage-dependence of inactivation, slow inactivation and rapid repriming, which differentiate it from other voltage-gated sodium channels. Na(v)1.8 is normally selectively expressed at high levels in sensory ganglion neurons, but not within the CNS. However, expression of Na(v)1.8 mRNA and protein are upregulated within cerebellar Purkinje cells in animal models of multiple sclerosis (MS), and in human MS. To examine the effect of expression of Na(v)1.8 on the activity pattern of Purkinje cells, we biolistically introduced Na(v)1.8 cDNA into these cells in vitro. We report here that Na(v)1.8 can be functionally expressed at physiological levels (similar to the levels in DRG neurons where Na(v)1.8 is normally expressed) within Purkinje cells, and that its expression alters the activity of these neurons in three ways: first, by increasing the amplitude and duration of action potentials; second, by decreasing the proportion of action potentials that are conglomerate and the number of spikes per conglomerate action potential; and third, by contributing to the production of sustained, pacemaker-like impulse trains in response to depolarization. These results provide support for the hypothesis that the expression of Na(v)1.8 channels within Purkinje cells, which occurs in MS, may perturb their function.
Caspase inhibition has been proposed as a target to attenuate ischemia-induced neurodegeneration and behavioral dysfunction. The present study evaluated the pharmacological effects of a single dose of an irreversible cell permeant general (nonselective) caspase inhibitor, Boc-D-fluoromethylketone (BDFMK) administered intrathecally (i.t.) in a reversible spinal cord ischemia model (RSCIM). Quantal analysis indicated that the P(50) (represents the duration of ischemia that produces permanent paraplegia in 50% of the animals in a group) of the control group was 25.08+/-4.71 min. Using the RSCIM, neuroprotection is observed if a drug significantly prolongs the P(50) compared to the control group. The P(50) values for the BDFMK-treated groups were 27.21+/-2.62, 27.28+/-3.29 and 28.98+/-2.32 min, for the three dose groups studied. There were no statistically significant changes when measured 18 or 48 h following ischemia. Biochemical analysis of cell extracts from the caudal lumbar spinal cord indicated that there was increased production of the 120-kDa fragment of fodrin suggesting enhanced caspase-3 activity, an increase that was reduced by i.t. BDFMK administration. Moreover, in caudal lumbar spinal cord extracts from a set of paraplegic rabbits (25-50 min occlusion), we measured a 32-42% decrease of caspase-3 activity in BDFMK-treated rabbits. The present study shows that i.t. administration of BDFMK reduced caspase-3 activity, but the inhibition did not translate into a significant behavioral improvement. Our results suggest that administration of a single dose of the caspase inhibitor BDFMK is insufficient to attenuate ischemia-induced behavioral deficits following aortic occlusion.
The functionality of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors in chick embryo retina cells during development in vitro was studied by using Co(2+) uptake, and these data were correlated with the expression of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR4. We found that at 5 h in vitro only a small number of cells took up Co(2+) upon stimulation with 100 microM kainate or other AMPA receptor agonists, in the presence of cyclothiazide (CTZ), to inhibit desensitisation. The number of cells sensitive to kainate increased from 5 h in vitro to 3 days in vitro (DIV), and remained relatively constant until 14 DIV. When the cells were stimulated with (2S,4S)-4-methylglutamic acid (30 microM), a specific kainate receptor agonist, after inhibiting desensitisation with concanavalin A, we did not observe an increase in the number of cells responding, as compared to the control. The expression of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR4 during development was detected by immunofluorescence mainly at the perinuclear region of the cells, and the number of positive cells increased from 5 h in vitro to 7 DIV, and remained relatively constant until 14 DIV. The results suggest that AMPA receptors can be functionally active at early embryonic stages (5 h in vitro) in cultured retinal neurons, although in only a few cells, before synapse formation (E12). The localisation of GluR4 was well correlated with Co(2+) entry, since the strongest GluR4 immunoreactivity was found in the regions that showed the most intense labelling with Co(2+). Finally, we found that the expression levels of GluR4 at the neurites increased between 5 h in vitro and 7 DIV, near the period of synapse formation.
Spinophilin is a protein phosphatase 1 (PP1)- and actin-binding protein that modulates excitatory synaptic transmission and dendritic spine morphology. We report that spinophilin is phosphorylated in vitro by protein kinase A (PKA). Phosphorylation of spinophilin was stimulated by treatment of neostriatal neurons with a dopamine D1 receptor agonist or with forskolin, consistent with spinophilin being a substrate for PKA in intact cells. Using tryptic phosphopeptide mapping, site-directed mutagenesis, and microsequencing analysis, we identified two major sites of phosphorylation, Ser-94 and Ser-177, that are located within the actin-binding domain of spinophilin. Phosphorylation of spinophilin by PKA modulated the association between spinophilin and the actin cytoskeleton. Following subcellular fractionation, unphosphorylated spinophilin was enriched in the postsynaptic density, whereas a pool of phosphorylated spinophilin was found in the cytosol. F-actin co-sedimentation and overlay analysis revealed that phosphorylation of spinophilin reduced the stoichiometry of the spinophilin-actin interaction. In contrast, the ability of spinophilin to bind to PP1 remained unchanged. Taken together, our studies suggest that phosphorylation of spinophilin by PKA modulates the anchoring of the spinophilin-PP1 complex within dendritic spines, thereby likely contributing to the efficacy and plasticity of synaptic transmission.
ATP is released from astrocytes and is involved in the propagation of calcium waves among them. Neuronal ATP secretion is quantal and calcium-dependent, but it has been suggested that ATP release from astrocytes may not be vesicular. Here we report that, besides the described basal ATP release facilitated by exposure to calcium-free medium, astrocytes release purine under conditions of elevated calcium. The evoked release was not affected by the gap-junction blockers anandamide and flufenamic acid, thus excluding purine efflux through connexin hemichannels. Sucrose-gradient analysis revealed that a fraction of ATP is stored in secretory granules, where it is accumulated down an electrochemical proton gradient sensitive to the v-ATPase inhibitor bafilomycin A(1). ATP release was partially sensitive to tetanus neurotoxin, whereas glutamate release from the same intoxicated astrocytes was almost completely impaired. Finally, the activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors, which strongly evokes glutamate release, was only slightly effective in promoting purine secretion. These data indicate that astrocytes concentrate ATP in granules and may release it via a regulated secretion pathway. They also suggest that ATP-storing vesicles may be distinct from glutamate-containing vesicles, thus opening up the possibility that their exocytosis is regulated differently.
In the mammalian retina, a small subset of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are intrinsically photosensitive, express the opsin-like protein melanopsin, and project to brain nuclei involved in non-image-forming visual functions such as pupillary light reflex and circadian photoentrainment. We report that in mice with the melanopsin gene ablated, RGCs retrograde-labeled from the suprachiasmatic nuclei were no longer intrinsically photosensitive, although their number, morphology, and projections were unchanged. These animals showed a pupillary light reflex indistinguishable from that of the wild type at low irradiances, but at high irradiances the reflex was incomplete, a pattern that suggests that the melanopsin-associated system and the classical rod/cone system are complementary in function.
Whether cognitive representations are better conceived as language-based, symbolic representations or perceptually related, analog representations is a subject of debate. If cognitive processes parallel perceptual processes, then fundamental psychophysical laws should hold for each. To test this, we analyzed both behavioral and neuronal representations of numerosity in the prefrontal cortex of rhesus monkeys. The data were best described by a nonlinearly compressed scaling of numerical information, as postulated by the Weber-Fechner law or Stevens' law for psychophysical/sensory magnitudes. This nonlinear compression was observed on the neural level during the acquisition phase of the task and maintained through the memory phase with no further compression. These results suggest that certain cognitive and perceptual/sensory representations share the same fundamental mechanisms and neural coding schemes.
Here we describe a novel mechanism for plasma membrane insertion of the delta opioid receptor (DOR). In small dorsal root ganglion neurons, only low levels of DORs are present on the cell surface, in contrast to high levels of intracellular DORs mainly associated with vesicles containing calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Activation of surface DORs caused Ca(2+) release from IP(3)-sensitive stores and Ca(2+) entry, resulting in a slow and long-lasting exocytosis, DOR insertion, and CGRP release. In contrast, membrane depolarization or activation of vanilloid and P2Y(1) receptors induced a rapid DOR insertion. Thus, DOR activation induces a Ca(2+)-dependent insertion of DORs that is coupled to a release of excitatory neuropeptides, suggesting that treatment of inflammatory pain should include blockade of DORs.
Sr(2+) triggers neurotransmitter release similar to Ca(2+), but less efficiently. We now show that in synaptotagmin 1 knockout mice, the fast component of both Ca(2+)- and Sr(2+)-induced release is selectively impaired, suggesting that both cations partly act by binding to synaptotagmin 1. Both the C(2)A and the C(2)B domain of synaptotagmin 1 bind Ca(2+) in phospholipid complexes, but only the C(2)B domain forms Sr(2+)/phospholipid complexes; therefore, Sr(2+) binding to the C(2)B domain is sufficient to trigger fast release, although with decreased efficacy. Ca(2+) induces binding of the synaptotagmin C(2) domains to SNARE proteins, whereas Sr(2+) even at high concentrations does not. Thus, triggering of the fast component of release by Sr(2+) as a Ca(2+) agonist involves the formation of synaptotagmin/phospholipid complexes, but does not require stimulated SNARE binding.
Polymorphism of the alpha synuclein promoter region (non-amyloid component of plaques (NACP)-Rep1) is associated with an increased risk of Parkinson's disease (PD) in three separate studies. We studied NACP-Rep1 polymorphism in two independent case control studies in our population. In study one, 104 PD and 104 age, gender and race matched controls; and in study two, 102 PD and 102 age, gender and race matched controls were examined separately. The results of both studies were analyzed independent of one another. We found three polymorphic alleles (designated 0, 1, 2). In study one, the frequency of allele 2 was significantly higher in PD patients as compared to healthy controls (0.37 versus 0.23, P=0.01, X(2)=9.98). In study two, the frequency of allele 2 was similar between PD and controls (0.31 versus 0.33, P=1.00, X(2)=0.30). There was a non-significant higher allele 2 frequency in PD when both studies were analyzed together (0.34 versus 0.28, P=0.20, X(2)=3.4). No significant differences of the various genotypes between PD and controls were found. However there were differences of the mixed dinucleotide repeats sequences for similar homozygous genotypes. Variability of the microsatellite region and potential interacting factors that could affect alpha synuclein gene transcription should be further examined.

The beta subunits of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels are known to be regulators of the channels' gating properties. Here we report a striking additional function of a beta subunit. Screening of chicken cochlear and brain cDNA libraries identified beta(4c), a short splice variant of the beta(4) subunit. Although beta(4c) occurs together with the longer isoforms beta(4a) or beta(4b) in the brain, eye, heart, and lung, the cochlea expresses exclusively beta(4c). The association of beta(4c) with the Ca(2+)-channel alpha(1) subunit has slight but significant effects on the kinetics of channel activation and inactivation. Yeast two-hybrid and biochemical assays revealed that beta(4c) interacts directly with the chromo shadow domain of chromobox protein 2heterochromatin protein 1gamma (CHCB2HP1gamma), a nuclear protein involved in gene silencing and transcriptional regulation. Coexpression of this protein specifically recruits beta(4c) to the nuclei of mammalian cells. Furthermore, beta(4c) but not beta(4a) dramatically attenuates the gene-silencing activity of chromobox protein 2heterochromatin protein 1gamma. The beta(4c) subunit is therefore a multifunctional protein that not only constitutes a portion of the Ca(2+) channel but also regulates gene transcription.
N-type Ca(2+) channels participate in acute activity-dependent processes such as regulation of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels and in more prolonged events such as gene transcription and long-term depression. A slow postsynaptic M(1) muscarinic receptor-mediated modulation of N-type current in superior cervical ganglion neurons may be important in regulating these processes. This slow pathway inhibits N-type current by using a diffusible second messenger that has remained unidentified for more than a decade. Using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques, which isolate the slow pathway, we found that the muscarinic agonist oxotremorine methiodide not only inhibits currents at positive potentials but enhances N-type current at negative potentials. Enhancement was also observed in cell-attached patches. These findings provide evidence for N-type Ca(2+)-current enhancement by a classical neurotransmitter. Moreover, enhancement and inhibition of current by oxotremorine methiodide mimics modulation observed with direct application of a low concentration of arachidonic acid (AA). Although no transmitter has been reported to use AA as a second messenger to modulate any Ca(2+) current in either neuronal or nonneuronal cells, we nevertheless tested whether a fatty acid signaling cascade was involved. Blocking phospholipase C, phospholipase A(2), or AA but not AA metabolism minimized muscarinic modulation of N-type current, supporting the participation of these molecules in the slow pathway. A role for the G protein G(q) was also confirmed by blocking muscarinic modulation of Ca(2+) currents with anti-G(qalpha) antibody. Our finding that AA participates in the slow pathway strongly suggests that it may be the previously unknown diffusible second messenger.
Two new APP substrate-based hydroxyethylene isosteres (AT and VI) were prepared and their dipeptide conjugates shown not to inhibit the gamma-secretase-mediated formation of either Abeta1-40 or Abeta1-42. The FG isostere and a des-hydroxy hydroxyethylene isostere also gave inactive compounds. Conversely, a number of compounds containing the intact substrate-unrelated Phe-Phe (FF) hydroxyethylene isostere were shown to be potent inhibitors (ED(50)=14-732 nM). These results show that the factors governing the substrate-based design of gamma-secretase inhibitors are more complicated than first thought.
Scaffold, anchoring, and adaptor proteins coordinate the assembly and localization of signaling complexes providing efficiency and specificity in signal transduction. The PKA, PKC, and protein phosphatase-2B/calcineurin (CaN) scaffold protein A-kinase anchoring protein (AKAP) 79 is localized to excitatory neuronal synapses where it is recruited to glutamate receptors by interactions with membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) scaffold proteins. Anchored PKA and CaN in these complexes could have important functions in regulating glutamate receptors in synaptic plasticity. However, direct evidence for the assembly of complexes containing PKA, CaN, AKAP79, and MAGUKs in intact cells has not been available. In this report, we use immunofluorescence and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) microscopy to demonstrate membrane cytoskeleton-localized assembly of this complex. Using FRET, we directly observed binding of CaN catalytic A subunit (CaNA) and PKA-RII subunits to membrane-targeted AKAP79. We also detected FRET between CaNA and PKA-RII bound simultaneously to AKAP79 within 50 A of each other, thus providing the first direct evidence of a ternary kinase-scaffold-phosphatase complex in living cells. This finding of AKAP-mediated PKA and CaN colocalization on a nanometer scale gives new appreciation to the level of compartmentalized signal transduction possible within scaffolds. Finally, we demonstrated AKAP79-regulated membrane localization of the MAGUK synapse-associated protein 97 (SAP97), suggesting that AKAP79 functions to organize even larger signaling complexes.
Both glutamate and serotonin are potent modulators of autonomic functions involving the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMNV) at the level of the area postrema. Moreover, many of the dendrites in this NTS region express both N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and serotonin (5HT) 2A receptors, and some of these dendrites may arise from the adjacent DMNV. Thus, single neurons in DMNV may also express both receptors. To test this hypothesis, we used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry for dual localization of the essential R1 subunit of the NMDA receptor (NR1) and the 5HT2A receptor in rat intermediate DMNV, a region serving mainly gastrointestinal functions. Gold particles representing NR1 and peroxidase reaction product for 5HT2A receptors were seen in the cytoplasm, as well as on distinct segments of the plasma membrane of many dendrites. Of the NR1-labeled dendrites, 31% (254/814) also contained 5HT2A immunoreactivity; among the 5HT2A-labeled dendrites, 52% (254/485) expressed NR1. The 5HT2A labeling was also present in numerous small unmyelinated axons, axon terminals, and glial processes. These profiles were largely without NR1 immunoreactivity, although NR1 was detected in some of the dendrites postsynaptic to 5HT2A-labeled terminals. Our results suggest that calcium entry through NMDA channels and 5HT2A receptor activation may dramatically affect postsynaptic excitability of single neurons in the DMNV. In addition, the findings also indicate that the 5HT2A receptor is strategically positioned for involvement in modulation of the presynaptic release of neurotransmitters affecting the postsynaptic activity of DMNV neurons responsive to NMDA activation.
Electrophysiological and physiological studies have suggested that the ventral medullary gigantocellular reticular nuclei (composed of the gigantocellular ventralis and pars alpha nuclei as well as the adjacent lateral paragigantocellular nucleus; abbreviated Gi-LPGi complex) provide descending control of pelvic floor organs (Mackel [1979] J. Physiol. (Lond.) 294:105-122; Hubscher and Johnson [1996] J. Neurophysiol. 76:2474-2482; Hubscher and Johnson [1999] J. Neurophysiol. 82:1381-1389; Johnson and Hubscher [1998] Neuroreport 9:341-345). Specifically, this complex of paramedian reticular nuclei has been implicated in the inhibition of sexual reflexes. In the present study, an anterograde fluorescent tracer was used to investigate direct descending projections from the Gi-LPGi complex to retrogradely labeled pudendal motoneurons (MN) in the male rat. Our results demonstrated that, although a high density of arborizations from Gi-LPGi fibers appears to be in close apposition to pudendal MNs, this relationship also applies to other MNs throughout the entire spinal cord. The Gi-LPGi also projects to spinal autonomic regions, i.e., both the intermediolateral cell column and the sacral parasympathetic nucleus, as well as to regions of the intermediate gray, which contain interneurons involved in the organization of pelvic floor reflexes. Lastly, throughout the length of the spinal cord, numerous neurons located primarily in laminae VII-X, were retrogradely labeled with Fluoro-Ruby after injections into the Gi-LPGi. The diffuse descending projections and arborizations of this pathway throughout the spinal cord suggest that this brainstem area is involved in the direct, descending control of a variety of spinal activities. These results are in contrast with our observations of the discrete projections of the caudal nucleus raphe obscurus, which target the autonomic and somatic MNs involved specifically in sexual and eliminative functions (Hermann et al. [1998] J. Comp. Neurol. 397:458-474).
The role of glutamate receptors (GluR) in the signal pathways of the retina is widely recognized. Photoreceptors make synaptic contact with functionally different classes of bipolar cells. The OFF-type bipolar cells mediate light offset-evoked responses and use ionotropic alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA)- or kainate-type GluRs, whereas bipolars involved in the ON-pathway use the metabotropic GluR6. This dichotomy predicts a defined expression pattern of AMPA-type GluRs and mGluR6 in bipolar cell classes. This hypothesis was tested by performing immunocytochemical double labeling studies combining GluR-specific antibodies with markers specific for the diverse bipolar cell populations in the rat retina. AMPA-type receptors are composed of combinations of four types of subunits, GluR1-4. GluR1 is expressed by a few somata in the outer part of the inner nuclear layer (INL). Sparse colocalization with any of the bipolar markers used could be established. In contrast, GluR2 is expressed by many of the somata in the outer zone of the INL. At the transcript level, in situ hybridizations demonstrated abundant GluR2 expression over the complete width of the INL. In contrast to our expectations, approximately 70% of the somata labeled by the rod ON-bipolar markers protein kinase C (PKC) or Goalpha, colocalized with GluR2. Approximately 90% of the OFF-type bipolar cells, identified as recoverin-positive, showed GluR2 immunoreactivity. At least 40% of the somata that were mGluR6-immunoreactive, a both rod and cone ON-type bipolar marker, were GluR2-immunopositive. Ultrastructurally, examples were observed of GluR2 localization in bipolar processes with labeling outside the actual compartment associated with the synaptic complex of the rod terminal. No specific antibody was available against GluR3, but 74% of the PKC-positive cells were GluR2/3-positive. GluR4 did not show a somatic localization making double labeling impossible. On the basis of these results, we conclude that ionotropic GluRs are expressed by rod ON-type bipolar cells (PKC- or Goalpha-immunoreactive), and by cone ON- and OFF-type bipolars based on a colocalization with nearly all of the present recoverin-positive somata. Our observations show that the functional dichotomy in ON- and OFF-type bipolars is not reflected in a matching expression pattern of ionotropic and metabotropic GluRs. This finding raises the intriguing possibility that the AMPA-type GluRs are, in an as yet unclear manner, involved in the ON signaling pathways of rods and cones.
In this study, we analyzed in detail the topographic organization of the subiculoparahippocampal projection in the rat. The anterograde tracers Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin-L and biotinylated dextran amine were injected into the subiculum at different septotemporal and transverse levels. Deep layers of the ento-, peri-, and postrhinal cortices are the main recipients of subicular projections, but in all cases we noted that a small fraction of the projections also terminates in the superficial layers II and III. Analysis of the fiber patterns in the parahippocampal region revealed a topographic organization, depending on the location of the cells of origin along both the transverse and the septotemporal axes of the subiculum. Projections originating from subicular cells close to CA1, i.e., proximal part of subiculum, terminate exclusively in the lateral entorhinal cortex and in the perirhinal cortex. In contrast, projections from cells closer to the subiculum-presubiculum border, i.e., distal part of subiculum, terminate in the medial entorhinal cortex and in the postrhinal cortex. In addition, cells in septal portions of the subiculum project to a lateral band of entorhinal cortex parallel to the rhinal sulcus and to peri- or postrhinal cortices, whereas cells in more temporal portions project to more medial parts of the entorhinal cortex. These results indicate that subicular projections to the parahippocampal region precisely reciprocate the known inputs from this region to the hippocampal formation. We thus suggest that the reciprocal connectivity between the subiculum and the parahippocampal region is organized as parallel pathways that serve to segregate information flow and thus maintain the identity of processed information. Although this parallel organization is comparable to that of the CA1-parahippocampal projections, differences exist with respect to the degree of collateralization.
The actions of bradykinin and its metabolite des-Arg(9) bradykinin are mediated through activation of bradykinin B(2) and B(1) receptors, respectively. The aim of the present study was to characterize native bradykinin receptors focusing on induction and desensitization using rat isolated vas deferens. Tissues were mounted in organ baths for isometric recordings and neurogenically mediated contractions were evoked by electrical stimulation. Des-Arg(9) bradykinin enhanced the magnitude of the electrically evoked contractions and this effect (which was sensitive to blockade by the peptide bradykinin B(1) receptor selective antagonist B9858, Lys-Lys-(Hyp(3),Cpg(5),D-Tic(7),Cpg(8))des-Arg(9) bradykinin) was only observed following a pre-incubation period and was greatest following 5 h of pre-incubation. Bradykinin also potentiated neurogenically evoked contractions and this effect was sensitive to blockade by Hoe 140 (D-Arg(Hyp(3),Thi(5),D-Tic(7),Oic(8))bradykinin, a peptide bradykinin B(2) receptor antagonist) and was present without pre-incubation but was increased by pre-incubation and reached maximum at the 5-h incubation time point. Responses to bradykinin were larger than those to des-Arg(9) bradykinin. Bradykinin responses did not show desensitization on repeated agonist stimulation. These data confirm in rat isolated vas deferens bradykinin B(2), but not B(1), receptors are constitutively expressed, that both receptor populations are inducible and B(2) receptors do not exhibit desensitization.
Regional differences in gene expression are critical to the proper development of specialized cell types in the nervous system. The ventral midbrain is the prominent source of dopaminergic neurons, which are affected in Parkinson's disease. We have recently identified a gene regulatory element that is specifically active in ventral midbrain neuroepithelium of developing embryos. This 204-bp transcriptional enhancer is conserved within the second intron of mammalian nestin genes and contains a putative binding site for a protein of the nuclear receptor family. Our present study shows, by mutagenesis and reporter gene assay in transgenic mice, that this site is essential for enhancer function in the developing midbrain. The characterization of regulatory sites and transcription factors with specific activity in the ventral midbrain provides insight into the molecular mechanisms by which neural progenitor cells become specified towards particular neuronal differentiation pathways.
Delayed hypothermia reduces ischemic hippocampal CA1 injury. However, there are residual structural and functional abnormalities. Therefore, we studied whether these apparently vulnerable rescued neurons are susceptible to secondary insults. All gerbils were subjected to normothermic forebrain ischemia (ISC, 5 min) or SHAM operation. Gerbils were treated with mild hypothermia (HYPO; 33 degrees C for 24 h+35 degrees C for 24 h) beginning 12 h after surgery, or they remained normothermic (NORMO). Then 5 and 6 days following ISC/SHAM operation gerbils received sublethal transient ischemic attacks (TIA, 1.5 min) or sham (SH) surgeries. Behavioral testing was done and animals survived for 30 days for quantification of medial, middle and lateral CA1 sector cell death. The SHAM groups were not significantly different. The ISC+NORMO+SH group lost 87.3% (of SHAM) of medial CA1 neurons, which was not significantly exacerbated in the ISC+NORMO+TIA group (91.1%, P=0.633). However, the ISC+HYPO+TIA group (58.8% loss) had significantly more cell death than the ISC+HYPO+SH group (42.8%; P=0.035), although CA1 protection was still better than in ISC+NORMO groups (P&lt;0.001). Trends were similar in middle and lateral CA1, but the deleterious effects of TIAs were not statistically significant. Behavioral testing did not distinguish groups with or without TIA, but did reveal deficits in ISC+NORMO groups and protection in ISC+HYPO groups. These data, like previous ultrastructural findings, show that while most hypothermia-rescued CA1 neurons are healthy, some are susceptible. Perhaps other neuroprotectants, especially weaker ones, might be undone by delayed insults (e.g. TIA, fever).
Systemic infusion of ANG II decreases body weight and food intake and increases energy expenditure. We recently reported that young rats receiving a 1-week intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion of angiotensin II (ANG II) exhibited decreased body weight compared to control. The aim of the present investigation was to determine if chronic i.c.v. infusion of ANG II also decreases food intake and increases energy expenditure. Young rats were infused with i.c.v. 0.9% saline or ANG II (16.7 or 4.2 ng/min) for at least 10 days and body weight and food intake were monitored daily. Pair-fed rats had the same daily food intake as the ANG II-infused rats. The i.c.v. ANG II decreased body weight gain and food intake. The decrease in weight gain was greater than in the pair-fed groups. The expression of mRNA for uncoupling protein-1 (UCP-1) in BAT was increased significantly in the ANG II-infused rats compared to the pair-fed animals. Subcutaneous infusion of ANG II at the same doses used for i.c.v. infusion had no effect on body weight or food intake. The expression of CRH mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus was not increased in the ANG II-infused rats. These data are consistent with the idea that i.c.v. ANG II decreases body weight gain in young rats, in part, by decreasing food intake and, in part, by increasing thermogenesis (although via a CRH-independent mechanism). This central effect of ANG II may contribute to or complement the effect of peripheral ANG II on body weight.

beta-amyloid (Abeta) is presumed to play a pathogenic role in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, there is an imperfect correlation between Abeta deposition and neuronal loss or dementia. To clarify neuronal responses to Abeta, Abeta-induced gene expression in cultured cortical neurons was analyzed by differential display followed by Northern blotting. Here we report that nonaggregated or aggregated Abeta induced microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP1B) mRNA, especially the alternative transcript containing exon 3U, before disruption of the cell membrane by Abeta. An alternative transcript containing exon 3U is translated into an N-terminal truncated shorter isoform of MAP1B. Transfection experiments reveal that overexpression of this isoform does not accelerate neurite outgrowth or apoptosis of cortical neurons. In contrast, overexpression of MAP1B fragments containing the N-terminal 126 amino acids promoted neurite outgrowth and neuronal apoptosis. These results suggest that Abeta does not induce deleterious full-length MAP1B directly, but overexpression of full-length MAP1B might act as an effector of cell death in neurodegenerative disorders related to cytoskeletal abnormalities.

Connexins are the protein subunits of gap junction channels that allow a direct signaling pathway between networks of cells. The specific role of connexin channels in the homeostasis of different organs has been validated by the association of mutations in several human connexins with a variety of genetic diseases. Several connexins are present in the mammalian cochlea and at least four of them have been proposed as genes causing sensorineural hearing loss. We have started our functional analysis by selecting nine mutations in Cx26 that are associated with non-syndromic recessive deafness (DFNB1). We have observed that both human Cx26 wild-type (HCx26wt) and the F83L polymorphism, found in unaffected controls, generated electrical conductance between paired Xenopus oocytes, which was several orders of magnitude greater than that measured in water-injected controls. In contrast, most recessive Cx26 mutations (identified in DFNB1 patients) resulted in a simple loss of channel activity. In addition, the V37I mutation, originally identified as a polymorphism in heterozygous unaffected individuals, was devoid of function and thus may be pathologically significant. Unexpectedly, we have found that the recessive mutation V84L retained functional activity in both paired Xenopus oocytes and transfected HeLa cells. Furthermore, both the magnitude of macroscopic junctional conductance and its voltage-gating properties were indistinguishable from those of HCx26wt. The identification of functional differences of disease causing mutations may lead to define which permeation or gating properties of Cx26 are necessary for normal auditory function in humans and will be instrumental in identifying the molecular steps leading to DFNB1.
Cocaine addiction is thought to involve persistent neurobiological changes that facilitate relapse to drug use despite efforts to abstain. But the propensity for relapse may be reduced by extinction training--a form of inhibitory learning that progressively reduces cocaine-seeking behaviour in the absence of cocaine reward. Here we show that extinction training during withdrawal from chronic cocaine self-administration induces experience-dependent increases in the GluR1 and GluR2/3 subunits of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate) glutamate receptors in the nucleus accumbens shell, a brain region that is critically involved in cocaine reward. Increases in the GluR1 subunit are positively associated with the level of extinction achieved during training, suggesting that GluR1 may promote extinction of cocaine seeking. Indeed, viral-mediated overexpression of both GluR1 and GluR2 in nucleus accumbens shell neurons facilitates extinction of cocaine- but not sucrose-seeking responses. A single extinction training session, when conducted during GluR subunit overexpression, attenuates stress-induced relapse to cocaine seeking even after GluR overexpression declines. Our findings indicate that extinction-induced plasticity in AMPA receptors may facilitate control over cocaine seeking by restoring glutamatergic tone in the nucleus accumbens, and may reduce the propensity for relapse under stressful situations in prolonged abstinence.
This study investigated the functional neuroanatomy of the anterior medial prefrontal cortex (aMPFC). Previous studies have shown that the aMPFC is involved in evaluative judgment and self-referential processes. Specifically, different sections of the aMPFC are differentially influenced by attention demanding processes. Whereas the dorsal section is supposed to be involved in self-referential processes, the ventral section is assumed to be attenuated during attention demanding processes. The present study investigates the involvement of the dorsal and ventral aMPFC in evaluative judgment by using functional magnetic resonance imaging with spin-echo echo-planar-imaging. Processes involved in evaluative judgment are attention-demanding, self-referential and activate regions in the dorsal and ventral section of the aMPFC. Attention demanding tasks do not necessarily lead to an attenuation of the ventral section of the aMPFC, a region mainly involved in emotional and affective processing.
We used the mismatch negativity event-related potential to examine how spatial location and feature variation affect the capacity of the auditory system to automatically respond to pairs of rapid (180 ms apart) acoustic changes within a single tone. When a tone first deviated from a standard tone in source location and then in its duration, we found independent responses to both deviations for right but not left field stimuli. In contrast, when the first deviation was in pitch and the second in duration, only the first deviation elicited a response, regardless of presentation side. These results suggest that information from either side of space is asymmetrically processed even in a free-field, and that the extent of the temporal window of integration is not a fixed property of the auditory system.
In an effort to provide information and guidance on the use of mammals in neuroscience and behavioral research, the Committee on Guidelines for the Use of Animals in Neuroscience and Behavioral Research was appointed under the auspices of the Institute for Laboratory Animal Research (ILAR) of The National Academies. The committee was composed of 15 members, both researchers and laboratory animal veterinarians, and were drawn from academia and industry. This committee was funded by the National Institutes of Health and was asked to address the following four items: 1. Identify common research themes in contemporary neuroscience and behavioral research based on input from neuroscience and behavioral researchers most familiar with current standards of practice and veterinarian specialists in laboratory animal medicine. 2. Exercise collective, professional judgment in applying current animal care and best use practices to procedures in these areas of research. 3. Obtain information about new scientific and responsible use developments used to maintain animals during these experiments. 4. Prepare a report to serve as an informational resource to assist researchers, laboratory animal medicine veterinarians, and institutional animal care and use committee (IACUC) members in the interpretation and implementation of current standards of practice and promote the training of animal care specialists in this area.
Despite the decades-long projection of an increasing utilization of child and adolescent psychiatry services and an undersupply of child and adolescent psychiatrists, the actual growth and supply of child and adolescent psychiatrists have been very slow. Inadequate support in academic institutions, decreasing graduate medical education (GME) funding, decreasing clinical revenues in the managed care environment, and a devalued image of the profession have made academic child and adolescent psychiatry programs struggle for recruitment of both residents and faculty, although child and adolescent psychiatry has made impressive progress in its scientific knowledge base through research, especially in neuroscience and developmental science. While millions of young people suffer from severe mental illnesses, there are only about 6,300 child and adolescent psychiatrists practicing in the United States. There is also a severe maldistribution of child and adolescent psychiatrists, especially in rural and poor, urban areas where access is significantly reduced. By any method of workforce analysis, it is evident that there will continue to be a shortage of child and adolescent psychiatrists well into the future. Medical/psychiatric educators have a mission to encourage medical students and general psychiatry residents to enter child and adolescent psychiatry and provide crucial mental health care and health care advocacy for our country's youngest and most vulnerable citizens. This article stems from the work of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Task Force on Work Force Needs, which led to its 10-year recruitment initiative.
A distinction between short-term memories lasting minutes to hours and long-term memories lasting for many days is that the formation of long-term memories requires new gene expression. In this review, the focus is on the current understanding of the relation of transcription to memory consolidation based on the data collected from behavioral studies performed primarily on genetically altered animals. Studies in Drosophila and Aplysia indicate that the transcription factor cAMP/Ca(2+) response element binding protein (CREB) is critical in mediating the conversion from short- to long-term memory. More recent genetic studies in mice also demonstrated CREB and inducible transcription factor Zif268 involvement in information storage processes. Transcription seems to play essential role in memory formation but the mechanisms for activation of transcription and downstream processes during memory consolidation remain unclear.


When a threshold amount of temporary ischemic insult to induce focal infarction was given to the unilateral cerebral hemisphere of gerbils, a small focal infarct surrounded by a wide penumbra developed in the rostral portion of the cerebral cortex. During the first 5 hours following recirculation, whole astrocytic cell bodies and processes in the ischemic hemisphere were swollen, with an increase in the number of glycogen granules and in number and size of mitochondria. This swelling was an active reaction of astrocytes for neuronal protection, scavenging potassium, glutamate, and other neuronal metabolic products, and for generating fuels for neurons (cyto-reactive edema). This reactive astrocytic swelling continued in the penumbra, but some dead neurons were found disseminated among the surviving neurons. Whereas, at 12 approximately 48 hours, focal infarction developed in which all cell membranes lost their Gibbs-Donnan's equilibrium due to energetic failure of their membranous Na+/K+ ATPase. This is the cytotoxic edema (cyto-necrotic edema). In the infarct focus, when pericapillary astrocytic end-feet were damaged, the capillary BBB was broken; and thus vasogenic edema was superimposed on the cytotoxic edema.

A) By introducing and propagating the use of multidisciplinary approaches, Ccile and Okar Vogt played a decisive role in establishing brain research as a distinct branch of science, and thus laid the foundations for modern Neuroscience. B) The Vogts' and Brodmann's monumental work on brain cytoarchitectonics, supplemented with electrical stimulation of the exposed cerebral cortex, demonstrated correlations between evoked functional responses and the topography of brain regions endowed with distinct cytoarchitectonic structure (topistic units). This opened the field of functional brain mapping, a subject hotly pursued at the present time. C) One of the most important aspects of Pathoclisis is that the Vogts based their theory on molecular genetics. They envisaged that in any topistic unit the neurons had a different specific, molecular (&quot;physico-chemical&quot;) composition, accounting for differences observed in the dynamics of neuronal development and involution. In sublethal injury, the induced genomic reactivity varies according to the selective vulnerability of various topistic units. Thus, in cerebral ischemia, the fluctuating genomic reactivity may play a significant role in designing therapeutic strategies, which would include enhancing regenerative expressions and suppressing harmful ones. D) The pathoclisis theory may be of assistance in analyzing the nature of various genetic disorders, which could be considered for the application of gene therapy.
Awake craniotomy is the cheapest and most reliable method to ensure neurological integrity in cerebral gliomas that infiltrate or come close to the eloquent areas of the brain, allowing (a) the localization of eloquent cortical areas by electrical stimulation and epileptic foci by cortical recording, and (b) the monitoring of the functional integrity of awake patients while aiming at subtotal removal of the gliomatous tissue. In addition, awake craniotomy opens a brief but unique window to the living brain for (a) basic neuroscience, including verification of preoperative functional imaging data and recording of electrophysiological correlates of mental processes, and for (b) applied research, including development of innovative instrumentation for brain recording and monitoring as well as screening for potential areas to be modulated in movement disorders and chronic pain.
To investigate the effects of grafted neural stem/mesencephalic progenitor cells (NSCs/MP) on rotational behavior of Parkinson's disease (PD) rats and the influence of intracerebral environment on NSCs/MP, we observed the survival and differentiation of NSCs/MP transplanted into 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned and intact striatums. NSCs/MP were prepared from E(11-15) rats and proliferated in serum-free medium with bFGF for several weeks. One day after being primed with serum/dbcAMP to differentiate, cell suspensions were grafted into 6-OHDA-lesioned and intact striatums respectively. It had been found that NSCs/MP were able to survive better and differentiate into more tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons in 6-OHDA-lesioned striatums than in intact ones, and apomorphine-induced rotations were obviously attenuated in MP graft models. The data suggested that NSCs/MP tend to survive and differentiate into TH-positive neurons in 6-OHDA-lesioned striatums. The data demonstrated that striatums in which DAergic terminals are destroyed by 6-OHDA undergo some changes and thus provide more appropriate conditions for NSCs/MP to differentiate into mature DAergic neurons. Furthermore, the finding that MP had greater relieving effects on rotational behavior than NSCs suggests that NSCs could not be used in clinical therapy of PD unless being induced into MP in vitro before transplantation.
Our experience of deep brain stimulation of the globus pallidus internus (GPi-DBS) for dystonia is summarized. A total of 5 patients with primary generalized dystonia underwent GPi-DBS. There were 3 males and 2 females. The age at onset of dystonia ranged from 8 to 45 years and the age at surgery for GPi-DBS ranged from 17 to 59 years. Two of the patients had been treated previously by bilateral thalamotomy or unilateral pallidotomy at other clinics and then developed new symptoms or recurrence. All were stimulated bilaterally. No surgical complications were encountered. The symptoms of dystonia were scored by the Burke-Fahn-Marsden dystonia rating scale (BFMDRS). The scores ranged from 18 to 62 before surgery. An improvement in the symptoms of dystonia was observed soon after the initiation of GPi-DBS, and additional progressive improvement was noted during a period of months or even years after surgery. The score at 6 months after surgery reached a level ranging from 4 to 23. The improvement in score ranged from -51% to -92%. GPi-DBS produced a marked effect even in patients who had previously undergone thalamotomy or pallidotomy. At 6 months after surgery, all patients were receiving bipolar stimulation with a wide interpolar distance, using contact 0 or 1 as the cathode and contact 2 or 3 as the anode. Stimulation was being performed at an intensity of around 2.0 V with a pulse width of 0.21 ms at a high frequency ranging from 120 to 140 Hz. GPi-DBS represents an important therapeutic option in many patients with primary generalized dystonia.
Our experience of deep brain stimulation (DBS) and motor cortex stimulation (MCS) in patients with post-stroke movement disorders and post-stroke pain is reviewed. DBS of the thalamic nuclei ventralis oralis posterior et intermedius proved to be useful in more than 70% of patients with post-stroke involuntary movements (hemiballismus, hemichoreo-athetosis, distal resting and/or action tremor, and proximal postural tremor). The effect of DBS of the thalamic nucleus ventralis caudalis or internal capsule on post-stroke pain was usually disappointing. Excellent pain control can be achieved by MCS in approximately 50% of patients with post-stroke pain. In the course of clinical trials on MCS for the control of post-stroke pain, it was found that co-existent post-stroke involuntary movements (hemichoreo-athetosis and resting tremor) could also be controlled by MCS. Post-stroke involuntary movements, especially those in thalamic syndrome, are sometimes associated with post-stroke pain. In such disorders, involuntary movements are attenuated, but the pain in the same patients is often exacerbated by DBS of the thalamic nuclei ventralis oralis posterior et intermedius. MCS could be the therapy of choice under such circumstances. Subjective improvement of voluntary motor performance, which had been impaired in association with mild or moderate hemiparesis, was reported during MCS by approximately 20% of patients with post-stroke pain. Such an effect on voluntary motor performance appears to be caused by an inhibition of their rigidity. The reversibility of DBS and MCS makes them an important option for the control of post-stroke movement disorders and post-stroke pain.
The dramatic effects of chronic brain stimulation in the treatment of movement disorders have spurred a renewed interest in this technique for treating a variety of other conditions. This technique has only recently begun to reach its vast clinical potential, due to a number of significant advances in basic and clinical neurosciences. Current image-guided navigation systems and intraoperative physiological mapping techniques offer more efficient, consistent, and precise targeting. Advances in neurophysiology have helped elucidate the pathophysiology of a number of disease states and thus provided for rational target selection for therapy. The latest generation of stimulation equipment allows for precise tailoring of stimulation parameters to maximize clinical benefit. These techniques are now being applied to a variety of other conditions including chronic pain, epilepsy, and psychiatric disorders.
We investigated the clinical course and characteristics of the motor deficits in patients who underwent surgical resection of the frontal lobe for tumorous lesions. Only patients who met the following criteria were included in the present study: 1) postoperative MRI revealed that resection of the frontal lobe involved the area closely adjacent to the primary motor cortex, but 2) the D wave of the corticospinal MEP did not decrease in amplitude below 50% of the original level during surgery. The extent of resection was classified into 4 groups. In Group A (6 cases), resection was limited within the area above the superior frontal sulcus and posterior to a line vertical to the line connecting the anterior and posterior commissures at the anterior commissure (AC vertical line). Resection was extended anterior to the AC vertical line in Group B (4 cases) or below the superior frontal sulcus in Group C (5 cases). In Group D (3 cases), resection was extended to both of these two boundaries. Severe motor paresis and/or apraxia of the upper and lower extremities were noted in all patients of Group D immediately after surgery. A complete recovery in the lower extremity was observed in these patients, while disturbance in the fine movements of the upper extremity remained for more than 1 year after the surgery. Disturbance in the fine movements and/or apraxia of the upper extremity were observed immediately after surgery in 2 of the Group A patients (33%), 2 of the Group B patients (50%) and 3 of the Group C patients (60%). However, a rapid recovery occurred in these patients, and only a subtle or mild disturbance remained for more than 1 year after the surgery in one of the Group B and one of the Group C patients. Permanent and severe motor deficit is rarely induced when resection of the frontal lobe is limited to only the SMA proper (corresponding roughly to Group A), the SMA proper and pre-SMA (corresponding roughly to Group B), or the SMA proper and premotor cortex (corresponding roughly to Group C), insofar as the primary motor cortex is preserved. Disturbance in fine movements of the upper extremity is frequently induced for the long term when wide areas of the SMA proper, pre-SMA as well as premotor cortex are resected altogether (corresponding roughly to Group D).

Twenty-one cases of a persistent vegetative state (PVS) caused by various kinds of brain damage were evaluated neurologically and electrophysiologically at 3 months after the brain injury. The 21 cases were treated by deep brain stimulation (DBS) therapy, and followed up for over 10 years. The stimulation sites were the mesencephalic reticular formation (2 cases) and CM-pf complex (19 cases). Eight of the patients emerged from the PVS, and became able to obey verbal commands. However, they remained in a bedridden state. These 8 cases revealed a desynchronization on continuous EEG frequency analysis. The Vth wave of the ABR and N20 of the SEP could be recorded even with a prolonged latency, and the pain-related P250 was recorded with an amplitude of over 7 microV. The mean survival time of these 8 cases was 6.1 years, as compared to 3.1 years for the other 13 cases. Overall, 4 cases are alive after more than 10 years. DBS therapy may be useful for allowing patients to emerge from a PVS, if the candidates are selected according to neurophysiological criteria. The fact that 19% (4/21) of the PVS cases treated with DBS survived for over 10 years should be stressed in comparison with the usual survival period for the untreated PVS.
The objective of this report is to present and contrast the development of the different intraoperative MR systems that are currently in use. The manuscript focuses on the design and clinical experience of a 1.5 Tesla MR system, based on a movable magnet. This configuration is similar to the operating microscope and other surgical adjuncts, with MR technology moved to and from the patient as needed. The system has been used to monitor 294 neurosurgical procedures. including CNS neoplasia. epilepsy, cervical spine disorders, arteriovenous malformations, cavernomas and aneurysms. In many cases the surgical procedure was significantly altered by intraoperatively acquired MRI. Future developments include the construction of a 3 Tesla intraoperative MR system and an ambidextrous MR-compatible robot. This seamless integration of robotic technology into an intraoperative MR environment may well revolutionize neurosurgery.
Most clinicians would accept that epilepsy treatment should begin with monotherapy, and in the majority of cases this is the preferred drug maintenance option. The clinical choice of one antiepileptic drug (AED) over another should be based on firm evidence of efficacy and tolerability as evaluated in comparative monotherapy studies and pharmacokinetics. This paper presents the findings of evidence-based reviews of AED monotherapy in patients newly diagnosed with epilepsy. The main study was conducted in the United Kingdom and investigated the clinical evidence supporting AEDs used as first-line monotherapy. In this paper the general treatment recommendations will focus on valproate, one of the mainstay drugs used in the fight against epilepsy. Finally, with these recommendations in mind, the principles behind AED drug selection in clinical practice will be discussed. Factors for consideration that impact on AED decision-making include: seizure and syndrome diagnosis, AED tolerability profiles, patient characteristics and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic AED interactions.
Recent research has identified a transitional state between the cognitive changes of normal aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD), known as mild cognitive impairment (MCI). MCI patients experience memory loss to a greater extent than one would expect for age, yet they do not meet currently accepted criteria for clinically probable AD. An issue currently under investigation is whether MCI represents the preclinical stages of AD or a distinct and static cognitive aetiology. In an attempt to address this issue, the present investigations are adopting a convergent approach to the detection of preclinical AD, where multiple risk factors are considered when making a diagnosis. Currently, one of the most important tools when assessing early cognitive changes is neuropsychological evaluation. MCI subjects typically record neuropsychological performance between that of healthy older individuals and demented patients. Tests assessing new learning, delayed recall and attention/executive function seem to provide valuable information for screening and diagnosis of MCI and early AD if interpreted properly. Recommendations concerning methodological issues and the early management of neuropsychological MCI studies were made.

The effects of the repair of nerve gap injuries are still unsatisfactory, despite the great progress in microsurgery. Until now, there is no effective method to induce the regeneration of the transected peripheral nerve when its distal stump is missing. The aim of this work was to examine whether the implantation of dead-ended connective tissue chambers can promote the outgrowth of injured peripheral neurites. This method differs from all previous nerve guides because it totally eliminates the distal part of the nerve and restricts the influence of surrounding tissues. We have also tried to establish whether some neurotrophic factors can be applied by means of these chambers. The results of this work show that dead-ended autologous connective tissue chambers can be a useful tool in peripheral nerve injuries treatment, even when the distal part of the nerve is missing.

Intense light triggers cell death in cones and rods by two distinct mechanisms: rapid, necrosis-like cell death occurs in cones; prolonged, apoptotic death is displayed by rods. However, the areas of cone and rod loss coincide, suggesting some interrelationship. DNA fragmentation in rods occurs in two waves. Our evidence suggests a repair mechanism that triggers up-regulation of the enzyme DNA polymerase beta, implying a rod-specific mechanism that initially attempts DNA repair, but which subsequently fails, resulting in a second wave of damage leading to apoptotic rod cell death. This study suggests two different but coincidental pathways lead to photoreceptor death. Definition of these two pathways could suggest useful pharmacologic sites toward which compounds could be targeted to promote cell survival in damaging retinal degenerative diseases. In addition, maintenance or enhancement of existing in-house repair mechanisms could provide additional approaches for the rescue of neurons with stress-induced nuclear damage.




We have investigated the protective role of taurine in glutamate-mediated cell death and the involvement of mitochondria in this process. In cultured cerebellar granule cells, glutamate induces a rapid and sustained elevation in cytoplasmic free calcium ([Ca2+]i), causing the collapse of the mitochondrial electrochemical gradient (MtECG) and subsequent cell death. We found that pre-treatment with taurine, did not affect the level of calcium uptake with glutamate but rather reduced its duration; the calcium increase was transient and returned to basal levels about 10 min after adding glutamate. Furthermore, taurine reduced mitochondrial calcium concentration under non-depolarizing conditions. Treatment of cerebellar granule cells with taurine enhanced mitochondrial activity as measured by rhodamine uptake, both in the presence or absence of glutamate. We conclude that taurine prevents or reduces glutamate excitotoxicity through both the enhancement of mitochondrial function and the regulation of intracellular (cytoplasmic and mitochondrial) calcium homeostasis.
Parenteral injection of kainic acid (KA), a glutamate receptor agonist, causes severe and stereotyped behavioral convulsions in mice and is used as a rodent model for human temporal lobe epilepsy. The goal of this study is to examine the potential anti-convulsive effects of the neuro-active amino acid taurine, in the mouse model of KA-induced limbic seizures. We found that taurine (43 mg/Kg, s.c.) had a significant antiepileptic effect when injected 10 min prior to KA. Acute injection of taurine increased the onset latency and reduced the occurrence of tonic seizures. Taurine also reduced the duration of tonic-clonic convulsions and mortality rate following KA-induced seizures. Furthermore, taurine significantly reduced neuronal cell death in the CA3 region of the hippocampus, the most susceptible region to KA in the limbic system. On the other hand, supplementation of taurine in drinking water (0.05%) for 4 continuous weeks failed to decrease the number or latency of partial or tonic-clonic seizures. To the contrary, we found that taurine-fed mice showed increased susceptibility to KA-induced seizures, as demonstrated by a decreased latency for clonic seizures, an increased incidence and duration of tonic-clonic seizures, increased neuronal death in the CA3 region of the hippocampus and a higher post-seizure mortality of the animals. We suggest that the reduced susceptibility to KA-induced seizures in taurine-injected mice is due to an increase in GABA receptor function in the brain which increases the inhibitory drive within the limbic system. This is supported by our in vitro data obtained in primary neuronal cultures showing that taurine acts as a low affinity agonist for GABA(A) receptors, protects neurons against kainate excitotoxic insults and modulates calcium homeostasis. Therefore, taurine is potentially capable of treating seizure-associated brain damage.





When you hurt yourself, you become consciously aware of the pain because a chain of neurons carries the pain message from the injury to the spinal cord, and then from the spinal cord up to consciousness in the brain. However, it has been known for more than two decades that neural circuits within the spinal cord can cause your conscious experience of pain to be amplified-that is, the pain you perceive is out of proportion to the injury that caused it. Until now, all research aimed at understanding how pain amplification occurs in the spinal cord and all drug therapies aimed at curing exaggerated pain have focused exclusively on neurons. This is because neurons were the only type of cell believed to be important in pain. The present review argues that neurons in fact are not the only cell type involved. Rather, that spinal cord cells called &quot;glia&quot; are also critically important. Indeed, when glia become activated, they begin releasing a variety of chemical substances that causes the pain message to become amplified, thus causing pain to hurt more. This review discusses evidence that glia cause pain to become amplified and describes how the glia cause this to happen. The take-home message is that drugs that target glia and the chemical substances that these glia release are predicted to be powerful remedies for pain problems in people.




Impaired memory is a common consequence of ischemic stroke. Cognitive rehabilitation of memory is an essential component of any comprehensive rehabilitation program for these patients. Generalizable methods and methods to teach domain-specific knowledge are two principal means whereby impaired memory can be improved. Compensatory strategies can be taught to patients whose memory is not likely to improve. Cognitive remediation using these methods has been shown to be an effective intervention to treat memory deficits. More well-controlled, randomized studies are needed to further investigate the efficacy of the various interventions available.










1. Neural stem cells can be cultured from the CNS of different mammalian species at many stages of development. They have an extensive capacity for self-renewal and will proliferate ex vivo in response to mitogenic growth factors or following genetic modification with immortalising oncogenes. Neural stem cells are multipotent since their differentiating progeny will give rise to the principal cellular phenotypes comprising the mature CNS: neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. 2. Neural stem cells can also be derived from more primitive embryonic stem (ES) cells cultured from the blastocyst. ES cells are considered to be pluripotent since they can give rise to the full cellular spectrum and will, therefore, contribute to all three of the embryonic germ layers: endoderm, mesoderm and ectoderm. However, pluripotent cells have also been derived from germ cells and teratocarcinomas (embryonal carcinomas) and their progeny may also give rise to the multiple cellular phenotypes contributing to the CNS. In a recent development, ES cells have also been isolated and grown from human blastocysts, thus raising the possibility of growing autologous stem cells when combined with nuclear transfer technology. 3. There is now an emerging recognition that the adult mammalian brain, including that of primates and humans, harbours stem cell populations suggesting the existence of a previously unrecognised neural plasticity to the mature CNS, and thereby raising the possibility of promoting endogenous neural reconstruction. 4. Such reports have fuelled expectations for the clinical exploitation of neural stem cells in cell replacement or recruitment strategies for the treatment of a variety of human neurological conditions including Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease, multiple sclerosis and ischaemic brain injury. Owing to their migratory capacity within the CNS, neural stem cells may also find potential clinical application as cellular vectors for widespread gene delivery and the expression of therapeutic proteins. In this regard, they may be eminently suitable for the correction of genetically-determined CNS disorders and in the management of certain tumors responsive to cytokines. Since large numbers of stem cells can be generated efficiently in culture, they may obviate some of the technical and ethical limitations associated with the use of fresh (primary) embryonic neural tissue in current transplantation strategies. 5. While considerable recent progress has been made in terms of developing new techniques allowing for the long-term culture of human stem cells, the successful clinical application of these cells is presently limited by our understanding of both (i) the intrinsic and extrinsic regulators of stem cell proliferation and (ii) those factors controlling cell lineage determination and differentiation. Although such cells may also provide accessible model systems for studying neural development, progress in the field has been further limited by the lack of suitable markers needed for the identification and selection of cells within proliferating heterogeneous populations of precursor cells. There is a further need to distinguish between the committed fate (defined during normal development) and the potential specification (implying flexibility of fate through manipulation of its environment) of stem cells undergoing differentiation. 6. With these challenges lying ahead, it is the opinion of the authors that stem-cell therapy is likely to remain within the experimental arena for the foreseeable future. In this regard, few (if any) of the in vivo studies employing neural stem cell grafts have shown convincingly that behavioural recovery can be achieved in the various model paradigms. Moreover, issues relating to the quality control of cultured cells and their safety following transplantation have only begun to be addressed. 7. While on the one hand cell biotechnologists have been quick to realise the potential commercial value, human stem cell research and its clinical applications has been the subject of intense ethical and legislative considerations. The present chapter aims to review some recent aspects of stem cell research applicable to developmental neurobiology and the potential applications in clinical neuroscience.



Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a brain disorder caused by chronic liver failure, particularly in alcoholics with cirrhosis, which results in cognitive, psychiatric, and motor impairments. In these patients, the number of functional liver cells is reduced, and some blood is diverted around the liver before toxins are removed. As a result, toxins such as ammonia and manganese can accumulate in the blood and enter the brain, where they can damage nerve cells and supporting cells called astrocytes. Positron emission tomography analyses have determined that ammonia levels are elevated in the brains of HE patients; ammonia accumulation can alter the expression of various important brain genes. Magnetic resonance images show that manganese is deposited in a brain area called the globus pallidus; manganese deposits may be responsible for structural changes in the astrocytes that are characteristic of HE. Treatment of patients with HE involves measures to lower ammonia levels in the blood, medications to counteract ammonia's effects on brain cell function, devices to compensate for liver dysfunction, and liver transplantation.
Electroencephalography (EEG), the recording of electrical signals from the brain, provides a noninvasive measure of brain function as it is happening. Research using EEG, as well as event-related potentials (ERPs) and event-related oscillations (EROs), which measure brain activity in response to a specific stimulus, have shown that the brain activity of alcoholics and nonalcoholics differs in some characteristic ways. These differences are consistent with an imbalance between excitation and inhibition processes in the brains of alcoholics.
HE is a serious complication of alcoholic liver disease that contributes to cognitive dysfunction in chronic alcoholic patients. In patients with HE, the damaged liver can no longer remove neurotoxic substances such as ammonia and manganese from the blood. As a result, these molecules may enter the brain, where they can exert a variety of harmful effects that interfere with normal neurotransmitter activity, impair motor functions, and cause structural alterations in the astrocytes. To prevent or treat HE in alcoholic patients with cirrhosis, physicians currently rely primarily on strategies to lower blood ammonia concentrations as well as on liver transplantation in patients with end-stage liver disease; new approaches also are also being investigated.
The only drug approved by the US FDA for use in patients with acute ischemic stroke is the thrombolytic, alteplase. Whereas alteplase rapidly restores blood flow, the drug has to be administered within 6 hours after symptom onset and is associated with an increased incidence of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Moreover, transient and permanent re-occlusions associated with increased mortality continue to occur after thrombolysis with alteplase. Platelets are believed to play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of atherothrombosis and the binding of the platelet glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa receptor to fibrinogen is the final common pathway leading to platelet aggregation and thrombus formation. Antiplatelet agents such as platelet GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists have been studied in numerous multicenter, randomized clinical trials in patients with acute coronary symptoms (ACS). The intravenous GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists abciximab, eptifibatide and tirofiban are approved by the FDA for use in patients with ACS, and intravenous tirofiban is also approved for use during coronary intervention. Oral GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists such as lotrafiban, xemilofiban, sibrafiban and orbofiban have failed to provide myocardial protection in patients with ACS. Compared with ACS, few trials have evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of platelet GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists in patients with cerebrovascular syndromes. Agents such as SM-20302, TP201, ME3277, murine 7E3 F(ab')(2 )and SDZ-GPI 562 have been reported to preserve microvascular patency in different animal models of acute ischemic stroke and they may have neuroprotective properties. Platelet GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists may be suitable as a single therapeutic or as an adjunct therapeutic to thrombolysis with alteplase for the treatment of stroke. Platelet GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists may enhance the efficacy of thrombolytics and reduce potentially fatal adverse effects such as ICH. Preliminary results from the Abciximab in Emergent Stroke Treatment Trial (AbESTT) indicate that abciximab, administered as a bolus dose 0.25 mg/kg followed by 12-hour infusion, was associated with significant improvement in clinical rating scores and no significant increase in bleeding episodes in patients with acute stroke. The tolerability of argatroban in patients with acute stroke is currently being assessed in the multicenter Argatroban in Ischemic Stroke (ARGIS-1) trial.
The historical lineage of therapeutic hypnosis in James Braid's &quot;psychophysiology&quot;, Pierre Janet's &quot;physiological modification&quot;, and Milton Erickson's &quot;neuro-psycho-physiology&quot; is extended to include current neuroscience research on activity-dependent gene expression, neurogenesis, and stem cells in memory, learning, behavior change, and healing. Three conditions that optimize gene expression and neurogenesis--novelty, environmental enrichment, and exercise--could integrate fundamentals of the theory, research, and practice of therapeutic hypnosis. Continuing research on immediate-early, activity-dependent, behavior state-related, and clock gene expression could enhance our understanding of how relaxation, sleep, dreaming, consciousness, arousal, stress and trauma are modulated by therapeutic hypnosis. It is speculated that therapeutic and post-hypnotic suggestion could be focused more precisely with the time parameters of gene expression and neurogenesis that range from minutes and hours for synthesizing new synapses to weeks and months for the generation and maturation of new, functioning neurons in the adult brain.
Apolipoprotein epsilon4 (apoE, protein; APOE, gene) allele is the most important genetic risk factor for development of Alzheimer's disease and is also associated with poor outcome after brain injury. Although the mechanisms underlying this susceptibility are currently unknown, recent experimental evidence suggests that APOE genotype may influence activity in the endocytic pathway of neurons. This study determined whether alterations in the endocytic pathway occurred in medial temporal lobe sections after brain injury because of cardiorespiratory arrest and whether these alterations were influenced by APOE genotype. Antibodies to two proteins involved in endocytosis, rabaptin-5 and rab4, were used as markers of endocytic pathway activity. Alterations in immunoreactivity were examined in medial temporal lobe sections in the postmortem brain of patients who experienced an episode of global ischemia and in controls. After global ischemia there was a marked increase in immunoreactivity of both endocytic markers, rabaptin-5 and rab4, in neurons, and to a lesser extent in glia compared to controls. Furthermore, possession of an APOE epsilon4 allele was associated with specific alterations in the endocytic pathway. After global ischemia, there was no influence of APOE genotype on the extent of rabaptin-5 immunoreactivity. However, there was a statistically significant influence of APOE genotype on the extent of rab4 immunoreactivity in response to global ischemia. These results indicate marked alterations in the endocytic pathway after global ischemia that are dependent on APOE genotype. This may underlie the important influence of APOE genotype on brain injury and disease.
This study evaluated the effects of serotonergic psychoactive agents on gastrointestinal functions in healthy human subjects. Participants received one of four regimens in a randomized, double-blind manner: buspirone, a 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist (10 mg twice daily); paroxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (20 mg daily); venlafaxine-XR, a selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (75 mg daily); or placebo for 11 days. Physiological testing performed on days 8-11 included scintigraphic assessment of gastrointestinal and colonic transit, the nutrient drink test, and assessment of the postprandial change in gastric volume. Fifty-one healthy adults (40 females, 11 males) participated in this study. No effects on gastric emptying or colonic transit were identified with any agent. Small bowel transit of a solid meal was accelerated by paroxetine. Buspirone decreased postprandial aggregate symptom and nausea scores. Venlafaxine-XR increased the postprandial change in gastric volume. Buspirone, paroxetine, and venlafaxine-XR affect upper gastrointestinal functions in healthy humans. These data support the need for clinical and physiological studies of these agents in functional gastrointestinal disorders.
We have used the anorexia shown by rats given hypertonic saline to drink to investigate central mechanisms that can inhibit feeding. Rats dehydrated in this manner for 3 or 5 days showed a severe attenuation of the compensatory feeding observed after an overnight fast compared with control euhydrated rats or rats whose food was restricted to match the intake of anorexic rats. Food intake after injections of 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-DG) was also significantly decreased in dehydrated animals compared with that after a 2-DG injection given before dehydration. However, all the dehydrated animals demonstrated a robust eating response after water was returned whether they had received injection of 2-DG or vehicle. Despite a profound reduction in 2-DG-induced feeding, other glucoregulatory responses to 2-DG remained intact in dehydrated animals. After 2-DG injection, corticosterone secretion and blood glucose were significantly elevated from preinjection values whether or not animals were dehydrated. Thus the mechanisms responsible for anorexia in dehydrated animals specifically target stimulatory feeding pathways but leave intact other counterregulatory glucometabolic motor events.
Water-restricted rats exhibit a rapid decrease in plasma corticosterone after drinking. The present study examined the effect of restriction-induced drinking on plasma aldosterone and plasma clearance of corticosterone. Rats were water restricted for 6-7 days and then killed before or 15 min after water administration; plasma and adrenal hormones were assayed. Plasma and adrenal corticosterone decreased after drinking without a change in plasma corticosteroid-binding globulin; plasma ACTH decreased or did not change. In contrast, plasma aldosterone did not change or increased after drinking; plasma renin activity was elevated by water restriction and increased further after drinking. In another experiment, rats were adrenalectomized, and corticosterone and aldosterone were replaced with pellets and osmotic minipumps, respectively. Rats were water restricted and killed. There was a small decrease in plasma corticosterone but no change in aldosterone after drinking in adrenalectomized animals. These data suggest that changes in plasma steroids after restriction-induced drinking result from zone-specific responses of the adrenal to known secretagogues, with minimal contribution from increased plasma clearance.



In order to meet the need for an expressive ontology in neuroinformatics, we have integrated the extensive terminologies of NeuroNames and Terminologia Anatomica into the Foundational Model of Anatomy (FMA). We have enhanced the FMA to accommodate information unique to neuronal structures, such as axonal input/output relationships.

The iron hypothesis as an alternative explanation for the gender difference in the incidence and mortality of atherosclerosis has provoked increased debates and public health concerns. In this review we summarize the historical and recent literature on the iron hypothesis and discuss several related clinical issues and their implications. Apart from misconstruction of study populations, lack of a good method to reflect the iron contents of tissues may be the major factor for causing inconsistent results from epidemiological studies. Published data from 11 countries clearly indicate that the mortality from cardiovascular diseases is correlated with liver iron. We propose that redox-active iron in tissue is the atherogenic portion of total iron stores. Recently developed magnetic resonance imaging techniques in combination with Fe chelators may allow future studies to examine this component of body iron in lesions and the whole body. Several clinical situations characterized by increased iron stores have been proposed as 'human models' suitable for further tests of the iron hypothesis. Patients with end-stage renal disease may be the most unique cohort, having significant increases in their iron stores, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation, and cardiovascular events. Other patient groups may be well suited for specific studies of different atherogenic events. With a better understanding of iron-driven oxidative damage, well controlled and effectively designed studies on these models will finally bring us to the truth of the iron hypothesis.
The sine qua non event of puberty is an increase in pulsatile release of gonadotrophin hormone releasing hormone (GnRH). It is now clear that this increase and, therefore, the initiation of the pubertal process itself, require both changes in transsynaptic communication and the activation of glia-to-neuron signaling pathways. While neurons that utilize excitatory and inhibitory amino acids as transmitters represent major players in the transsynaptic control of puberty, glial cells utilize a combination of trophic factors and small cell-cell signaling molecules to regulate neuronal function and, thus, promote sexual development. A coordinated increase in glutamatergic transmission accompanied by a decrease in inhibitory GABAergic tone appears to initiate the transsynaptic cascade of events leading to the pubertal increase in GnRH release. Glial cells facilitate GnRH secretion via cell-cell signaling loops mainly initiated by members of the EGF and TGF- families of trophic factors, and brought about by either these factors themselves or by chemical messengers released in response to growth factor stimulation. In turn, a neuron-to-glia communication pathway mediated by excitatory amino acids serves to coordinate the simultaneous activation of transsynaptic and glia-to-neuron communication required for the advent of sexual maturity. A different--and perhaps higher--level of control may involve the transcriptional regulation of subordinate genes that, by contributing to neuroendocrine maturation, are required for the initiation of the pubertal process.
It is well established that the obese gene product, leptin is an important circulating satiety factor that signals nutritional status to specific hypothalamic nuclei involved in body weight regulation. However, evidence is accumulating that, in addition to its pivotal role as an adiposity signal, leptin is a multi-faceted hormone that plays an important role in a plethora of CNS functions. In this review we summarize the recent advances made in leptin biology, with particular focus on its potential role as a cognitive enhancer and antiepileptic agent in the hippocampus.
Cytokines, signaling molecules of the immune system, have been implicated as a contributing factor for mood disorders such as depression. Several lines of evidence supporting this contention are briefly reviewed and caveats are introduced. Essentially, a relationship between cytokines and depression is based on the findings that: 1) proinflammatory cytokines (interleukin-1, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha) and bacterial endotoxins elicit sickness behaviors (e.g., fatigue, soporific effects) and symptoms of anxiety/depression that may be attenuated by chronic antidepressant treatment, 2) cytokines induce neuroendocrine and central neurotransmitter changes reminiscent of those implicated in depression, and these effects are exacerbated by stressors, 3) severe depressive illness is accompanied by signs of immune activation and by elevations of cytokine production or levels, and 4) immunotherapy, using interleukin-2 or interferon-alpha, promotes depressive symptoms that are attenuated by antidepressant treatment. It is argued that cytokine synthesis and release, elicited upon activation of the inflammatory response system, provoke neuroendocrine and brain neurotransmitter changes that are interpreted by the brain as being stressors, and contribute to the development of depression. Furthermore, such effects are subject to a sensitization effect so that a history of stressful experiences or cytokine activation augment the response to later challenges and hence the evolution of depression

In this review, the potential role of positron emission tomography and single-photon emission computed tomography as biological markers for following the progression of Parkinson's disease (PD) is discussed, and their value for assessing the efficacy of putative neuroprotective agents in PD is considered. It is concluded that functional imaging provides a valuable adjunct to clinical assessment when judging the efficacy of neuroprotective approaches to PD.
A major goal of the neuroscience community is to develop neuroprotective treatment strategies that will slow or forestall the progression of Parkinson's disease, one of the most common adult-onset neurodegenerative disorders, affecting approximately 1 million people in North America. Although prior research to identify neuroprotective interventions has not been conclusive, recent advances in the understanding of the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease, including the development of relevant animal models, provide the opportunity for rational clinical trials to assess neuroprotective treatments.
Advances in our understanding of the cause and pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) have permitted the rational selection of putative neuroprotective agents for study in PD. However, the list of agents that might provide neuroprotective effects derived from laboratory studies is daunting, and we face the challenge of determining which agents to bring to the clinic and how to find the resources (patients and funds) to properly study so many promising therapeutic opportunities.1 Appropriate outcome variables that are not confounded by any symptomatic effect of the drug and are acceptable to clinicians and regulatory authorities also remain to be defined. The first clinical trials designed to test the capacity of putative neuroprotective agents to alter the natural history of PD have now been performed and illustrate some of these problems. The DATATOP (Deprenyl and Tocopherol Antioxidant Therapy of PD) study used the time to reach a disease milestone in untreated PD patients (ie, need for levodopa) as the primary end point. However, interpretation of results was confounded by the drug's symptomatic effect. The SINDEPAR (Sinemet-Deprenyl-Parlodel) study used the change in motor score between initial visit and final visit after washout of all study medications as the primary end point. However, here too there were concerns about confounding symptomatic effects, because antiparkinsonian medications have now been shown to have a long duration response that can persist for weeks and perhaps even months after withdrawal. More recent studies have used surrogate markers of the integrity of nigrostriatal function such as striatal uptake of fluorodopa on positron emission tomography (PET) or beta-CIT-on single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) as primary outcome measures. However, it has not yet been confirmed that striatal uptake of these isotopes does in fact correlate with the remaining number of dopamine neurons or terminals, and the possibility of a confounding pharmacological effect has not yet been completely excluded. To date, no drug has been established to have a neuroprotective effect in PD, and none has been approved for a neuroprotective indication. Furthermore, regulatory agencies have not yet agreed that any of the outcome measures currently used will be acceptable for approval of a new drug. Resolution of these issues is of critical importance to convince pharmaceutical companies to expend the hundreds of millions of dollars necessary to bring a new drug to market. Drugs that already have been approved in PD for their symptomatic effects, such as dopamine agonists or propargylamines (eg, selegiline), offer the best opportunity for establishing that a drug is neuroprotective in PD in the immediate future, but herein also lies the difficulty of establishing that any benefits observed are not solely because of the drug's symptomatic properties. Currently, this will most likely entail demonstrating that the drug provides benefit for PD patients for both imaging and clinical markers of disease progression.
There is considerable evidence suggesting that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage may play a role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). This possibility has been strengthened by recent studies in animal models, which have shown that a selective inhibitor of complex I of the electron transport gene can produce an animal model that closely mimics both the biochemical and histopathological findings of PD. Several agents are available that can modulate cellular energy metabolism and that may exert antioxidative effects. There is substantial evidence that mitochondria are a major source of free radicals within the cell. These appear to be produced at both the iron-sulfur clusters of complex I as well as the ubiquinone site. Agents that have shown to be beneficial in animal models of PD include creatine, coenzyme Q(10), Ginkgo biloba, nicotinamide, and acetyl-L-carnitine. Creatine has been shown to be effective in several animal models of neurodegenerative diseases and currently is being evaluated in early stage trials in PD. Similarly, coenzyme Q(10) is also effective in animal models and has shown promising effects both in clinical trials of PD as well as in clinical trials in Huntington's disease and Friedreich's ataxia. Many other agents show good human tolerability. These agents therefore are promising candidates for further study as neuroprotective agents in PD.
Despite being the subject of intense study, the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease still remains unclear. In recent years, however, there has been increasing evidence to support a role for genetic factors in its cause. This has come from twin and family studies, the mapping and cloning of PARK genes that are associated with the development of PD, and analysis of potential susceptibility genes. There is also evidence indicating that environmental factors may play a role in the disease process. It is likely that for most cases, there is a complex interplay between these genetic and environmental influences in the causation of Parkinson's disease. This article reviews the evidence in support of genetic and environmental factors in the cause of PD.
In adult diabetic patients, periods of hyperglycemia may be associated with exacerbation of focal seizures. Our objective was to determine in the adult rats the correlation between seizure susceptibility and extracellular glucose concentration in two models of seizures. Male rats were injected with two doses of streptozocin (40 mg/kg IP) on 2 consecutive days to induce diabetic hyperglycemia. Controls either received vehicle or were not injected. After 2 weeks, blood glucose concentration was measured, and the rats were subjected to flurothyl seizure test. Another group of rats received glucose solution (20%, 5 ml IP) 30 minutes before testing to induce nondiabetic hyperglycemia. Thresholds for flurothyl-induced clonic and tonic-clonic seizures were determined. Finally, in vitro epileptiform activity was induced in the entorhinal cortex-hippocampal slices from naive rats by perfusing with magnesium-free medium with various glucose concentrations. In additional slices, paired-pulse paradigm was determined in the perforant path. Susceptibility to clonic and tonic-clonic flurothyl-induced seizures positively correlated with blood glucose concentrations as the increased glucose concentration was associated with proconvulsant effects. Similarly, in the in vitro experiments, epileptiform activity was promoted by increased and suppressed by decreased glucose concentrations. Data indicate that, in the adult rats, high glucose concentrations are associated with proconvulsant effects.

In vitro studies using biochemical, pharmacological and molecular approaches demonstrated that the peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) is a mitochondrial protein, involved in the regulation of cholesterol transport from the outer to the inner mitochondrial membrane, the rate-determining step in steroid biosynthesis. In vivo animal models and ontogeny studies validated the role of PBR in steroidogenesis. Targeted disruption of the PBR gene in Leydig cells resulted in the arrest of cholesterol transport into mitochondria and steroid formation. Molecular modeling of PBR suggested that it might function as a channel for cholesterol. Indeed, cholesterol uptake and transport by bacteria cells was induced upon PBR expression. Amino acid deletion and site-directed mutagenesis studies identified a cholesterol recognition/interaction amino acid consensus sequence in the cytoplasmic carboxy-terminus of the receptor. In vitro reconstitution experiments demonstrated that the 18 kDa PBR protein binds with high affinity both drug ligands and cholesterol, suggesting that this protein might serve numerous functions considering the critical role of cholesterol in membrane biogenesis and human pathology. In this context, PBR expression correlated with the quality of kidney preservation, indicating that it might serve as an index of kidney and mitochondrial viability during ischemia-reperfusion injury. PBR overexpression was also found to be a prognostic indicator of the aggressive phenotype in breast, colorectal and prostate cancers. Moreover, in Alzheimer's disease brain specimens, PBR levels were increased and paralleled the elevated neurosteroid synthesis observed in specific brain areas. The role for PBR in these pathological conditions remains to be elucidated. paralleled the elevated neurosteroid synthesis observed in specific brain areas. The role for PBR in these pathological conditions remains to be elucidated.
Nerve regeneration is a complex biological phenomenon. In the peripheral nervous system, nerves can regenerate on their own if injuries are small. Larger injuries must be surgically treated, typically with nerve grafts harvested from elsewhere in the body. Spinal cord injury is more complicated, as there are factors in the body that inhibit repair. Unfortunately, a solution to completely repair spinal cord injury has not been found. Thus, bioengineering strategies for the peripheral nervous system are focused on alternatives to the nerve graft, whereas efforts for spinal cord injury are focused on creating a permissive environment for regeneration. Fortunately, recent advances in neuroscience, cell culture, genetic techniques, and biomaterials provide optimism for new treatments for nerve injuries. This article reviews the nervous system physiology, the factors that are critical for nerve repair, and the current approaches that are being explored to aid peripheral nerve regeneration and spinal cord repair.
The brain changes profoundly in structure and function during development and as a result of diseases such as the dementias, schizophrenia, multiple sclerosis, and tumor growth. Strategies to measure, map, and visualize these brain changes are of immense value in basic and clinical neuroscience. Algorithms that map brain change with sufficient spatial and temporal sensitivity can also assess drugs that aim to decelerate or arrest these changes. In neuroscience studies, these tools can reveal subtle brain changes in adolescence and old age and link these changes with measurable differences in brain function and cognition. Early detection of brain change in patients at risk for dementia; tumor recurrence; or relapsing-remitting conditions, such as multiple sclerosis, is also vital for optimizing therapy. We review a variety of mathematical and computational approaches to detect structural brain change with unprecedented sensitivity, both spatially and temporally. The resulting four-dimensional (4-D) maps of brain anatomy are warehoused in population-based brain atlases. Here, statistical tools compare brain changes across subjects and across populations, adjusting for complex differences in brain structure. Brain changes in an individual can be compared with a normative database comprised of subjects matched for age, gender, and other demographic factors. These dynamic brain maps offer key biological markers for understanding disease progression and testing therapeutic response. The early detection of disease-related brain changes is also critical for possible pre-emptive intervention before the ravages of disease have set in.
Over the past two decades significant progress has been made toward understanding the neural basis of primate decision making, the biological process that combines sensory data with stored information to select and execute behavioral responses. The most striking progress in this area has been made in studies of visual-saccadic decision making, a system that is becoming a model for understanding decision making in general. In this system, theoretical models of efficient decision making developed in the social sciences are beginning to be used to describe the computations the brain must perform when it connects sensation and action. Guided in part by these economic models, neurophysiologists have been able to describe neuronal activity recorded from the brains of awake-behaving primates during actual decision making. These recent studies have examined the neural basis of decisions, ranging from those made in predictable sensorimotor tasks to those unpredictable decisions made when animals are engaged in strategic conflict. All of these experiments seem to describe a surprisingly well-integrated set of physiological mechanisms that can account for a broad range of behavioral phenomena. This review presents many of these recent studies within the emerging neuroeconomic framework for understanding primate decision making.
The discovery that nitric oxide (NO) is produced by neurons and regulates synaptic activity has challenged the definition of a neurotransmitter. NO is not stored in synaptic vesicles and does not act at conventional receptors on the surface of adjacent neurons. The toxic gases carbon monoxide (CO) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S) are also produced by neurons and modulate synaptic activity. D-serine synthesis and release by astrocytes as an endogenous ligand for the &quot;glycine&quot; site of N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors defy the concept that a neurotransmitter must be synthesized by neurons. We review the properties of these &quot;atypical&quot; neural modulators.
The guidance of axons during the establishment of the nervous system is mediated by a variety of extracellular cues that govern cytoskeletal dynamics in axonal growth cones. A large number of these guidance cues and their cell-surface receptors have now been identified, and the intracellular signaling pathways by which these cues induce cytoskeletal rearrangements are becoming defined. This review summarizes our current understanding of the major families of axon guidance cues and their receptors, with a particular emphasis on receptor signaling mechanisms. We also discuss recent advances in understanding receptor cross talk and how the activities of guidance cues and their receptors are modulated during neural development.
Axon growth inhibitors associated with myelin and the glial scar contribute to the failure of axon regeneration in the injured adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS). A number of these inhibitors, their receptors, and signaling pathways have been identified. These inhibitors can now be neutralized by a variety of approaches that point to the possibility of developing new therapeutic strategies to stimulate regeneration after spinal cord injury.
We are rapidly approaching the postgenomic era in which we will know all of the 3 billion DNA bases in the human genome sequence and all of the variations in the genome sequence that are ultimately responsible for genetic influence on behavior. These ongoing advances and new techniques will make it easier to identify genes associated with psychopathology. Progress in identifying such genes has been slower than some experts expected, probably because many genes are involved for each phenotype, which means the effect of any one gene is small. Nonetheless, replicated linkages and associations are being found, for example, for dementia, reading disability, and hyperactivity. The future of genetic research lies in finding out how genes work (functional genomics). It is important for the future of psychology that pathways between genes and behavior be examined at the top-down psychological level of analysis (behavioral genomics), as well as at the bottom-up molecular biological level of cells or the neuroscience level of the brain. DNA will revolutionize psychological research and treatment during the coming decades.
Blood-brain transfer of oxygen is a fundamental function of regional oxygen consumption. This function yielded a novel description of the mechanism of flow-metabolism coupling. The description revealed that constant oxygen consumption is not maintained by saturation of cytochrome oxidase but by adjustment of the enzyme's affinity towards oxygen. Interactions of oxygen and a factor that could be nitric oxide, at both cytochrome oxidase and nitric oxide synthase, match the affinities of both enzymes towards their respective substrates to the oxygen requirement of the tissue and, in doing so, explain several properties of flow-metabolism coupling.

Oxidative stress plays an important role in cell death associated with many diseases. In the present study, concentration-dependence of hydrogen peroxide on rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cell viability was studied. Preventive effects of antioxidants on the viability of these cells treated with 2 mM hydrogen peroxide were compared. Trolox and Stobadine, as chain-breaking antioxidants were studied in comparison with standardized extracts of flavonoids of Ginkgo biloba and Pycnogenol, known as agents effective in several diseases. All antioxidants increased the viability of hydrogen peroxide-treated PC12 cells. Flavonoid extracts were more effective than Trolox and Stobadine. Antioxidants were most effective if present after the oxidative treatment. As expected, the preloading with antioxidants was without effect on cell viability. Correlations between viability increase induced by antioxidants, and content of oxidation products of proteins and lipids were studied at concentrations of antioxidants mostly effective in preventing cell death: Trolox (10 microM), Stobadine (30 microM), Ginkgo biloba (160 microg/ml), Pycnogenol (100 microg/ml). In these concentrations, antioxidants did not statistically significantly decrease the content of protein carbonyls, with exception of Stobadine, which had no effect. Ginkgo biloba, Trolox and Stobadine intensively decreased the content of malondialdehyde, a product of lipid peroxidation. Pycnogenol was without any preventive effect. Concentrations of antioxidants with a large effect on viability of PC12 cells were not effective in preventing oxygen radical-induced injury of proteins. Antioxidants prevented the oxidative injury of lipids more effectively than that of proteins.
The host range of most poliovirus (PV) strains is restricted to simians. This host range specificity is believed to be determined by the interaction between PV and its receptor molecule. To elucidate the molecular basis of this species-specific infection of PV, we cloned orthologs of the PV receptor (PVR) gene ( pvr) as well as those of PV receptor-related genes 1 and 2 ( prr1 and prr2) from various mammalian species. These three genes are widely present in mammalian genomes including those of non-susceptible species. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of PVR orthologs revealed that the NH(2)-terminal immunoglobulin-like domain (domain 1), which is the virus binding site in the human PVR, is highly variable among species, whereas that of PRR1 is highly conserved. Domain 1 of the PVR orthologs for the ring-tailed lemur and rabbit, which are not susceptible to PV, show only 51 and 61% amino acid sequence identity to that of human PVR, respectively. Chimeric PVR proteins that have the domain 1 of the ring-tailed lemur and rabbit PVRs failed to serve as receptors for PV. These results suggest that rapid changes in the domain 1 sequence during mammalian evolution determined the host range restriction of PV.
The general pharmacological properties of indolo[2',3':3,4]pyrido[2,1-b]quinazolinium-5,7,8,13-tetrahydro-14- methyl-5-oxo-chloride (dehydroevodiamine-HCl, DHED, CAS 67909-49-3), a new potential anti-dementia agent, were studied to investigate side effects using various experimental animals. Both oral and intraperitoneal administration of DHED had no effects on the central nervous system except that they showed an analgesic activity. DHED had no significant effect on heart rate, blood pressure and coronary flow in isolated rat hearts. DHED had negligible effects on the autonomic nervous system and smooth muscle in isolated rat ileum, rat vas deferens and rat aorta. DHED did not influence the gastrointestinal system except that it inhibited the intestinal travel of a charcoal meal in mice. Neither blood coagulation mechanism nor liver function was affected by DHED. Therefore, it is concluded from these general pharmacological studies that DHED does not induce any serious side effects at the dose levels showing anticholinesterase and memory enhancing activities in the experimental animals.
The thresholds of compound action potentials evoked by tone pips were measured in the cochleae of anesthetized gerbils, both in adults and in neonates aged 14, 16, 18, 20 and 30 days, using round-window electrodes. Stapes vibrations were also measured, using a laser velocimeter, in many of the same ears of adults and neonates aged 14, 16, 18 and 20 days to assess cochlear sensitivity in isolation from middle ear effects and to circumvent problems associated with calibration of acoustic stimuli at high frequencies. Whether referenced to sound pressure level in the ear canal or stapes vibration velocity, thresholds in adults were roughly uniform in the entire range of tested frequencies, 1.25-38.5 kHz. In neonates, thresholds decreased systematically as a function of age, with the largest reductions occurring at the highest frequencies. Thresholds remained slightly immature at all frequencies 30 days after birth. The results for adult gerbils are consistent with the recent finding that basilar-membrane responses to characteristic frequency tones normalized to stapes vibrations are as sensitive at sites near the round window as at more apical sites. The results for neonates confirm that the extreme basal region of the cochlea is the last to approach maturity, with substantial development occurring between 20 and 30 days after birth.
This article reviews the published literature on developmental prosopagnosia, a condition in which the ability to recognize other persons by facial information alone has never been acquired. Due to the very low incidence of this syndrome, case reports are sparse. We review the available data and suggest assessment strategies for patients suffering from developmental prosopagnosia. It is suggested that developmental prosopagnosia is not a unitary condition but rather consists of different subforms that can be dissociated on the grounds of functional impairments. On the basis of the available evidence, hypotheses about the aetiology of developmental prosopagnosia as well as about the selectivity of deficits related to face recognition are discussed.
Narcolepsy is now recognized as a distinctive disorder with specific pathophysiology and neurochemical abnormalities. Findings on the role of the neuropeptide hypocretin are opening new avenues of research and new strategies for therapy. Recently, neuropsychological and electrophysiological studies have provided evidence for reduced memory performance on standard memory tests in addition to subjective complaints of forgetfulness which may be related to changes in attentional processing. Further studies are, however, necessary to clarify the neuropsychological profile in narcolepsy. This review focuses on the recent advances in understanding narcolepsy.
Brain topographical studies of normal men have have shown that sexual excitation is asymmetric in the brain hemispheres. Group studies of patients with unilateral epileptic foci and other studies of patients with unilateral brain lesions have come to the same conclusion. The present study reviewed previously published single case reports of patients with frank hypo or hypersexuality subsequent to a unilateral brain lesion. Hyposexual patients tended to have left hemisphere lesions (primarily of the temporal lobe), and hypersexual patients tended to have right hemisphere lesions (primarily of the temporal lobe) (p &lt; 0.05). We interpret this double dissociation as part of a more general phenomenon of psychic tone similarly dissociated with regard to hemispheric control, including mood, psychomotor baseline, speech rate, and even immunity. The behavioral significance of this psychic tone is to modulate approach versus avoidance behavior.
Science can provide more information about the nature of aggressive acts, and therefore the mens rea of criminal offenses, than is commonly assumed. For example, progress has been made in classifying aggression as impulsive or premeditated within the context of the role of conscious experience in controlling behavior. This review of the status of the scientific ability to distinguish conscious from unconscious acts and more specifically impulsive from premeditated aggressive acts is organized around four themes: (i) How is aggression defined and measured in general? (ii) How does the distinction between impulsive and premeditated aggression relate to the legal concept of mens rea? (iii) How do various scientific disciplines contribute to the mind/body discourse? (iv) What risk factors are associated with impulsive and premeditated aggression respectively? The authors conclude that the most promising approach to researching the nature of behavioral intention and motivation is to apply a discipline neutral model that integrates the data from multiple disciplines, collectively designated the cognitive neurosciences.
Gangliosides, sialic acid-containing glycosphingolipids, have engendered great interest for more than 20 years in the search for target molecules of relevance for tumour growth and formation of metastases and as potential targets for immunotherapy. These molecules show large quantitative and structural variability, which is related to cell type and developmental stage. Their potential role in the formation of tumour metastases was suggested from data supporting that they are involved in cell growth regulation and in cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion. Moreover, gangliosides are expressed on the cell surface and thereby are accessible for antibodies or other ganglioside-binding molecules to induce cell death, inhibit cell growth and/or inhibit formation of tumour metastasis. All tumours exhibit aberrant ganglioside expression. This includes overexpression of normal ganglioside constituents, which appears to be common among various tumours, and expression of gangliosides not found in normal adult tissue but often found during fetal development. The ganglioside composition of melanoma cells has been found to correlate with their metastatic potential and also to be selectively expressed in cells of a tumour mass and invading tumour cells. Passive immunotherapy using murine or murine/human chimeric monoclonal antiganglioside antibodies in their native form or combined with various effector molecules has been investigated. However, the vaccination strategy using native or structurally modified tumour-associated gangliosides in combination with adjuvants is currently the dominant method in clinical trials. The outcomes reported so far vary between type of tumour and treatment strategies. However, we believe that targeting gangliosides is as promising as any other immune therapeutic strategy, and basic research as well as clinical trials utilising new aspects is encouraged.
Mitochondria clearly play a central role in the pathogenesis of Friedreich's Ataxia. The most common genetic abnormality results in the deficiency of the protein frataxin, which is targeted to the mitochondrion. Research since this discovery has indicated that mitochondrial respiratory chain dysfunction, mitochondrial iron accumulation and oxidative damage are important components of the disease mechanism. While the role of frataxin is not known, evidence is currently pointing to a role in either mitochondrial iron handling or iron sulphur centre synthesis. These advances in our understanding of the disease mechanisms are enabling therapeutic avenues to be explored, in particular the use of established drugs such as antioxidants and enhancers of respiratory chain function. Vitamin E therapy has been shown to be beneficial in patients with ataxia with vitamin E deficiency, and CoQ10 therapy was effective in some patients with ataxia associated with CoQ10 deficiency. A combined therapy involving long term treatment with high doses of vitamin E and coenzyme Q10 has jointly targeted two of the major features of Friedreich's Ataxia; decreased mitochondrial respiratory chain function and increased oxidative stress. This therapy clearly showed a rapid and sustained increase in the energy generated by the FRDA heart muscle, nearly returning to normal levels. The improvements in skeletal muscle energy generation parallel those of the heart but to a lower level. While this therapy appeared to slow the predicted progression of some clinical symptoms a larger placebo controlled study is required to confirm these observations. Other antioxidant strategies have involved the use of Idebenone, selenium and N acetyl cysteine but only the use of Idebenone has involved structured trials with relatively large patient numbers. Idebenone clearly had an impact upon the cardiac hypertrophy in the majority of patients, although there have not been any other significant benefits reported to date.


Analysis of the LIS data for several series of Ln(3+) complexes of C(4) symmetry in terms of structural changes, crystal-field effects and/or variation of hyperfine constants along the lanthanide series was undertaken using a combination of the two-nuclei and three-nuclei techniques together with the classical onenucleus technique. Isostructurality of whole series of complexes, with changes of the F(i), and B(0) (2) parameters, was clearly defined for the complexes of L by the combination of the two first methods. Small changes, involving the three F(i), G(i) and B(0) (2) parameters, are observed for the series of complexes of L-L4, using the three data plotting methods. Some of the plots according to the two- and three-nuclei methods are accidentally linear, without necessarily implying isostructurality of the complexes, as they involve parameters, which may be insensitive to any small structural changes occurring in these systems. These parameter variations could result from a magnification, by the present graphical analysis, of the breaks expected from the gradual structural changes along the series due to the lanthanide contraction. The alpha and beta parameters of the three-nuclei method are not diagnostic of the type of structures the complexes have in solution, due to their very indirect dependence on the geometric factors.

In neurons, arc (activity regulated, cytoskeleton associated) is an immediate early gene (IEG) that is rapidly and transiently induced by excitatory stimulation. It is believed to mediate rapid strengthening of signaling structures at activated synaptic sites. Unlike most IEGs, arc does not encode nuclear transcription factor, but an effector molecule that associates with the actin cytoskeleton. Cytoskeletal rearrangements of microtubule- and actin-based networks that occur at activated synapses also take place in similar fashion during the formation of the acrosome, the site of regulated exocytosis at fertilization. In this paper, arc is reported to be highly expressed both at the RNA and protein levels in postmeiotic germ cells in the testis of adult mice. Immunofluorescence studies reveal that arc is first present in the perinuclear region of round, elongating, and elongate spermatids, where it colocalizes with the developing acrosome. In isolated mature sperm, arc is present in the acrosomal region of the sperm head, the centriole region of the neck, and the principal piece of the tail. Arc is lost to varying degrees during sperm capacitation and in acrosome-reacted sperm. Phalloidin staining of mature sperm cells reveals an overlapping pattern of filamentous-actin and arc expression. These results support a role for arc and the actin cytoskeleton in the acrosome formation, the sperm acrosome reaction, and in sperm cell motility.
Fertilization in mammals requires the successful completion of many steps, starting with the transport of gametes in the reproductive tract and ending with sperm-egg membrane fusion. In this minireview, we focus on three adhesion steps in this multistep process. The first is oocyte &quot;pick-up,&quot; in which the degree of adhesion between the extracellular matrix of the cumulus cells and oviductal epithelial cells controls the successful pick-up of the oocyte-cumulus complex and its subsequent transfer into the oviduct. The second part of this review is concerned with the interaction between the sperm and the zona pellucida of the egg. Evidence is discussed that a plasma membrane form of galactosyltransferase on the surface of mouse sperm binds to ZP3 in the zona pellucida and initiates an acrosome reaction. Additional evidence raises the possibility that initial sperm binding to the zona pellucida is independent of ZP3. Last, we address the relationship between sperm adhesion to the egg plasma membrane and membrane fusion, especially the role of ADAM family proteins on the sperm surface and egg integrins.


My purpose in this paper is to sketch a research direction based on Francisco Varela's pioneering work in neurodynamics (see also Rudrauf et al. 2003, in this issue). Very early on he argued that the internal coherence of every mental-cognitive state lies in the global self-organization of the brain activities at the large-scale, constituting a fundamental pole of integration called here a &quot;dynamic core&quot;. Recent neuroimaging evidence appears to broadly support this hypothesis and suggests that a global brain dynamics emerges at the large scale level from the cooperative interactions among widely distributed neuronal populations. Despite a growing body of evidence supporting this view, our understanding of these large-scale brain processes remains hampered by the lack of a theoretical language for expressing these complex behaviors in dynamical terms. In this paper, I propose a rough cartography of a comprehensive approach that offers a conceptual and mathematical framework to analyze spatio-temporal large-scale brain phenomena. I emphasize how these nonlinear methods can be applied, what property might be inferred from neuronal signals, and where one might productively proceed for the future. This paper is dedicated, with respect and affection, to the memory of Francisco Varela.
This paper reviews in detail Francisco Varela's work on subjectivity and consciousness in the biological sciences. His original approach to this &quot;hard problem&quot; presents a subjectivity that is radically intertwined with its biological and physical roots. It must be understood within the framework of his theory of a concrete, embodied dynamics, grounded in his general theory of autonomous systems. Through concepts and paradigms such as biological autonomy, embodiment and neurophenomenology, the article explores the multiple levels of circular causality assumed by Varela to play a fundamental role in the emergence of human experience. The concept of biological autonomy provides the necessary and sufficient conditions for characterizing biological life and identity as an emergent and circular self-producing process. Embodiment provides a systemic and dynamical framework for understanding how a cognitive self--a mind--can arise in an organism in the midst of its operational cycles of internal regulation and ongoing sensorimotor coupling. Global subjective properties can emerge at different levels from the interactions of components and can reciprocally constrain local processes through an ongoing, recursive morphodynamics. Neurophenomenology is a supplementary step in the study of consciousness. Through a rigorous method, it advocates the careful examination of experience with first-person methodologies. It attempts to create heuristic mutual constraints between biophysical data and data produced by accounts of subjective experience. The aim is to explicitly ground the active and disciplined insight the subject has about his/her experience in a biophysical emergent process. Finally, we discuss Varela's essential contribution to our understanding of the generation of consciousness in the framework of what we call his &quot;biophysics of being.&quot;
Francisco Varela was an innovative thinker and researcher as well as a pioneer in the present dialog between science and Buddhism. In this essay, I will first speak briefly about some of Francisco's contributions to the world at large and then relate a few vivid moments from my own interactions with him.
One of the most eminent neuroscientists recently passed away in Paris. Professor Francisco Varela was a scholar that approached science with a remarkably broad and integrative perspective, deeply contributing to a diversity of fields, from mathematics to epistemology, from immunology to neuroscience. He was strongly influenced by Buddhism and actively participated in unraveling the relationship between science and spirituality. This article introduces a special edition of Biological Research dedicated to the memory of this great man. It contains a collection of valuable contributions by various authors who collaborated with Varela at different moments of his outstanding scientific career. Their articles cover most of the fields in which he made contributions.
In the present study, we use a novel method, PHDhtm, to predict the exact locations and extents of the transmembrane (TM) domains of multisubunit immunoglobulin Fc-receptors. Whereas most previous studies have used single residue hydrophobicity plots for characterizing of these domains, PHDhtm utilizes a system of neural networks and the evolutionary information contained in multiple alignments of related sequences to predict the above. Present PHDhtm application predicts TM domains of immunoglobulin Fc-receptors that in many cases differ significantly from those derived by using earlier methods. Comparisons of helical wheel projections of the presently derived TM domains from PHDhtm with those produced earlier reveal different hydrophobic moments as well as hydrophobic and hydrophilic surfaces. These differences probably alter the character of subunit association within the receptor complexes. This new algorithm can also be used for other membrane protein complexes and may advance both understanding the principles underlying such complexes formation and design of peptides that can interfere with such TM domain association so as to modulate specific cellular responses.
Gramicidin A (gA) is prototypical peptide antibiotic and a model ion channel former. Configured in the solid-state NMR beta(6.5)-helix channel conformation, gA was subjected to 1-ns molecular dynamics (MD) gas phase simulations using the all-atom charmm22 force field to ascertain the conformational stability of the Trp side chains as governed by backbone and neighboring side-chain contacts. Three microcanonical trajectories were computed using different initial atomic velocities for each of twenty different initial structures. For each set, one of the four Trp side chains in each monomer was initially positioned in one of the five non-native conformations (A. E. Dorigo et al., Biophysical Journal, 1999, Vol. 76, 1897-1908), the other Trps being positioned in the native state, o1. In three additional control simulations, all Trps were initiated in the native conformation. After equilibration, constraints were removed and subsequent conformational changes of the initially constrained Trp were measured. The chi(1) was more flexible than chi(2.1). The energetically optimal orientation, o1 (Dorigo et al., 1999), was the most stable in all four Trp positions (9, 11, 13, 15) and remained unchanged for the entire 1 ns simulation in 19 of 24 trials. Changes in chi(1) from each of the 5 suboptimal states occur readily. Two of the non-native conformations reverted readily to o1, whereas the other three converted to an intermediate state, i2. There were frequent interconversions between i2 and o1. We speculate that experimentally observed Trp stability is caused by interactions with the lipid-water interface, and that stabilization of one of the suboptimal conformations in gA, such as i2, by lipid headgroups could produce a secondary, metastable conformational state. This could explain recent experimental studies of differences in the channel conductance dispersity between gA and a Trp-to-Phe gA analog, gramicidin M (gM, J. C. Markham et al., Biochimica et Biophysica Acta, 2001, Vol. 1513, 185-192).

1. This study reports on the identification and characterization of a 1,4-dihydropyridine analogue, 9-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3,3,6,6-tetramethyl-3,4,6,7,9,10-hexahydro-1,8(2H,5H)-acridinedione (A-184209) as a novel inhibitor of ATP-sensitive K(+) channels. 2. A-184209 inhibited membrane potential changes evoked by the prototypical cyanoguanidine ATP-sensitive K(+) channel opener (KCO) P1075 in both vascular (A10) and urinary bladder smooth muscle cells with IC(50) values of 1.44 and 2.24 micro M respectively. 3. P1075-evoked relaxation of 25 mM K(+) stimulated aortic strips was inhibited by A-184209 in an apparently competitive fashion with a pA(2) value of 6.34. 4. The potencies of A-184209 to inhibit P1075-evoked decreases in membrane potential responses in cardiac myocytes (IC(50)=0.53 micro M) and to inhibit 2-deoxyglucose-evoked cation efflux pancreatic RINm5F cells (IC(50)=0.52 micro M) were comparable to the values for inhibition of smooth muscle K(ATP) channels. 5. On the other hand, a structural analogue of A-184209 that lacked the gem-dimethyl substituent, 9-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3,4,6,7,9,10-hexahydro-1,8(2H,5H)-acridinedione (A-184208), was found to be a K(ATP) channel opener, evoking membrane potential responses in A10 smooth muscle cells (EC(50)=385 nM) and relaxing aortic smooth muscle strips (IC(50)=101 nM) in a glyburide-sensitive manner. 6. Radioligand binding studies demonstrated that A-184209 displaced SUR1 binding defined by [(3)H]glyburide binding to RINm5F cell membranes with a K(i) value of 0.11 micro M whereas A-184208 was ineffective. On the other hand, both A-184209 (K(i)=1.34 micro M) and A-184208 (K(i)=1.14 micro M) displaced binding of the KCO radioligand, [(125)I]A-312110 in guinea-pig bladder membranes with similar affinities. 7. These studies demonstrate that A-184209 is a novel and structurally distinct compound that inhibits K(ATP) channels in smooth muscle with potencies comparable to glyburide. The structural overlap between DHP openers and blockers, together with their differential interaction with ligand binding sites, support the notion that both openers and blockers bind to similar or very closely coupled sites on the sulfonylurea receptor and that subtle changes in the pharmacophore itself could switch functional properties from K(ATP) channel activation to inhibition.
Human prion diseases can be classified as sporadic, hereditary or acquired. The cause of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is unknown, hereditary cases are associated with mutations of the prion protein gene (PRNP) and acquired forms are caused by the transmission of infection from human to human or, as a zoonosis, from cattle to human. Although acquired forms of human prion disease are rare, the transmission of a fatal and untreatable neurological disorder has had major implications for public health and public policy.
The main aim of this review is to describe some of the many animal models that have proved to be valuable from a neuroimaging perspective. This paper complements other articles in this volume, with a focus on animal models of the pathology of human brain disorders for investigations with modern non-invasive neuroimaging techniques. The use of animal model systems forms a fundamental part of neuroscience research efforts to improve the prevention, diagnosis, understanding and treatment of neurological conditions. Without such models it would be impossible to investigate such topics as the underlying mechanisms of neuronal cell damage and death, or to screen compounds for possible anticonvulsant properties. The adequacy of any one particular model depends on the suitability of information gained during experimental conditions. It is important, therefore, to understand the various types of animal model available and choose an appropriate model for the research question.
While characterization of pathogenetic mechanisms underlying major depression is a fundamental aim of neuroscience research, an equally critical clinical goal is to identify biomarkers that might improve diagnostic accuracy and guide treatment selection for individual patients. To this end, a synthesis of functional neuroimaging studies examining regional metabolic and blood flow changes in depression is presented in the context of a testable limbic-cortical network model. 'Network' dysfunction combined with active intrinsic compensatory processes is seen to explain the heterogeneity of depressive symptoms observed clinically, as well as variations in pretreatment scan patterns described experimentally. Furthermore, the synchronized modulation of these dysfunctional limbic-cortical pathways is considered critical for illness remission, regardless of treatment modality. Testing of response-specific functional relationships among regional 'nodes' within this network using multivariate approaches is discussed, with a perspective aimed at identifying biomarkers of treatment non-response, relapse risk and disease vulnerability. Characterization of adaptive and maladaptive functional interactions among these pathways is seen as a critical step towards future development of evidenced-based algorithms that will optimize the diagnosis and treatment of individual depressed patients.
Positron emission tomography (PET) and allied non-invasive imaging techniques are being increasingly embraced by the pharmaceutical industry. These imaging modalities allow the assessment of novel drug action in man at a very early stage of the drug's discovery and development process; in turn, this enables earlier decision making about the developmental potential of novel and potential therapeutics. The in vivo characterisation of novel molecular targets and disease mechanisms in man is intimately connected with future developments in the diagnosis, management and treatment of human disease. The utility of non-invasive imaging modalities within the pharmaceutical industry is discussed with particular reference to the use of PET in drug discovery and development in the 21st century.
Conventional magnetic resonance imaging (cMRI) is widely used for diagnosing multiple sclerosis (MS) and for monitoring its activity and evolution. However, the correlation between cMRI and clinical findings of MS is limited, possibly due to the low pathological specificity of the abnormalities seen on cMRI scans and to the inability of cMRI to quantify the extent of the damage of the normal-appearing tissues. Magnetization transfer and diffusion-weighted MRI can quantify the extent and pathological severity of structural changes occurring within and outside cMRI-visible MS lesions. Proton MR spectroscopy can add information on the biochemical nature of such changes. Finally, functional MRI can provide new insights into the role of cortical adaptive changes in limiting the clinical consequences of MS structural damage. The application of quantitative MR-based techniques is changing dramatically our understanding of how MS causes irreversible disability and there is increasing perception that these methodologies should be more extensively employed in clinical trials to derive innovative information.
The term executive function defines complex cognitive processing requiring the co-ordination of several subprocesses to achieve a particular goal. Neuropsychological evidence suggests that executive processing is intimately connected with the intact function of the frontal cortices. Executive dysfunction has been associated with a range of disorders, and is generally attributed to structural or functional frontal pathology. Neuroimaging, with PET and fMRI, has confirmed the relationship; however, attempts to link specific aspects of executive functioning to discrete prefrontal foci have been inconclusive. Instead, the emerging view suggests that executive function is mediated by dynamic and flexible networks, that can be characterised using functional integration and effective connectivity analyses. This view is compatible with the clinical presentation of executive dysfunction associated with a range of pathologies, and also with evidence that recovery of executive function can occur after traumatic brain injury, perhaps due to functional reorganisation within executive networks.
Emotional processes are crucial to the control of human behaviour and anchored to a common foundation in motivational mechanisms where emotional cues have intrinsic re-inforcement values. Emotions per se are transient events, produced in response to external or self-generated emotive stimuli, and typically characterized by attention to the stimulus, involuntary arousal reactions and changes in motor behaviour, subjective feeling states and subsequent biasing of behaviour. Primary emotions, such as happiness and fear, correspond motivationally with approach or withdrawal responses. In humans, feeling-states and subjective emotional experiences reflect cognitive contextual awareness of emotional responses and may be embellished into secondary emotions, such as guilt or relief. This review addresses the application of neuroimaging techniques to understanding the neural mechanisms supporting these aspects of emotional experience.
In the last 20 years, a number of non-invasive spatial mapping techniques have been demonstrated to provide powerful insights into the operation of the brain during task performance. These are, in order of their emergence as robust technologies: positron emission tomography, source localization with EEG and MEG, and functional magnetic resonance imaging. The imaging neuroscience study areas represented in this volume use the first or last of these - PET and fMRI. The physical principles underlying both of these techniques are outlined, and the important assumptions and limitations are made explicit. The range of applications for each is briefly indicated.
Event-related functional MRI (fMRI) was used to investigate the neural correlates of memory encoding as a function of age. While fMRI data were obtained, 14 younger (mean age 21 years) and 14 older subjects (mean age 68 years) made animacy decisions about words. Recognition memory for these words was tested at two delays such that older subjects' performance at the short delay was comparable to that of the young subjects at the long delay. This allowed age-associated changes in the neural correlates of encoding to be dissociated from the correlates of differential recognition performance. Activity in left inferior prefrontal cortex and the left hippocampal formation was greater for subsequently recognized words in both age groups, consistent with the findings of previous studies in young adults. In the prefrontal cortex, these 'subsequent memory effects' were, however, left-lateralized in the younger group but bilateral in the older subjects. In addition, for the younger group only, greater activity for remembered words was observed in anterior inferior temporal cortex, as were reversed effects ('subsequent forgetting' effects) in anterior prefrontal regions. The data indicate that older subjects engage much of the same neural circuitry as younger subjects when encoding new memories. However, the findings also point to age-related differences in both prefrontal and temporal activity during successful episodic encoding.
Multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) is characterized by a slowly progressive, asymmetric weakness of the limbs without sensory loss. The arms are usually affected to a greater extent than the legs, and distal muscles more than proximal muscles. The distribution of electrophysiological abnormalities and its correlation with weak muscle groups in MMN have not been investigated systematically. The aim of the present study was to assess whether electrophysiological abnormalities have a preferential or random distribution, whether electrophysiological abnormalities in a nerve correlate with weakness in the innervated muscles, and whether these results are relevant for the development of optimal electrodiagnostic protocols. We compared the pattern of weakness and electrophysiological abnormalities in 39 patients with a lower motoneuron syndrome and a positive response to intravenous immunoglobulins. All patients underwent an extensive standardized electrophysiological examination. Electrophysiological evidence of demyelination was found more often in the nerves of the arms and was distributed randomly over lower arm, upper arm and shoulder segments. Electrophysiological evidence of axonal loss presented more frequently in longer nerves, occurring most often in the leg nerves. For the arm nerves, it is possible that the length dependence of axonal loss is due to the random distribution of demyelinating lesions that lead to axonal degeneration. Weakness was associated with features of demyelination and axonal loss in the nerves of the arm, and with features of axonal loss in leg nerves. However, a substantial number (approximately one-third) of electrophysiological abnormalities were found in nerves innervating non-weakened muscles. These results imply that in MMN, conduction block is most likely to be found in long arm nerves innervating weakened muscles, but if conduction block cannot be detected in these nerves, the electrophysiological examination should be extended to other arm nerves including those innervating non-weakened muscles.
The spatial distributions of photoreceptors and retinal ganglion cells were examined in the spotted hyena (Crocuta crocuta). Two populations of cones were identified by immunocytochemical labeling. The hyena retina contains approximately 2.3 million middle- to long-wavelength sensitive (M/L) cones that reach peak densities of about 7,500/mm(2) in the vicinity of the optic nerve head. A sparser population of short-wavelength sensitive (S) cones, totaling about 0.3 million, was also detected. There is a striking disparity in the spatial distributions of the two cone types with S cones achieving peak density in a region located well below the optic nerve head. The differences in the spatial distributions of the two cone types have implications both for visual sensitivity and for color vision. Hyena rods outnumber cones by about 100:1 with rod density falling off modestly along a central-peripheral gradient. Ganglion cells were identified in retinal wholemounts by Nissl staining patterns. Their distribution defines a prominent visual streak with highest spatial packing (approx. 4,200/mm(2)) in an area centralis that is located in the temporal retina. The total number of ganglion cells is estimated at about 260,000. Using standard assumptions the maximum spatial resolution of the spotted hyena is calculated to be about 8.4 cycles/degree, a value similar to estimates obtained for other terrestrial carnivores.
Orientation guided by mechanosensory stimuli is a fundamental behavior that has been analyzed most effectively in simple systems, but has been difficult to assess in mammals. This study demonstrates that sparsely distributed sensory 'hairs' on the body of naked mole-rats provide an ideal detector array for the assessment of touch guided orienting behavior. Naked mole-rats are fully subterranean rodents that are functionally blind and lack fur. About 40 tactile hairs (resembling facial vibrissae) are found on each side of the body, and they are systematically organized in a grid-like pattern from head to tail. Deflection of a single body hair triggered a highly accurate orientation of the snout toward the point of stimulation, thus topographically organized motor behavior can be elicited from this sensory array. This orienting behavior is specific to the body hair system: touch of intervening skin evoked responses less reliably, and observed responses were not topographically organized. Orientation elicited from this array was accurate regardless of the head-to-body position at the time of hair stimulation indicating that the orienting motor score takes relative head position into account. The consistent pattern of these hairs coupled with robust orienting behavior indicates that this mammalian model provides an appropriately simple system for analyzing the neuronal basis of sensorimotor integration involved in tactile orienting behavior.
The hippocampus (HF) of birds and mammals is essential for the map-like representation of environmental landmarks used for navigation. However, species with contrasting spatial behaviors and evolutionary histories are likely to display differences, or 'adaptive specializations', in HF organization reflective of those contrasts. In the search for HF specialization in homing pigeons, we are investigating the spatial response properties of isolated HF neurons and possible right-left HF differences in the representation of space. The most notable result from the recording work is that we have yet to find neurons in the homing pigeon HF that display spatial response properties similar to HF 'place cells' of rats. Of interest is the suggestion of neurons that show higher levels of activity when pigeons are near goal locations and neurons that show higher levels of activity when pigeons are in a holding area prior to be being placed in an experimental environment. In contrast to the rat, the homing pigeon HF appears to be functionally lateralized. Results from a current lesion study demonstrate that only the left HF is sensitive to landmarks that are located within the boundaries of an experimental environment, whereas the right HF is indifferent to such landmarks but sensitive to global environmental features (e.g., geometry) of the experimental space. The preliminary electrophysiological and lateralization results offer interesting departure points for better understanding possible HF specialization in homing pigeons. However, the pigeon and rat HF reside in different forebrain environments characterized by a wulst and neocortex, respectively. Differences in the forebrain organization of pigeons and rats, and birds and mammals in general, must be considered in making sense of possible species differences in how HF participates in the representation of space.
Synchronous high frequency (Gamma band) activity has been proposed as a candidate mechanism for the integration or 'binding' of distributed brain activities. Since the first descriptions of schizophrenia, attempts to characterize this disorder have focused on disturbances in such integrative processing. Here, we review both micro- and macroscopic neuroscience research into Gamma synchrony, and its application to understanding schizophrenia. The review encompasses evidence from both animal and human studies for the functional significance of Gamma activity, the association between Gamma dysfunction and information processing disturbances, and the relevance of specific Gamma dysfunctions to the integration and extension of previous disconnection models of schizophrenia. Attention is given to the relationship between Gamma activity and the heterogeneous symptoms of schizophrenia. Existing studies show that measures of Gamma activity have the potential to explain far more of the variance in schizophrenia performance than previous neurophysiological measures. It is concluded that measures of Gamma synchrony offer a valuable window into the core integrative disturbance in schizophrenia cognition.
There is good evidence that plant-derived and synthetic cannabinoids possess neuroprotective properties. These compounds, as a result of effects upon CB(1) cannabinoid receptors, reduce the release of glutamate, and in addition reduce the influx of calcium following NMDA receptor activation. The major obstacle to the therapeutic utilization of such compounds are their psychotropic effects, which are also brought about by actions on CB(1) receptors. However, synthesis of the endogenous cannabinoids anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol, which also have neuroprotective properties, are increased under conditions of severe inflammation and ischemia, raising the possibility that compounds that prevent their metabolism may be of therapeutic utility without having the drawback of producing psychotropic effects. In this review, the evidence indicating neuroprotective actions of plant-derived, synthetic and endogenous cannabinoids is presented. In addition, the pharmacological properties of endogenous anandamide-related compounds that are not active upon cannabinoid receptors, but which are also produced during conditions of severe inflammation and ischemia and may contribute to a neuroprotective action are reviewed.
Visuomotor association learning involves learning specific motor responses to arbitrary cues, and is dependent on a distributed and highly flexible network in the brain. We investigated the behavioural and electrophysiological correlates of arbitrary visuomotor learning in 20 normal participants. An experimental group learned an arbitrary association between a visual stimulus and a motor response during a training block. Their performance was compared with that of untrained controls on a subsequent visual discrimination task in which the learned association was a crucial element. Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded from the scalp of each participant during learning and discrimination blocks. Reaction times to stimuli in the discrimination task were significantly faster in the trained group compared to controls. There was a corresponding difference in the ERP waveforms recorded during the task, with larger P3b amplitude for the trained group over midline and centroparietal scalp areas. A latency difference in P3b was also observed for trained targets compared to distractors. RTs during the training block decreased in a manner consistent with learning effects. We conclude that training of a visuomotor association facilitates subsequent performance on a related task, and that the waveform correlates found here may reflect the involvement of parts of the network underlying arbitrary association mapping.
Temporal stability of a given measurement within individual participants is a desirable property of psychophysiological measures. The present study aims to examine the reliability of high-frequency oscillatory activity in the human electroencephalogram (EEG) across 4 sessions. Convolution of the EEG time series with Morlet wavelets yielded time-frequency representations of the signal for each session. Stability of both topography and time course of gamma-band activity (GBA) was determined for two participants performing a feature-based selective attention task in four separate sessions, spaced at weekly intervals. We found high temporal stability of non-phase-locked GBA typically occurring in time ranges between 200 and 500 ms following presentation of a stimulus, both in terms of topography and time course. Early phase-locked GBA (80-120 ms) showed higher variability with respect to topography, but was consistent in terms of time course. We conclude that measures of high-frequency oscillatory activity as used in the cognitive neurosciences meet stability requirements necessary for meaningful interpretation of this parameter of brain function.

Cellular schwannomas rarely involve the cranial nerves, being more common in the spinal and peripheral nerves. A rare case of cellular schwannoma involving the gasserian ganglion, a hitherto unreported site, that extended infratentorially to present as a cerebellopontine angle tumor is reported. It is important to recognize that cellular schwannomas can histologically mimic malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors because of their high cellularity and mitotic activity, but they are relatively benign tumors with a tendency to recur but not metastasize.
In 1865, Jules Luys (1828-1897) described the 'accessory band of the superior olive' (red nucleus). In 1877, A. Forel completed the description and gave the name of Corpus Luysii (CL) to this grey sub-thalamic formation. In 1927, P. Martin's attribute the Hemiballismus to the destruction of the C.L. and specifies the function of the nucleus foreseen by Luys, which play a crucial role in the synthesis of automatic motor action. The new stimulation techniques of this nucleus in the treatment of Parkinson's disease would have opened a third life for the C.L. if its name hade not be changed into 'nucleus subthalamicus'. Jules Luys, a good anatomist, one of the pioneers in France of microscope and photography, ruined his reputation by his ramblings on hysteria and hypnosis which allowed the 'action of medications at distance', the 'storage of cerebral activities within magnetic crowns' and gave prominence to 'brain emanations'.
The real-time observation of cell movement in brain slice preparations reveals that in the developing brain, postmitotic neurons alter their shape concomitantly with changes in the mode, direction, tempo, and rate of migration as they traverse different cortical layers. Although it has been hypothesized that orchestrated activities of multiple external cues and cell-cell contact are essential for controlling the cortical-layer-specific changes in cell migration, signaling mechanisms and external guidance cues related to the alteration of neuronal cell migration remain to be determined. In this article, we will first review recent studies on position-specific changes in granule cell behavior through different migratory terrains of the developing cerebellar cortex. We will then present possible roles for the coordinated activity of Ca2+ channels, NMDA type of glutamate receptors, and intracellular Ca2+ fluctuations in controlling cerebellar granule cell movement. Furthermore, we will discuss the crucial roles of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neuregulin (NRG), stromal cell-derived factor 1alpha (SDF-1alpha), ephrin-B2, and EphB2 receptor in providing directional cues promoting granule cell migration from the external granular layer (EGL) to the internal granular layer (IGL). Finally, we will demonstrate that endogenous somatostatin controls the migration of granule cells in a cortical layer-specific manner: Endogenous somatostatin accelerates granule cell movement near the birthplace within the EGL, but significantly slows down the movement near their final destination within the IGL.
Activity of Cdk5, which is essential for CNS development, depends on its association with p35 (or truncated p25) or p39, but the regulatory mechanisms whereby Cdk5 is activated have not yet been fully elucidated. Studies on PC12 cells showed that Cdk5/p25 activity is modulated by an unidentified kinase that phosphorylates Cdk5 at Ser159 and enhances its kinase activity (Sharma et al., 1999 PNAS USA 96,11156). In this study, we have partially purified a bovine brain enzyme that can phosphorylate the Cdk5(149-163) peptide but not the Cdk5(149-163)A159 peptide. The enzyme, which contains Cdk7, cyclin H, and Mat1, specifically phosphorylates Ser159 of Cdk5(149-163) and enhances Cdk5/p25 activity. The active Cdk7-containing enzyme also phosphorylates and activates wt Cdk5 but not mutated Cdk5(Ser159Ala). Likewise, Cdk7 or cyclin H immunoprecipitate from mouse brain specifically phosphorylates wt Cdk5 at Ser159 and enhances Cdk5/p25 activity. Conversely, blocked Cdk7 immunoprecipitate does not phosphorylate nor activate Cdk5. In addition, the Cdk7 substrate, CTD of RNAPII, causes a dose-dependent decline in Cdk5 activation by Cdk7. These findings indicate that Cdk7 functions as a Cdk5 activating kinase in brain. Indeed, elevated Cdk5 activity in the developing E18 mouse brain coincides with increased Cdk7 kinase activity.
The tip of each proleg in Manduca sexta larvae bears a dense array of mechanosensory hairs termed planta hairs (PHs), each innervated by a single sensory neuron (termed a PH-SN) located in the underlying epidermis. In the CNS, axon terminals of PH-SNs make direct, excitatory, nicotinic cholinergic synapses with proleg retractor motoneurons including the accessory planta retractor (APR). These synapses mediate a proleg withdrawal reflex, exhibit multiple forms of activity-dependent plasticity and weaken during the prepupal peak of ecdysteroids. In the present study we developed methods to dissociate PH-SNs from the epidermis and culture them alone or with APRs. The PH-SNs were fluorescently labeled in situ by introducing dye through the cut hair shaft or by retrograde axonal staining. Alternatively, unlabeled PH-SNs were utilized. The epidermis beneath the planta hair array was separated from the cuticle, enzymatically treated and mechanically dissociated into single cells. PH-SNs were cultured on glass coverslips coated with concanavalin A and laminin, in modified Leibovitz's IL-15 medium. Supplementation with medium conditioned by an insect cell line produced the best results. Dissociated PH-SNs had somatic diameters of ~10 micro m and typically bore a stout dendrite consisting of the inner and, occasionally, the outer dendritic segment. An axonal stump was sometimes retained. Viable PH-SNs typically extended new processes and often survived for 2-4 weeks. When co-cultured, PH-SNs and APRs exhibited robust growth and made close anatomical appositions. This culture system provides convenient experimental access to PH-SNs and may potentially permit sensorimotor synapses to be investigated in vitro.
Cholinergic neurons have been revealed in the enteric nervous system by functional and biochemical studies but not by antibodies that provide excellent localisation of the synthesising enzyme, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), in the central nervous system. In order to determine whether a newly described peripheral form of ChAT (pChAT) is a ChAT enzyme of enteric neurons, we have compared pChAT distribution with that of the common form of ChAT, cChAT, by quantitative analysis of the co-localisation of pChAT and cChAT with other neurochemical markers in enteric neurons of the guinea-pig ileum. We found classes of neuron with strong pChAT immunoreactivity (IR) and others with strong cChAT-IR. In myenteric ganglia, strong pChAT-IR was in calbindin-positive intrinsic primary afferent neurons (IPANs), whereas cChAT-IR of these neurons was weak. Calretinin neurons were immunoreactive for cChAT, but not pChAT. Only 4% of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) neurons (possibly interneurons) were pChAT-immunoreactive, similar to observations with cChAT. NOS-immunoreactive inhibitory motor neurons stained with neither cChAT nor pChAT antisera. In the submucosal ganglia, pChAT-IR was strongly expressed in IPANs (identified by cytoplasmic staining for the neuronal nuclear marker, NeuN) and in neuropeptide Y (NPY)-immunoreactive secretomotor neurons, but not in calretinin-immunoreactive neurons. cChAT-IR occurred weakly in submucosal IPANs and also labelled NPY- and calretinin-immunoreactive neurons. Submucosal vasoactive-intestinal-peptide-immunoreactive neurons (non-cholinergic secretomotor neurons) were not reactive for either form of ChAT.
The mammalian brain harbors a renin-angiotensin system (RAS), which is independent from the peripheral RAS. Angiotensin II is a well-studied member of the RAS and exerts most of the known angiotensin-mediated effects on fluid and electrolyte homeostasis, autonomic activity, neuroendocrine regulation, and behavior. This review summarizes a mass of compelling new evidence for the biological role of an active (3-8) fragment of angiotensin II, named angiotensin IV. Angiotensin IV binds to a widely distributed binding site in the brain, but which is different from the known angiotensin II receptors AT1 and AT2. Angiotensin IV has been implicated in a number of physiological actions, including the regulation of blood flow, the modulation of exploratory behavior, and processes attributed to learning and memory. Furthermore, angiotensin IV may also be involved in neuronal development. Collectively, the available evidence suggests that angiotensin IV is a potent neuropeptide, involved in a broad range of brain functions.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a trophic factor for noradrenergic (NE) neurons of the pontine nucleus locus coeruleus (LC). Decreased function of the LC-NE neurons has been found during normal aging and in neurodegenerative disorders. We have previously shown that GDNF participates in the differentiation of LC-NE neurons during development. However, the continued role of GDNF for LC-NE neurons during maturation and aging has not been addressed. We examined alterations in aged mice that were heterozygous for the GDNF gene (Gdnf+/-). Wild-type (Gdnf+/+) and Gdnf+/- mice (18 months old) were tested for locomotor activity and brain tissues were collected for measuring norepinephrine levels and uptake, as well as for morphological analysis. Spontaneous locomotion was reduced in Gdnf+/- mice in comparison with Gdnf+/+ mice. The reduced locomotor activity of Gdnf+/- mice was accompanied by reductions in NE transporter activity in the cerebellum and brain stem as well as decreased norepinephrine tissue levels in the LC. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunostaining demonstrated morphological alterations of LC-NE cell bodies and abnormal TH-positive fibers in the hippocampus, cerebellum, and frontal cortex of Gdnf+/- mice. These findings suggest that the LC-NE system of Gdnf+/- mice is impaired and suggest that GDNF plays an important role in continued maintenance of this neuronal system throughout life.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of fetal lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) on nerve fiber outgrowth formed by fetal ventral mesencephalon (VM). Organotypic tissue cultures of fetal VM and LGE plated as single or cocultures were employed. Survival time was 3-21 days in vitro. Nerve fiber outgrowth and migration of astrocytes were analyzed using immunohistochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and S100. In addition, cultures were labeled with the TUNEL technique and with antibodies directed against neurofilament (NF) in order to study apoptosis and retraction of nerve fibers, respectively. The results revealed two morphologically different types of TH-positive outgrowth growing into the substrate. The initially formed TH-positive outgrowth radiated continuously without changing direction, while a second wave of TH-positive outgrowth became obvious when the initial growth already had reached a distance of approximately 1000 microm. The second wave of TH-positive outgrowth radiated from the tissue, but at a certain distance changed direction and formed a network surrounding the culture. The initially formed TH-positive growth was not associated with the presence of S100-positive astrocytes and avoided to grow into the LGE. At longer time points the first wave of TH-positive nerve fibers appeared dotted, with disrupted NF-immunoreactive fibers and in most cultures these long distance growing fibers had disappeared at 21 days in vitro. The second wave of TH-positive nerve fibers was growing onto a layer of glia and never reached the distance of the first wave. LGE became innervated by TH-positive fibers at the time point for when the second wave of TH-positive growth had been initiated, and the innervation appeared in TH-dense patches that also showed a high density of S100-positive astrocytes. Significantly increased TUNEL activity within LGE portion of cocultures was observed when TH-positive fibers entered the LGE and formed patches. In conclusion, two morphologically different types of TH-positive outgrowth were found and the initially formed fibers neither targeted the LGE nor were they guided by glial cells, but their potential to grow for long distances was high.
Poor survival and differentiation of grafted dopamine neurons limits the application of clinical transplantation in Parkinson's disease. The survival of grafted dopamine neurons is only improved by a factor of 2-3 by adding neuroprotectants during tissue preparation. We used dye exclusion cell viability and electron microscopy to investigate the effects of the caspase inhibitor ac-YVAD-cmk and the lazaroid tirilazad mesylate on ultrastructural changes in dissociated embryonic mesencephalic cells. In addition, we examined whether the neuroprotectants selectively counteracted specific signs of neurodegeneration. Cell viability decreased significantly over time in both control and treated cell suspensions, but the number of viable cells remaining was significantly higher in tirilazad mesylate-treated cell suspensions. In control samples, the proportion of cells with an ultrastructure consistent with healthy cells decreased from 70%, immediately after dissociation, to 30% after 8 h of incubation. Similar changes were also observed in cell suspensions treated with neuroprotectants. Thus, the neuroprotectants examined did not block the development of specific morphological signs of neurodegeneration. However, when also taking into account that dead cells lysed and disappeared from each cell suspension with time, we found that the total number of remaining viable cells with healthy nuclear chromatin or intact membrane integrity was significantly higher in the tirilazad mesylate-treated group. The results indicate that tirilazad mesylate protects only a small subpopulation of embryonic mesencephalic cells from degeneration induced by mechanical trauma during tissue dissection and dissociation.
Retinoic acid (RA), the active metabolite of vitamin A, plays a significant role in regulating cardiac form and function throughout the life of the organism. Both cardiac morphogenesis and myocardial differentiation are affected by alterations in RA homeostasis. In order to test the effect of all-trans RA and 13-cis RA on cardiomyocyte differentiation, we studied the level and the subcellular compartmentalization of alpha-tropomyosin and troponin-T proteins in cultures of chick embryo cardiomyocytes obtained from Hamburger and Hamilton's (HH) stage 22, 32 and 40 embryos. The retinoids increased the levels of alpha-tropomyosin and troponin-T in the cytoplasmic and cytoskeletal fractions of cells at all three stages of development. The greatest increases in alpha-tropomyosin occurred in the cytoplasmic fraction in HH22 cells cultured for 24 h with all-trans RA or 13-cis RA, whereas the greatest increases in troponin-T were found in the cytoplasmic fraction of HH32 cells exposed to retinoids for 24 h. In cultures treated for 48 h with retinoids, the levels of alpha-tropomyosin and troponin-T showed significant increases in the cytoplasmic compartment of cells treated in HH32-with respect to the control values. These findings are further evidence that RA plays a modulating role in the formation and reorganization of sarcomeric proteins during the process of cardiomyocyte maturation.
EEG-studies in migraine in the last decade has contributed modestly to the understanding of headache pathogenesis. Headache patient groups seem to have increased EEG responses to photic stimulation, but a useful biological marker for migraine in single patients has not been found. In future EEG and QEEG studies we recommend to use follow-up designs and record several EEGs across the migraine cycle. It is also important to use a blinded study design in order to avoid selection bias. A clinical EEG should be performed in patients with acute headache attacks when either epilepsy, basilar migraine, migraine with prolonged aura or alternating hemiplegia is suspected. Unequivocal epileptiform abnormalities usually suggest a diagnosis of epilepsy. In children with occipital spike-wave activity the probable diagnosis is childhood epilepsy with occipital paroxysms (CEOP). The final diagnosis of either an epilepsy syndrome or migraine must be mainly based on a clinical judgement [corrected].
One of the most exciting and open research frontiers in neuroscience is that of seeking to understand the functional roles of the layers of cerebral cortex. New experimental techniques for probing the laminar circuitry of cortex have recently been developed, opening up novel opportunities for investigating how its six-layered architecture contributes to perception and cognition. The task of trying to interpret this complex structure can be facilitated by theoretical analyses of the types of computations that cortex is carrying out, and of how these might be implemented in specific cortical circuits. We have recently developed a detailed neural model of how the parvocellular stream of the visual cortex utilizes its feedforward, feedback and horizontal interactions for purposes of visual filtering, attention and perceptual grouping. This model, called LAMINART, shows how these perceptual processes relate to the mechanisms that ensure the stable development of cortical circuits in the infant, and to the continued stability of learning in the adult. The present article reviews this laminar theory of visual cortex, considers how it may be generalized towards a more comprehensive theory that encompasses other cortical areas and cognitive processes, and shows how its laminar framework generates a variety of testable predictions.
Auditory cortical columns have been studied for decades, but intracolumnar processing in auditory cortex is still poorly understood, relative to what is known about such processing in visual cortex and somatosensory cortex. While there are certainly striking similarities in cortical structure across the modalities, investigations of auditory cortex anatomy and synaptic physiology have also found important differences from the columnar organization of other sensory cortices. In vitro and in vivo studies of thalamocortical transformations in the auditory system have begun to reveal the functional significance of these differences, and have defined the earliest stages of auditory cortical processing. However, the question of what transformations are performed within auditory cortical columns remains unresolved. Attempts to find laminar differences in auditory cortex, which could provide the key to understanding columnar transformations, have so far produced contradictory and inconclusive results. Direct analogies to primary visual and somatic sensory cortices would suggest that response properties such as bandwidth, inhibitory sideband structure, preferred modulation rate and modulation phase sensitivity might vary across layers in auditory cortex. While such analogies could prove useful as guidelines for future research, the best hope for understanding auditory columnar transformations may lie instead with a more modality-specific, functional approach.
This paper reviews theoretical and experimental results on the processing of layer 4, the input-recipient layer, of cat primary visual cortex (V1). A wide range of experimental data can be understood from a model in which response tuning of layer 4 cells is largely determined by a local interplay of feedforward excitation (from thalamus) and feedforward inhibition (from layer 4 inhibitory interneurons driven by thalamus). Feedforward inhibition dominates excitation, inherits its tuning from the thalamic input and sharpens the tuning of excitatory cells. At least a strong component of the feedforward inhibition received by a cell is spatially opponent to the excitation it receives, meaning that inhibition is driven by dark in regions of the visual field in which excitation is driven by light, and vice versa. The idea of opponent inhibition can be generalized to mean inhibition driven by input patterns that are strongly anti-correlated with the patterns that excite a cell. This paper argues that dominant feedforward opponent inhibition may be a general principle of cortical layer 4. This leads to the suggestion that the properties that show columnar organization--invariance across the vertical depth of cortex--may be properties that are shared by 'opposite' (anticorrelated) stimulus pairs. This contrasts with the more common idea that a column represents a set of cells that all share similar stimulus preferences.
Columnar structure in the cerebral cortex has been demonstrated in numerous studies. However, in the visual system, it is not clear from imaging, basic physiological and anatomical approaches how multiple stimulus parameters are related within columns. We have analyzed recordings from pairs of neurons in the striate cortex of the cat using various spatial and temporal parameters. We find that most parameters are clustered within inferred columns with the exception of spatial phase. Diversity of phase could be useful for serial processing in central visual pathways.
How does the cortical circuitry analyze the visual scene? Here we explore the earliest levels of striate cortical processing: the first stage, where orientation sensitivity emerges, and the second stage, where stimulus selectivity is further refined. The approach is whole cell recording from cat in vivo. Neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus have circular receptive fields whose subregions, center and surround are concentrically arranged and have the reverse sign, on or off. These neurons supply cortical simple cells, whose receptive fields have on and off subregions that are elongated and lie side by side. Feedforward models hold that orientation sensitivity depends on this thalamocortical change in receptive field structure and an arrangement within subregions such that stimuli of the reverse contrast evoke synaptic responses of the opposite polarity-push-pull. Our work provides support for feedforward models and emphasizes that push-pull is key in the geniculostriate pathway, preserved from retina by thalamic relay cells and reiterated, point by point, by cortical simple cells. Also, we help define the cortical push-pull circuit by identifying inhibitory simple cells. Lastly, separate experiments that compare the first and second levels of cortical processing suggest that differences in the synaptic physiology of connections at the two (thalamocortical versus intracortical) stages underlie differential selectivity for properties such as motion.
In the whisker-barrel system, layer IV excitatory neurons respond preferentially to high-velocity deflections of their principal whisker, and these responses are inhibited by deflections of adjacent whiskers. Thalamic input neurons are amplitude and velocity sensitive and have larger excitatory and weaker inhibitory receptive fields than cortical neurons. Computational models based on known features of barrel circuitry capture these and other differences between thalamic and cortical neuron response properties. The models' responses are highly sensitive to thalamic firing synchrony, a finding subsequently confirmed in real barrels by in vivo experiments. Here, we use dynamic systems analysis to examine how barrel circuitry attains its sensitivity to input timing, and how this sensitivity explains the transformation of receptive fields between thalamus and cortex. We find that strong inhibition renders the net effect of intracortical connections suppressive or damping, distinguishing it from previous amplifying models of cortical microcircuits. In damping circuits, recurrent excitation enhances response tuning not by amplifying responses to preferred inputs, but by enabling them to better withstand strong inhibitory influences. Dense interconnections among barrel neurons result in considerable response homogeneity. Neurons outside the barrel layer respond more heterogeneously, possibly reflecting diverse networks and multiple transformations within the cortical output layers.

This short review analyses the possible molecular events linking a general program of death such as apoptosis to highly specific intracellular pathways involving the function and degradation of two proteins--tau and amyloid precursor protein--which in their aggregated state constitute the hallmark of Alzheimer disease. By surveying the recent studies carried out in 'in vitro' neuronal cultures--with special emphasis to cerebellar granule neurons--the apparent correlation between onset of apoptosis, tau cleavage with formation of potential toxic fragments, and activation of an amyloidogenic route are discussed. Within this framework, proteasomes seem to play a crucial role upstream of the proteolytic cascade involving calpain(s) and caspase(s) by contributing to tau and amyloid precursor protein-altered breakdown and consequent tendency to aggregation of their degradation fragments. Thus, apoptotic death due to altered supply of anti apoptotic agents, neurotrophic factors, deafferentiation or other causes, may constitute a major trigger of the onset of Alzheimer disease.
Inferior olivary neurons receive extensive glutamatergic and GABAergic innervation. Yet, because of the membrane properties of olivary neurons these neurotransmitters can produce only small changes in the firing rates of these cells. Moreover, olivary neurons can generate spontaneous spike activity in the absence of excitatory glutamatergic input. These facts suggest that glutamate and GABA have additional roles within the olivocerebellar system beyond simply modulating single cell firing probability. Indeed, one of the characteristics of the olivocerebellar system is its ability to generate synchronous complex spike activity across populations of Purkinje cells. The pattern of synchronous activity changes rapidly, and is thought to reflect the momentary distribution of effective electrotonic coupling between olivary neurons as shaped by afferent input to the inferior olive. However, it also possible that synchronous olivocerebellar activity is the result of synchrony inherent in the afferent activity itself. The issue of the origin of complex spike synchrony, and the role of glutamatergic olivary afferents in modulating its distribution were recently studied using multiple electrode recordings from Purkinje cells. The results of these studies, reviewed here, demonstrate that synchronous complex spike activity occurs in the absence of glutamatergic (and GABAergic) input to the inferior olive, and therefore indicate that synchronization of complex spike activity primarily results from the electrotonic coupling of olivary neurons, rather than from synchronization present within their afferents. Instead of triggering synchronous discharges directly, the results suggest that the function of tonic excitatory activity is to modulate the effective coupling of spike activity between olivary neurons. Blocking glutamate within the inferior olive causes an enhancement of the normal banding pattern of complex spike synchrony, with higher synchrony among parasagittally aligned Purkinje cells and less synchrony between non-aligned cells. This is in contrast to the more uniform synchrony distribution that follows block of GABAergic olivary afferents. Thus, GABA and glutamate play critical, and complementary, roles in determining the patterns of synchronous complex spike activity that are likely central to the functioning of the olivocerebellar system.
The classically conditioned eyeblink reflex is the best studied model for understanding the neural mechanisms that underlie learning and memory. Here, data from an in vitro model of the conditioned eyeblink reflex are summarized with the aim of shedding some light on potential cellular mechanisms that may underlie eyeblink classical conditioning. An isolated brainstem-cerebellum preparation from turtles was developed in which to study the synaptic circuitry of pathways involving the cerebellum, red nucleus and brainstem nuclei. A neural correlate of an eyeblink response recorded in the abducens nerve can be conditioned entirely in vitro by pairing trigeminal and auditory nerve stimulation. Conditioned abducens nerve responses (CRs) are not generated or sustained by unpaired stimuli and their long latencies, on the order of hundreds of milliseconds, support the interpretation that the CRs are not unconditioned responses. Ablation experiments show that CRs can be generated in brainstem preparations lacking a cerebellum or the medulla. However, the timing of the CRs are disrupted by removal of the cerebellar circuitry. Thus, a highly reduced in vitro brainstem preparation demonstrates acquisition of CRs but poor timing features. Recent experiments have focused on elucidating cellular mechanisms for CR acquisition in the brainstem blink circuitry. These studies show that NMDA-mediated synaptic mechanisms are required to generate CRs and that the level of conditioning is associated with the upregulation of GluR4-containing AMPA receptors in the abducens motor nuclei. Data from immunocytochemistry and physiological experiments using the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) inhibitor KN-93 suggest that CaMKII does not have a key role in mediating the induction or expression of abducens nerve CRs. It is hypothesized that GluR4-containing AMPA receptors in the abducens motor nuclei are targeted to auditory nerve synapses by an NMDA receptor-dependent process to strengthen the CS input during conditioning which results in the generation of CRs. Future studies will examine the synaptic localization of GluR4 and potential signal transduction pathways involved in in vitro conditioning. Moreover, the role feedback loops through the cerebellum and their role in CR timing will be a key issue to address using this preparation.
We review a reverse-engineering approach to cerebellar function that pays particular attention to temporal aspects of neuronal interactions. This approach offers new vistas on the role of GABAergic synapses and reverberating projections within the olivo-cerebellar system. More specifically, our simulations show that Golgi cells can control the ring time of granule cells rather than their ring rate and that Purkinje cells can trigger precisely timed rebound spikes in neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei. This rebound activity can reverberate back to the cerebellar cortex giving rise to a complex oscillatory dynamics that may have interesting functional implications for working memory and timed-response tasks.
The regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins modulate heterotrimeric G protein signaling. RGS8 was identified as a brain-specific RGS protein of 180 amino acids. Biochemical studies indicated that RGS8 binds to Galphao and Galphai3, and that it functions as a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for Galpha subunits. Physiological investigations demonstrated that RGS8 is not a simple negative regulator, but accelerates the G-protein-coupled responses. In situ hybridization analysis showed a highly dense expression of RGS8 mRNA in Purkinje cells of the cerebellum in rat brain. When the cellular distribution of RGS8 was examined in non-neural cells transfected with RGS8 cDNA, the protein was found to be concentrated in nuclei. Further, co-expression of constitutively active Galphao resulted in the translocation of RGS8 protein to the plasma membrane. The cellular distribution of the RGS8 protein in cerebellar Pukinje cells was also studied in detail. It was shown that the protein is excluded from the nuclei and distributed in the cell body and dendrites except the axons of Purkinje cells. Thus, it is evident that there is a novel mechanism controlling the distribution of RGS8 protein in cerebellar Purkinje cells.
Accurate motor control requires adaptive processes that correct for gradual and rapid perturbations in the properties of the controlled object. The ability to quickly switch between different movement synergies using sensory cues, referred to as context-dependent adaptation, is a subject of considerable interest at present. The potential function of the cerebellum in context-dependent adaptation remains uncertain, but the data reviewed below suggest that it may play a fundamental role in this process.

To explore the mechanisms underlying the phase lag between oscillations in arterial blood pressure (ABP) and cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV), ABP and CBFV signals were recorded noninvasively from normal volunteers who lay quietly in a supine position. Mean ABP (MAP) and CBFV (MFV) were calculated beat-to-beat by means of integration. Cerebral vascular resistance (CVR) was calculated by dividing MAP with MFV. Frequency domain analysis of MAP, MFV and CVR signals revealed very-low frequency (VLF, 0.016-0.04 Hz), low-frequency (LF, 0.04-0.15 Hz), and high-frequency (HF, 0.15-0.4 Hz) components. The transfer phase of MAP-CVR coupling in the LF and HF range was frequency-dependent, which is equivalent to a time delay of 2 s. However, the transfer phase differed in the CVR-MFV coupling in that the phase was distributed around 180 degrees across the LF and HF ranges. Cross-correlation analysis revealed a positive relationship between MAP-CVR coupling, with MAP leading by 2 s, and a negative relationship between CVR-MFV coupling, with CVR leading by 0.3 s. We concluded that the phase lag between oscillations in ABP and CBFV was chiefly contributed to by the starting latency of cerebral autoregulation (i.e. cerebral vasomotion, revealed by MAP-CVR coupling). Moreover, the negative correlation of the CVR-MFV coupling could offer a different explanation for the physiologic significance of the phase lead of CBFV-ABP oscillations.






Between 10 and 20% of strokes are due to intracerebral haemorrhage. The 1-month case fatality is about 42% in unselected cohorts. This relatively low incidence (compared with ischaemic stroke) and high early case fatality means that relatively few patients are available for long-term follow-up and therefore the available data on prognosis are imprecise. Moreover, improvements in diagnostic methods, such as the introduction of gradient echo MRI, which is very sensitive to intracerebral haemorrhage, are altering the types of patients being entered into studies of prognosis. Despite these methodological difficulties, it does appear that the overall prognosis with respect to survival and residual disability is similar to that for ischaemic stroke of equivalent clinical severity. Greater age and stroke severity, whether graded by neurological score or extent of haemorrhage on imaging, are both associated with increased case fatality and poorer functional outcomes. There is no definite evidence of differential recovery between ischaemic and haemorrhagic stroke. Epileptic seizures occur more commonly after haemorrhagic stroke (about 8 per 100 patient-years) compared with ischaemic stroke and more commonly in lobar rather than basal ganglia haemorrhage. There is no reliable evidence to indicate that the risk of recurrent stroke after haemorrhage differs from that after ischaemic stroke. However, strokes due to haemorrhage, like those due to infarction, are heterogeneous not only in terms of severity but also in their causes. The causes (e.g. amyloid angiopathy, hypertension, coagulation deficits) are likely to influence the risk of subsequent stroke. Pooling of data from community-based studies of haemorrhagic stroke that have used consistent definitions and methods represents the only feasible way to obtain more precise data on prognosis after intracerebral haemorrhage.
Stroke services are developing rapidly in Scotland. Most of the 33 hospitals which admit stroke patients from the community have a stroke unit and access to brain imaging. However, acute stroke units are few and many of the 10,000 patients each year still do not access a stroke unit bed. A recently introduced National Strategy aims to ensure that all patients have access to early stroke unit care, brain imaging and appropriate specialist rehabilitation and secondary prevention. A national system to monitor the progress of the strategy is being developed.



In previous work we have developed a diary instrument-the Social Rhythm Metric (SRM), which allows the assessment of lifestyle regularity-and a questionnaire instrument--the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), which allows the assessment of subjective sleep quality. The aim of the present study was to explore the relationship between lifestyle regularity and subjective sleep quality. Lifestyle regularity was assessed by both standard (SRM-17) and shortened (SRM-5) metrics; subjective sleep quality was assessed by the PSQI. We hypothesized that high lifestyle regularity would be conducive to better sleep. Both instruments were given to a sample of 100 healthy subjects who were studied as part of a variety of different experiments spanning a 9-yr time frame. Ages ranged from 19 to 49 yr (mean age: 31.2 yr, s.d.: 7.8 yr); there were 48 women and 52 men. SRM scores were derived from a two-week diary. The hypothesis was confirmed. There was a significant (rho = -0.4, p &lt; 0.001) correlation between SRM (both metrics) and PSQI, indicating that subjects with higher levels of lifestyle regularity reported fewer sleep problems. This relationship was also supported by a categorical analysis, where the proportion of &quot;poor sleepers&quot; was doubled in the &quot;irregular types&quot; group as compared with the &quot;non-irregular types&quot; group. Thus, there appears to be an association between lifestyle regularity and good sleep, though the direction of causality remains to be tested.

Data reviewed in this article demonstrate that both interferon-beta-1a (IFNbeta-1a) and interferon-beta-1b (IFNbeta-1b) show a dose-response relationship in multiple sclerosis at current clinical doses. Moreover, the efficacy of these therapies is probably dependent on their frequent administration to maintain optimal levels of biological effect. These results differ from the conclusions of a recent review of data comparing two doses of IFNbeta-1a, given intramuscularly once weekly, that showed no difference in efficacy between the two doses. This and other results were interpreted to indicate that the current dose of this product (30microg intramuscularly once weekly) is optimal. However, the data reviewed here indicate that the efficacy of IFNbeta differs depending on the features of the dose regimen, including total dose, route and frequency of administration. Direct comparative data indicate that 44microg given subcutaneously three times weekly is more effective on clinical and magnetic resonance imaging measures, at least up to 48 weeks of therapy, compared with 30microg intramuscularly once weekly; risk-benefit favours 44mug three times weekly over 30mug once weekly.
We have developed a series of novel mammary epithelial cell lines from tumors arising in strain 129 mice, with the ultimate goal of evaluating the role of host factors in the development of bone metastases. Mammary tumors were induced in mice with subcutaneously implanted medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) pellets followed by administration of DMBA by oral gavage. Mammary tumor development was efficient in the 129 strain and was independent of osteopontin (OPN) expression. Epithelial cell lines were isolated from these tumors; surprisingly, these cells did not form tumors upon inoculation into the mammary fat pad of syngeneic mice, even when MPA was present. One OPN-deficient cell line was selected for further study; full transformation of these cells required expression of both polyoma middle T and activated ras. These doubly transfected cells, 1029 GP+Er3, grew in soft agar, and formed hormone-independent tumors efficiently in the mammary fat pad that spontaneously metastasized to several soft tissue sites but not to the bone. Derivatives of these cells were isolated from tumors arising in the fat pad and from a lung metastasis (r3T and r3L, respectively): these cells formed tumors more rapidly in the fat pad than the parental GP+Er3 cells. Upon left ventricle injection, the r3T and r3L cells formed osteolytic bone metastases in 129 mice, with few metastases seen in other organs. These tumors filled the marrow cavity, and caused extensive destruction of both cortical and trabecular bone. Intriguingly, in an alternative syngeneic host, (129xC57B1/6) F1, osteolytic bone metastases were not seen on x-ray; instead extensive liver metastasis was present in these mice, indicating that genetic factors in these two strains regulate tumor cell homing and distribution during metastasis. These cell lines provide an important new tool in the study of bone metastasis, particularly in elucidating the role of host factors in the development of these lesions, as the 129 mouse strain is frequently used for genetic manipulations in the mouse.
1. Microdialysis is an established technique for studying physiological, pharmacological and pathological changes of a wide range of low molecular weight substances in the brain extracellular fluid. Many studies have proven its sensitivity in sampling the extracellular space in discrete brain locations, such as the striatum, and monitoring the action of exogenous substances. 2. The two main areas of application of microdialysis are the recovery of endogenous substances, primarily the neurotransmitters, and the infusion of drugs through the microdialysis cannula (retrodialysis). 3. Microdialysis in awake animals is the tool of choice for studying the relationship between changes in behaviour and neurotransmitters in certain brain areas. In addition, the concomitant recording of the electroencephalogram at the site of microdialysis has been shown to be extremely useful in determining the role of certain neurotransmitters in paroxysmal activity. 4. Clinical applications of microdialysis have included monitoring of ischaemic injury, subarachnoid haemorrhage, trauma and epilepsy. With the recent availability of standardized equipment, the use of microdialysis in the neurological clinic is likely to become more common.
Recombinant human erythropoietin (r-HuEPO; epoetin alfa) is well established as safe and effective for the treatment of anemia. In addition to the erythropoietic effects of endogenous erythropoietin (EPO), recent evidence suggests that it may elicit a neuroprotective effect in the central nervous system (CNS). Preclinical studies have demonstrated the presence of EPO receptors in the brain that are up-regulated under hypoxic or ischemic conditions. Intracerebral and systemic administration of epoetin alfa have been demonstrated to elicit marked neuroprotective effects in multiple preclinical models of CNS disorders. Epoetin alfa has also been shown to prevent the loss of autoregulation of cerebral blood flow in a model of subarachnoid hemorrhage. The mechanisms of EPO-induced neuroprotection include prevention of glutamate-induced toxicity, inhibition of apoptosis, anti-inflammatory effects, antioxidant effects, and stimulation of angiogenesis. Collectively, these findings suggest that epoetin alfa may have potential therapeutic utility in patients with ischemic CNS injury.


Schwannomas from cranial nerves and spinal roots are most often benign, malignant schwannomas being uncommon in this location. This report describes a unique case of multiple cellular and malignant schwannomas of the cranial and spinal nerves in a patient with features of neurofibromatosis 2. The tumors were arising from left optic, bilateral oculomotor, trochlear, abducent and vestibular nerves, the left facial and the spinal lumbar nerve roots. The tumor arising from the right trochlear nerve was seen excavating into the hippocampus and the left vestibular nerve into the medulla. In addition, the patient had nodular schwannomas adherent to the inferior surface of the optic chiasm and the cerebellum away from the cranial nerves. Hyperplastic schwannosis was noted in perivascular spaces of thalamus, cerebellum and hippocampus on both sides away from the main lesions. The immunohistochemical and ultrastructural profiles of the tumors suggest that neurofibromas and schwannomas are probably not distinct tumors but lie within a spectrum that differs histologically depending on the predominant cell type.
Cabergoline is a synthetic ergoline dopamine agonist with a high affinity for D(2) receptors indicated for use in both early and advanced Parkinson's disease and in hyperprolactinaemic disorders. Following oral administration, peak plasma concentrations of cabergoline are reached within 2-3 hours. Over the 0.5-7mg dose range, cabergoline shows linear pharmacokinetics in healthy adult volunteers and parkinsonian patients. Cabergoline is moderately bound (around 40%) to human plasma proteins in a concentration-independent manner; concomitant administration of highly protein-bound drugs is unlikely to affect its disposition. The absolute bioavailability of cabergoline is unknown. Cabergoline is extensively metabolised by the liver, predominantly via hydrolysis of the acylurea bond of the urea moiety. Cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism appears to be minimal. The major metabolites identified thus far do not contribute to the therapeutic effect of cabergoline. A significant fraction of the administered dose undergoes a first-pass effect. Less than 4% is excreted unchanged in the urine. The elimination half-life of cabergoline estimated from urinary data of healthy subjects ranges between 63 and 109 hours. Mild to moderate renal and hepatic impairment, administration of food and the use of concomitant antiparkinsonian medications, such as levodopa and selegiline, have no effect on the pharmacokinetics of cabergoline.The pharmacokinetic properties of cabergoline allow once daily administration in patients with Parkinson's disease and twice weekly administration in patients with hyperprolactinaemia, making this drug advantageous over other dopaminergic agents in term of both therapeutic compliance and better symptom control.
Schizophrenia is a serious and disabling psychiatric disorder affecting approximately 1% of the world's population. A new generation of atypical antipsychotics has been introduced over the past decade. These atypical antipsychotics have comparable or greater efficacy than traditional antipsychotics in the treatment of the psychotic symptoms of schizophrenia and a much improved neurologic side effect profile. This paper reviews the pharmacological efficacy and safety of a potential atypical antipsychotic, NRA0562. NRA0562 has a high affinity for dopamine D1, D2L, D4.2, 5-HT2A receptors as well as alpha1-adrenoceptors, and has a moderate affinity for H1 receptors. NRA0562 strongly binds to 5-HT2A receptors and alpha1-adrenoceptors in the frontal cortex, its binding to striatal D2 receptors is weaker, similar to that of clozapine. NRA562 displayed potent antipsychotic activities in animal models of schizophrenia, such as methamphetamine (MAP)-induced hyperactivity, apomorphine-induced disruption of pre-pulse inhibition and conditioned avoidance test. NRA0562 is more potent in reversing the inhibitory effects of MAP at A10 than at A9 dopamine neurons. It increased Fos-like immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens more effectively than in the dorsolateral striatum, indicating that NRA0562 has the profile of an atypical antipsychotic. In vivo assays for extrapyramidal side effect liability showed that NRA0562 has a low rate of neurological side effects. Thus, NRA0562 may have unique antipsychotic activity with a lower propensity for extrapyramidal side effects.
Acute ischaemic stroke is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity around the world. An arterial occlusive lesion is found in the majority of patients with acute ischaemic stroke, and recanalisation has been shown to result in a better clinical outcome. The only widely approved recanalisation strategy is the use of intravenous alteplase (recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator; tPA) within 3 hours of stroke onset. However, this therapy has limitations, and alternative or supplemental recanalisation strategies need to be considered in a large number of patients with acute ischaemic stroke. One such promising strategy is intra-arterial thrombolysis. This article reviews the pharmacology of the various drugs used for intra-arterial thrombolysis in the setting of acute ischaemic stroke and the results of the clinical trials that have studied their benefit. Three generations of thrombolytic agents have been available for clinical use so far. The first-generation agents such as streptokinase and urokinase were the first to be studied in acute stroke, and a number of positive case reports and series of their intra-arterial use have been reported from around the world. Second-generation products include alteplase and pro-urokinase. The clinical benefits of intra-arterial pro-urokinase were recently proven in a randomised, placebo-controlled study. Third-generation agents, such as reteplase, lanoteplase and tenecteplase, offer superior recanalisation rates with limited systemic adverse effects and might prove to be the agents of choice for intra-arterial acute stroke thrombolysis in the future. The exact administration regimens as well as the identification of patient sub-populations most likely to benefit from intra-arterial thrombolysis are subjects of current investigations, and hopefully firmer guidelines will be established in the next few years, once the results of the clinical trials are available.





This preliminary study examined the relationship between anxiety disorders and self-reported history of teasing or bullying experiences, comparing individuals with social phobia, obsessive compulsive disorder, and panic disorder with or without agoraphobia. Given that aversive conditioning experiences, such as severe teasing, have been proposed to play a role in the development of social phobia and that the core feature of social phobia is a fear of social situations in which a person may be embarrassed or humiliated, we hypothesized that the social phobia group would have a higher rate of self-reported teasing history than would the obsessive compulsive disorder or panic disorder groups. Consistent with this hypothesis, a relationship between reported history of teasing and diagnosis was found. A significantly greater percentage of participants in the social phobia group (92%) reported a history of severe teasing experiences compared with the obsessive compulsive disorder (50%) and panic disorder (35%) groups. History of teasing experiences was also significantly related to an earlier age of onset for all 3 anxiety disorders, and to a greater number of self-reported additional problems in childhood. These findings suggest further directions for research in this area and highlight the significant link between perceptions of teasing in childhood and social phobia.
The numbers of studies on the familial environment and personality of bulimic women have increased in recent years and results have revealed interesting features. In this study, we evaluated the temperament and character traits of patients with bulimia nervosa (BN) and their mothers and fathers, and we analyzed the correlation of temperament and character traits among members of these bulimic families. Finally, we tested the ability of the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) to discriminate between normal controls and bulimic subjects, their parents, and their families. Using the TCI, temperament and character features of 28 bulimic patients and their parents (23 fathers and 28 mothers) were analyzed and then compared with a control group of 29 women and their 27 fathers and 29 mothers. Data suggest that both temperament and character factors are involved in BN. Bulimic individuals were high in harm avoidance and low in self-directedness. Their mothers were distinguished by low self-directedness. The fathers were low in persistence. Harm avoidance of bulimic women positively correlated with harm avoidance and negatively with self-directedness of their mothers. The bulimic family had low self-directedness as a common denominator observed in all family members. The observation that both temperament and character have important roles in the etiopathogenesis of bulimia nervosa has important treatment ramifications. The TCI was useful in discriminating between normal controls and bulimic subjects, their parents, and the whole family.



This review aims to stimulate new ways of thinking about how to model depression in rats and mice. The article is founded on the premise that anthropomorphic inferences should be removed entirely from research involving rodents. The application of animal models to study depression over the past 30 years has been based largely on nonempirical and hence nonscientific assumptions about psychological states that probably do not exist and certainly cannot be measured in rodents. Such assumptions may have led to the misinterpretation of some behaviors, such as decreased locomotor activity or decreased sucrose consumption, as symptoms of depression in rats. Previous research has also overemphasized the causal role of stress in depression. After reviewing major features of several commonly employed models, this article challenges traditional concepts about validity. Models are first evaluated based on the goals of the research. Screening for potential antidepressant compounds requires little or no consideration of the validity of the model. Issues of validity become more critical when attempting to study the neurobiological basis of depression. The primary importance of face validity is emphasized, and the value of various behavioral measures is assessed based on how directly they resemble discrete behavioral symptoms seen in depressed humans. A &quot;neurobehaviorally mechanistic&quot; approach is described. This approach relies on formulating discrete, neurobiological hypotheses to explain individual symptoms rather than to explain collections of symptoms or the entire disorder. The approach thus relies on pragmatic measures of operationally well-defined behavioral variables. The review concludes with the proposal that understanding the neurobiological basis for individual symptoms will ultimately yield a better understanding of depression.
The position of the tongue relative to the upper and lower jaws is regulated in part by the position of the hyoid bone, which, with the anterior and posterior suprahyoid muscles, controls the angulation and length of the floor of the mouth on which the tongue body 'rides'. The instantaneous shape of the tongue is controlled by the 'extrinsic muscles' acting in concert with the 'intrinsic' muscles. Recent anatomical research in non-human mammals has shown that the intrinsic muscles can best be regarded as a 'laminated segmental system' with tightly packed layers of the 'transverse', 'longitudinal', and 'vertical' muscle fibers. Each segment receives separate innervation from branches of the hypoglosssal nerve. These new anatomical findings are contributing to the development of functional models of the tongue, many based on increasingly refined finite element modeling techniques. They also begin to explain the observed behavior of the jaw-hyoid-tongue complex, or the hyomandibular 'kinetic chain', in feeding and consecutive speech. Similarly, major efforts, involving many imaging techniques (cinefluorography, ultrasound, electro-palatography, NMRI, and others), have examined the spatial and temporal relationships of the tongue surface in sound production. The feeding literature shows localized tongue-surface change as the process progresses. The speech literature shows extensive change in tongue shape between classes of vowels and consonants. Although there is a fundamental dichotomy between the referential framework and the methodological approach to studies of the orofacial complex in feeding and speech, it is clear that many of the shapes adopted by the tongue in speaking are seen in feeding. It is suggested that the range of shapes used in feeding is the matrix for both behaviors.
A group of oxytocinergic neurons originating in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and projecting to extrahypothalamic brain areas (e.g. hippocampus, medulla oblongata and spinal cord) control penile erection. Activation of these neurons by dopamine and dopamine agonists, excitatory amino acids (N-methyl-D-aspartic acid) or oxytocin itself, or by electrical stimulation leads to penile erection, while their inhibition by GABA and GABA agonists or by opioid peptides and opiate-like drugs inhibits this sexual response. The activation of oxytocinergic neurons in the paraventricular nucleus by dopamine, oxytocin and excitatory amino acids is apparently secondary to the activation of nitric oxide (NO) synthase. NO in turn activates, by a mechanism that is as yet unidentified, the release of oxytocin from oxytocinergic neurons in extrahypothalamic brain areas. Several peptide analogues of hexarelin, a growth hormone releasing peptide, also induce penile erection when injected into the paraventricular nucleus and, to a lesser extent, systemically, apparently by acting on a specific receptor to activate oxytocinergic neurons as shown for the above drugs and oxytocin. Paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons and mechanisms similar to those reported above are also involved in the expression of penile erection in physiological contexts, namely when penile erection is induced in the male by the presence of an inaccessible receptive female, which is considered a model for psychogenic impotence in man, as well as during copulation. These findings show that paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons projecting to extra-hypothalamic brain areas and to the spinal cord are a likely target for the treatment of erectile dysfunction of central origin.
Hereditary myopathies characterized by the development of autophagic vacuoles can be categorized into three groups: rimmed vacuolar myopathies, acid maltase deficiency (glycogen storage disease type II), and myopathies characterized by the autophagic vacuoles with unique vacuolar membranes. Rimmed vacuolar myopathies are most likely secondary lysosomal myopathies because all of the identified causative genes encode extralysosomal proteins. Deficiency of acid maltase, a lysosomal enzyme, has been well characterized clinically, pathologically, biochemically, and genetically, and may become treatable in the near future. The diseases in the last category are relatively rare, but appear to be genetically heterogeneous and the list of these diseases is expanding. Danon disease, the best-characterized disorder in this group, is caused by primary deficiency of a lysosomal membrane protein, LAMP-2. Therefore, diseases in this category are expected to be primary lysosomal disease.
Recent developments in the technologies and approaches to identify metabolites in a drug discovery environment are reviewed. Samples may be generated using either in vitro systems--typically, but not exclusively, liver subcellular fractions, such as microsomes, or whole cells, such as hepatocytes. Alternatively, metabolites are generated in vivo using excreta obtained following dosing in preclinical species. Recombinant drug metabolizing enzymes or microorganisms may offer alternate vectors. New techniques, such as the use of solid-phase microextraction, have found application in the isolation of metabolites from biological matrices. However, this is still dominated by the use of preparative chromatography, which has advanced through the use of mass-directed detection. Detection and structural elucidation by mass spectrometry have improved markedly with increases in sensitivity, allowing lower abundance metabolites to be detected, and increases in selectivity, with the use of high-resolution time-of-flight and quadrupole-time-of-flight instruments. Finally, higher field strength magnets coupled with novel probe designs and increased use of liquid chromatographic hyphenation techniques continue to drive the capabilities of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy as the definitive structural elucidation tool.

The blood-brain barrier (BBB) mediates interactions between the brain and the cytokines produced in the periphery. Some of these cytokines play significant roles in feeding behavior. This review will summarize various ways by which cytokines cross the BBB and discuss the implications of their transport systems in feeding. For simplicity of discussion, three categories of cytokines are discussed: (1). the proinflammatory cytokines TNFalpha, IFNgamma, IL1, and IL6; (2). the chemokines MIP-1, CINC-1 and IL8; and (3). other cytokines (LIF, CNTF, GM-CSF, FGF, EGF, and TGFalpha). The pharmacokinetics of barrier penetration, compartmental distribution, stability, and mechanism of passage (presence or absence of saturable transport) are summarized. Our understanding of cytokines interacting with the BBB is still growing; not only are more cytokines being studied, but also more details of the nature of the transport systems and how they affect feeding behavior are being explored.
The intravenous administration of high doses of immunoglobulins pooled from the plasma of healthy donors (IVIg therapy) has beneficial effects in patients with a variety of autoimmune disorders. These clinical observations indicate that IVIg have potent antiinflammatory characteristics, and identification of the precise mode of action may open up perspectives for future therapeutic strategies. In certain tissue-specific autoimmune disorders like multiple sclerosis (MS), self-reactive T cells recognizing autoantigens play a significant role for disease pathogenesis, as these cells are able to initiate, maintain, and propagate the harmful immune attack in experimental animal models of disease. These findings render self-reactive T cells an important therapeutic target for autoimmune diseases. Here, we review the effects of IVIg on the homeostasis of T cells and discuss the possible therapeutic implications for multiple sclerosis. As supported by several experimental studies, IVIg regulate crucial steps of T cell-mediated immune responses. These effects involve the modulation of activation, proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, and effector mechanisms of T cells. The pattern of IVIg-T cell interactions is complex, as IVIg may directly bind to regulatory structures on T cells, or modulate T cell functions indirectly via soluble or cellular components of the immune system.
The dopamine D3 receptor has been the subject of a tremendous amount of research since its discovery in 1990. A previous review of this subject [3] described the advances in molecular biology and neuroanatomical localization of the D3 receptor, with a special emphasis on schizophrenia. In the current review, we attempt to describe recent advances in the biochemistry and pharmacology of the D3 receptor from the molecular to the behavioral level. Evidence linking an alteration in D3 receptor function as playing an important role in the etiology of a variety of CNS disorders, including schizophrenia, Parkinson's Disease, and substance abuse is also provided. Also discussed are the recent developments in attempting to map the ligand-binding domains of the D2 and D3 receptors. A. survey of the literature, including a description of the medicinal chemistry approaches toward developing D3-selective ligands, is also presented in this review.
Cellular adhesion plays a key role in a number of unique developmental events, including proliferation, cell fate, morphogenesis, neurite outgrowth, fasciculation, and synaptogensis. The number of families of molecules that can mediate cell adhesion and the number of members of each of those families has continued to increase over time. Moreover, the potential for the formation of different pairs of heterodimers with different binding specificities, and for both homo- and hetero-dimeric interactions suggest that a vast number of specific signaling events can be mediated through the expression of different combinations of adhesion factors at different developmental time points. By comparison with the number of known adhesion molecules and their potential effects, our understanding of the role of adhesion in ear development is extremely limited. The patterns of expression for some adhesion molecules have been determined for some aspects of inner ear development. Similarly, with a few exceptions, functional data to indicate the roles of these adhesion molecules are also lacking. However, a consideration of even the limited existing data must lead to the conclusion that adhesion molecules play key roles in all aspects of the development of the auditory system. Unique expression domains for different groups of adhesion molecules within the developing otocyst and ear strongly suggest a role in the determination of different cellular domains. Similarly, the specific expression of adhesion molecules on developing neurites and their target hair cells, suggests a key role for adhesion in the establishment of neuronal connections and possible the development of tonotopy. Finally, the recent demonstration that Cdh23 and Pcdh15 play specific roles in the formation of the hair cell stereociliary bundle provides compelling evidence for the importance of adhesion molecules in the development of stereocilia. With the imminent completion of the mouse genome, it seems likely that the number of adhesion molecules can soon be fixed and that it will then be possible to generate a more comprehensive map of expression of these molecules within the developing inner ear. At the same time, the generation of new transgenic and molecular technologies promises to provide researchers with new tools to examine the specific effects of different adhesion molecules during inner ear development.
The novel peptide hormone ghrelin has recently been recognized as an important co-regulator of growth hormone secretion and energy homeostasis. The significance of ghrelin for obesity and cachexia as well as in the regulation of growth processes is the subject of ongoing basic research as well as clinical studies. It is our goal to emphasize the critical significance of the hypothalamic signaling modalities induced by ghrelin for a better understanding of how this novel hormone affects energy balance and metabolism.
Most studies agree that specific regions of the hippocampus and specific subcortical regions show neuronal loss in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of the study was to use design-based stereological methods to obtain an estimate of the total glial cell population in 14 AD cases and 20 controls to determine whether brains from AD patients have a different number of neocortical glial cells than controls. The mean total number of neocortical glial cells was 25.9 x 10(9) for the AD group and 29.1 x 10(9) for the control group, 2p = 0.18. The mean total number of neocortical neurons was 18.9 x 10(9) for the AD group and 21.2 x 10(9) for the control group, 2p = 0.059. Estimates of the sum of all glial cells and neurons in the neocortex were in the order of 50 billion cells with a glia to neuron ratio of 1.37 in both groups.
The main objective was to investigate the acetylcholinesterase E (AChE) activity in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with three common dementia disorders. We also wanted to investigate the influence of apolipoprotein E (ApoE) epsilon4 allele possession and CSF-tau level on the CSF-AChE activity in these patients. The study included 17 consecutive patients with subcortical vascular dementia (SVD), 39 with Alzheimer's disease (AD), 14 with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and 12 controls. CSF was obtained by lumbar puncture and CSF-AChE activity was measured by an enzyme antigen immunoassay. CSF-AchE activity was significantly decreased compared to controls only in the SVD group (p = 0.010). The CSF-tau level was increased in the AD group compared to the control (p &lt; 0.01) and FTD groups (p &lt; 0.05). No influence of ApoE epsilon4 allele possession on CSF-AChE activity was found. It is suggested that abnormal CSF-AChE activity in patients with SVD reflects a disturbance in the cholinergic system.
Thirty patients had mild cognitive impairment and increased homocysteine levels in serum. On average, they were supplemented orally with a high dose of a vitamin B12-B6-folate combination for 270 days. All patients had normal serum B12 and folate levels at baseline. Cerebrospinal fluid levels of the tau protein (CSF-tau) and the albumin ratio were measured before and after treatment. The serum homocysteine levels were normalised after treatment. The albumin ratio significantly correlated with vascular risk factors. At baseline, the ratio was higher in the patients in comparison with age-matched controls. After treatment, the ratio was significantly reduced, which may indicate a tightening of the blood-brain barrier. The CSF-tau levels did not change significantly although there was a numeric decline. None of the patients progressed into dementia during the treatment period. When treated with a vitamin B12-B6-folate combination, patients with mild cognitive impairment and hyperhomocysteinaemia appear to improve their blood-brain barrier function. They may also stabilise their cognitive status. Further investigations are warranted on the role of blood-brain barrier dysfunction in the pathogenesis of dementia.
Accumulation of beta-amyloid (Abeta) in the brain is one of the central lesions in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Alternative cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), occurring in both normal and AD subjects, results in the generation and secretion of soluble APP, Abeta(40) and Abeta(42). Platelets have been regarded as the primary source of circulating APP and Abeta. Plasma levels of Abeta may therefore be dependent on platelet activation. We analysed Abeta(40/42) in plasma in the presence of physiological agonists of platelet activation such as adenosine diphosphate, collagen, thrombin, and a synthetic agonist, thrombin receptor activator peptide 6. We found that the levels of Abeta(40/42) in plasma were not related to platelet activation, suggesting that sampling techniques affecting platelet activation do not confound measurement of Abeta(40/42 )in plasma.

We investigated the clinical and biological effects of cholesterol-lowering treatment with a statin in 19 patients with Alzheimer's disease. They received simvastatin 20 mg/day for 12 weeks in an open trial. Primary efficacy parameters were the changes after 12 weeks in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of beta-amyloid(42) (Abeta(42)), alpha-secretase-cleaved amyloid precursor protein (alpha-sAPP), beta-secretase-cleaved APP (beta-sAPP), tau, phospho-tau and the plasma levels of Abeta(42). A secondary efficacy parameter was the change in the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognition (ADAS-cog) score. After 12 weeks, CSF alpha-sAPP and CSF beta-sAPP were significantly reduced (p &lt; 0.001), but the CSF levels of tau, phospho-tau, Abeta(42) and the plasma levels of Abeta(42) were unchanged. The ADAS-cog score was slightly increased (p &lt; 0.05). The results suggest that simvastatin acts directly on the processing of APP by inhibiting both the alpha- and the beta-secretase pathways.
This phase III trial was conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of donepezil in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with a greater range of comorbid conditions and concomitant medication use than those previously evaluated in placebo-controlled studies. Patients (n = 1,035) with mild to moderate probable or possible AD were enrolled from 255 sites in the USA; 894 (86%) completed the trial. Mean age was 74.9 years (+/- 7.8); baseline standardized Mini-Mental State Examination (sMMSE) score was 19.77 (+/- 5.4). Nearly all patients had at least 1 prior or comorbid medical condition (97%) or were taking at least 1 concomitant medication (93%). Safety assessments included recording treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs). To confirm comparability with past studies, efficacy was measured using the sMMSE. Over the 12-week study period, the mean sMMSE score increased by 1.54 points over baseline (p &lt; 0.0001) in donepezil-treated patients. Most AEs (64%) were mild, and the occurrence of cholinergic-induced AEs was significantly lower after a dose increase at 4 weeks than that seen with a dose increase after 1 week in previous trials. Risk ratios for gastrointestinal side effects were not significantly increased by the use of aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Risk ratios for bradycardia were not significantly increased by the use of beta-blockers, nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers or digoxin. Therefore, donepezil improved cognition, as measured by the sMMSE, and was well tolerated despite high concomitant medication use and extensive comorbidity. These results highlight donepezil as a safe and effective treatment for AD patients typically seen by community-based physicians.
The alertness level of 143 patients with dementia was investigated. The patients were examined clinically and electroencephalographically, and the results were compared with 21 healthy volunteers. Regional brain syndromes were determined clinically. For the assessment of the EEG, a method was employed that distinguishes alertness-related slow wave activity from abnormal slow activity. The shifts of the EEG power were monitored during the 5-min examination. The short-term variations were considered to be caused by changes in alertness, whereas the basal level was supposed to reflect the EEG abnormality. It was found that a decrease in alertness occurred more often in the demented patients than in the controls. The intensity of this decrease was proportional to the degree of the dementia. The alertness disturbance was found to be particularly associated with the parietal brain syndrome.
Deposition of beta-amyloid (Abeta) is an early pathogenic event in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We measured Abeta42 and Abeta40 in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in a population-based sample of 85-year-olds, 27 demented and 35 non-demented. During the following 3 years, 7 of the 35 non-demented individuals had developed dementia, while 28 remained non-demented. Reduced CSF levels of both Abeta42 (p = 0.001) and Abeta40 (p = 0.0001) were found in patients with manifest AD and vascular dementia at the age of 85. Non-demented individuals who developed dementia during follow-up had lower levels of CSF- Abeta42 (p = 0.003), but not CSF-Abeta40 (p = 0.96), than those who remained non-demented. The odds ratio for development of dementia was 8.2 (p = 0.027) for individuals in the lower 50th percentile of CSF-Abeta42, while none of those in the highest 33rd percentile of CSF-Abeta42 developed dementia during follow-up. There were no significant differences between carriers and non-carriers of the apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele regarding CSF-Abeta42 or CSF-Abeta40. Our study suggests that low CSF-Abeta42 is found also in an unselected population-based sample of old demented patients and provides the first evidence of a disturbance in the metabolism of Abeta, specifically involving Abeta42, before the onset of clinical symptoms in AD.

Pathological excoriation (PE) or skin picking is seen in nearly 2% of patients attending dermatology clinics and is often associated with anxiety, stress and frequent help-seeking behaviors. While anxiety and stress are thought to cause poor sleep in the general population, not all anxious people, even those with disabling anxiety disorders, necessarily suffer from insomnia or other sleep problems. The relationship between anxiety symptoms and poor sleep, therefore, remains unclear and sleep quality in PE is unknown. We examined the sleep quality and levels of anxiety in dermatological patients with PE. Dermatological patients with (n = 10) and without (n = 10) PE and healthy controls (n = 10) were assessed on standardized and validated measures of subjective sleep quality [Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI)], anxiety (Spielberger State and Trait Anxiety Inventory; modified Zung Anxiety Scale), stress (Perceived Stress Scale) and work and social disability [Sheehan Disability Inventory subscale (SDI-4)]. Patients with dermatological complaints as a group reported poorer sleep quality, higher scores on Spielberger State and Zung anxiety, perceived stress, and SDI-4. Among both groups of dermatological patients, only the PE group had significantly poor sleep, high anxiety, and perceived stress compared to healthy controls. In the dermatological patients with PE, PSQI-global scores were significantly positively correlated to Spielberger State and Zung Anxiety scores. Dermatological patients with PE are more anxious and have poorer subjective sleep compared to dermatological patients without PE and healthy. Future research is needed to elucidate these relationship factors and to develop new behavioral and drug treatments for the management of PE.
The latest studies on psychopathology and biology of nocturnal (or sleep) panic attacks and other findings related to sleep in panic disorder are reviewed. While some of the newer articles doubt that nocturnal panics present a more severe variation of panic disorder, older studies and some newer articles support this notion. Some studies suggest that nocturnal panic maybe also be associated with other, more severe pathology. This interesting syndrome, or variant of disorder, may have its own etiology, psychopathology, and underlying biology.
Although a large superfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors serves multiple functions, little is known about their functional activation during ontogeny. To examine the functional activation of the mu-opioid receptor (MOR) and the delta-opioid receptor (DOR) during development, sections of mouse embryos and fetuses from e11.5 until birth were treated with DAMGO and DPDPE, respectively, and the ability of these drugs to induce G-protein coupling was assessed by using GTPgamma(35)S binding autoradiography. MOR activation was first detected in the caudate-putamen (CPU) at e12.5, and by e15.5, activity had not only increased in this region but also expanded to include the midbrain, medial habenula, hypothalamus, pons, and medulla. DOR activity first appeared at e17.5 in the hypothalamus, pons, medial habenula, and medulla and at p1 in the CPU at levels noticeably less than those of the MOR. In general, MOR and DOR activation lagged only slightly behind the appearance of MOR-1 and DOR-1 mRNA but delayed activation was particularly pronounced in the trigeminal ganglia, where MOR-1 gene expression was first detected at e13.5, but MOR activity was not observed even at birth. Thus, the data demonstrate temporal and often region-specific differences in the appearance and magnitude of functional activity in cell groups expressing either the MOR-1 or DOR-1 genes, suggesting that interaction between the opioid receptors, G-proteins, and other signaling cofactors is developmentally regulated.
The enteric nervous system is formed by neural crest cells that migrate, proliferate, and differentiate into neurons and glia distributed in ganglia along the gastrointestinal tract. In the developing embryo some enteric crest cells cease their caudal movements, whereas others continue to migrate. Subsequently, the enteric neurons form a reticular network of ganglia interconnected by axonal projections. We studied the developing avian gut to characterize the pattern of migration of the crest cells, and the relationship between migration and differentiation. Crest cells at the leading edge of the migratory front appear as strands of cells; isolated individual crest cells are rarely seen. In the foregut and midgut, these strands are located immediately beneath the serosa. In contrast, crest cells entering the colon appear first in the deeper submucosal mesenchyme and later beneath the serosa. As the neural crest wavefront passes caudally, the crest cell cords become highly branched, forming a reticular lattice that presages the mature organization of the enteric nervous system. Neurons and glia first appear within the strands at the advancing wavefront. Later neurons are consistently located at the nodes where branches of the lattice intersect. In the most rostral foregut and in the colon, some neurons initially appear in close association with extrinsic nerve fibers from the vagus and Remak's nerve, respectively. We conclude that crest cells colonize the gut as chains of cells and that, within these chains, both neurons and glia appear close to the wavefront.
To determine the long-term risks and benefits of a separate CSF reservoir in the management of 52 children (23 males, 29 females) with shunted hydrocephalus, a retrospective study was performed comparing the use and complications after separate reservoir insertion, with a prereservoir control period. Median age at first shunt insertion was 1 month and median age at reservoir insertion was 2 years 6 months. Median follow-up for shunt with the additional reservoir was 19 years 1 month. There was no mortality due to shunt failure nor CNS infection, and there were significantly fewer episodes of ventriculitis (p &lt; 0.01) and shunt blockage (p &lt; 0.0001) compared with the prereservoir period. There was no hemiplegia, epilepsy, visual, nor cognitive loss from the additional reservoir. The reservoir was used for access in 344 attendances (mean 6.62 attendances per patient) for diagnosis or treatment of raised pressure or CNS infection. It was concluded that a separate CSF reservoir is useful in the long-term management of patients with shunted hydrocephalus and is without mortality or significant increased morbidity.
With increasing age, rats, when play fighting, become rougher. In part, this change can be accounted for by the increasing likelihood of using adult-typical fighting tactics. However, even when using the same tactics, adults appear rougher than juveniles in their play. In this study, videotaped sequences of play fighting in rats from the juvenile (30 days) to the post-pubertal (70 days) period were analyzed using Laban Movement Analysis (LMA). Movement qualities called Effort Factors in LMA captured the character of some of this change. Juveniles tended to use Indulging Efforts, whereas older rats tended to use Condensing Efforts. The latter are related to performing movements that are more controlled. This greater level of control was also evident in the way older rats maintained postural support during play fights. When standing over supine partners, juveniles are more likely to stand on the partner with all four paws, reducing their postural stability, and hence ability to control their partner's movements. Older rats are more likely to place their hind paws on the ground, thus providing a firmer anchor for movements with their upper bodies and forepaws. These age-related changes in behavior were found for both males and females. The findings lend support to a growing body of evidence that play fighting in the juvenile phase of rats is not just a more frequently occurring version of that present in adults, but rather, has unique organizational properties.
Exposure to sinusoidal (power-frequency) magnetic fields during prenatal development is implicated in adulthood behavioral impairments. However, the effects of prenatal exposure to weak-intensity, nonsinusoidal complex magnetic fields (CMFs), an increasingly common feature of the modern environment, have not been rigorously examined. In the present study, male and female Wistar-strain rats were exposed continually during prenatal development to one of three extremely low-frequency CMFs or a sham condition. As adults, rats were trained in an acquisition/reversal radial maze task. All rats exposed to the prenatal CMFs increased their commission of reference memory errors, but differences in working memory and motivation to complete the maze task were specific to the type of prenatal CMF. These results provide the first evidence that prenatal exposures to specific shapes of CMFs impair complex learning behaviors into adulthood.
Clonal and lineage analyses have demonstrated that although some neural crest cells have the ability to generate multiple cell types and display self-renewal ability, other crest cells generate a single or limited repertoire of cell types. However, it is not yet clear when, and in what order, crest cells become specified to adopt a particular fate. We report that the receptor tyrosine kinases TrkC and C-Kit are expressed by distinct neural crest subpopulations in vitro. We then analyzed the lineages of individual receptor-expressing crest cells and found that TrkC-expressing cells that have just emerged from the neural tube give rise to clones containing neurons or glial cells, or both, but never produce melanocytes. A short time later, TrkC-expressing cells only generate pure neuronal clones. By contrast, from their earliest appearance in neural tube outgrowths, C-Kit-expressing cells invariably give rise to clones containing only melanocytes. Our results directly demonstrate that distinct neurogenic and melanogenic sublineages diverge before or soon after crest cells emerge from the neural tube, that fate-restricted precursors are present in nascent neural crest populations and that these sublineages can be distinguished by their cell type-specific expression of receptor tyrosine kinases.
The aim of the study was to investigate antioxidant (alpha-lipoic acid [LA]) and gamma-linolenic acid treatments in the prevention of changes in autonomic nerves induced in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. Autonomic nerves supplying the heart, penis, and gut were examined using immunohistochemical and biochemical techniques. LA and gamma-linolenic acid (present in evening primrose oil [EPO]) were administered as dietary supplements ( approximately 80 and 200 mg. kg(-1). day(-1), respectively). LA treatment prevented the diabetes-induced decrease of norepinephrine (NA) in the heart and of type I nitric oxide synthase (NOS-I) expression in erectile tissue of the penis but failed to prevent diabetes-induced changes in NA-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, or calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing nerves supplying the ileum. LA partially prevented and EPO totally prevented the increase in NOS-I activity induced by diabetes in the ileum. EPO treatment failed to prevent any other diabetes-induced changes in the heart, penis, or ileum. These results demonstrate that, whereas LA treatment is more effective than EPO in preventing diabetes-induced changes in autonomic nerves, the effectiveness of LA treatment varies with the target organ studied. Diabetes-induced changes in nerves supplying the ileum are more resistant to treatment than those of the heart and penis.

These experiments evaluate overexpression of basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) as a treatment to decrease photoreceptor cell death in the constant light damage model of retinal degeneration. Increased FGF-2 expression was accomplished by gene transfer to the retina via injection into the subretinal space of a recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV), containing the FGF-2 gene. Rescue effects were assessed by morphometry and electroretinographic analysis.
Psychosis only rarely occurs in patients with untreated Parkinson's disease. Much more commonly, psychosis is induced by drug therapy for Parkinson's disease and is the strongest known risk factor for nursing home placement. Delusions are less frequent than hallucinations, but are more concerning as they are often paranoid in nature. Treatment begins with a search for correctable infectious, toxic, and metabolic aetiologies. If symptoms persist, anti-Parkinson's disease medications are slowly reduced. However, withdrawal of these drugs usually worsens parkinsonism and is often not tolerated. Certain atypical antipsychotics can be used to treat psychosis without compromising motor function. The choice of atypical antipsychotic is largely based on ease of use and adverse effect profile as most have comparable efficacy in improving psychosis. Currently, there are five marketed atypical drugs - clozapine, risperidone, olanzapine, quetiapine and ziprasidone. Ziprasidone is the only agent whose adverse effect profile has not been reported in Parkinson's disease. The most common adverse effects of clozapine in Parkinson's disease are sedation, orthostatic hypotension and sialorrhoea. Sedation is generally helpful since these patients are frequently awake at night and tend to have worse behavioural problems then. Clozapine does not induce deterioration of motor function, but it has the potential to cause agranulocytosis, which is idiosyncratic and not dose-related. In risperidone-treated Parkinson's disease patients, reported adverse effects include somnolence, sialorrhoea, dizziness, palpitations, constipation, delirium, fatigue, leg cramps, depression, urinary incontinence and hypotension. Although in some Parkinson's disease studies, risperidone has been well tolerated, others have shown that many patients are unable to tolerate the drug due to deterioration of motor function. While an initial study of olanzapine in Parkinson's disease psychosis showed the drug to be effective without deterioration of motor function, succeeding reports demonstrated a deleterious effect of the drug on motor functioning. The most common adverse effects of quetiapine in Parkinson's disease patients are sedation and orthostatic hypotension. There is a lack of double-blind trials; however, cumulative reports involving &gt;200 Parkinson's disease patients strongly suggest that quetiapine is well tolerated and effective. Unlike clozapine, it does not improve tremor and may induce mild deterioration of motor function. Recently, cholinesterase inhibitors have been reported to alleviate psychosis in Parkinson's disease. Although ondansetron, an antiemetic with antiserotonergic properties, has been reported to relieve psychosis in Parkinson's disease, its prohibitive cost has prevented further study in this population. Electroconvulsive treatment is generally reserved for the patient with psychotic depression who is unable to tolerate any pharmacological therapy.
Schizophrenia is a severe mental illness characterised by abnormalities of thought and perception that affects 1-2% of the population. Patients who experience a first episode of schizophrenia should be treated early and optimally with antipsychotic agents to lessen the morbidity of the initial episode and possibly improve the course of the illness. Positive psychotic symptoms remit in the majority of patients who are treated with adequate trials of antipsychotic medications, but most relapse within 1 year. Non-adherence is strongly related to the likelihood of recurrence of symptoms. Innovative programmes that integrate early intervention, psychosocial treatments and atypical antipsychotic pharmacotherapy show promise in improving outcomes. The available research supports the use of antipsychotic medications early in the first-episode of schizophrenia and for at least 1 year after remission of positive symptoms. Antidepressants, benzodiazepines and mood stabilisers have roles in the acute and maintenance phases of treatment for some patients. Atypical antipsychotics represent a great advance in the treatment of first-episode schizophrenia with strong evidence for greater tolerability with equal or better therapeutic efficacy. Future research will further define their roles in treatment and hopefully identify targets for prevention of first-episode schizophrenia.
Drug addiction is a chronically relapsing brain disorder. There is an urgent need for new treatment options for this disease because the relapse rate among drug abusers seeking treatment is quite high. During the past decade, many groups have explored the feasibility of using vaccines directed against drugs of abuse as a means of eliminating illicit drug use as well as drug overdose and neurotoxicity. Vaccines work by inducing drug-specific antibodies in the bloodstream that bind to the drug of abuse and prevent its entry into the brain. The majority of work in this area has been conducted with vaccines and antibodies directed against cocaine and nicotine. On the basis of preclinical work, vaccines for cocaine and nicotine are now in clinical trials because they can offer long-term protection with minimal treatment compliance. In addition, vaccines and antibodies for phencyclidine, methamphetamine and heroin abuse are currently under development. An underlying theme in this research is the need for high concentrations of circulating drug-specific antibodies to reduce drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviour when the drug is repeatedly available, especially in high doses. Although vaccines against drugs of abuse may become a viable treatment option, there are several drawbacks that need to be considered. These include: a lack of protection against a structurally dissimilar drug that produces the same effects as the drug of choice;a lack of an effect on drug craving that predisposes an addict to relapse; and tremendous individual variability in antibody formation. Forced or coerced vaccination is not likely to work from a scientific perspective, and also carries serious legal and ethical concerns. All things considered, vaccination against a drug of abuse is likely to work best with individuals who are highly motivated to quit using drugs altogether and as part of a comprehensive treatment programme. As such, the medical treatment of drug abuse will not be radically different from treatment of other chronic diseases.
This review briefly describes current concepts concerning the nosological status, pathogenesis and management of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP). CIDP is an uncommon variable disorder of unknown but probably autoimmune aetiology. The commonest form of CIDP causes more or less symmetrical progressive or relapsing weakness affecting proximal and distal muscles. Against this background the review describes the short-term responses to corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) and plasma exchange that have been confirmed in randomised trials. In the absence of better evidence about long-term efficacy, corticosteroids or IVIg are usually favoured because of convenience. Benefit following introduction of azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, cyclosporin, other immunosuppressive agents, and interferon-beta and -alpha has been reported but randomised trials are needed to confirm these benefits. In patients with pure motor CIDP and multifocal motor neuropathy, corticosteroids may cause worsening and IVIg is more likely to be effective. General measures to rehabilitate patients and manage symptoms, including foot drop, weak hands, fatigue and pain, are important.
Parkinson's disease is a debilitating neurodegenerative movement disorder that is the result of a degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The resulting loss of striatal dopaminergic tone is believed to underlie a series of changes in the circuitry of the basal ganglia that ultimately lead to severe motor disturbances due to excessive basal ganglia outflow. Glutamate plays a central role in the disruption of normal basal ganglia function, and it has been hypothesised that agents acting to restore normal glutamatergic function may provide therapeutic interventions that bypass the severe motor side effects associated with current dopamine replacement strategies. Analysis of the effects of glutamate receptor ligands in the basal ganglia circuit suggests that both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors could have antiparkinsonian actions. In particular, NMDA receptor antagonists that selectively target the NR2B subunit and antagonists of the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR5 appear to hold promise and deserve future attention.
Although eight out of ten people suffer from different types of headaches, the severity of their pain is often not communicated properly to their doctors. Research shows that when doctors understand exactly how headaches are affecting their patients, they are able to provide a better and fully successful treatment program. The magnitude of impact of migraine is generally measured through self-administered questionnaires. Two reliable questionnaires for measuring patients' disability and quality of life in migraine are the Migraine Disability Assessment Questionnaire (MIDAS) and the new Internet-based Headache Impact Test (HIT).




Over the past several years, a large effort has been focused on improvements of two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis-based proteomics technology, and on development of novel approaches for proteome analysis. Here, we describe the application of an alternative strategy for the analysis of complex proteomes. The strategy combines isoelectric focusing in immobilized pH gradient strips (in-gel IEF), mass spectrometry (MS), and bioinformatics. A protein mixture is separated by in-gel IEF, and the entire strip is cut into a set of gel sections. Proteins in each gel section are digested with trypsin, and the tryptic peptides are subjected to liquid chromatography-nanoelectrospray-quadrupole ion-trap tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS). The LC-ESI-MS/MS data are used to identify the proteins through searches of a protein sequence database. Using this in-gel IEF-LC-MS/MS strategy, we have identified 127 proteins from a human pituitary. This study demonstrates the potential of the in-gel IEF-LC-MS/MS approach for analyses of complex mammalian proteomes.
Menkes protein (ATP7A) is a P-type ATPase involved in copper uptake and homeostasis. Disturbed copper homeostasis occurs in patients with Menkes disease, an X-linked disorder characterized by mental retardation, neurodegeneration, connective tissue disorders, and early childhood death. Mutations in ATP7A result in malfunction of copper-requiring enzymes, such as tyrosinase and copper/zinc superoxide dismutase. The first step of the two-step amidation reaction carried out by peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) also requires copper. We used tissue from wild-type rats and mice and an ATP7A-specific antibody to determine that ATP7A is expressed at high levels in tissues expressing high levels of PAM. ATP7A is largely localized to the trans Golgi network in pituitary endocrine cells. The Atp7a mouse, bearing a mutation in the Atp7a gene, is an excellent model system for examining the consequences of ATP7A malfunction. Despite normal levels of PAM protein, levels of several amidated peptides were reduced in pituitary and brain extracts of Atp7a mice, demonstrating that PAM function is compromised when ATP7A is inactive. Based on these results, we conclude that a reduction in the ability of PAM to produce bioactive end-products involved in neuronal growth and development could contribute to many of the biological effects associated with Menkes disease.
GnRH is the master neuropeptide that coordinates and regulates reproduction in all vertebrates and in some nonvertebrate species. Sixteen forms of GnRH have been isolated in brain. In the vast majority of species, two or more forms occur in anatomically and developmental distinct neuronal populations. In mammalian brain, two GnRH forms, mammalian (GnRH-I) and chicken-II (GnRH-II), exist. The distribution and functions of GnRH-I have been well characterized and intensively studied. However, the function of GnRH-II, which is the most evolutionarily conserved form of GnRH, has been elusive. Here we demonstrate that in a primitive mammal, the musk shrew (Suncus murinus), GnRH-II activates mating behavior in nutritionally challenged females within a few minutes after administration. In addition GnRH-II immunoreactive cell numbers and fibers increase in food-restricted females. Furthermore, GnRH type II receptor immunoreactivity was detected in musk shrew brain in regions associated with mating behavior. Our results lead us to hypothesize that the role of the evolutionarily conserved GnRH-II peptide is to coordinate reproductive behavior as appropriate to the organism's energetic condition.


Although considerable information on cellular and network mechanisms of epilepsy exists, it is still not understood why, how, and when the transition from interictal to ictal state takes place. The authors review their work on nonlinear EEG analysis and provide consistent evidences that dynamical changes in the neural activity allows the characterization of a preictal state several minutes before seizure onset. This new neurodynamical approach of ictogenesis opens new perspectives for studying the basic mechanisms in epilepsy as well as for possible therapeutic interventions.


Despite the introduction of newer antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), nonresponsiveness to AEDs remains a common problem in epilepsy clinics. There may be important genetic determinants for responsiveness, and this discussion focused on some potential areas: drug transporters; drug-metabolizing enzymes, and ion channels. We review the literature and speculate the contribution of each of these factors in management of patients with epilepsy in the future.
Geographically specific epilepsy syndromes are of epidemiologic interest and may assist in understanding the pathogenic mechanism of epilepsy in general. Some may have a genetic basis with added environmental influence. Among these epilepsy syndromes in India is an interesting type of reflex seizure known as hot-water epilepsy (HWE) and single small computed tomography (CT)-enhancing lesions (SSCTLs).
In the last two decades there have been many significant advances with regard to the genetics of human epilepsies. Knowledge of the mutations responsible for inherited human epilepsies not only will help in a better diagnosis and understanding of the mechanisms involved in epileptogenesis and their inheritance, but also will result in the development of better and safer antiepileptic drugs, discovery of novel therapeutic modalities, improved genetic counseling, and perhaps even prevention of epilepsies. The overall impact of these genetic discoveries across different populations and cultures will perhaps be beneficial to improving the lives of the millions affected by these diverse but common brain disorders.
This article presents the case of an HIV-positive client who reported having sexual relations with an unknowing partner. The issue raised is whether the therapist was required to warn the unknowing partner, similar to the Tarasoff mandate that is imposed on therapists. The case is analyzed from an ethical framework similar to that presented by Beauchamp and Childress (1994). Two opinions are presented, each leading to different conclusions about whether the therapist should inform the unknowing partner. It is concluded that although such analysis is valuable in aiding the therapist in his or her decision-making process, no clear professional standard for the management of the problem is evident.
Drinking patterns, psychiatric comorbidity and personality disorders (PD) at intake and at a 2-year follow-up were studied in 120 female alcoholics early in their treatment career. At follow-up, the women had improved their drinking patterns, but their mental health still differed significantly from women of the general population. Psychiatric comorbidity at intake correlated with a significantly worse drinking and mental health outcome. Subjects with high scores on phobias more frequently dropped out of treatment and thereby had a worse drinking outcome. Subjects with depression at follow-up also had a poorer drinking outcome, as well as subjects with schizoid PD. When tested by multivariate analyses, only depression at follow-up contributed significantly to the increased explained variance in drinking outcome when controlling for drinking pattern and treatment duration.
Previous studies have shown that prolonged vibration of the rectus femoris decreases maximal voluntary knee extension performance in the ipsilateral leg. In the present study, measurements of maximal voluntary isometric knee extension contractions with the ipsilateral (right) leg and the contralateral (left) leg were made immediately before and after vibration treatment. Significant reductions in maximal force and maximum rate of force generation occurred in both the ipsilateral and contralateral legs following 30 minutes of continuous vibration at both 30 Hz and 120 Hz, with 30 Hz causing the greatest ipsilateral effects. However, although the level of neural activation (iEMG) of the vibrated muscle (right rectus femoris) was reduced following 30 Hz vibration ( P=0.026), there were no significant changes occurring in a synergistic muscle (right vastus lateralis) or in either contralateral muscle. It was concluded that muscle vibration may act through spinal reflex pathways to influence the homonymous motoneuron pool. The effects on contralateral force but not specific muscle iEMG suggest an effect on heteronymous motoneuron pools or an effect acting on central descending drive to contralateral muscles. These findings may have implications for the rehabilitation of patients with an immobilised limb.
We report the cloning, expression, pharmacological characterization and tissue distribution of a melanocortin (MC) receptor gene in a shark, the spiny dogfish (Squalus acanthias) (Sac). Phylogenetic analysis showed that this receptor is an ortholog of the MC4 subtype, sharing 71% overall amino acid identity with the human (Hsa) MC4 receptor. When expressed and characterized by radioligand binding assay for the natural MSH (melanocyte-stimulating hormone) peptides alpha-, beta-, and gamma-MSH, the SacMC4 receptor showed pharmacological properties very similar to the HsaMC4 receptor. Stimulation of SacMC4 receptor transfected cells with alpha-MSH caused a dose-dependent increase in intracellular cAMP levels. The SacMC4 receptor has Ala in position 59 where all other cloned MC receptors have Glu. We confirmed that this was not due to individual polymorphism and subsequently mutated the residue 'back' to Glu but the mutation did not affect the pharmacological properties of the receptor. SacMC4 receptor mRNA was detected by RT-PCR in the optic tectum, hypothalamus, brain stem, telencephalon and olfactory bulb but not in cerebellum or in peripheral tissues. This study describes the first characterization of an MC receptor in a cartilaginous fish, the most distant MC receptor gene cloned to date. Conservation of gene structure, pharmacological properties and tissue distribution suggests that this receptor may have similar roles in sharks as in mammals and that these were established more than 450 million years ago.

Natural killer cells have been reported to be able to kill various transformed and virus-infected target cells. It was recently observed that NK cells also could kill syngeneic dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons by a perforin-dependent mechanism. We demonstrate here that this phenomenon does not reflect a general ability of NK cells to kill neurons in culture. While DRG neurons of the peripheral nervous system were readily killed, ventral spinal cord neurons and hippocampal neurons of the central nervous system (CNS) were resistant to lysis. The resistance to NK cell-mediated lysis of the latter neurons was not related to protection by MHC class I molecules, since similar beta(2)-microglobulin(-/-) neurons were equally resistant to lysis. While exploring other possible molecular mechanisms for the selective triggering of lysis of DRG neurons, we observed that the retinoic acid early inducible gene-1 (RAE-1), the product of which is a ligand for the NK cell-activating receptor NKG2D, was expressed at high levels in the DRG neurons. In contrast, RAE-1 was expressed only at very low levels in the resistant CNS-derived neurons. Blocking NK cells withanti-NKG2D antibodies inhibited NK cell-mediated killing of the DRG neurons. Thus, we demonstrate that NK cell-mediated lysis of DRG neurons correlates with the expression of RAE-1 and that this lysis is dependent on activation of NK cells via NKG2D. This observation demonstrates that NK cells can kill non-pathogen-infected or non-transformed syngeneic cells through activation of the NKG2D receptor.
Migraine is a common, disabling form of primary neurovascular headache. For most of the twentieth century it was regarded as a vascular headache whose primary pathophysiology lay in the cranial vasculature. Functional brain imaging using positron emission tomography has demonstrated activation of the rostral brain stem in acute migraine. Voxel-based morphometry is a new fully automated whole brain technique that is sensitive to subtle macroscopic and mesoscopic structural differences between groups of subjects. In this study 11 patients suffering from migraine with aura (10 females, one male: 23-52 years, mean 31); 11 controls (10 females, one male: 23-52, mean 31); 17 patients with migraine without aura (16 females, one male: 24-57, mean 34); 17 controls (16 females, one male: 24-57, mean 34) were imaged with high resolution volumetric magnetic resonance imaging. There was no significant difference in global grey or white matter volumes between either patients with migraine and controls, or patients with aura and without aura. This study did not show any global or regional macroscopic structural difference between patients with migraine and controls, with migraine sufferers taken as homogenous groups. If structural changes are to be found, other methods of phenotyping migraine, such as by genotype or perhaps treatment response, may be required to resolve completely whether there is some subtle structural change in the brain of patients with migraine.
In 1999, a Task Force was set up under the auspices of the European Federation of Neurological Societies with the aim to evaluate the existing evidence for the clinical effectiveness of cognitive rehabilitation. This review led to the development of a set of guidelines to be used in the management of adult patients with cognitive disorders due to acquired focal neurological damage.
The present review summarizes the major contributions given by magnetization transfer-magnetic resonance imaging to provide an accurate in vivo picture of the heterogeneity of central nervous system pathology and, ultimately, to improve our ability to monitor the evolution of various neurological conditions.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that supplementary activation of the phasic pontine wave (P-wave) generator during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep enhances consolidation and integration of memories, resulting in improved learning. To test this hypothesis, two groups of rats were trained on a two-way active avoidance learning task in the morning. Immediately after training, one group of rats received a carbachol microinjection into the P-wave generator and the other group was microinjected with control saline into the same target area. After training trials and microinjections, rats were allowed a 6-h period of undisturbed sleep in the polygraphic recording chamber. At the end of 6 h of undisturbed sleep-wake recordings, rats were retested in a session of avoidance learning trials. After learning trials, the total percentage of time spent in REM sleep was significantly increased in both saline (15.36%)- and carbachol (17.70%)-microinjected rats. After learning trials, REM sleep P-wave density was significantly greater throughout the 6-h period of recordings in carbachol treated rats than in the saline treated rats. In the retrial session, the improvement in learning task performance was 22.75% higher in the carbachol-microinjected rats than in the saline-microinjected rats. These findings show that the consolidation and integration of memories create a homeostatic demand for P-waves. In addition, these findings provide experimental evidence, for the first time, that activation of the P-wave generator may enhance consolidation and integration of memories, resulting in improved performance on a recently learned task.
NMDA receptor-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) at hippocampal synapses has been considered a crucial component of the cellular basis for learning and memory. This form of LTP occurs in excitatory synapses in both the CA1 area and the dentate gyrus in the hippocampus. However, differential roles of LTP in these areas have not yet been identified. To address this issue, we enhanced the degree of LTP by expressing Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptors at either hippocampal CA1 or dentate gyrus synapses using Sindbis viral vectors (SINs) encoding both green fluorescent proteins and unedited GluR2 (GluR2Q) subunits, and examined their effects on rat spatial learning. The viral vectors were locally injected into the 8-week-old-rat brain in vivo bilaterally. The postsynaptic expression of Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptors enhanced the degree of LTP, and induced NMDA receptor-independent LTP in the presence of the NMDA receptor antagonist in SIN-infected regions in both CA1 and dentate gyrus in hippocampal slice preparations. However, the regional expression of Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptors caused opposite behavioural consequences on the Morris water maze task: rats with SIN-infected CA1 pyramidal cells showed shorter escape latency and better probe test performance, whereas those with SIN-infected dentate gyrus granule cells showed impaired performance. Thus, it was demonstrated that CA1 and dentate gyrus synapses play different functional roles in spatial learning despite their similar mechanism for LTP induction.
Acetylcholine (ACh) release within the basal forebrain changes significantly as a function of sleep and wakefulness, hence identifying the neurochemical modulators of basal forebrain ACh release will contribute to a mechanistic understanding of sleep cycle regulation. This study tested the hypothesis that muscarinic and gamma aminobutyric acid(A) (GABAA) receptors modulate basal forebrain ACh release. Cats were anaesthetized with halothane to hold arousal state constant and a microdialysis probe was aimed stereotaxically for the substantia innominata region of the basal forebrain. Four concentrations of the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (0.1, 0.3, 1.0, and 10 nm) and five concentrations of the GABAA antagonist bicuculline (3, 10, 30, 100, and 300 micro m) were delivered by reverse dialysis from the same probes used to collect ACh. These results are based on 27 experiments in nine animals. Scopolamine and bicuculline each caused a concentration dependent enhancement of ACh release. Scopolamine increased ACh by 118% above control levels whereas bicuculline was more effective, causing a 287% increase in ACh release. Scopolamine was more potent (EC50 = 0.16 nm) than bicuculline (EC50 &gt; or = 90 micro m) for increasing ACh release. The results support the hypothesis that substantia innominata ACh release is modulated by muscarinic autoreceptors and inhibited by GABAA receptors. These findings are consistent with the interpretation that inhibition of basal forebrain cholinergic neurotransmission by GABA contributes to the generation of sleep.
The trigeminal principal sensory nucleus (NVsnpr) contains both trigemino-thalamic neurons and interneurons projecting to the reticular formation and brainstem motor nuclei. Here we describe the inputs and patterns of firing of NVsnpr neurons during fictive mastication in anaesthetized and paralysed rabbits to determine the role that NVsnpr may play in patterning mastication. Of the 272 neurons recorded in NVsnpr, 107 changed their firing patterns during repetitive stimulation of the left or right sensorimotor cortex to induce fictive mastication. Thirty increased their firing tonically. Seventy-seven became rhythmically active, but only 31 fired in phase with mastication. The others discharged in bursts at more than twice the frequency of trigeminal motoneurons. Most rhythmic masticatory neurons were concentrated in the dorsal part, and those which fired during the jaw closing phase of the cycle were confined to the anterior pole of the nucleus. Most of these cells had inputs from muscle spindle afferents, whereas most of those firing during jaw opening had inputs from periodontal receptors. Non-masticatory rhythmical neurons had receptive fields on the lips and face. The majority of rhythmical masticatory units were modulated during fictive mastication evoked by both the left and right cortices and only four changed their phase of firing when switching from one cortex to the other. When coupled with the finding that NVsnpr neurons exhibit spontaneous bursting in vitro[Sandler et al. (1998) Neuroscience, 83, 891], the results described here suggest that neurons of dorsal NVsnpr may form the core of the central pattern generator for mastication.
Cholinergic striatal interneurons play a crucial role in cognitive aspects of context-dependent motor behaviours. They are considered to correspond to the tonically active neurons (TANs) of the primate striatum, which phasically decrease their discharge at the presentation of reward-related sensory stimuli. The origin of this response is still poorly understood. Therefore, in the present paper, we have investigated whether synaptic changes establish in cholinergic interneurons from young rats that have learned a rewarded, externally cued sensorimotor task. Corticostriatal slices were prepared from both control and trained rats. No significant change in intrinsic membrane properties and evoked synaptic activity was observed in cholinergic interneurons, nor the responsiveness to exogenously applied dopaminergic and glutamatergic agonists was modified. Conversely, an increased occurrence of spontaneous bicuculline-sensitive depolarizing postsynaptic potentials (sDPSP) was recorded. The frequency of the GABAA-mediated sDPSP was increased in comparison to not-conditioned rats. Overall, these results suggest that after learning a rewarded sensorimotor paradigm an increased GABA influence develops on cholinergic interneurons. The origin of this effect might be searched in collaterals of GABAergic output spiny neurons as well as in GABAergic striatal interneurons impinging onto cholinergic interneurons. This intrastriatal mechanism might be involved in the phasic suppression of discharge of TANs at the presentation of reward-related sensory stimuli.
Monocular deprivation in mice between postnatal days 19 and 32 has been reported to significantly shift ocular dominance within the binocular region of primary visual cortex; however, it is not known whether visual deprivation in mice during this physiologically defined critical period also results in amblyopia, as it does in other mammals. We addressed this uncertainty by psychophysically assessing in adulthood (postnatal day 70 or older) the grating acuity of normal and monocularly deprived mice, using the Visual Water Task. The visual acuity of mice tested with their nondeprived eyes was equivalent to that of normal mice ( approximately 0.5 cycles/degree); however, acuity measured with eyes monocularly deprived of vision transiently between postnatal days 19 and 32 was reduced by over 30% ( approximately 0.31 cycles/degree). Identical binocular deprivation produced a significant, but smaller, decrease in acuity ( approximately 0.38 cycles/degree). The effects of monocular and binocular deprivation were long lasting and occurred only if visual deprivation occurred between postnatal days 19 and 32. These data indicate that the deleterious effects of early visual deprivation on visual acuity in mice are similar to those reported in other mammals, and together with electrophysiological evidence of ocular dominance plasticity, suggest that the mechanisms of mouse visual plasticity are fundamentally the same as that in other mammals. Therefore, the mouse is probably a good model for investigating the basic cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying visual developmental plasticity and amblyopia.
In rat fetuses, neurons generated in the lower rhombic lip on embryonic day 14 (E14) specifically express the transcription factor Pax-6 and migrate circumferentially in the subpial region along axons which are immunoreactive for TAG-1, a neural cell adhesion molecule. These neurons ultimately settle from E17 in the contralateral medulla oblongata to form the precerebellar nuclei, the lateral reticular and external cuneate nuclei. We have examined this migratory process in rat small eye (rSey2) which has a mutation in the Pax-6 gene. Both the migration and settlement of neurons labelled with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) at E14 delayed in the mutant. Furthermore, in the ventrolateral part of the E16 mutant medulla oblongata, cells both expressing Pax-6 mRNA and prelabelled with BrdU at E14 were ectopically localized in the deep zone of the medullary parenchyma in addition to the normal subpial location. These ectopic neurons remained in close contact with ectopic TAG-1-immunoreactive axons. These results indicate that Pax-6 plays a role in the migration of medullary precerebellar neurons, although neurons generated in the lower rhombic lip can nevertheless migrate and settle to form the external cuneate nucleus in the absence of Pax-6.
Our previous study demonstrated GABAergic and glycinergic synapses onto neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1R)-immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the pre-Btzinger complex (pre-BtC), the hypothesized kernel of normal respiratory rhythmogenesis. In the present study, we aimed to identify glutamatergic synapses onto NK1R-ir pre-BtC neurons, as excitatory synaptic transmission is a prerequisite to normal respiratory rhythmogenesis. Two types of vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUT), VGLUT1 and VGLUT2, have been recently implicated in glutamate-mediated transmission. The present study used immunofluorescence and immunogold-silver staining to determine the relationship between the transporters and NK1R-ir neurons in the pre-BtC of adult rats. Under the confocal laser-scanning microscope, VGLUT2-ir boutons were found to be widely distributed in the pre-BtC, some of which were in close apposition to NK1R-ir somas and dendrites. VGLUT1-ir boutons were relatively rare and only a few were found to be in close apposition to NK1R-ir somas and dendrites. Electron microscopic observation revealed that approximately 41% of VGLUT2-ir terminals were in close apposition to, or made asymmetric synapses with NK1R-ir somas and dendrites in the pre-BtC. On the other hand, 50.5% of NK1R-ir dendrites were closely apposed to, or synapsed with VGLUT2-ir terminals. Occasionally, VGLUT1-ir terminals were found in close apposition to NK1R-ir somas or dendrites, but we were unable to identify synapses between them. The present findings provide the morphological basis for excitatory synaptic inputs onto NK1R-ir neurons in the pre-BtC. VGLUT2 may be involved in a dominant excitatory synaptic pathway for normal respiratory rhythmogenesis.

Thomas Willis (1621-1675) was the founder of modern clinical neuroscience. His habit of taking detailed histories with acute clinical observation often accompanied by post mortem studies has left a body of work which still provokes thought and debate. While we were considering a case of pituitary tumour described by Willis, a similar case presented coincidentally at our hospital. The two cases are compared and contrasted.

The aim of present study was to characterize the in vitro and in vivo pharmacological effects of YC-1 (3-(5'-hydroxymethyl-2'-furyl)-1-benzyl indazole), a soluble guanylate cyclase activator, on corpus cavernosal smooth muscle and penile erectile activity. YC-1 relaxed phenylephrine precontracted cavernosal smooth muscle (EC(50)=4.4 microM) and this effect was partially antagonized by 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazole [4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ). ODQ is a selective soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitor that completely blocked the relaxation induced by sodium nitroprusside, suggesting that YC-1 binds to soluble guanylate cyclase at a different site from nitric oxide (NO). Both YC-1 and sodium nitroprusside, but not sildenafil (1-100 microM) caused concentration-dependent increases in cyclic GMP levels in cultured rabbit cavernosal smooth muscle cells and produced synergistic effects. Intraperitoneal administration of YC-1 (10 micromol/kg) evoked penile erection in rats with 70% incidence. More importantly, YC-1 was able to significantly augment the pro-erectile effects of a suboptimal dose of apomorphine. These results suggest that the soluble guanylate cyclase activator YC-1 increases cyclic GMP levels, leading to relaxation of cavernosal smooth muscle. These biochemical events may be related to the pro-erectile properties of YC-1 in vivo.
The electrodiagnosis of peripheral neuropathy is often based on nerve conduction abnormalities in sensory nerves of the lower extremities. We performed nerve conduction studies of the deep peroneal sensory nerve prospectively in 63 limbs of 38 normal subjects. The sensory amplitudes showed a decreasing trend with increasing age. 21% of subjects had absent sensory potentials, especially those in the older age groups. This was seen in contrast with superficial peroneal and sural potentials, which were universally present. Although the deep peroneal sensory nerve is located in the distal lower limb, it should be used with caution in evaluating peripheral neuropathy, in view of the frequent occurrence of absent potentials even in asymptomatic normal subjects.
We examined 29 patients with chronic progressive ganglionopathy of different etiology. Neurophysiological abnormalities were dominated by a widespread decrease in sensory nerve action potential amplitudes, which involved both upper and lower limb nerves, even in patients with asymmetrical or patchy clinical presentation. This impairment of sensory nerve conduction, reflecting a nonlenght-dependent pattern of peripheral axon degeneration, should be considered the hallmark of ganglionopathies. The evidence of central sensory pathway impairment, which allows to localize the pathology to the dorsal root ganglion neurons, could be better confirmed by cervical magnetic resonance imaging, which showed a diffuse hyperintensity in the posterior columns in all patients, than by somatosensory evoked potentials, which were undetectable in most of the patients. Few patients showed an impairment of individual motor nerves, which appeared more severe in paraneoplastic associated ganglionopathies. Neurophysiological abnormalities did not appear significantly changed at the 4-year follow-up. We emphasize that distinct abnormalities allow to differentiate ganglionopathies from axonal sensory neuropathies on routine neurophysiological examination.

Familial idiopathic brain calcification (FIBC) is a rare disorder characterised by autosomal dominant transmission, adult onset cerebellar and/or extrapyramidal features and idiopathic calcification of the brain. We present a family with FIBC where pathological studies showed that the proband had alpha-synuclein-immunopositive glial and neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions in oligodendrocytes in the putamen, midbrain and pons. This may represent a new and familial alpha-synuclein disorder causing a predominantly extrapyramidal picture similar to multisystem atrophy.
Imbalances in the midbrain monoaminergic systems have been implicated to play a role in neuropsychiatric conditions. Several genes in these systems have binding sites for transcription factor activating protein-2 (AP-2) in their regulatory regions. Thus, AP-2 may be a factor controlling the expression of genes in the monoaminergic systems important for maintaining normal psychiatric functions. The present study indicates that subchronic treatment with the antidepressant citalopram induces time-dependent changes in DNA-binding activity and levels of transcription factor AP-2 in rat whole brain. Rats were treated with citalopram (10 mg/kg) for 1, 3, 7 and 21 days. Animals treated for 7 days had significantly decreased DNA-binding activity and levels of AP-2 alpha and AP-2 beta isoforms when compared to saline-treated animals. There was no observed difference between citalopram- and saline-treated animals after 21 days. Elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying mental disorders is important for future drug development, where transcription factors might be important drug targets.

In a cross-sectional study, Jorm and colleagues (1993. Personality and Individual Differences, 15, 721-723) found that neuroticism was related to poorer cognitive performance in the elderly. The present study was initiated to expand their findings using both cross-sectional and longitudinal data from the Maastricht Aging Study. In contrast to the findings of Jorm and coworkers, neuroticism was not associated with either current cognitive performance or cognitive decline over a period of 3 years.
The authors studied the physiological and behavioral responses during sexual behavior in female rats. For this purpose, electrocardiographs were recoded from conscious and unrestrained females using a radiotelemetry system. Heart rate during sexual behavior rose sharply following the introduction of a sexually active male, displayed a peak level of 425 bpm during male ejaculation, and then rapidly decreased. This pattern of heart rate in females before and after receiving ejaculation was similar to that in males before and after ejaculation. In the rate of decrease in heart rate, however, there was a significant difference between females and males. The present study is the first to show changes of heart rate during sexual behavior in female rats.
When subjects stand at the center of a fully enclosed room that is rotating at constant velocity, their natural postural sway generates Coriolis forces that destabilize their center of mass and head. We quantitatively assessed how exposure to constant velocity rotation at 10 rpm affected postural control. Twelve subjects stood in a heel-to-toe stance in the rotating room. Each test session involved three phases: (1) pre-rotation, (2) per-rotation, and (3) post-rotation. In each phase, subjects were tested in both eyes open and eyes closed conditions. Four measures were used to characterize center of mass movement and head movement: mean sway amplitude, total power, mean power frequency, and frequency of maximum power. Each measure was computed for anterior-posterior and medial-lateral sway. Both anterior-posterior and medial-lateral head and center of mass sway during rotation had significantly greater mean sway amplitude and total power compared with pre- and post-rotation values. Mean power frequency and frequency of maximum power were little affected. Eyes open conditions were significantly more stable in all test phases than eyes-closed, but vision did not completely suppress the effects of rotation. The greatest effect of rotation was in the eyes-closed condition with mean sway amplitude and total power increasing more than twofold. Inverted pendulum sway was maintained in all phases of both test conditions. No aftereffects of rotation were present after the four 25-s exposures each subject received. We expect that with longer exposure periods and with active generation of body sway subjects would both adapt to rotation and exhibit post-rotary aftereffects.
We studied remote effects of teeth clenching on motor cortical and spinal cord excitability using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), brainstem electrical stimulation (BES), and ulnar nerve stimulation (F-wave) in eight normal volunteers. The TMS, BES, and ulnar nerve stimulation at the wrist were given at different intervals (0-200 ms) after the onset of masseter contraction. Surface electromyographic responses were recorded from the first dorsal interosseous muscle. Responses at different intervals were compared with the response elicited when the subject made no teeth clenching (control response). In TMS, conditioned responses (during teeth clenching) were significantly larger than the control at all intervals. In contrast, in BES and F-waves, conditioned responses were not larger than the control at an early phase (intervals shorter than 50 ms), whereas they were larger than the control at later intervals (longer than 50 ms). These results suggest that facilitation occurs in the hand motor area at the early phase of teeth clenching, and spinal facilitation dominates at its late phase. This time course of facilitation may indicate that the motor cortex must regulate hand muscles finely at the early phase of teeth clenching, and spinal cord may stabilize them firmly at the late phase. The excitability changes of the hand motor area may be in parallel with that of the masseter motor area which reflects the pattern of masseter contraction when the subject activates the masseter muscle phasically at the early phase and sustains that contraction at the late phase.
The three pairs of semicircular canals within the labyrinth are not perfectly aligned with the pulling directions of the six extraocular muscles. Therefore, for a given head movement, the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) depends upon central neural mechanisms that couple the canals to the muscles with the appropriate functional gains in order to generate a response that rotates the eye the correct amount and around the correct axis. A consequence of these neural connections is a cross-axis adaptive capability, which can be stimulated experimentally when head rotation is around one axis and visual motion about another. From this visual-vestibular conflict the brain infers that the slow-phase eye movement is rotating around the wrong axis. We explored the capability of human cross-axis adaptation, using a short-term training paradigm, to determine if torsional eye movements could be elicited by yaw (horizontal) head rotation (where torsion is normally inappropriate). We applied yaw sinusoidal head rotation (+/-10 degrees, 0.33 Hz) and measured eye movement responses in the dark, and before and after adaptation. The adaptation paradigm lasted 45-60 min, and consisted of the identical head motion, coupled with a moving visual scene that required one of several types of eye movements: (1) torsion alone (-Roll); (2) horizontal/torsional, head right/CW torsion (Yaw-Roll); (3) horizontal/torsional, head right/CCW torsion (Yaw+Roll); (4) horizontal, vertical, torsional combined (Yaw+Pitch-Roll); and (5) horizontal and vertical together (Yaw+Pitch). The largest and most significant changes in torsional amplitude occurred in the Yaw-Roll and Yaw+Roll conditions. We conclude that short-term, cross-axis adaptation of torsion is possible but constrained by the complexity of the adaptation task: smaller torsional components are produced if more than one cross-coupling component is required. In contrast, vertical cross-axis components can be easily trained to occur with yaw head movements.
Human subjects can readily adapt their movement trajectories to different dynamic or visuomotor environments. The focus of the current study was to determine whether subjects could simultaneously adapt to multiple dynamic environments. Subjects ( n=5) drew ellipses continuously for 70 s using a torquable manipulandum under six distinct dynamic conditions, representing the combination of load type (spring, viscous, and inertia) and load direction (assisting and opposing). Each subject performed two control, ten load, and five washout trials. A significant effect of force condition on the trajectory of the movement was found in 26 of 30 cases (6 conditions x 5 subjects); the magnitude of the distortion differed across the conditions. The extent of adaptation also differed across the loads. Opposing inertia and viscosity led to fast adaptation. However, assisting inertia and viscosity were associated with relatively slow adaptation. The results of adaptation to the stiffness conditions were not consistent. Following sudden removal of the load we saw an additional disturbance of the trajectory (after-effect), which was often the mirror image of the original distortion. The shape and size of the after-effect were different across load conditions. These results show that human subjects can adapt to a variety of different dynamic transformations and that the time-course of adaptation is dependent on both the state space and the direction of the load.
In the last decade, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been used increasingly as a tool to explore the mechanisms and consequences of cortical plasticity in the intact human cortex. Because the spatial accuracy of the technique is limited, we refer to this as plasticity at a regional level. Currently, TMS is used to explore regional reorganization in three different ways. First, it can map changes in the pattern of connectivity within and between different cortical areas or their spinal projections. Important examples of this approach can be found in the work on motor cortex representations following a variety of interventions such as immobilization, skill acquisition, or stroke. Second, TMS can be used to investigate the behavioural relevance of these changes. By applying TMS in its &quot;virtual lesion&quot; mode, it is possible to interfere with cortical function and ask whether plastic reorganization within a distinct cortical area improves function. Third, TMS can be used to promote changes in cortical function. This is achieved by using repetitive TMS (rTMS) to induce short-term functional reorganization in the human cortex. The magnitude and the direction of rTMS-induced plasticity depend on extrinsic factors (i.e. the variables of stimulation such as intensity, frequency, and total number of stimuli) and intrinsic factors (i.e. the functional state of the cortex targeted by rTMS). Since conditioning effects of rTMS are not limited to the stimulated cortex but give rise to functional changes in interconnected cortical areas, rTMS is a suitable tool to investigate plasticity within a distributed functional network. Indeed, the lasting effects of rTMS offer new possibilities to study dynamic aspects of the pathophysiology of a variety of diseases and may have therapeutic potential in some neuropsychiatric disorders.
Over the past three decades, research exploring potential neuronal replacement therapies have focused on replacing lost neurons by transplanting cells or grafting tissue into diseased regions of the brain. Over most of the past century of modern neuroscience, it was thought that the adult brain was completely incapable of generating new neurons. However, in the last decade, the development of new techniques has resulted in an explosion of new research showing that neurogenesis, the birth of new neurons, normally occurs in two limited and specific regions of the adult mammalian brain, and that there are significant numbers of multipotent neural precursors in many parts of the adult mammalian brain. Recent findings from our lab demonstrate that it is possible to induce neurogenesis de novo in the adult mammalian brain, particularly in the neocortex where it does not normally occur, and that it may become possible to manipulate endogenous multipotent precursors in situ to replace lost or damaged neurons. Recruitment of new neurons can be induced in a region-specific, layer-specific, and neuronal type-specific manner, and newly recruited neurons can form long-distance connections to appropriate targets. Elucidation of the relevant molecular controls may both allow control over transplanted precursor cells and potentially allow the development of neuronal replacement therapies for neurodegenerative disease and other CNS injuries that do not require transplantation of exogenous cells.
Aging may be viewed as a progressive loss of normal biological function. Due to complex genetic and environmental interactions, the sequence of functional impairment shows a high degree of individual variability. In humans life style and health care have an additional influence on the aging process. To study aging and age-related disorders of the human nervous system, brain tissue that has undergone aging and pathological alterations can provide valuable study material. Recently, we have shown that adult human postmortem brain tissue can be cultured and experimentally manipulated. This approach permits the study of cellular aspects of human neuronal aging and neurodegenerative processes and complements those existing research methods such as in vivo imaging (MRI, PET, etc.) and fixed or frozen postmortem brain tissue examination.
Neurostereology has been applied to quantitative anatomical study of the human brain. Such studies have included the total neocortical number of neurons and glial cells, the estimated size distribution of neocortical neurons, the total myelinated fiber length in the brain white matter, the total number of synapses in the neocortex, and the effect of normal aging on these structural elements. The difference in total number of neurons was found to be less than 10% over the age range from 20 to 90 years, while the glial cell number in six elderly individuals, mean age 89.2 years, showed an average number of 36 billion glial cells, which was not statistically significantly different from the 39 billion glial cells in the neocortex of six young individuals with a mean age of 26.2 years. The total myelinated fiber length varied from 150,000 to 180,000 km in young individuals and showed a large reduction as a function of age. The total number of synapses in the human neocortex is approximately 0.15 x 10(15) (0.15 quadrillion). Although the effect of aging is seen in all estimated structural elements, the effect of sex is actually higher. The functional relevance of these differences in neuron numbers in both age and gender is not known.
Unlike primates who undergo ovarian failure and loss of sex steroids at the end of reproduction, aging rodents undergo constant vaginal estrus followed by constant diestrus and finally anestrus, which indicates the absence of responsive ovarian follicles. The latter state is analogous to menopause in women. The timing of the appearance of constant estrus is determined by many factors including estrogen exposure in the brain during development and the number of times that the animal gets pregnant. The chief site of this reproductive aging in rat brains is the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. The transition from normal cycles to constant estrus parallels the females' gradually decreased ability to respond to administered estradiol with a cycle of inhibition followed by disinhibition of gonadotrophin-releasing hormone. Evidence has accumulated indicating this to be due to a loss of the rat's ability to respond to markedly elevated estradiol with the usual arcuate nucleus neuro-glial plasticity that supports the estrogen-induced gonadotrophin surge (EIGS). Just as male rats are not capable of an EIGS, aged females loose this ability through repeated EIGS. Experiments indicate that in male rats the hypothalamic synaptology that develops as a result of exposure to testicular androgens in the perinatal period (brain sexual differentiation) is a result of conversion of testosterone from the testes to estrogen in the brain and is therefore due to early estrogen exposure. Aging females appear to reach a synaptology similar to males and constant estrus as a result of repeated exposure to ovarian estrogens during their reproductive careers. The relative role of aging and hormonal factors remains unclear. Morphological evidence is presented that indicates the above effects of estrogen involve changes in hypothalamic arcuate nucleus neurons and glia, including changes in the organization of perikaryal membranes as well as arcuate nucleus synaptology and the load of peroxidase in the astroglia. A possible role for free radicals (reactive oxygen species) in hypothalamic reproductive aging has been proposed. Such a mechanism is supported by evidence that the anti-oxidant vitamin E delays the onset of constant estrus and the accumulation of glial peroxidase in aging female rats. However, since the synaptology and peroxidase load in constant estrus females is independent of the age at which the constant estrus occurs, it appears that the role of (repeated) estradiol exposure is more deterministic of hypothalamic failure than is aging, per se.
The present study was carried out to investigate whether estrogen modulates the drinking response induced by activation of angiotensinergic neural pathways from the subfornical organ (SFO) to the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO). Microinjection of angiotensin II (ANG II, 10(-10) M, 0.2 microl) into the SFO elicited drinking in ovariectomized (OVX) female rats that were treated with either propylene glycol (PG) vehicle or estrogen benzoate (EB). The amount of water intake induced by the ANG II injection was significantly greater in the PG-treated than in the EB-treated animals. In both groups of female rats, previous injections of saralasin (Sar, 10(-10) M, 0.2 microl), a specific ANG II antagonist, into the MnPO resulted in the significant attenuation of the drinking response to ANG II, showing that the ANG II-induced drinking response may be mediated in part by the angiotensinergic SFO projections to the MnPO. Injections of ANG II (10(-10) M, 0.2 microl) into the MnPO caused drinking in both groups, while no significant difference was found between the groups in the amount of water intake. These results suggest that increases in the circulating level of estrogen may attenuate the drinking response induced by ANG II activation of the SFO projections to the MnPO.
Previous studies have demonstrated that seizures are potent inducers of mitotic activity in the rodent hippocampus. The role of this mitotic activity in epileptogenesis currently remains unknown. In the present study, we investigated the effect of alterations in hippocampal mitotic activity on changes in seizure threshold and phenotype using flurothyl kindling. In flurothyl kindling, eight repeated flurothyl-induced generalized forebrain (clonic) seizures result in a rapid, progressive, and permanent lowering of the generalized seizure threshold in mice and in a slowly evolving increase in the percentage of animals expressing forebrain-brain stem (clonic-tonic) seizures when reexposed to flurothyl following a 2- to 4-week stimulation-free period. Therefore, flurothyl kindling serves as an excellent model for evaluating mechanisms of generalized seizure threshold and seizure propagation. To investigate this relationship between hippocampal mitotic activity and epileptogenesis, mice were given brain irradiation, focused mainly on the hippocampus, bilaterally, and were exposed to the flurothyl kindling model of epileptogenesis. Brain irradiation virtually eliminated all basal and seizure-induced mitotic activity in the hippocampal dentate gyrus of mice. In addition, animals that underwent irradiation and flurothyl kindling did not differ from control mice on measures of seizure threshold (threshold induction and maintenance) and seizure phenotype. Overall, these results suggest that seizure-induced increases in mitotic activity in the hippocampal dentate gyrus are not directly related to the processes that underlie the shift in behavioral seizure phenotype or in either the induction or the maintenance of lowered seizure threshold that is observed in this flurothyl model of epileptogenesis.
Using a rat brain slice preparation, we investigated the role of energy impairment on the selective loss of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra (SN). Brain slices (400 microm) were incubated at 35 degrees C for 2 h in the presence or absence of mitochondrial complex inhibitors, rotenone, MPP+, 3-nitropropionic acid, and antimycin A. Slices were also incubated in rotenone with excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptor antagonists, MK-801 and CNQX, to determine whether rotenone-induced damage was mediated by EAAs. The slices were then fixed, recut into 30-microm sections, and immunolabeled for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) to identify catecholamine neurons and to quantify loss of TH-labeled dendrites after treatment. Quantitative comparison was made between SN dopamine neurons, in which rotenone-induced dendrite loss was severe, and hypothalamic A11 dopamine neurons, which were spared. Adjacent sections that were immunolabeled for calbindin or stained with cresyl violet also revealed a striking dendritic degeneration of SN neurons in rotenone-exposed slices, whereas noncatecholamine neurons, such as those in the perifornical nucleus (PeF), were more resistant. Preferential damage to SN dopamine neurons was also evident with other mitochondrial complex inhibitors, MPP+ and antimycin A. EAA receptor antagonists provided partial protection to SN neurons in slices incubated with rotenone (3 microM). The particular vulnerability of SN dopamine neurons in the slice is consistent with the vulnerability of SN in Parkinson's disease. The selective effect of mitochondrial complex inhibition in SN dopamine neurons implies a fundamental deficit in the capacity of these neurons to defend against toxic insult.
It has been reported recently that the immunosuppressant FK506 produced neurotrophic and neuroprotective effects on dopaminergic neurons in vitro and in vivo. We investigated whether tripchlorolide, an immunosuppressive extract of Chinese herb Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F, could exert similar neurotrophic and neuroprotective effects similar to those of FK506. It was found that tripchlorolide promoted axonal elongation and protected dopaminergic neurons from a neurotoxic lesion induced by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) at concentrations of as low as 10(-12) to 10(-8) M. In situ hybridization study revealed that tripchlorolide stimulated brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA expression. In vivo administration of tripchlorolide (1 microg/kg, ip) for 28 days effectively attenuated the rotational behavior challenged by D-amphetamine in the model rats by transection of the medial forebrain bundle. In addition, tripchlorolide treatment (0.5 or 1 microg/kg/day for 28 days) increased the survival of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta by 50 and 67%, respectively. Moreover, tripchlorolide markedly prevented the decrease in amount of dopamine in the striatum of model rats. Taken together, our data provide the first evidence that tripchlorolide acts as a neuroprotective molecule that rescues MPP+ or axotomy-induced degeneration of dopaminergic neurons, which may imply its therapeutic potential for Parkinson's disease. The underlying mechanism may be relevant to its neurotrophic effect and its efficacy in stimulating the expression of BDNF.


Rigid lens fitting has been an integral part of contact lens practice for decades. However, rigid lens fitting has been constantly declining since soft lenses were introduced in the 1970s to whereby, world wide, rigid lenses constitute less than 10% of new contact lens fits. It seems that many practitioners correctly or incorrectly believe that rigid lenses only need to be prescribed in specialized or extenuating circumstances. This discussion article examines the international decline in rigid lens fitting and seeks to explain the cause of this trend. I conclude that rigid lenses will be virtually obsolete by the year 2010.

Injection of the glutamate agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) into the vitreous body of rats resulted in severe degeneration of neurons in the retina, with a loss of 81% of ganglion cells and 43% of non-ganglion cells. The cocktail EM-X is a novel antioxidant drink derived from ferment of unpolished rice, papaya and sea-weeds with effective microorganisms (EM-X). In animals treated with an intraperitoneal injection of EM-X, the loss of ganglion cells was reduced to 55% and that of non-ganglion cells to 34% when compared to untreated NMDA-injected retinas. Cell degeneration resulting from NMDA excitotoxicity, is thought to be mediated via oxidative stress mechanisms. The neuroprotective effect of the EM-X in this system is therefore likely to be due, at least in part, to its flavonoids, saponins, vitamin E and ascorbic content.
Receptor protein tyrosine phosphatases (RPTPs) are structurally characterized by the diversity of their extracellular domains (ECDs). These domains display Ig-like, fibronectin type III (FNIII), MAM (meprin, A5, PTPmu), and carbonic anhydrase (CAH) motifs that resemble those present in many cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). However, in contrast to most CAMs, RPTPs also contain an intracellular domain possessing phosphatase activity. This combination makes RPTPs unusual in their ability to directly couple extracellular adhesion mediated events to intracellular signaling pathways. Even though identifying physiologically relevant ligands for RPTPs has proven difficult, recent experiments have shown that RPTPs can bind to themselves (homophilic) as well as to other proteins (heterophilic). For example, the type IIb RPTP, PTPmu? acts as a homophilic cell adhesion protein for epithelial and neural cells while the type V RPTP, PTPbeta/zeta binds a variety of CAMs and ECM components such as N-CAM and pleiotrophin. Interestingly, both PTPmu and PTPbeta/zeta interact with and regulate the tyrosine phosphorylation level of catenins, which are critical in physiological and pathological events such as cell migration, adhesion and transformation. In addition to their role as CAMs, RPTPs directly interact with intracellular adhesion regulators such as the cadherin/catenin complex, p130cas and GIT1. In summary, RPTPs represent a diverse family of transmembrane proteins that act as adhesion receptors and directly translate this engagement into intracellular signaling by modulating phosphotyrosine levels. Discovering the specific roles of RPTPs as receptors and identifying their ligands may lead to a better understanding of human illnesses whose underlying mechanisms involve cellular adhesion.
The matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family plays an important role in the degradation of extracellular matrix (ECM) in various physiological and pathological conditions. Accumulated evidence has suggested that MMPs contribute to cancer cell invasion of the surrounding normal tissues and metastasis through the cell-surface ECM degradation. Strong correlations have been reported between elevated MMP levels and tumor cell invasiveness in human gliomas. Among them, attention has been focused on gelatinases (MMP-2 and MMP-9) and membrane type MMPs (MT-MMPs). We discuss here the biological significance of these MMPs in the glioblastoma invasion processes. A better understanding of cell-ECM interactions will help in developing therapeutic strategies to decrease the invasion of gliomas.
The family of ryanodine receptor (RyR) genes encodes three highly related Ca2+ release channels: RyR1, RyR2 and RyR3. Until about 10 years ago, RyRs were essentially known only for being the Ca2+ release channels of the sarcoplasmic reticulum of striated muscles, because of the high levels of expression of the RyR1 and RyR2 isoforms in skeletal and cardiac muscles, respectively. In contrast with the above picture, the RyR3 gene has been found not to be preferentially expressed in one specific tissue, but rather to be widely expressed in various cells. This wide expression pattern has been subsequently observed also for the RyR1 and RyR2 genes, which in addition to their preferential expression in striated muscles, have been found expressed also in several other cell types, although at lower levels than in striated muscles. Thus a closer look reveals that in several cells of vertebrates two or even three RyR isoforms can be co-expressed. In this chapter we will review published work on the RyR3 gene and discuss a model where co-expression of different RyR channel isoforms is interpreted as an evolutionary solution to provide, by functional interactions of distinct isoforms of Ca2+ release channels, the several types of vertebrate cells with the cell-specific Ca2+ release machinery required for generating the sophisticated intracellular Ca2+ signals needed for optimal regulation of their functions.
Patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) often exhibit psychotic symptoms associated with cognitive impairment. A few association studies have been carried out to determine if the serotonin transporter and receptor genes are potential risk factors for AD and/or associated psychopathology. The aim of this study was to investigate the association of a serotonin transporter gene-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) and the 5-HT2A receptor T102C polymorphism with the risk of developing dementia and/or psychotic symptoms in a group of sporadic AD patients from Italy. No significant differences in the distribution of allele and genotype frequencies of 5-HTTLPR and 5-HT2A T102C were found between patient and control groups. However, a significant association between the C102/C102 5-HT2A genotype and psychotic symptoms (p &lt; 0.001) was observed. Our data strongly confirm results from previous studies suggesting that the C102 allele of the 5-HT2A receptor is associated with the occurrence of psychotic symptoms in AD. On the contrary, the serotonin transporter does not appear to be a major susceptibility factor in the pathophysiology of the disease.
A draft sequence of the compact genome of the sea squirt Ciona intestinalis, a non-vertebrate chordate that diverged very early from other chordates, including vertebrates, illuminates how chordates originated and how vertebrate developmental innovations evolved.
We isolated a mouse cDNA encoding APEX2 protein and demonstrated that APEX2 binds to PCNA. The level of Apex2 mRNA was high in the thymus, bone marrow, spleen, and kidney in adult mice. Apex2 consists of six exons and is flanked on the 3' end by Alas2 on X chromosome 63.0. Furthermore, Apex2 is flanked on the 5' end by a novel gene with a 106-bp intergenic sequence. We disrupted Apex2 in embryonic stem cells derived from a male mouse, and a 55-kDa APEX2 protein was detected in the nuclei of Apex2(+) but not Apex2-disrupted cells. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed that APEX2 is also localized in the mitochondria of Apex2(+) cells. In serum-stimulated BALB/c 3T3 cells, the level of Apex2 mRNA was transiently increased and the level of APEX2 reached a maximum in the late S phase, thus indicating that APEX2 may participate in postreplicative base excision repair.
Thirteen placentas were studied from 5 normal pregnancies and 8 from pregnancies complicated by fetal growth restriction (4 with present, 3 with absent, and 1 with reversed end-diastolic velocities at Doppler interrogation of the umbilical arteries). On immunohistochemically stained slides, the diameter (d) and the wall thickness (t) of the arterial vasculature of the stem villi were measured for a total of approximately 10,000 vessels. A multivariate 'mixed effect model' statistical analysis was performed using d and t as dependent variables and gestational age, delivery mode, fetal and placental weight, the degree of vascular collapse and Doppler blood flow patterns as independent variables. Gestational age, Doppler pattern and the degree of vascular collapse significantly affected both d and t, the mode of delivery influenced d while fetal and placental weights scarcely affected the dependent variables. The above parameters should therefore be taken into account when investigating placental stem vessel morphometry.


The quality of leadership is usually assessed in terms of business performance, which is reflected in expenditure and revenue figures. Although cost efficiency becomes an ever more important factor in healthcare, financial revenue is not the only defining factor for quality of leadership in a business where the consequence of failure may be deadly in the true sense of the word. Moreover, since &quot;health&quot; and &quot;well-being&quot; are both complex issues involving a variety of psychological variables, customer satisfaction in this field is not always strictly related to the quality of the delivered care. This difficulty in the definition of an accomplished leader in healthcare may have added to the negligence in developing leadership in this field.
Neurons providing connections between the deep and superficial layers of the entorhinal cortex (EC) constitute a pivotal link in the network underlying reverberation and gating of neuronal activity in the entorhinal-hippocampal system. To learn more of these deep-to-superficial neurons and their targets, we applied the tracer Neurobiotin pericellularly in layer V of the medial EC of 12 rats. Labeled axons in the superficial layers were studied with light and electron microscopy, and their synaptic organization recorded. Neurobiotin-labeled layer V neurons displayed &quot;Golgi-like&quot; staining. Two major cell types were distinguished among these neurons: (1) pyramidal neurons with apical spiny dendrites traversing all layers and ramifying in layer I, and (2) horizontal neurons with dendrites confined to the deep layers. Labeled axons ramified profusely in layer III, superficially in layer II and deep in layer I. Analysis of labeled axon terminals in layers I-II and III showed that most synapses (95%) were asymmetrical. Of these synapses, 56% occurred with spines (presumably belonging to principal neurons) and 44% with dendritic shafts (presumably interneurons). A small fraction of the synapses (5%) was of the symmetrical type. Such synapses were mainly seen on dendritic shafts. We found in two sections a symmetrical synapse on a spine. These findings suggest that the deep to superficial projection is mainly excitatory in nature, and that these fibers subserve both excitation and feed-forward inhibition. There is an additional, much weaker, inhibitory component in this projection, which may have a disinhibitory effect on the entorhinal network in the superficial layers.
Individuals with Down syndrome (DS) develop the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease at an early age, later followed by memory decline and dementia. Women with DS are twice as likely to undergo early menopause, and levels of estradiol correlate with onset of cognitive decline in these women. We have demonstrated that a mouse model of DS, mice with segmental trisomy of chromosome 16 (Ts65Dn), develop a significant deficit in both reference and working memory as young adults (6-10 months of age), coupled with phenotypic loss of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain and altered growth factor levels. In the present study we examined cholinergic and dendritic markers in the hippocampal formation and levels of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) in different brain regions of Ts65Dn mice treated with estradiol for 60 days. The density of the dendritic marker Map2 was significantly decreased in the hippocampal formation of middle-aged trisomic mice (9-15 months old), and the density of cholinergic neurites (acetylcholinesterase [AChE] histochemistry) was also decreased in specific layers of the hippocampus. Treatment with 17beta-estradiol alleviated the decreases in Map2 and AChE staining, but had no effect on full-length APP levels in the hippocampus. In contrast, a main effect of treatment on APP levels in the striatum was noted, with significant elevations observed in controls and trisomics. These findings demonstrate that estrogen can alleviate deficits in cholinergic and dendritic elements in the hippocampal formation and further strengthens the rationale to explore estrogen replacement therapy in women with DS.
The hippocampus has been used extensively as a model to study plastic changes in the brain's neural circuitry. Immediately after high-frequency stimulation to hippocampal Schaffer collateral axons, a dramatic change occurs in the relationship between the presynaptic CA3 and the postsynaptic CA1 pyramidal neurons. For a fixed excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP), there arises an increased likelihood of action potential generation in the CA1 pyramidal neuron. This phenomenon is called EPSP-spike (E-S) potentiation. We explored E-S potentiation, using patch-clamp techniques in the hippocampal slice preparation. A specific protocol was developed to measure the action potential probability for a given synaptic strength, which allowed us to quantify the amount of E-S potentiation for a single neuron. E-S potentiation was greatest when gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic inhibition was intact, suggesting that modulation of inhibition is a major aspect of E-S potentiation. Expression of E-S potentiation also correlated with a reduced action-potential threshold, which was greatest when GABAergic inhibition was intact. Conditioning stimuli produced a smaller threshold reduction when inhibition was blocked, but some reduction also occurred in the absence of a conditioning stimulus. Together, these results suggest that E-S potentiation is caused primarily through a reduction of GABAergic inhibition, leading to larger EPSPs and reduced action potential threshold. Our findings do not rule out, however, the possibility that modulation of voltage-gated conductances also contributes to E-S potentiation.
Because of the paucity of primate experimental models, the precise molecular mechanism of ischemic neuronal death remains unknown in humans. This study focused on nonhuman primates to determine which cascade necrosis or apoptosis is predominantly involved in the development of delayed (day 5) neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 sector undergoing 20 min ischemia. We investigated expression, activation, and/or translocation of micro-calpain, lysosome-associated membrane protein-1 (LAMP-1), caspase-3, and caspase-activated DNase (CAD), as well as morphology of the postischemic CA1 neurons and DNA electrophoresis pattern. Immunoblotting showed sustained (immediately after ischemia until day 5) and maximal (day 3) activation of micro-calpain. The immunoreactivity of activated micro-calpain became remarkable as coarse granules at lysosomes on day 2, while it translocated throughout the perikarya on day 3. The immunoreactivity of LAMP-1 also showed a dynamic and concomitant translocation that was maximal on days 2-3, indicating calpain-mediated disruption of the lysosomal membrane after ischemia. In contrast, immunoblotting demonstrated essentially no increase in the activated caspase-3 at any time points after ischemia, despite upregulation of pro-caspase-3. Although expression of CAD was slightly upregulated on day 1 or 2, or both, it was much less compared with lymph node or intestine tissues. Furthermore, light and electron microscopy showed eosinophilic coagulation necrosis and membrane disruption without apoptotic body formation, while DNA electrophoresis did not show a ladder pattern, but rather a smear pattern. Sustained calpain activation and the resultant lysosomal rupture, rather than CAD-mediated apoptosis, may cause ischemic neuronal necrosis in primates.
Aging impairs the conduciveness of the lesioned hippocampus for robust survival of neurons derived from homotopic fetal cell grafts (Zaman and Shetty, Neuroscience 109:537-553, 2002), suggesting a need for graft augmentation in fetal graft-mediated therapeutic strategies for the lesioned aging hippocampus. We hypothesize that pretreatment and grafting of donor hippocampal CA3 cells with fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) considerably enhances graft neuronal integration into the lesioned CA3 region of the aging hippocampus. We employed the optical fractionator cell counting method and quantified the number of surviving cells and neurons derived from 5'-bromodoxyuridine-labeled embryonic day 19 CA3 cell grafts pre-treated and transplanted with FGF-2 into the lesioned CA3 region of the middle-aged and aged rat hippocampus at 4 days post-lesion. In both middle-aged and aged hippocampus, pre-treatment and transplantation of CA3 cell grafts with FGF-2 resulted in a robust yield of surviving cells (72-80% of injected cells) and neurons (62-69% of injected cells) from grafts. The overall yield was dramatically greater than the yield observed earlier from standard (untreated) fetal CA3 cell grafts into the lesioned aging hippocampus but was highly comparable to that observed for standard fetal CA3 cell grafts into the lesioned young hippocampus (Zaman and Shetty, Neuroscience 109:537-553, 2002). Thus, a robust neuronal integration from fetal CA3 cell grafts can be achieved into the lesioned CA3 region of the aging hippocampus with a simple pre-treatment and grafting of donor fetal CA3 cells with FGF-2. These results have implications toward the development of suitable cell grafting strategies for repair of the lesioned aging hippocampus in neurodegenerative diseases, particularly the temporal lobe epilepsy, stroke, and Alzheimer's disease.
It has been suggested previously that 30% sparing of the hippocampus is enough to support spatial learning of a reference memory task in a water maze provided the spared tissue is located septally (Moser et al. 1995, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 92:9697-9701). Therefore, the temporal hippocampus may not be involved in spatial memory. Place cells are also found in this part of the structure, and it has been suggested that these place cells have larger, less well-tuned place fields than are found in the septal hippocampus. We tested the possibility that the temporal hippocampus might be involved in spatial learning when the animals are required to distinguish between different contexts. Experiment 1 was a replication of the findings reported by Moser et al., using their protocol (8 trials/day, 6 days) and the groups with 20-40% hippocampus spared septally or temporally (volume assessed by quantitative volumetric techniques). In experiment 2, rats with also 20-40% sparing of the hippocampus either septally or temporally were trained in two water maze concurrently (four trials/day/water maze, 8 days). Rats with 20-40% hippocampus spared temporally were able to learn the two water maze tasks normally, and no difference was observed between rats with septal and temporal hippocampus spared across different measures of performance. In experiment 3, rats with 20-40% hippocampus spared septally or temporally were trained in one water maze as in experiment 1, but using a spaced training protocol similar to that of experiment 2 (four trials/day, 8 days). Rats with temporal hippocampus spared developed a preference for the training quadrant and acquired levels of performance indistinguishable from those of rats with septal hippocampus spared. The results suggest that the temporal hippocampus can support the learning of two, but also one, spatial water maze reference memory task, provided the training protocol is adequate.
The integrity of the perirhinal cortex is critical for certain types of learning and memory. One important issue relating to the function of this region is its interaction with other brain areas that play a role in memory processing. This study investigates the time course of changes in activity and protein expression of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), which transforms L-arginine into nitric oxide (NO) and citrulline, in the hippocampus and the entorhinal and postrhinal cortices after unilateral electrolytic lesions of the perirhinal cortex. Electrolytic lesions of the perirhinal cortex resulted in long lasting changes in NOS activity and protein expression in the entorhinal and postrhinal cortices (&lt; or = 2 weeks post-lesion). In contrast, there was a small and transient decrease in nNOS expression (with no change in NOS activity) in the dorsal portion of the hippocampus. iNOS was not expressed in any region examined at any time point. These findings provide the first evidence that electrolytic lesions of the perirhinal cortex can result in long-term neurochemical changes in its anatomically related structures. Given that NO has been implicated in neuroplasticity processes, the interpretation of memory impairments induced by electrolytic lesions of the perirhinal cortex (and possibly, therefore, other brain regions) need to be considered with regard to these findings.
Stimulation of a neural pathway originating in the brainstem reticular formation, with synapses in the medial hypothalamus, activates the hippocampal theta rhythm. The frequency of reticular-elicited theta is determined in the medial supramammillary nucleus (mSuM) completely in anaesthetised rats, but only partially when the animal is awake. We tested other medial hypothalamic sites for their capacity to control theta frequency in awake rats. Blockade of sodium channels (1 microl fast infusion of the local anaesthetic procaine, experiment 1) or increased inhibition by GABA (Chlordiazepoxide [CDP], experiment 2) was found to reduce or increase the frequency of reticular-elicited theta, depending on the precise site of injection, in the region of the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH) and the posterior hypothalamic nucleus (PH). A band of null sites for CDP was located in the region of the ventral border of PH and dorsal border of mSuM. Using 0.5 and 1 microl CDP, and slow infusions (experiment 3), it was found that effective PH sites were also separate from mSuM in the rostrocaudal direction. In experiment 4, the DMH/PH region was mapped with unilateral and bilateral slow infusions of 0.5 microl CDP. CDP significantly reduced frequency in medial (periventricular) and dorsal PH, but not DMH. Bilateral injections appeared to generally sum the usual effects of unilateral injection, producing effects of intermediate size. However, the absolute frequency change in any given site, or with any pair of sites, did not exceed 1 Hz, which is similar to what is seen with single injections in mSuM. Overall, it appears that at, any one time, theta frequency may be determined by a complex interplay between distinct but interacting modulatory regions in the medial hypothalamus.
It has been hypothesized that the amnesic effects of alcohol are through selective disruption of hippocampal function. Delay and trace fear conditioning are useful paradigms to investigate hippocampal-dependent and independent forms of memory. With delay fear conditioning, learning of explicit cues does not depend on normal hippocampal function, whereas learning explicit cues in trace fear conditioning does. In both delay and trace fear conditioning, the hippocampus is involved in learning to contextual cues, but it may not be entirely necessary. The present study investigates the effects of alcohol on the acquisition of delay and trace fear conditioning in mice, using freezing as a measure of learning. Male C57BL/6J mice were injected with 0.8 or 1.6 g/kg of 20% v/v alcohol and were immediately exposed to eight tone-footshock pairings in which the conditional stimulus (CS) either coterminated with a footshock unconditional stimulus (US) (delay conditioning) or was separated from the footshock by a 30-s trace interval (trace conditioning). During trace, but not delay fear conditioning, 0.8 g/kg alcohol impaired learning to a tone CS. This dose also impaired context-dependent learning in both procedures (although only slightly for trace fear conditioning). The 1.6 g/kg alcohol exerted a nonselective impairment on learning. The impairment by alcohol of learning to a tone CS when it is hippocampus-dependent, but not when it is hippocampus-independent provides further support for the hypothesis that alcohol exerts a selective effect on hippocampus-dependent learning.

Grey matter volume in the posterior hippocampus of London taxi drivers is greater than in age-matched controls, and the size of this increase correlates positively with time spent taxi driving (E.A. Maguire et al., 2000. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97: 4398-4403). This change suggests that increased posterior hippocampal grey matter volume is acquired in response to increased taxi driving experience, perhaps reflecting their detailed representation of the city. However, an alternate hypothesis is that the difference in hippocampal volume is instead associated with innate navigational expertise, leading to an increased likelihood of becoming a taxi driver. To investigate this possibility, we used structural brain imaging and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) to examine a group of subjects who were not taxi drivers. Despite this group showing a wide range of navigational expertise, there was no association between expertise and posterior hippocampal grey matter volume (or, indeed, grey matter volume throughout the brain). This failure to find an association between hippocampal volume and navigational expertise thus suggests that structural differences in the human hippocampus reflect the detail and/or duration of use of the spatial representation acquired, and not innate navigational expertise per se.
The effects of ibotenate hippocampal lesions on discrimination performance in an eight-arm radial maze were investigated in mice, using a three-stage paradigm in which the only parameter that varied among stages was the way the arms were presented. In the initial learning phase (stage 1), animals learned the valence or reward contingency associated with six (three positive and three negative) adjacent arms of the maze using a successive (go/no-go) discrimination procedure. In the first test phase (stage 2), the six arms were grouped into three pairs, so that on each trial, the subject was faced with a choice between two adjacent arms of opposite valence (concurrent two-choice discrimination). In the second test phase (stage 3), the subject was faced with all six arms simultaneously (six-choice discrimination). Hippocampal-lesioned mice acquired the initial learning phase at a near-normal rate but behaved as if they had learned nothing when challenged with the two-choice discriminations at stage 2. In contrast, they behaved normally when confronted with the six-choice discrimination at stage 3. Detailed examination of within- and between-stage performance suggests that hippocampal-lesioned mice perform as intact mice when presentation of the discriminanda encourages the storage and use of separate representations (i.e., in initial learning and six-choice discrimination testing), but that they fail in test situations that involve explicit comparisons between such separate representations (two-choice discriminations), hence requiring the use of relational representations.
The origin and the terminations of the projections from the entorhinal cortex to the hippocampal formation of the mouse (C57BL/6J strain) have been studied using anterogradely and retrogradely transported tracers. The entorhinal cortex is principally divided into two areas, the lateral entorhinal area (LEA) and the medial entorhinal area (MEA). LEA is the origin of the lateral perforant path that terminates in the outer one-third of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, and MEA is the origin of the medial perforant path that ends in the middle one-third of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. This projection is mostly to the ispsilateral dentate gyrus; only a few labeled axons and terminals are found in the contralateral dentate gyrus. The projection to the dentate gyrus originates predominantly from neurons in layer II of the entorhinal cortex. The entorhinal cortex also projects to CA3 and CA1 and to subiculum; in both CA3 and CA1, the terminals are present in stratum lacunosum-moleculare, whereas in the subiculum the terminals are in the outer part of the molecular layer. The projection from the entorhinal cortex to CA3, CA1, and subiculum is bilateral, and it originates predominantly from neurons in layer III, but a small number of neurons in the deeper layers of the entorhinal cortex contributes to this projection. The projection of entorhinal cortex to the hippocampus is topographically organized, neurons in the lateral part of both LEA and MEA project to the dorsal part (i.e., septal pole) of the hippocampus, whereas the projection to the ventral (i.e., temporal pole) hippocampus originates from neurons in medial parts of the entorhinal cortex.
It is well established in nonhuman primates that the medial temporal lobe (MTL) structures, the hippocampus and the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices, are necessary for declarative memory encoding. In humans, the neuropathological and neuropsychological changes in early Alzheimer's disease (AD) further support a role for the rhinal cortex in the consolidation of new events into long-term memory. Little is known, however, regarding the function of the rhinal cortex in humans in vivo. To examine the participation of the interconnected MTL structures as well as the whole-brain network of activated brain areas in visual associative long-term memory, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to determine the brain regions that are activated during encoding and retrieval of paired pictures in 12 young control subjects. The most striking finding in the MTL activation pattern was the consistent activation of the perirhinal cortex in the encoding-baseline and encoding-retrieval comparisons with a strict statistical threshold (P &lt; 0.00001). In contrast, no perirhinal cortex activation was detected in the retrieval-baseline or retrieval-encoding comparisons even with a low statistical threshold (P &lt; 0.05). The location of the perirhinal activation area was in the transentorhinal part of the perirhinal cortex, in the medial bank of the collateral sulcus. The hippocampus and the more posterior parahippocampal gyrus were activated in both encoding and retrieval conditions. During the encoding processing, MTL activations were more consistent and the hippocampal activation area located more anteriorly than during retrieval. The frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital association cortices were also activated in the encoding-baseline and retrieval-baseline comparisons. The data suggest that encoding, but not retrieval, of novel picture pairs activates the perirhinal cortex. To our knowledge, this is the first fMRI study reporting encoding activation in this transentorhinal part of the perirhinal cortex, the site of the very earliest neuropathological changes in AD.
Rats were studied in acute and chronic (freely moving) recording conditions during exposure to different levels of the volatile anesthetic halothane, in order to assess effects on hippocampal theta field activity in the chronic condition and on theta-related cellular discharges in the acute condition. Previous work has shown that the generation of hippocampal type 2 theta depends on the coactivation of cholinergic and GABAergic inputs from the medial septum. Based on these data and recent findings that halothane acts on interneuron GABA(A) receptors, we predicted that exposure of rats to subanesthetic levels would result in the induction of type 2 theta field activity. In the chronic condition, exposure to subanesthetic levels of halothane (0.5-1.0 vol %) was found to induce theta field activity during periods of immobility (type 2 theta) with a mean increase of 39% in amplitude (mV) compared to control levels during movement. The total percentage of signal power (V2) associated with peak theta frequencies (80% compared to control levels of 47%) was also increased by halothane. Over the whole range of administered halothane concentrations, theta field frequency progressively declined from a mean peak frequency of 6.5 +/- 0.8 Hz at 0.5 vol % halothane to a mean peak frequency of 4.0 +/- 1.8 Hz at 2.0 vol % halothane. Subsequent administration of a muscarinic cholinergic antagonist, atropine sulfate, selectively abolished all type 2 immobility-related theta field activity, while type 1 movement-related theta was still intact. At anesthetic levels (1.5-2.0 vol %) in acute experiments, hippocampal field activity spontaneously cycled between theta and large-amplitude irregular activity. Analysis of depth profiles in four experiments revealed they were identical to those previously described for rats under urethane anesthesia conditions. In addition, the discharge properties of 31 theta-related cells, classified as tonic and phasic theta-on and tonic and phasic theta-off cells, did not differ significantly from those described previously in rats anesthetized with urethane. These data provide further support for an involvement of GABA(A) receptors in the generation of hippocampal theta.
Central serotonin (5-HT) is activated during stressful situations and aggressive interactions in a number of species. Glucocorticoids secreted peripherally during stressful events feed back on central systems and may affect 5-HT mediation of stress-induced behavioral events. To test the neuromodulatory effect of stress hormone secretion, serotonin overflow was measured from the hippocampus of the lizard Anolis carolinensis. Microdialysis was used to collect repeated samples from anesthetized lizards, with perfusate measured by HPLC with electrochemical analysis. Following initially high levels of 5-HT, concentrations stabilized to basal levels after approximately 2 h. Intracortical infusion of 200 ng/ml corticosterone evoked transient increases in 5-HT release of approximately 400%. The effect of corticosterone on 5-HT overflow appears to be dose dependent as 20 ng/ml stimulated an increase of 200%, whereas 2 ng/ml stimulated a 50% increase. Administration of 0.1 and 1 ng/ml GABA via the dialysis probe significantly inhibited 5-HT overflow by 20 and 40%, respectively. The duration of GABA inhibition is greater than the stimulatory response for glucocorticoids. Short-lived glucocorticoid stimulation of 5-HT release suggests a possible mechanism for endocrine mediation of continuously changing social behavioral events.
In male golden hamsters, exposure to social stress during puberty alters aggressive behavior. Interestingly, agonistic behavior undergoes two major transitions during puberty: a decline in attack frequency and a shift from play fighting to adult-like aggression. Based on previous observations, we developed an approach for characterizing offensive responses as play fighting or adult-like. The present studies had two aims. First, we validated our approach by looking at the development of attack types during puberty. Second, we looked at the effects of repeated social stress on the development of agonistic behavior by repeatedly exposing individuals to aggressive adults during puberty. In the first phase of the study, our results point to three different developmental periods. Initially, animals engage in agonistic behavior though attacks targeted at the face and cheeks. This period lasts from Postnatal Day 20 (P-20) to P-40 (early puberty). This phase corresponding to play fighting is followed by a transitional period characterized by attacks focused on the flanks (from P-40 to P-50, mid-puberty). Afterward, animals perform adult-like aggression characterized by attacks focused on the belly and rear. Our data also show that repeated exposure to aggressive adults has two separate effects on the development of agonistic behavior. Repeated social stress accelerated the onset of adult-like agonistic responses. Furthermore, attack frequency, while decreasing during puberty, remained at a higher level in early adulthood in stressed animals. These results show that repeated exposure to social stress during puberty alters the development of agonistic behavior both qualitatively and quantitatively.
Male wild house mice, selected for short (SAL) and long (LAL) attack latency, show distinctly different behavioral strategies in coping with environmental challenges. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that this difference in coping style is associated with a differential stress responsiveness of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) system. SAL rather than LAL mice showed a clear fluctuation in circulating corticosterone concentrations around the circadian peak with significantly higher levels in the late light phase. LAL mice showed lower basal ACTH levels and higher thymic and spleen weights compared to SAL. Under basal conditions, glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) mRNA in the hippocampus and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus were not different between the two lines. Forced swimming for 5 min induced high immobility behavior in LAL mice which was associated with an enhanced and prolonged corticosterone response as compared to SAL, while absolute ACTH levels did not differ. In addition, LAL mice showed an increase in hippocampal MR mRNA (but not GR) and hypothalamic CRH mRNA at 24 h after forced swimming. In conclusion, a genetic trait in coping style of wild house mice is associated with an idiosyncratic pattern of HPA activity, and greater responsiveness of physiological and molecular stress markers in LAL mice. In view of the profound differences in behavioral traits and stress system reactivity, these mouse lines genetically selected for attack latency present an interesting model for studying the mechanism underlying individual variation in susceptibility to stress-related psychopathology.
Our goal in these studies was to characterize some specific aspects of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity in rats exposed to repeated social stress. We used a modification of the resident/intruder paradigm in which male intruder rats were subjected to defeat and then separated from the resident by an enclosure for a total of 30 min on Day 1. On Days 2-7, intruder rats were exposed to different resident rats every day through a wire mesh enclosure for 30 min in order to minimize injurious physical contact between the two rats. The intruder rats gained significantly less weight than controls over the 7-day period of stress though basal corticosterone levels and adrenal and thymus weights were not significantly different between the two groups. On Day 8, repeatedly stressed rats exhibited facilitation of HPA responses to novel restraint compared to controls but no differences in negative feedback sensitivity to dexamethasone (0.05 or 0.2 mg/kg) were observed. Thus, the HPA axis of socially stressed rats remains responsive to a stimulus that has never been encountered. Using this type of repeated presentation to an aggressive resident allows us to examine the neuroendocrine and behavioral consequences, and their underlying neural mechanisms, of exposure to a stressor that is social in nature and naturalistic for rodents.
Exposure to acute stressful experience can enhance the later ability to acquire new memories about associations between stimuli. This enhanced learning is observed during classical eyeblink conditioning of both hippocampal-dependent and -independent learning. It can be induced within minutes of the stressful event and persists for days. Here we examined the role of the major stress hormones glucocorticoids in the enhancement of learning after stress. In the first two experiments, it was determined that adrenalectomy (ADX), with and without replacement of basal levels of corticosterone, prevented the stress-induced enhancement of trace conditioning, a task that is dependent on the hippocampus for acquisition. In a third experiment, demedullation, which removes the adrenal medulla but leaves the adrenal cortex and corticosterone levels intact, did not affect the enhancement of learning after stress. In a fourth experiment, ADX prevented the stress-induced enhancement of delay conditioning, a hippocampal-independent task. In a final experiment, it was determined that one injection of stress levels of corticosterone enhanced new learning within minutes but not new learning 24 h later. Together these results suggest that endogenous glucocorticoids are necessary and sufficient for transiently enhancing acquisition of new associative memories and necessary but insufficient for persistently enhancing their acquisition after exposure to an acute stressful experience.
Animals learn to recognize and respond to a variety of dangerous factors, with biting and blood-feeding flies being among the most prevalent of natural stressors. Here we describe the behavioral avoidance and hormonal (corticosterone) stress responses to biting fly exposure and the roles of individual and social learning in the acquisition of these fear-associated responses. Male mice exposed to a single 30-min session of attack by intact biting flies (stable fly, Stomoxys calcitrans L.) exhibited increased plasma corticosterone levels and active self-burying responses to avoid the flies. When exposed 24 h later to altered flies whose biting mouth parts were removed and were incapable of biting, the mice displayed conditioned increases in corticosterone and avoidance responses. This conditioned increase in corticosterone and self-burying was also acquired through social learning without direct individual experience with the intact biting flies. Fly naive &quot;observer&quot; mice that witnessed other &quot;demonstrator&quot; mice being attacked by biting flies, but were not exposed to intact flies themselves, displayed increases in corticosterone levels and self-burying to avoid flies when exposed 24 h later to altered flies. The social learning was not due to social facilitation or sensitization. Observers had to witness the self-burying avoidance responses of the demonstrator to the biting flies in order to subsequently recognize a potential threat to themselves and display the appropriate responses. These individually and socially acquired conditioned fear responses are likely part of the mechanisms that allow animals to defend themselves from biting and blood-feeding arthropods.
In this review, studies are described indicating that the increase in pulsatile release of gonadotropin releasing hormone that signals the initiation of puberty requires both changes in transsynaptic communication and the activation of glia-to-neuron signaling pathways. The major players in the transsynaptic control of puberty are neurons that utilize excitatory and inhibitory amino acids as transmitters. Glial cells employ a combination of trophic factors and small cell-cell signaling molecules to regulate neuronal function and thus promote sexual development. A neuron-to-glia signaling pathway mediated by excitatory amino acids serves to coordinate the simultaneous activation of transsynaptic and glia-to-neuron communication required for the advent of sexual maturity.
We propose a method of correction for multiple comparisons in MEG beamformer based Statistical Parametric Maps (SPMs). We introduce a modification to the minimum-variance beamformer, in which beamformer weights and SPMs of source-power change are computed in distinct steps. This approach allows the calculation of image smoothness based on the computed weights alone. In the first instance we estimate image smoothness by looking at local spatial correlations in residual images generated using random data; we then go on to show how the smoothness of the SPM can be obtained analytically by measuring the correlations between the adjacent weight vectors. In simulations we show that the smoothness of the SPM is highly inhomogeneous and depends on the source strength. We show that, for the minimum variance beamformer, knowledge of image smoothness is sufficient to allow for correction of the multiple comparison problem. Per-voxel threshold estimates, based on the voxels extent (or cluster size) in flattened space, provide accurate corrected false positive error rates for these highly inhomogeneously smooth images.
A model is presented that reproduces spiking and bursting behavior of known types of cortical neurons. The model combines the biologically plausibility of Hodgkin-Huxley-type dynamics and the computational efficiency of integrate-and-fire neurons. Using this model, one can simulate tens of thousands of spiking cortical neurons in real time (1 ms resolution) using a desktop PC.
Nonhuman primate models of poststroke recovery have become increasingly rare primarily due to high purchase and maintenance costs and limited availability of nonhuman primate species. Despite this obstacle, nonhuman primate models may offer important advantages over rodent models for understanding many of the brain's mechanisms for self-repair due to greater similarity in cortical organization to humans. Since the mid-1990s, surgical, neurophysiological, and neuroanatomical methods have been developed to understand structural and functional remodeling of the cerebral cortex after an ischemic event, such as occurs in stroke. These methods require long surgical procedures and entail constant physiological monitoring. With careful attention to intraoperative and postsurgical monitoring, these procedures can be repeated multiple times in individual monkeys without untoward events. This model provides a statistically powerful approach for tracking brain plasticity in the ensuing weeks and months after a stroke-like injury, reducing the number of animals required for individual experiments. This methodology is described in detail, and many of the resulting findings that are relevant for understanding stroke recovery and the effects of rehabilitative and pharmacotherapeutic interventions are summarized.
The relevance of careful behavioral measures and manipulations in animal research on neural plasticity and brain damage has become increasingly clear. Recent research in adult rats indicates that an understanding of neural restructuring after brain damage requires an understanding of how it is influenced by postinjury behavioral experiences. Other research indicates that optimizing pharmacological and other treatments for brain damage may require their combination with rehabilitative training. Assessing the efficacy of a treatment approach in animal models requires the use of sensitive behavioral measures of functional outcome. In research on restorative plasticity after brain damage, procedures for handling and housing rats should promote the quality of behavioral measures and manipulations.
In experimental neurological models of brain injury, behavioral manipulations before and after the insult can have a major impact on molecular, anatomical, and functional outcome. Investigators using animals for preclinical research should keep in mind that people with brain injury have lived in, and will continue to live in, an environment that is far more complex than that of the typical laboratory rodent. To yield more reliable and relevant behavioral assessment, it may be appropriate in some cases to house animals in environments that allow for motor enrichment and to handle animals in ways that promote tameness. Experience can affect mechanisms of plasticity and degeneration beneficially or adversely. Behavioral interventions that have been found to modulate postinjury brain events are reviewed. The timing and interaction of biological and motor therapies and the potential contribution of experience-dependent and drug-induced trophic factor expression are discussed.





An epidemiological study was carried out, based on 590 randomly selected subjects, aged from 20 to 80 years, in the province of Ostergtland in Sweden. The results obtained were similar to published results from other countries, with an overall prevalence of subjects with average hearing threshold levels over the frequencies 0.5, 1, 2 and 4 kHz (M4) equal to or exceeding 25 dB HL for the better ear (BE) of 16.9% (95% CI: 13.819.9%). For M4 BE &gt; or = 35 dB HL, the prevalence was 7.7% (95% CI: 5.5-9.8%), for M4 BE &gt; or = 45 dB HL, the prevalence was 3.3% (95% CI: 1.9-4.8%), and for M4 BE &gt; or = 65 dB HL, the prevalence was 0.2% (95% Cl: 0.0-0.6%). The overall prevalence of reported tinnitus was 13.2% (95% CI: 10.5-16.0%). In the population under study, 7.7% of the subjects were estimated to benefit from a hearing aid, while the prevalence of hearing aid users was 2.4%.
The aim of this study was to outline the psychopathological characteristics of a population of outpatients affected by tinnitus and to consider its impact on their mental state and ability to function in major areas of their lives. Seventy-five consecutive tinnitus patients were enrolled on their first visit to the outpatients clinic of the Audiology Department of the 'Federico II' University of Naples, for audiological and psychiatric evaluation. A series of audiometric and vestibular tests was performed for tinnitus rating assessment, and further information was obtained from the patient via a semi-structural interview. For the psychopathological examination, patients underwent the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI), by means of which a multiaxial diagnosis (five axes) was expressed, according to the criteria of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV). For a better understanding of the personality aspects, the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) test was administered to a subgroup of 55 subjects whose cultural background permitted their full cooperation. The results of the study show that 58 subjects (77% of the total) met the criteria for psychiatric disorder diagnosis, according to the DSM-IV system: Axis I comprises anxiety, affective and somatoform disorders and psychoses; Axis II comprises personality disorders. Multiple diagnoses were expressed in some subjects. The findings of the examination via MMPI show a high percentage of depression, hysteria, and hypochondria. Although we are not seeking to establish a cause-effect relationship between the unpleasant experience of tinnitus and psychopathological disorders, our findings are consistent with those of other authors. Tinnitus can indeed have severe consequences for the subject's ability to function in many areas of their life. In this paper, the implications of such results for the diagnosis and therapy of tinnitus are discussed.
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of residential multifactorial cardiac rehabilitation, outpatient multifactorial rehabilitation, stress management, and standard coronary rehabilitation, on cardiac risk reduction. Out of 144 eligible male patients recently treated with percantaneous transluminal coronary angiography (PTCA), coronary artery bypass graft (CABG), or acute myocardial infarction (AMI), 132 were randomized into this study. All interventions covered a 12-month active intervention, intense during the first months and subsequently leveled out. Main assessments were performed before randomization and after the intervention. Patients offered behavioral rehabilitation showed improved self-reported healthy diet habits and exercise frequency, and higher internal locus of control. Although blood lipids, exercise capacity, body mass, anxiety, depression, and Type A scores were changed in the expected direction, no significant difference emerged between active intervention and the standard care condition. Standard care of today appears to have great potential in particular if supplemented with some kind of stress management.
The first aim of this investigation was to study the sulfation of R(-)-apomorphine in human brain. The second aim was to investigate the inhibition of R(-)-apomorphine sulfation by quercetin in human brain. R(-)-apomorphine is hereafter referred to as apomorphine. Apomorphine sulfation was measured in 5 brain specimens; 3 derived from the frontal cortex and 2 derived from the temporal cortex. The rate of apomorphine sulfation was 5.6 +/- 4.3 pmol/min/mg. The activities of SULT1A1 and SULT1A3, which were also measured in these samples, were 11 +/- 9.1 and 2.6 +/- 1.7 pmol/min/mg, respectively. The rate of apomorphine sulfation correlated with the activity of SULT1A1 (r = 0.989; p = 0.002) and SULT1A3 (r = 0.973; p = 0.005). Apomorphine sulfotransferase followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics, the Km (mean +/- SD) and Vmax values (mean +/- SD) of which, measured in 5 brain samples, were 32 +/- 7.3 microM and 8.9 +/- 7.9 pmol/min/mg, respectively. Quercetin was a potent inhibitor of apomorphine sulfation with an IC50 value, measured in 5 brain samples, of 16 +/- 2.3 nM. The inhibition mechanism of quercetin using apomorphine sulfation in 5 brain samples was mixed, non-competitive with a Ki and Kies (mean +/- SD) of 16 +/- 4.1 and 87 +/- 37 nM, respectively (p = 0.008). The intrinsic clearance value of apomorphine (mean +/- SD) was 247 +/- 170 ml/min/mg(-1) and was decreased to 100 +/- 85 ml/min/mg(-1) (p &lt; 0.01) in the presence of 25 nM quercetin. In conclusion, apomorphine is sulfated in human brain. Sulfation might reduce the level of apomorphine in human brain and be a factor limiting the effect of this drug. Quercetin is a potent inhibitor of apomorphine sulfation and may inhibit the sulfation of apomorphine in human brain in vivo.
This report describes the road map we followed at our university to accommodate three main factors: financial pressure within the university system; desire to enhance the learning experience of undergraduates; and motivation to increase the prominence of the discipline of developmental biology in our university. We engineered a novel, multi-year undergraduate developmental biology program which was &quot;student-oriented,&quot; ensuring that students were continually exposed to the underlying principles and philosophy of this discipline throughout their undergraduate career. Among its key features are introductory lectures in core courses in the first year, which emphasize the relevance of developmental biology to tissue engineering, reproductive medicine, therapeutic approaches in medicine, agriculture and aquaculture. State-of-the-art animated computer graphics and images of high visual impact are also used. In addition, students are streamed into the developmental biology track in the second year, using courses like human embryology and courses shared with cell biology, which include practicals based on modern experimental approaches. Finally, fully dedicated third-year courses in developmental biology are undertaken in conjunction with stand-alone practical courses where students experiencefirst-hand work in a research laboratory. Our philosophy is a &quot;cradle-to-grave&quot; approach to the education of undergraduates so as to prepare highly motivated, enthusiastic and well-educated developmental biologists for entry into graduate programs and ultimately post-doctoral research.
The undergraduate curriculum for bioscience degrees at the University of Bath is outlined, and the place is described of the developmental biology components within it. In the first year, all students receive four lectures on animal development and four on plant development. In the second year, many choose substantial lecture and practical courses on animal development, which outline the early development of Xenopus, mouse and Drosophila. The third year is usually spent on placement, with a company or research institute, a few of which are developmental biology-based, and may also involve some distance learning. The fourth year is spent back in Bath. Students interested in developmental biology can opt for advanced courses covering vertebrate organogenesis, developmental neurobiology and plant development. There are also one-semester, final-year projects spent in the labs of faculty members, several of whom specialise in developmental biology and offer projects accordingly.

The behavioral effects of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), when perinatally (2 d prenatal-14 d postnatal) co-administered with extremely low frequency magnetic fields, were examined in weanling and adult rats. Litters of rat pups and their dams were exposed continuously to biphasic pulsed fields presented once every 2 s. The magnetic fields were amplitude modulated in successively increasing and decreasing steps (each 30 min) between 0 and 1.8 microT or between 0 to 13 nanoT (reference field) during 4-h periods (6 periods per day). These two treatments were subdivided into dams that received tap water and dams that received 1.0 g/L L-NAME in tap water. The behavioral sequelae to these treatments for 242 progeny from 41 litters were followed from weaning (1 wk after termination of treatment) into adulthood. Compared to exposures to water and nanoT magnetic fields, perinatal exposures to the microT magnetic fields or to L-NAME in the maternal water supply were associated with increased activity levels when the rats were tested as weanling, but decreased activity levels when the rats were tested as adults. However, the activity of rats that received the combination of L-NAME and microT magnetic fields did not differ significantly from the activity of the rats that had received water and the nanoT fields. Long-term (adulthood) effects of these perinatal treatments on associative learning, as inferred by learned fear to contextual stimuli, were not evident. These results indicate that L-NAME and this particular pattern of magnetic field antagonized one another when co-administered during the perinatal period.
The aim of this article was to analyze the prevalence of Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in Colombian &quot;Paisa&quot; children and adolescents. A randomized sample of 4- to 17-year-old children and adolescents--176 males and 154 females--was selected from schools in Manizales, Colombia. The diagnosis of ADHD was obtained using a semistructured psychiatric and neurological interview, medical histories revision, and neurological or psychiatric evaluations. Several rating scales and a neuropsychological assessment were administered in order to confirm the diagnosis. Children with Full Scale Intelligence Quotient (FSIQ) between 71 and 84 were recorded as having Borderline Intellectual Functioning (BIF), and those with a history of mild motor retardation, and/or Performance Intelligence Quotient (PIQ) lower than 71, were recorded as having a Developmental Coordination disorder (DCD), after confirmation by neurological and neuropsychological examinations. BIF and DCD children were excluded from the ADHD group. Total prevalence of ADHD adjusted by sex was 16.4% (males 19.8% and females 12.3%). Prevalence of clean ADHD cases was 11.5%, distributed as follows: combined type, 6.4%; inattentive, 4.8%; and hyperactive-impulsive, 0.3%. Distribution by sex was as follows: males, 14.8%; and females, 7.7%; with an odds ratio of 2.1 (95% CI: 1-4.5, chi 2 = 4.0, p &lt; .05). Clean prevalence of ADHD adjusted by equal sex distribution was 11.3%. Prevalence of BIF was 5.8%, DCD 3.0%, and mild mental retardation 3.9%. Prevalence of ADHD did not show differences by socioeconomic status (SES), in contrast to mild mental retardation in which BIF and DCD were significantly more frequent in the lower SES.
Measurement of the Hoffmann reflex (H-reflex) provides an estimate of alpha motoneuron activity in the target motoneuron (MN) pool. The H-reflex has been assessed for a wide variety of reasons in neuroscience research. However, the majority of protocols have focused on the assessment of only one muscle and its corresponding motoneuron pool at any instant. Previously established protocols do not simultaneously assess reflex activity in multiple muscles elicited from a single stimulation. This new protocol allows for assessment of alpha motoneuron activity in three muscles around the ankle joint from a single stimulus to the sciatic nerve. To elicit the responses, the sciatic nerve was stimulated just prior to its bifurcation into the tibial and common peroneal nerves in the popliteal fossa. Electromyographic recording electrodes were placed on the tibialis anterior, peroneal longus, and soleus muscles. The 1-ms square wave pulse was delivered every 15 s during the recruitment curve mapping. The maximum H reflex and M waves were measured in each muscle and their ratios calculated. The measurement of these ratios simultaneously allows for assessment of the cumulative alpha motoneuron activity about the ankle at a given point in time.
This study was designed to assess the olfactory impact of the essential oils of lavender (Lavandula angustifolia) and rosemary (Rosmarlnus officinalis) on cognitive performance and mood in healthy volunteers. One hundred and forty-four participants were randomly assigned to one of three independent groups, and subsequently performed the Cognitive Drug Research (CDR) computerized cognitive assessment battery in a cubicle containing either one of the two odors or no odor (control). Visual analogue mood questionnaires were completed prior to exposure to the odor, and subsequently after completion of the test battery. The participants were deceived as to the genuine aim of the study until the completion of testing to prevent expectancy effects from possibly influencing the data. The outcome variables from the nine tasks that constitute the CDR core battery feed into six factors that represent different aspects of cognitive functioning. Analysis of performance revealed that lavender produced a significant decrement in performance of working memory, and impaired reaction times for both memory and attention based tasks compared to controls. In contrast, rosemary produced a significant enhancement of performance for overall quality of memory and secondary memory factors, but also produced an impairment of speed of memory compared to controls. With regard to mood, comparisons of the change in ratings from baseline to post-test revealed that following the completion of the cognitive assessment battery, both the control and lavender groups were significantly less alert than the rosemary condition; however, the control group was significantly less content than both rosemary and lavender conditions. These findings indicate that the olfactory properties of these essential oils can produce objective effects on cognitive performance, as well as subjective effects on mood.
The use of neurofeedback as an operant conditioning paradigm has disclosed that participants are able to gain some control over particular aspects of their electroencephalogram (EEG). Based on the association between theta activity (4-7 Hz) and working memory performance, and sensorimotor rhythm (SMR) activity (12-15 Hz) and attentional processing, we investigated the possibility that training healthy individuals to enhance either of these frequencies would specifically influence a particular aspect of cognitive performance, relative to a non-neurofeedback control-group. The results revealed that after eight sessions of neurofeedback the SMR-group were able to selectively enhance their SMR activity, as indexed by increased SMR/theta and SMR/beta ratios. In contrast, those trained to selectively enhance theta activity failed to exhibit any changes in their EEG. Furthermore, the SMR-group exhibited a significant and clear improvement in cued recall performance, using a semantic working memory task, and to a lesser extent showed improved accuracy of focused attentional processing using a 2-sequence continuous performance task. This suggests that normal healthy individuals can learn to increase a specific component of their EEG activity, and that such enhanced activity may facilitate semantic processing in a working memory task and to a lesser extent focused attention. We discuss possible mechanisms that could mediate such effects and indicate a number of directions for future research.
Although slow waves of the electroencephalogram (EEG) have been associated with attentional processes, the functional significance of the alpha component in the EEG (8.1-12 Hz) remains uncertain. Conventionally, synchronisation in the alpha frequency range is taken to be a marker of cognitive inactivity, i.e. 'cortical idling'. However, it has been suggested that alpha may index the active inhibition of sensory information during internally directed attentional tasks such as mental imagery. More recently, this idea has been amended to encompass the notion of alpha synchronisation as a means of inhibition of non-task relevant cortical areas irrespective of the direction of attention. Here we test the adequacy of the one idling and two inhibition hypotheses about alpha. In two experiments we investigated the relation between alpha and internally vs. externally directed attention using mental imagery vs. sensory-intake paradigms. Results from both experiments showed a clear relationship between alpha and both attentional factors and increased task demands. At various scalp sites alpha amplitudes were greater during internally directed attention and during increased load, results incompatible with alpha reflecting cortical idling and more in keeping with suggestions of active inhibition necessary for internally driven mental operations.

The development of new drugs to treat vascular dementia and other conditions in which cognitive impairment is due at least in part to vascular pathology will require future interaction among academic, industry, and government regulatory clinicians and scientists. This article offers the author's perspective on the positive involvement of the Food and Drug Administration in development of conceptual frameworks and practical approaches to treatment of conditions characterized by vascular burden of the brain.
Functional brain imaging represents cerebrovascular status, neuronal status, and neuronetwork status, and plays an increasingly important role in the evaluation of vascular cognitive impairment or vascular dementia. In this article, the roles of functional brain imaging are discussed in evaluation of subcortical lesions disrupting cortico-subcortical circuits and in the study of white-matter changes in dementia. Also mentioned is an ongoing clinical trial of extracranial-intracranial artery bypass surgery for hemispheric hemodynamic misery perfusion where single-photon emission tomography is used as a surrogate measure.
The treatment of patients with acute stroke is reviewed. Evidence of the existence of an ischemic penumbra in humans is presented. Different approaches to treatment of acute stroke include restoring blood flow by thrombolysis, neuroprotection, and early secondary prevention with aspirin. The evidence for each of these approaches is reviewed. Organization of stroke services, and particularly the use of stroke units, have been shown to significantly improve stroke outcome and these data are presented.
Hypertension is a risk factor for stroke, ischemic white-matter lesions, cardiovascular disorders, and vascular dementia. This risk increases with increasing blood pressure. Several studies report that high blood pressure precedes Alzheimer's disease (AD) by decades, but blood pressure decreases the years before dementia onset and is lower in individuals with AD than in controls. High blood pressure has also been related to the neuropathological manifestations of AD. The exact mechanism behind these associations is not clear. Hypertension may cause cerebrovascular disease that may increase the likelihood that individuals with AD encephalopathy will express a dementia syndrome, this may accelerate the AD process, subclinical AD may lead to increased blood pressure, and similar biological mechanisms may be involved in the pathogenesis of both disorders. Hypertension is a common disorder and often untreated. Even if hypertension results only in a moderately increased risk of AD, or overall dementia, better treatment of hypertension may have an immense effect on the total number of individuals with dementia.
Cognitive decline is a central component of the dementia process. Population-based prospective studies have confirmed the existence of age-related cognitive decline, although its conceptual basis and nosological status remain controversial. Healthy old people show decline with aging in global cognition and memory function in particular. Preclinical and clinical dementia patients exhibit deficits across multiple cognitive domains, with the largest and most consistent deficits in memory function. Cerebrovascluar disease may lead to cognitive decline and promote the clinical expression of dementia directly or by interaction with APOE epsilon4. Early treatment and prevention of cerebrovascular disease may be the major measures for preventing and postponing the progression of the vascular disease related cognitive decline.
Vascular dementia (VaD) is a heterogeneous entity with a large clinicopathological spectrum. It has been classified and subclassified in many different ways. The difficulty in identifying the various subtypes is a problem in the diagnostic process. For clinical purposes, it is desirable to find subtypes of VaD that are homogeneous enough to allow meaningful comparisons across studies. This article presents candidates for such subtypes: poststroke dementia, subcortical VaD, and combined Alzheimer's disease and VaD (AD + VaD). The first two candidates are easy to identify. Poststroke dementia occurs with cognitive decline in close temporal relation to a transient ischemic attack. Subcortical VaD has a relatively homogeneous clinical picture for which detailed criteria are suggested. AD + VaD is more difficult to identify but is possible, sometimes with the aid of neuroimaging and/or biological markers.
Intermediate filament proteins are a heterogeneous group of proteins that form 10-nm-diameter filaments, a highly stable cytoskeletal component occurring in various cell types. The up-regulation of one of these intermediate filament proteins, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), historically has been an indicator of &quot;stress&quot; in central nervous system (CNS) astrocytes. The retina also responds similarly to &quot;stress&quot; but the up-regulation of intermediate filaments occurs primarily in the Mller cells, the radial glia of the retina. This is a remarkably ubiquitous response in that a similar up-regulation can be observed in numerous forms of retinal degeneration. As a consequence of retinal detachment, a &quot;mechanical&quot; injury to the retina, GFAP, and another intermediate filament protein, vimentin, dramatically increase in Mller cells. Concomitant with this up-regulation is the hypertrophy of these cells both within the retina and onto the photoreceptor and vitreal surfaces of the retina. The function of this distinctive intermediate filament up-regulation in glial cells is unknown, but in the retina their expression is differentially regulated in a polarized manner as the Mller cells hypertrophy, suggesting that they play some role in this process. Moreover the response of intermediate filaments and the Mller cells differs depending on whether the retina has been detached or reattached to the retinal pigment epithelium. The differential expression of these proteins may give insight into their role in the formation of glial scars in the retina and elsewhere in the CNS.






In its natural environment, which consists of fermenting plant materials, the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster encounters high levels of ethanol. Flies are well equipped to deal with the toxic effects of ethanol; they use it as an energy source and for lipid biosynthesis. The primary ethanol-metabolizing pathway in flies involves the enzymes alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and acetaldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH); their role in adaptation to ethanol-rich environments has been studied extensively. The similarity between Drosophila and mammals is not restricted to the manner in which they metabolize ethanol; behaviors elicited by ethanol exposure are also remarkably similar in these organisms. Flies show signs of acute intoxication, which range from locomotor stimulation at low doses to complete sedation at higher doses, they develop tolerance upon intermittent ethanol exposure, and they appear to like ethanol, showing preference for ethanol-containing media. Molecular genetic analysis of ethanol-induced behaviors in Drosophila, while still in its early stages, has already revealed some surprising parallels with mammals. The availability of powerful tools for genetic manipulation in Drosophila, together with the high degree of conservation at the genomic level, make Drosophila a promising model organism to study the mechanism by which ethanol regulates behavior and the mechanisms underlying the organism's adaptation to long-term ethanol exposure.
Viral infection is the most frequent cause of unilateral acute peripheral vestibulopathy (APV). Another possible cause is a vascular disorder in the labyrinth area associated with alterations in hemostasis. In a group of 45 patients with APV and in a series of 25 patients with Mnire's disease (control group), we evaluated blood parameters, including total cholesterol, triglycerides, apolipoprotein A and B, lipoprotein (a), homocysteine, folate, prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time. D-dimer, fibrinogen, antithrombin III, protein C, protein S, activated protein C resistance, and anticardiolipin antibodies. In the acute phase of their disease, the patients with APV exhibited increased plasma levels of fibrinogen (341.5 +/- 136.8 standard deviation [SD] versus 268.1 +/- 72.6 SD mg/dl; p = .05); increased plasma levels of D-dimer (305 +/- 158 SD versus 201 +/- 106 SD ng/dl; p = .008); enhanced plasma levels of lipoprotein (a) (42.6 +/- 38.5 SD versus 16.9 +/- 17.7 SD mg/dl; F = 5.67, p = .02); high leukocyte count (9.2 +/- 2.7 SD versus 6.4 +/- 1.2 SD x 10(3)/microliter; F = 8.42, p &lt; .006); and low serum folate concentration (5.1 +/- 1.7 SD versus 7.2 +/- 2.6 SD ng/ml; F = 4.34, p = .04). During follow-up, the prothrombin time was prolonged (p = .04), and leukocyte count was decreased (p &lt; .019) in the patients with APV, whereas fibrinogen, D-dimer, lipoprotein (a), and folate were unchanged. In this study, we demonstrated that patients with APV exhibit significant involvement of the hemostatic system.
The differential outcomes effect--the enhancement of learning and memory performance by correlating distinct reinforcers with to-be-remembered events (sample stimuli)--has been stated to be one of the most robust phenomena in learning psychology. However, in this paper we demonstrate that the correlation between unique samples and unique reinforcers can either interfere with or enhance learning a spatial matching-rule, dependent on whether these two processes are trained concurrently or sequentially. If the Pavlovian conditioning (unique sample-reward pairings) occurs before the matching rule is learned (sequentially), the conditioned expectations of unique rewards will enhance the acquisition of the spatial matching-rule in rats (the differential outcomes effect will be observed). However, if rats are required to learn the Pavlovian associations and the matching-rule concurrently, they are impaired in acquiring the spatial matching-rule. Thus, employing the differential outcomes procedure can either enhance or detract from learning and remembering the task rule-dependent on the nature of the task and order of training. These data suggest that under some circumstances learning Pavlovian associations can compete with the formation of instrumental behavior.






When the source of a tone moves with respect to a listener's ears, dichotic (or interaural) phase and amplitude modulations (PM and AM) are produced. Two experiments investigated the psychophysical characteristics of dichotic linear ramp modulations in phase and amplitude, and compared them with the psychophysics of diotic PM and AM. In experiment 1, subjects were substantially more sensitive to dichotic PM than diotic PM, but AM sensitivity was equivalent in the dichotic and diotic conditions. Thresholds for discriminating modulation direction were smaller than detection thresholds for dichotic AM, and both diotic AM and PM. Dichotic PM discrimination thresholds were similar to detection thresholds. In experiment 2, the effects of ramp duration were examined. Sensitivity to dichotic AM and PM, and diotic AM increased as duration was increased from 20 ms to 200 ms. The functions relating sensitivity to ramp duration differed across the stimuli; sensitivity to dichotic PM increased more rapidly than sensitivity to dichotic or diotic AM. This was also reflected in shorter time-constants and minimum integration times for dichotic PM detection. These findings support the hypothesis that the analysis of dichotic PM and AM rely on separate mechanisms.
Urine drug screens are used extensively in substance-abuse treatment, especially methadone maintenance treatment programs, as well as criminal-justice and clinical research settings. While positive urinalysis generally indicates drug use, no information is provided about the context or pattern of use. A computer generated model was created to examine the influence of drug use patterns and drug screen schedules upon urine test results. The results indicate that (1) when urine testing is performed at a rate of eight times per year, the probability of testing positive in a given month is little better than 50-50 even for daily use, (2) infrequent drug use is difficult to detect regardless of drug testing frequency, and (3) the benefits of more frequent drug testing are greatest with moderate drug use. The data presented provide a guide for clinicians to match drug screen schedules to frequency or pattern of suspected drug use.
Marsupials are good experimental animals for developmental studies as their offspring are born at a stage comparable to embryonic stages of eutherian species. The South American opossum, Monodelphis domestica, is particularly useful because of its small size and easy maintenance. This study was carried out to compare development of opossum fore- and hindlimbs during postnatal life, using light microscopy and whole mount alizarin staining. At birth, well-developed mobile forelimbs show cartilage models of bones and myotubular striated muscle fibres. However, hindlimbs are relatively underdeveloped paddle-like outgrowths. Two days later mesodermal condensations form models of the future hindlimb bones and mononucleate myoblast aggregates are present; by 6 days post partum (dpp) the hindlimb has reached a stage of development similar to that of the forelimb at birth. At this stage, periosteal buds have invaded forelimb long bones and nuclei in forelimb muscle fibres have become displaced to the periphery. The 16 dpp hindlimb shows long bones invaded by periosteal buds and closely packed, striated muscle fibres. Epiphyseal plates are now seen in the forelimb long bones and forelimb muscle fibres show mature characteristics. Musculoskeletal development is well correlated with the functional demands of the limbs during postnatal development in the opossum, which provides an excellent model for investigations into the genes and molecules controlling limb development.
Normal somatic cells have a finite replicative capacity. With each cell division, telomeres, the ends of linear chromosomes, progressively shorten until they reach a critical length, at which point the cells enter replicative senescence. Some cells maintain their telomeres by the action of the telomerase enzyme. Glia, particularly microglia, are the only adult cell type in the central nervous system (CNS) that exhibit a significant mitotic potential, and are thus susceptible to telomere shortening. Previous research in our laboratory has found that telomeres shorten in rat microglia with increasing time in vitro. Our current hypothesis is that telomeres shorten in rat brain in vivo with increasing age. Tissue samples of cerebellum and cortex were obtained from Sprague-Dawley rats of various ages. Genomic DNA and total protein was isolated from each sample for telomere length measurement via Southern blot analysis (up to 5 months) and telomerase activity measurement via TRAP analysis (up to 6 months), respectively. Telomere shortening occurs in vivo in both rat cerebellum and cortex from day 21 to approximately 5 months of age. Cortex samples possessed shorter telomeres than did cerebellum samples. The longest telomeres undergo the most dramatic shortening, while the shortest telomeres exhibit only slight attrition. Telomerase activity slowly increases from day 21 to approximately 6 months of age, with the cerebellum exhibiting higher activity than cortex in all instances. These results indicate that telomere shortening occurs in rat brain in vivo with increasing age, and that the low levels of telomerase activity present may be preferentially recruited to maintain the shortest telomeres while allowing the longer ones to shorten more rapidly. Since microglia are thought to be the only mature cells of the postnatal CNS undergoing appreciable cell division, we propose that the telomere shortening occurring in the adult rat brain with age can be largely attributed to microglial cell division. Our findings provide an impetus to further investigate the pattern of telomere length and telomerase activity that emerges with further aging in the rat brain.
Anxiety disorders typically have an age of onset in childhood and adolescence, resulting in significant disability in social and occupational functioning. Epidemiological evidence suggests that persons with psychiatric disorders and perhaps especially social phobia are at increased risk for premature withdrawal from school [Am. J. Psychiatry 157 (2000) 1606]. In order to further determine the impact of anxiety disorders on school functioning and/or premature withdrawal from school, 201 patients meeting DSM-IV criteria for a primary anxiety disorder completed a school leaving questionnaire as well as self-report measures of anxiety, depression, and social adjustment. About 49% (n = 98) reported leaving school prematurely and 24% of those indicated that anxiety was the primary reason for this decision. Patients who had left school prematurely were significantly more likely to have a lifetime diagnosis of generalized social phobia, a past history of alcohol abuse/dependence and a greater number of lifetime diagnoses than those who completed their desired level of education. This study suggests that anxiety disorders, and perhaps especially generalized social phobia, are associated with premature withdrawal from school. Further studies are required to determine methods for early identification and treatment of anxiety disorders in school aged children to enable these students to reach their full potential.
Acute stress can compromise acquired, and potentiate innate, immunity. Recent evidence suggests that the impact of stress on measures of immunity can be modulated by the physical activity status of the organism and that extracellular heat shock protein 72 (eHSP72) contributes to the activation of innate immunity produced by stress. Therefore, this study investigated whether physical activity status would impact the immunologically enhancing effects of stressor exposure [inescapable tail-shock stress (IS)] on innate immunity and whether changes in eHSP72 responses could play a role. Adult, male Fischer 344 rats lived with mobile (physically active) or immobile (sedentary) running wheels. After 6 wk, rats were exposed to IS or to no stress. Immediately after IS, all rats were injected subcutaneously with live Escherichia coli. Inflammation was assessed daily, and plasma eHSP72 was measured at various time points. Rats exposed to IS resolved their inflammation faster than nonstressed rats, but the beneficial impact of stress on recovery was greater in physically active rats. All rats had equal increases in circulating eHSP72 after IS. Splenocytes harvested from a separate cohort of nonstressed rats were cultured with eHSP72, and nitric oxide and cytokines were measured. Physically active rats responded to eHSP72 stimulation in vitro with a greater nitric oxide and cytokine response than sedentary rats. Thus physically active rats both recover faster than sedentary rats after bacterial challenge + IS exposure and demonstrate potentiated cellular responses to eHSP72 activation that could be important for bacterial recovery.
Several studies have been carried out to evaluate the alterations in mitochondrial functions of diabetic rats. However, some of the results reported are controversial, since experimental conditions, such as aging, and/or strain of animals used were different. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the metabolic changes in liver mitochondria, both in the presence of severe hyperglycaemia (STZ-treated rats) and mild hyperglycaemia (Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats). Moreover, metabolic alterations were evaluated both at initial and at advanced states of the disease. We observed that both models of type 1 and type 2 diabetes presented alterations on respiratory chain activity. Because of continual severe hyperglycaemia, 9 weeks after the induction of diabetes, the respiratory function declined in STZ-treated rats, as observed by membrane potential and respiratory ratios (RCR, P/O, and FCCP-stimulated respiration) assessment. In contrast, GK rats of 6 months age presented increased respiratory ratios. To localize which respiratory complexes are affected by diabetes, enzymatic respiratory chain activities were evaluated. We observed that succinate dehydrogenase and cytochrome c oxidase activities were significantly augmented both in STZ-treated rats and GK rats of 6 months age. Moreover, H(+)-ATPase activity was also significantly increased in STZ-treated rats with 3 weeks of diabetes and in GK rats of 6 months age as compared to controls. Therefore, these results clearly suggest that both animal models of diabetes present some metabolic adjustments in order to circumvent the deleterious effects promoted by the high glucose levels typical of the disease.
The marginal division (MrD) is a pan-shaped subdivision in the caudal margin of the neostriatum newly discovered in the brains of the rat, cat, monkey and humans. A variety of intensely expressed neuropeptides and monoamines and their receptors were identified in the fibers, terminals and neuronal somata in the MrD with immunohistochemical and patch clamp methods. The MrD was shown to be involved in learning and memory by double-blind studies of Y-maze learning and long-term potentiation in rats. c-Fos expression and tract-tracing techniques with immunoelectronmicroscopy indicated that the MrD is a new component of the limbic system and is a key linking area between the limbic system and the basal nucleus of Meynert. Functional magnetic resonance image (fMRI) studies illustrated that the MrD and the prefrontal cortex are involved in digital working memory in the human brain. A cerebral hemorrhage case report confirmed the findings with fMRI. In conclusion, based on the position of the MrD, its advanced development in higher mammalian brains, abundant blood supply and diverse connections with other memory-related structures, MrD is likely to be an important subcortical center of learning and memory.
Normal development appears to involve a progressive restriction in developmental potential. However, recent evidence suggests that this progressive restriction is not irreversible and can be altered to reveal novel phenotypic potentials of stem, progenitor, and even differentiated cells. While some of these results can be explained by the presence of contaminating cell populations, persistence of pluripotent stem cells, cell fusion, etc., several examples exist that are difficult to explain as anything other than &quot;true transdifferentiation&quot; and/or dedifferentiation. These examples of transdifferentiation are best explained by understanding how the normal process of progressive cell fate restriction occurs during development. We suggest that subversion of epigenetic controls regulating cell type specific gene expression likely underlies the process of transdifferentiation and it may be possible to identify specific factors to control the transdifferentiation process. We predict, however, that transdifferentiation will not be reliable or reproducible and will probably require complex manipulations.
The susceptibility of immature rat brain to neurotoxicity of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) has provided a widely used paradigm to study excitotoxicity relevant to acute neurodegenerative diseases such as cerebral ischemia. In this study, excitotoxicity was induced via injection of ouabain (1 mM/0.5 microL), a Na+/K+ -ATPase-inhibitor, into neonatal rat brain and compared with NMDA injection. The aim of the study was to induce excitotoxicity secondary to cellular membrane depolarization, thereby more closely mimicking the pathophysiologic processes of ischemia-induced brain injury where NMDA-receptor overstimulation by glutamate follows, not precedes, membrane depolarization. Na+/K+ -ATPase-inhibition caused an acute, 40% +/- 8% decrease of the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) of water, as measured using diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and resulted in infarctlike lesions as measured using T2-weighted MRI and histology up to 2 weeks later. Localized one- and two-dimensional 1H-magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) demonstrated that the early excitotoxic diffusion changes were not accompanied by an overall metabolic disturbance. Furthermore, 31P-MRS demonstrated that energy depletion is not a prerequisite for ADC decrease or excitotoxic cell death. Treatment with the NMDA-antagonist MK-801 (1 mg/kg) attenuated the volume of tissue exhibiting a decreased ADC (P &lt; 0.005), demonstrating that the ouabain-induced injury is indeed excitotoxic in nature. The authors argue that, compared with NMDA-injection, ouabain-induced excitotoxicity elicits more appropriate glutamate-receptor overstimulation and is better suited to detect relevant neuroprotection in that it is more sensitive to attenuation of synaptic glutamate levels.
Oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) in cell cultures is generally studied in a medium, such as artificial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), with an ion composition similar to that of the extracellular fluid of the normal brain (2 to 4 mmol/L K+, 2 to 3 mmol/L Ca2+; pH 7.4). Because the distribution of ions across cell membranes dramatically shifts during ischemia, the authors exposed mouse organotypic hippocampal tissue cultures to OGD in a medium, an ischemic cerebrospinal fluid, with an ion composition similar to the extracellular fluid of the brain during ischemia (70 mmol/L K+, 0.3 mmol/L Ca2+; pH 6.8). In ischemic CSF, OGD induced a selective and delayed cell death in the CA1 region, as assessed by propidium iodide uptake. Cell death was glutamate receptor dependent since blockade of the N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors mitigated cell damage. Hyperglycemia aggravates ischemic brain damage whereas glucose in artificial CSF prevents oxygen deprivation-induced damage. The authors demonstrate that glucose in ischemic CSF significantly exacerbates cell damage after oxygen deprivation. This new model of &quot;ischemia&quot; can be useful in future studies of the mechanisms and treatment of ischemic cell death, including studies using genetically modified mice.

gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the predominant inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system. After release from nerve terminals, GABA binds to at least two classes of postsynaptic receptors (ie, GABAA and GABAB), which are nearly ubiquitous in the brain. GABAA receptors are postsynaptic heteropentameric complexes that display unique physiologic and pharmacologic properties based on subunit composition. Activation of GABAA receptors in mature neurons results in membrane hyperpolarization, which is mediated principally by inward chloride flux, whereas in early stages of brain development, GABAA receptor activation causes depolarization of the postsynaptic membrane. GABA, receptors reside both presynaptically and postsynaptically, exist as heterodimers and are coupled to voltage-dependent ion channels through interactions with heterotrimeric G proteins. This review summarizes the molecular biology and ontogeny of GABAA and GABAB receptors, highlighting some of their putative roles during normal brain development as well as in disease states such as epilepsy.


Cerebral arachnoid cysts that occur in more than one member of a family have been rarely reported. These familial cases are important because they imply a genetic component in the pathophysiology of these arachnoid cysts. We present an unusual family in which two conditions, a genetic myopathy, oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD), and arachnoid cysts occur together. OPMD is caused by a mutation in the PAPB2 gene that localizes to chromosome 14. In this family, two siblings with genetically confirmed OPMD both have left hemispheric intracranial arachnoid cysts unassociated with other cerebral abnormalities. The association of these two disorders suggests that in this family, a chromosome 14 gene may play a role in the development of arachnoid cysts.
A 60 year old right-handed man developed severe amnesia following a left medial temporal stroke as documented by cerebral MRI, MRA and SPECT scans. Neuropsychological evaluation 13 weeks after the stroke showed a profound retrograde amnesia characterised by memory loss for public facts and events over the previous four decades. In addition, autobiographical memory showed selective loss of personal episodic memory with relative preservation of personal semantic memory. The development of this degree of amnesia with these features following a unilateral temporal lobe lesion is unusual. The possible neuroanatomical mechanisms underlying the amnesia and how they relate to current theories of memory loss are discussed.
Diabetes mellitus is associated with altered cerebrovascular responsiveness and this could contribute to the pathology of stroke in diabetic patients. In these studies, we used a model of haemorrhagic stroke (intrastriatal injection of 50 microl blood) to examine subacute perilesional perfusion and blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity in spontaneously diabetic rats. Volumes of striatal oligaemia (blood flow &lt; 35 ml 100 g(-1) min(-1)) were significantly increased (&gt;300%) in diabetic rats with intrastriatal blood, compared to either non-diabetic rats with blood or control diabetic rats with striatal injection of silicon oil. However, the increase in BBB permeability was both qualitatively and quantitatively similar in diabetic and control rats. Poorer outcomes following haemorrhagic stroke in diabetic patients may thus result from dysfunctional cerebrovascular control, and particularly decreased dilatatory reserve.

Recent advances in neuropharmacology and neuroimaging are mapping the topography of symptoms in major depressive disorder (MDD). Different malfunctioning neuronal circuits apparently mediate different symptoms in MDD. Since all patients with MDD do not have the same symptoms, this implies that they may not all have the same malfunctioning circuits. Furthermore, since MDD patients treated with antidepressants commonly experience residual symptoms that prevent them from attaining complete remission, this implies that not all circuits are successfully targeted by treatment in such patients. A new neurobiologically informed treatment strategy for such patients calls for targeting residual symptoms by augmenting antidepressants with agents capable of boosting specific neurotransmitters in the hypothetically malfunctioning circuits. With this approach, the frequently residual symptoms of sleepiness, fatigue, and executive dysfunction can be targeted with bupropion, atomoxetine, modafinil, atypical antipsychotics, and stimulants.

Antidepressants are divided into several classes on the basis of their pharmacologic mechanisms of action, which are thought to be responsible for both their therapeutic actions and their side effect profiles. All classes currently available in the United States affect serotonin, norepinephrine, and/or dopamine neurotransmission. New agents in development also affect neurotransmission of such monoamines and include serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, serotonin-selective agents, selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors, and selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Treatments with entirely new mechanisms of action are also being studied, including hormone-linked treatments such as estrogen replacement therapy and the steroid antagonist mifepristone (RU-486 or C-1073); novel antagonist peptides such as corticotropin-releasing factor, neurokinins, and injectable pentapeptides; and agents that affect glutamate neurotransmission. The introduction of antidepressants with novel mechanisms of action could potentially revolutionize the treatment of depression.

Recent advances in neuroscience and understanding in the etiology of anxiety have led researchers to new targets for treatments that are proving to be at least as effective as benzodiazepines, which have been the traditional treatment for anxiety for over 40 years. The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) system has long been targeted in anxiety interventions via benzodiazepines, but better understanding of its role in anxiety disorders has led to the development of partial benzodiazepine-GABA receptor antagonists and agents that target specific subunits of the GABA-A receptor and that manipulate GABA levels. The recognition that antidepressants are effective in anxiety even in nondepressed patients has caused researchers to develop antianxiety agents that affect the serotonin and norepinephrine systems. Other neurotransmitter systems such as corticotropin-releasing factor and substance P appear to be abnormally regulated in patients with anxiety disorders, so antagonists of these neurotransmitters may prove to be beneficial anxiolytics. Meanwhile, antistress and antianxiety effects through neurogenesis may be possible with the use of agents that decrease glutamate neurotransmission, such as metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists. Finally, the stimulation of neurotrophic factors, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which appears to enhance neurogenesis, may also prove to have anxiolytic effects.

Estimating synaptic density is central to any examination of synaptic change. Barring techniques involving exhaustive sectioning, the traditional method for this estimation is the double dissector technique, which derives a ratio of synapses per neuron. This ratio, however, may not always equate to an absolute number of synapses. In contrast, the unbiased brick, while free of these problems, is limited by changes in reference space and cannot provide information on synaptic connectivity. Thus, the ideal analysis is to derive both synaptic measures. When these measures agree, one can discount changes in extraneous factors influencing synaptic counts.
In these last years, emotions and feelings, such as attachment, couple and parental bonding and even love, typical of higher mammals, neglected for centuries by experimental sciences, have become the topic of extensive neuroscientific research in order to elucidate their biological mechanisms. Several observations have highlighted the role of monoamines and of neuropeptides, in particular oxytocin, vasopressin and opioids, but this is only the beginning of the story. Love, the most typical human feeling, can be viewed as a dynamic process that represents the result of different components probably subserved by distinct neural substrates at different times. As such, some steps can be identified, in particular its beginning, which is the process of attraction, followed by the attachment process that, in some cases, can last forever. This paper will make some general speculations on the attraction process, in the light of the experience of the Authors.
The thesis of this article is that a Darwinian perspective can provide medical sexology with a new theoretical framework which is useful to clarify the relationship between the evolutionary bases of human sexuality and the sex-specific vulnerability to different sexual disorders. Evolutionary theory predicts that the relative parental investment of the sexes in their offspring is associated with different mating strategies in males and females. Individuals of the sex that invests more in offspring should be more discriminative in their sexual interactions because the costs of making a poor mate choice are greater for the highest-investing sex. Because in Homo sapiens, as in many other mammal species, the higher-investing sex is the female sex, women are more discriminative in their sexual preferences and less promiscuous than men. Accordingly, the epidemiology of sexual disorders can be expected to reflect sex differences in evolved mating strategies and sexual psychology. Sexual disorders that represent extreme variants of a mating strategy involving greater voluntary control over mate choice, accurate assessment of the quality of potential mates, and a tendency toward sexual restraint should be more prevalent among women. In contrast, sexual disorders that represent extreme variants of a mating strategy involving responsiveness to a variety of sexual stimuli and a tendency toward promiscuity should occur more frequently among men. Clinical data support these predictions.
One of the most intriguing discoveries in mammalian pheromone research is the report that a short exposure of women to volatile compounds from sweat can significantly alter their menstrual cycle. This work suggests that specific molecules are produced by women at different stages of the menstrual cycle and that this putative 'pheromonal' blend has effects on the timing of the cycle in women that were briefly exposed to it. What human pheromones are and how they work are not known, however a considerable progress has been made in understanding how other mammals are likely to detect pheromones with the discovery of pheromone receptors. Even though it is proved that pheromones affect human responses, it remains unlikely that similar receptors account for these effects.
The last decade has witnessed an upsurge of interest in the research on facial attractiveness. The development of computer graphics has allowed to objectively investigate the conserved features of attractive faces. Averageness, symmetry and sex-specific traits have been associated with attractiveness. The effect of averageness is exemplified by blending a set of real faces into a chimeric face. This composite is more attractive than most of the faces used to create it. Beautiful faces are not simply average faces, however. If the female-specific features of a female composite face are enhanced, the resulting face is perceived as more attractive than the composite. In particular, smaller than average chin, smaller than average nose and higher than average forehead, all are traits associated with female's attractiveness. These traits have been interpreted as signs of high estrogen/testosterone ratio and therefore cues of high fertility. However, these same traits are also a species-specific characteristic of Homo sapiens that differentiates it from other hominid species. Preference for caricature of human features could represent a relic of species recognition mechanisms. Female preferences for male faces proved to be more variable than male preferences for female faces. Different facial traits are preferred in the choice of short-term and long-term partners. Preference for short term depend on the hormonal status and changes across the menstrual cycle and is influenced by contraceptive hormonal treatment. Psychological factors are also important sources of variance: female preferences correlate with self-perceived attractiveness, status in a relationship and degree of gender-conformity.
The cycle of sexual activity in men and women occurs in 4 phases--excitation, plateau, orgasm, resolution--which are guided by sexual desire. Male sexual activity is characterized by erection, seminal emission and ejaculation (orgasm), whereas female sexual activity is characterized by vaginal lubrication, erection of the clitoris and orgasm. These responses are under the control of numerous central and peripheral neural systems. The central supraspinal systems are mainly localized in the limbic system (olfactory nuclei, medial preoptic area, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, hippocampus etc.), in the hypothalamus and its nuclei (paraventricular and ventromedial nuclei). Neural information travels through the brain stem, the medulla oblongata, the spinal cord and the autonomous nervous system to the genital apparatus. While we have very detailed knowledge of the neural mechanism, which controls the function of the male and female genital organs, in particular those mediating erection, very little is known of the central mechanism involved. Nevertheless, several neurotransmitters and neuropeptides, such as dopamine, glutamic acid, nitric oxide, oxytocin, ACTH-MSH peptides, are known to facilitate sexual function, while serotonin, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and opioid peptides reduce it. At the level of the paraventricular nucleus a group of oxytocinergic neurons projecting to extra-hypothalamic brain areas, including the spinal cord, have been identified, which facilitate erectile function and copulation when activated and reduce both when inhibited. Although the majority of results, which have clarified the mechanisms involved, have been performed in males, it is believed that similar mechanisms are also operative in females.
Cancer patients commonly undergo surgical procedures. The perioperative period is characterized by immunosuppression and may predispose already immunosupressed cancer patients to tumor spread. Cancer patients typically show depression of both cellular and humoral immune functions. Possible mediating factors for immunosuppression during the perioperative period include anesthetic agents, opioids, surgery, blood transfusions, temperature changes, pain, and psychological stress. A surgically mediated decrease in natural killer (NK) cell activity has been implicated as the major contributing factor associated with an increase in metastasis. The decreased NK cell activity during the perioperative period is associated with increased risk of mortality and cancer. Commonly used anesthetic agents and opioids are known to inhibit NK cell activity. Despite the in vivo evidence of anesthetic- and analgesic-agent-mediated immunosupression, surgery by itself results in a three- to four-fold increase in retention of metastasis when compared to the groups in which anesthesia and analgesia were combined. The negative consequences associated with perioperative immunosuppression may be decreased by several strategies, including aggressive pain control, selection of specific anesthetic and analgesic agents, avoidance of unnecessary transfusions, and delay of elective surgeries until the patient's nutritional and immune status is optimized. Recognizing and neutralizing its mediating factors, perioperative immunosuppression in cancer patients may be reduced.
Caesalpinia bonducella, widely distributed throughout the coastal region of India and used ethnically by the tribal people of India for controlling blood sugar was earlier reported by us to possess hypoglycemic activity in animal model. This prompted us to undertake a detail study with the aqueous and ethanolic extracts of the seeds of this plant in both type 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus in Long Evans rats. Significant blood sugar lowering effect (P &lt; 0.05) of C. bonducella was observed in type 2 diabetic model. Special emphasis was given on the mechanistic study by gut absorption of glucose and liver glycogen.

Van der Knaap disease, or megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts (MLC), is an autosomal recessive disorder clinically characterized by macrocephaly, ataxia, spasticity, and mental decline. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) shows swollen brain with diffuse white-matter abnormalities and subcortical cysts, particularly in the anterior-temporal region. Recently, the MLC1 gene was identified as the gene responsible for this disorder, and mutations in this gene were described in several patients. We studied three Japanese patients with van der Knaap disease at the molecular genetic level. Two of them were homozygous for a previously-described mutation, S93L, and one was a compound heterozygote for S93L and a novel mutation, 452-468del+g, which leads to frameshift with a premature termination codon. Combining our data with previous reports allowed us to estimate the molecular genetic basis of this disorder in seven Japanese patients. In summary, S93L was observed in six of seven (85.7%) patients at least in one allele, and ten of 14 (71.4%) alleles had this mutation. Therefore, S93L appears to be fairly frequent in Japanese patients with van der Knaap disease, and analysis for this mutation in DNA isolated from leukocytes would provide for an easy and precise diagnosis of this disorder in Japanese patients.
We report a male patient with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Besides a G11778A mutation in the ND4 gene of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), one of the most common mutations in LHON patients, sequencing of total mtDNA revealed a G12192A mutation in the tRNA (His) gene that was recently noted to be a risk factor for cardiomyopathy. Because no case of LHON presenting with cardiomyopathy has been reported, the present finding suggests that the G12192A mutation caused cardiomyopathy as an additional symptom. In the present case, the double pathogenic mtDNA mutations may be associated either synergistically or concomitantly with two different clinical manifestations.

There is evidence that both inflammatory mechanisms and mitochondrial dysfunction contribute to Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. We investigated whether the cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) inhibitor rofecoxib either alone or in combination with creatine could exert neuroprotective effects in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3, 6-tetrahydropyridine model of PD in mice. Both rofecoxib and creatine administered alone protected against striatal dopamine depletions and loss of substantia nigra tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurons. Administration of rofecoxib with creatine produced significant additive neuroprotective effects against dopamine depletions. These results suggest that a combination of a COX-2 inhibitor with creatine might be a useful neuroprotective strategy for PD.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) appears to be a transitional stage in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Patients with MCI show impaired memory performance and hippocampal atrophy relative to normal elderly controls. Prior studies indicate that the degree of hippocampal atrophy in MCI patients predicts conversion to AD. In contrast to patients with MCI who have deficits primarily in memory, AD patients have clinically evident impairments in both memory and nonmemory cognitive domains. One explanation for the observation that a smaller hippocampal volume predicts conversion to AD might be that hippocampal atrophy is associated with early impairment in nonmemory cognitive areas as well as memory. A link between hippocampal volume and nonmemory function could occur if hippocampal atrophy was correlated with AD pathology in other brain regions. We therefore sought to determine the relationship of hippocampal volume with performance on memory and nonmemory tasks in patients with MCI. Although we found a significant correlation between hippocampal volume and memory performance, we did not find a significant correlation between hippocampal volume and nonmemory performance. We conclude that the relationship between hippocampal volume and risk of AD is likely tied to reduced memory performance and not associated with impairment in nonmemory cognitive domains.

Accumulating data from experimental and human studies indicate that oxidative stress (OS) plays a major role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which leads to OS, can occur very early, even before the appearance of symptoms and molecular events (beta-amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles), leading to tissue damage via several different cellular molecular pathways. ROS can cause damage to cardinal cellular components such as lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids (e.g., RNA, DNA), causing cell death by modes of necrosis or apoptosis. The damage can become more widespread because of the weakened cellular antioxidant defense systems. Therefore, treatment with antioxidants might theoretically act to prevent propagation of tissue damage and improve both survival and neurological outcome. Indeed, several studies preformed to date examined whether dietary intake of several antioxidants, mainly vitamins, might prevent or reduce the progression of AD. Although a few of the antioxidants showed some efficacy in these trials, no answer is yet available as to whether antioxidants are truly protective against AD. Reasons for these results might include, in part, blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, inappropriate timing of administration, or suboptimal drug levels at the target site in the central nervous system. Thus, antioxidant cocktails or antioxidants combined with other drugs may have more successful synergistic effects. Further, well-designed intervention, as well as observational investigations based on large cohorts studied over a long period of time with several methods for assessing antioxidant exposure, including relation to BBB penetration, are needed to test this hypothesis.
A couple of transporters and channels has been proposed as candidate genes involved in the pathomechanisms leading to the neurodevelopmental abnormalities and the phenotype of Down Syndrome (DS, trisomy 21). No systematic study, however, has been carried out showing the concomitant expression of several candidate RNAs during fetal life. It was therefore the aim of the study to apply an array of 96 brain RNAs mainly consisting of channels and transporters to show their expressional levels in fetal DS brain at the early second trimester. Brain RNA was extracted from fetal cortex of the 18-19th week of gestation of controls and DS individuals and used for the GEArray Q Series Human Neuroscience-1/Ion Channels &amp; Transporters analysis. 15 out of 96 RNAs of the array were observed on the films in both groups during this gestational period consisting of genes for potassium, sodium, calcium channels and transporters (ASIC3, ATP1B1, CACNA1B, KCNB2, KCNC1, KCND2, KCNF1, KCNN1, KCNN3, hKCa4, KCNQ2, lipid transfer protein II, SCN2B, acetyl choline transporter, glutamate transporter3). There was no statistically significant difference between the control and the DS group. We provide information on the developmental expression of the aforementioned 15 RNAs and the absence of the residual examined 81 RNAs at the 18th/19th week of gestation in fetal cortex that was never reported before and show that channels and transporters present with unchanged expression in fetal DS brain.
Alcohol biomarkers include tests indicative of acute or chronic alcohol consumption (state markers), and markers of a genetic predisposition to develop alcohol dependence after chronic exposure (trait markers). While a comprehensive trait marker for alcohol dependence has not been identified, a number of successful state markers for monitoring drinking status are used clinically. These tests provide direct or indirect ways to estimate the amounts of alcohol consumed and the duration of ingestion, and to detect any harmful effects on body functions resulting from long-term misuse. The most obvious method to prove recent drinking is by demonstrating the presence of ethanol in body fluids or breath, but, because ethanol is cleared fairly rapidly from the body, this method is limited to detect only very recent drinking. Measurement of urinary 5-hydroxytryptophol or ethyl glucuronide provide more sensitive methods to disclose recent drinking, because their washout constants are much longer than for ethanol. The liver functions test (GGT, AST and ALT in serum) and the mean corpuscular volume of erythrocytes (MCV) are among the standard diagnostic tools used to identify chronic alcohol exposure. The main disadvantage with these measures is that they have low sensitivity for recent excessive intake, and that raised levels may result from several causes besides heavy drinking, implying a low specificity for alcohol. Carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT), which refers to changes in the carbohydrate composition of serum transferrin, is a more specific marker for identifying excessive alcohol consumption and monitoring abstinence during outpatient treatment. The alcohol biomarkers improves knowledge of drinking patterns in both individuals and populations, and they are also valuable tools for the objective evaluation of treatment efforts. Alcohol markers have, for example, found uses in early identification of at-risk and harmful drinking, and they help to monitor abstinence and relapse in response to outpatient treatment.
Drug addiction includes complex neurobiological and behavioural processes. Acute reinforcing effects of drugs of abuse are responsible for the initiation of drug addiction, whereas the negative consequences of drug abstinence have a crucial motivational significance for relapse and maintenance of the addictive process. The mesocorticolimbic system represents a common neuronal substrate for the reinforcing properties of drugs of abuse. Both dopamine and opioid transmission play a crucial role in this reward pathway. Common neuronal changes have also been reported during the abstinence to different drugs of abuse that could underlie the negative motivational effects of withdrawal. These changes include decreased dopaminergic activity in the mesolimbic system and a recruitment of the brain stress pathways. All drugs of abuse interact with these brain circuits by acting on different molecular and neurochemical mechanisms. The existence of bidirectional interactions between different drugs of abuse, such as opioids and cannabinoids, provides further findings to support this common neurobiological substrate for drug addictive processes.
This review summarizes the evidence that GDF-15, a recently discovered member of the TGF-beta superfamily, is a trophic factor for nigral dopamine neurons, both in vitro and in vivo. Specifically, GDF-15 promotes survival and differentiation of embryonic rat dopaminergic neurons, but not of other neuron populations, with the exception of serotonergic raphe neurons. The neurotrophic effect of GDF-15 seems to be direct and not mediated through glial cells. In the rat 6-hydroxydopamine model of parkinsonism GDF-15 rescues intoxicated dopaminergic neurons and abolishes abnormal turning behavior. The most prominent site of synthesis of GDF-15 within the brain is the choroid plexus, which secretes GDF-15 into the cerebrospinal fluid, from where the molecule can penetrate through the ependymal layer into the parenchyma. Analysis of mouse mutants lacking GDF-15 will reveal whether the endogenous factor also has a role in promoting embryonic and protecting lesioned nigral dopamine neurons.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurological disorder in which there is abnormal degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area combined with a varying degree of deterioration of the cholinergic, serotonergic and noradrenergic system, leading to a variety of motor and non-motor abnormalities. Dopamine (DA) depletion in nigrostriatal projections manifests with abnormal spontaneous motor behavior and (subtle) cognitive deficits, whereas more overt cognitive impairment may develop with concomitant DA-deficiency related mesocorticolimbic denervation. In combination with a progressive dysfunction of the ascending neocortical cholinergic (and serotonergic and noradrenergic) projections, mainly due to a loss of cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NbM), these cognitive deficits may proceed into dementia sometimes in combination with psychotic behavior, which might also be associated with dopaminomimetic and/or anticholinergic treatment as well as with cholinergic deficit or dopaminomimetic induced REM sleep disturbances. As these psychiatric symptoms have a substantial negative effect on the patient's quality of life, contribute to caregiver distress and are predictive of nursing home placement, identification and adequate treatment is of great importance. Recent evidence supports a possible role for cholinomimetic therapy in alleviating cognitive dysfunction and psychotic symptoms in PD.
Impaired 5HT functioning has been implicated in two very different psychiatric syndromes: antisocial personality disorder and depression. In both, reduced csf concentration of 5HIAA and blunted circulating hormone responses to 5HT drug challenge have been described. The paradox can be resolved by the theory that the two main ascending 5HT pathways mediate adaptive responses to future and current adversity. Projections of the anterior group of raphe 5HT cells (dorsal raphe nucleus) oppose the action of dopamine and mediate avoidance of threats. Impaired function sensitises the dopamine system resulting in impulsivity and drug addiction. Posterior 5HT cells (median raphe nucleus) innervate hippocampus and cingulate gyrus and suppress memory and awareness of current and past adversity. Impaired function results in low mood, low self-esteem, hopelessness and pessimism. Modern imaging methods are providing startling corroboration of these ideas.
It is sometimes supposed that standardizing tests of mouse behavior will ensure similar results in different laboratories. We evaluated this supposition by conducting behavioral tests with identical apparatus and test protocols in independent laboratories. Eight genetic groups of mice, including equal numbers of males and females, were either bred locally or shipped from the supplier and then tested on six behaviors simultaneously in three laboratories (Albany, NY; Edmonton, AB; Portland, OR). The behaviors included locomotor activity in a small box, the elevated plus maze, accelerating rotarod, visible platform water escape, cocaine activation of locomotor activity, and ethanol preference in a two-bottle test. A preliminary report of this study presented a conventional analysis of conventional measures that revealed strong effects of both genotype and laboratory as well as noteworthy interactions between genotype and laboratory. We now report a more detailed analysis of additional measures and view the data for each test in different ways. Whether mice were shipped from a supplier or bred locally had negligible effects for almost every measure in the six tests, and sex differences were also absent or very small for most behaviors, whereas genetic effects were almost always large. For locomotor activity, cocaine activation, and elevated plus maze, the analysis demonstrated the strong dependence of genetic differences in behavior on the laboratory giving the tests. For ethanol preference and water escape learning, on the other hand, the three labs obtained essentially the same results for key indicators of behavior. Thus, it is clear that the strong dependence of results on the specific laboratory is itself dependent on the task in question. Our results suggest that there may be advantages of test standardization, but laboratory environments probably can never be made sufficiently similar to guarantee identical results on a wide range of tests in a wide range of labs. Interpretations of our results by colleagues in neuroscience as well as the mass media are reviewed. Pessimistic views, prevalent in the media but relatively uncommon among neuroscientists, of mouse behavioral tests as being highly unreliable are contradicted by our data. Despite the presence of noteworthy interactions between genotype and lab environment, most of the larger differences between inbred strains were replicated across the three labs. Strain differences of moderate effects size, on the other hand, often differed markedly among labs, especially those involving three 129-derived strains. Implications for behavioral screening of targeted and induced mutations in mice are discussed.
One of the fundamental challenges of modern neuroscience is to understand how memories are acquired, stored, and retrieved by the brain. In the broadest terms, attempts to dissect memory can be broken down into four experimental disciplines: (1) identification of molecular components, (2) ex vivo and in vivo cellular analysis of neuronal function, (3) theoretical modeling approaches of neural systems, and (4) organismal-level behavioral analyses. Our objective here is to offer a conceptually unifying perspective and to discuss this perspective in relation to an experiment analysis of memory in Drosophila.
Sleep has been identified in all mammals and nonmammalian vertebrates that have been critically evaluated. In addition, sleep-like states have also been identified and described in several invertebrates. Despite this prevalence throughout the animal kingdom, the function of sleep remains a mystery. The completion of several genome sequencing projects has led to the expectation that fundamental aspects of sleep can be elucidated through genetic dissection. Indeed, studies in both the mouse and fly have begun to reveal tantalizing suggestions about the underlying principles that regulate sleep homeostasis. In this article we will review recent studies that have used genetic techniques to evaluate sleep in the fruit fly and the mouse.
Susceptibility to drug addiction depends on genetic and environmental factors and their complex interactions. Studies with mammalian models have identified molecular targets, neurochemical systems, and brain regions that mediate some of the addictive properties of abused drugs. Yet, our understanding of how the primary effects of drugs lead to addiction remains incomplete. Recently, researchers have turned to the invertebrate model systems Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans to dissect the mechanisms by which abused drugs modulate behavior. Due to their sophisticated genetics, relatively simple anatomy, and their remarkable molecular similarity to mammals, these invertebrate models should provide useful insights into the mechanisms of drug action. Here we review recent behavioral and genetic studies in flies and worms on the effects of ethanol, cocaine, and nicotine, three of the most widely abused drugs in the world.
Terminal activity causes an increase in local cerebral blood flow that can be quantified by measuring the accompanying increase in tissue oxygen. Alkaline pH changes can also follow neuronal activation. The purpose of these studies was to determine whether these changes in extracellular oxygen and pH correlate. Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry was used to detect changes in dopamine, pH and oxygen levels simultaneously in the caudate-putamen after electrical stimulation of the substantia nigra in anesthetized rats. The biphasic increases in oxygen and pH followed similar time courses, and were delayed a few seconds from the immediate release and uptake of dopamine. The changes following administration of neurotransmitter receptor antagonists as well as agents that modulate blood flow were identical for oxygen and pH. Two distinct mechanisms were identified that give rise to the oxygen and pH changes: blood vessel dilatation caused by nitric oxide synthesis after muscarinic receptor activation and adenosine receptor activation. We conclude that changes in blood flow accompanying terminal activity cause alkaline pH shifts by the rapid removal of carbon dioxide, a component of the extracellular brain buffering system.
Martentoxin, a novel K+-channel-specific peptide has been purified and characterized from the venom of the East-Asian scorpion (Buthus martensi Karsch). The whole cDNA precursor sequence suggested that martentoxin was composed of 37 residues with a unique sequence compared with other scorpion neurotoxins. The genomic DNA of martentoxin showed an additional intron situated unexpectedly in the 5' UTR region, besides one located close to the C-terminal of the signal peptide. The patch-clamp recording found that martentoxin at the applied dose of 100 nm could strongly block large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ (BKCa) currents in adrenal medulla chromaffin cells, and BKCa currents blocked by martentoxin could be fully recovered within 30 seconds after washing, which is at least 10 times faster than recovery after charybdotoxin. Meanwhile, a biosensor binding assay showed a fast association rate and a slow dissociation rate of martentoxin binding on rat brain synaptosomes. The binding of martentoxin on rat brain synaptosomes could be inhibited regularly by charybdotoxin, and gradually by toosendanin in a concentration-dependent manner, but not by either apamin or P03 from Buthus martensi. The results thus indicate that martentoxin is a new member in the family of K+-channel-blocking ligands.
The mechanisms of truncated BID (tBID)-induced Cyt c release from non-synaptosomal brain mitochondria were examined. Addition of tBID to mitochondria induced partial Cyt c release which was inhibited by anti-BAK antibodies, implicating BAK. Immunoblotting showed the presence of BAK, but not BAX, in brain mitochondria. tBID did not release Cyt c from rat liver mitochondria, which lacked both BAX and BAK. This indicated that tBID did not act independently of BAX and BAK. tBID plus monomeric BAX produced twice as much Cyt c release as did tBID or oligomeric BAX alone. Neither tBID alone nor in combination with BAX induced mitochondrial swelling. In both cases Cyt c release was insensitive to cyclosporin A plus ADP, inhibitors of the mitochondrial permeability transition (mPT). Recombinant Bcl-xL inhibited Cyt c release induced by tBID alone or in combination with monomeric BAX. Koenig's polyanion, an inhibitor of VDAC, suppressed tBID-induced Cyt c release from brain mitochondria mediated by BAK but not by BAX. Thus, tBID can induce mPT-independent Cyt c release from brain mitochondria by interacting with exogenous BAX and/or with endogenous BAK that may involve VDAC. In contrast, neither adenylate kinase nor Smac/DIABLO was released from isolated rat brain mitochondria via BAK or BAX.
Thyroid hormone is an essential modulator of brain development, but little is known about its actions in the adult brain. Hypothyroidism is associated with gene expression changes in both central and peripheral nervous tissue. Functional consequences of adult-onset hypothyroidism include an inability to produce long-term potentiation in rat hippocampus and impaired learning and memory in both rats and man. Long-term potentiation is a form of learning that is dependent on functional N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA)-preferring ionotropic glutamate receptors. This work examines the expression of ionotropic glutamate receptor subunit mRNA following surgical thyroidectomy with or without thyroid hormone replacement. In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to determine the mRNA levels of the NMDA receptor subunits NR1, NR2A, NR2B, the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1, and the kainate receptor subunit KA2. Reducing circulating concentrations of thyroid hormone by surgical removal of the thyroid gland 2 weeks before sacrifice decreased the expression of NR1 mRNA exclusively in the hippocampus. Conversely, hyperthyroidism selectively reduced NR2B mRNA expression in the dorsal hippocampus. Altering thyroid hormone status had no effect on the expression of KA2 or GluR1 subunit mRNA. The regulation of expression of NR1 and NR2B mRNA by thyroid hormone is a novel mechanism for explaining the relationship between thyroid hormone and cognitive function.
The adipose tissue-derived hormone leptin may be a primary mediator linking nutritional status and reproduction. The present study used the leptin-resistant obese female Zucker rat to investigate whether leptin signalling is required for normal pulsatile luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion and/or generation of the LH surge. For the pulsatile LH secretion study, an indwelling atrial catheter was implanted and a low dose of oestrogen given as a subcutaneous implant to lean and obese ovariectomized (OVX) Zucker rats. One week following OVX, blood samples were collected every 10 min for 3 h during the morning. Plasma LH concentrations were measured by radioimmunoassay. For the LH surge study, lean and obese OVX rats were given a high dose of oestrogen as a subcutaneous implant. Two days later, rats were given progesterone at 09.00 h to induce a proestrus-like LH surge. Blood samples were collected from an indwelling atrial catheter throughout that and the following day and plasma LH concentrations were measured by radioimmunoassay. LH pulse amplitude and mean LH secretion were profoundly attenuated in obese Zucker rats compared with lean littermates, whereas LH pulse frequency was not significantly different between phenotypes. The opioid receptor antagonist naloxone did not affect the pattern of pulsatile LH secretion in obese rats, suggesting that leptin does not exert its facilitatory effects on LH secretion through an opioidergic pathway. Both lean and obese rats showed characteristic steroid-induced LH surges. It therefore appears that a leptin signal is required for generation of a normal pattern of pulsatile LH secretion, but is not a necessary component of the steroid-induced LH surge.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) interacts with hypothalamic neuronal pathways regulating feeding behaviour. GABA has been reported to stimulate feeding via both ionotropic GABA(A) and metabotropic GABA(B) receptors. The functional form of the GABA(B) receptor is a heterodimer consisting of GABA(B) receptor-1 (GABA(B)R1) and GABA(B) receptor-2 (GABA(B)R2) proteins. Within the heterodimer, the GABA-binding site is localized to GABA(B)R1. In the present study, we used an antiserum to the GABA(B)R1 protein in order to investigate the cellular localization of GABA(B)R1-immunoreactive neurones in discrete hypothalamic regions implicated in the control of body weight. The colocalization of GABA(B)R1 immunoreactivity with different chemical messengers that regulate food intake was analysed. GABA(B)R1-immunoreactive cell bodies were found in the periventricular, paraventricular (PVN), supraoptic, arcuate, ventromedial hypothalamic, dorsomedial hypothalamic, tuberomammillary nuclei and lateral hypothalamic area (LHA). Direct double-labelling showed that glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)-positive terminals were in close contact with GABA(B)R1-containing cell bodies located in all these regions. In the ventromedial part of the arcuate nucleus, GABA(B)R1-immunoreactive cell bodies were found to contain neuropeptide Y, agouti-related peptide (AGRP) and GAD. In the ventrolateral part of the arcuate nucleus, GABA(B)R1-immunoreactive cell bodies were shown to contain pro-opiomelanocortin and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript. In the LHA, GABA(B)R1 immunoreactivity was present in both melanin-concentrating hormone- and orexin-containing cell populations. In the tuberomammillary nucleus, GABA(B)R1-immunoreactive cell bodies expressed histidine decarboxylase, a marker for histamine-containing neurones. In addition, GAD and AGRP were found to be colocalized in some nerve terminals surrounding GABA(B)R1-immunoreactive cell bodies in the parvocellular part of the PVN. The results may provide a morphological basis for the understanding of how GABA regulates the hypothalamic control of food intake and body weight via GABA(B) receptors.
The relation between serum inflammatory protein levels and cognitive performance was investigated in a healthy population. Individuals were tested during 6 years of follow-up. Serum concentrations of 10 inflammatory proteins were correlated to cognitive speed (Letter-Digit Coding Test, LDCT), attention and information processing (Stroop) and memory (Word Learning). Haptoglobin levels at baseline correlated negatively with cognitive performance on the Stroop and Word Learning Recall test over the 6 years follow-up period. C-reactive protein (CRP) levels at baseline correlated negatively with performance on the Word Learning tests over the 6 years follow-up period. Thus, relatively high concentrations of haptoglobin and C-reactive protein may be indicative for impaired cognitive performance.
We generated a novel mouse model of spinal cord injury (SCI) by hemisection of the right L1 lumbar spinal cord, measured the permeability of the blood-spinal cord barrier (BSCB), and tested the hypothesis that tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) penetrates the injured BSCB by an enhanced transport system. SCI produced stereotypical sensorimotor deficits resembling the classically described Brown-Seqard syndrome. Disruption of the BSCB was reflected by increased spinal cord uptake of radiolabeled albumin from blood; this was transient (immediately after SCI) and confined to the lumbar spinal cord. By contrast, specific increase in the entry of TNF alpha was detected in brain, cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spinal cord at 1 week after SCI, in addition to its immediate and transient increase consistent with barrier disruption. Lack of a second peak of increase in the entry of IL1 beta further supported the specificity of the TNF alpha response. Moreover, enhanced uptake of radiolabeled TNF alpha was suppressed by excess non-radiolabeled TNF alpha, indicating competition of entry via the known transport system for TNF alpha. Therefore, upregulation of the transport system after SCI probably mediates the increased permeation of TNF alpha across the BSCB. Enhanced entry of TNF alpha at 1 week after SCI was concurrent with sensorimotor and gait improvement of the mouse. We conclude that SCI by lumbar hemisection activates the transport system for TNF alpha at the BBB and suggest that selective permeation of TNF alpha may facilitate functional recovery.
Both cellular and humoral functions of the immune system are modulated by the sympathetic nervous system (SNS). This interaction is mainly mediated by the release of catecholamines (CA) and their receptor-specific action on immune cells. However, neuropeptide Y (NPY), also present in sympathetic nerve terminals, is released upon SNS-stimulation. NPY modulates potent immunological effects in vitro and in vivo, such as differentiation of T helper cells, monocyte mediator release, NK cell activation, and immune cell redistribution. In addition to this direct action within the neuroimmune crosstalk, NPY is also able to modulate the immunomodulatory effects of other neurotransmitters, thereby acting as a neuroimmune co-transmitter. This review will discuss key findings from recent studies, provide implications for the clinical situation, and integrate the pleiotropic functions of NPY in the context of neuroimmune interactions.

The Nipah virus is a newly identified paramyxovirus responsible for an outbreak of fatal encephalitis in Malaysia and Singapore. This paper reports the follow up clinical and magnetic resonance imaging findings in 22 affected subjects. Of 13 patients with encephalitis, one died, one was lost to follow up, and seven recovered. Among the four remaining patients, one had residual sixth nerve palsy, another suffered from severe clinical depression, and a third patient had evidence of retinal artery occlusion. One patient with delayed onset Horner syndrome had a single lesion in the cervical spinal cord. The brain magnetic resonance findings were stable or improved in nine patients over 18 months of follow up. Among a second group of nine asymptomatic seropositive abattoir workers, magnetic resonance examination in seven subjects revealed discrete small lesions in the brain; similar to those detected in encephalitis patients. These findings suggest that in addition to encephalitis, the newly discovered Nipah virus affects the spinal cord and the retina. Late clinical and radiological findings can occur in Nipah virus infections as with other paramyxoviruses.
The independent and relative contributions of motor, cognitive, and behavioural deficits to functional decline in patients with Huntington's disease are examined. Twenty two patients with Huntington's disease were assessed with rating scales for motor dysfunction, cognitive measures of executive functions, and behavioural measures of apathy, executive dysfunction, and disinhibition. Their functional status was assessed with informant based and clinician based ratings of activities of daily living (ADL). A composite apathy/executive dysfunction behavioural index was strongly related to decline in ADL independently and after controlling for motor and cognitive deficits. These results suggest that behavioural dysfunction contributes to functional decline in patients with Huntington's disease and may impede their ability to utilise motor or cognitive skills that remain available in the early stages of the disease.



Sixty-one glioblastomas have been studied, subdivided into the categories of classic glioblastomas (GBM) and glioblastomas with astrocytic (GBA) and oligodendroglial (GBO) differentiated areas. On surgical samples, TP53, Mdm2, CDKN2A/p16-p14 alterations were studied by molecular biology techniques and by immunohistochemistry. It has been found that Mdm2 amplification was more frequent in GBM than in GBA and GBO, that p14ARF was inactivated in a high percentage of cases in the three tumor categories. Both these and other alterations did not reach a statistical significance, with the exception of CDKN2A/p16 homozygous deletion which showed the highest frequency in GBO. The latter finding could be in line with the observation that CDKN2A/p16 inactivation is a step in the molecular pathway to tumor progression in oligodendrogliomas. TP53 mutations and Mdm2 amplifications were mutually exclusive, whereas TP53 mutations and CDKN2A/p14 inactivation coexisted in 5 cases. The alterations of the p53/Mdm2/p14ARF pathway occurred in 73% of cases and in 80% of cases if CDKN2A homozygous deletions were associated. All glioblastomas with gemistocytic areas showed p14ARF inactivation. Immunohistochemistry showed higher percentages of positivity in comparison with molecular genetics, but with similar variations.
Injury to neonatal nerves, unlike adult nerves, results in poor regeneration and extensive motoneuron death. We examined whether exposure to a more mature nerve environment could rescue axotomized motoneurons following neonatal injury. The sciatic nerve in 1 hindlimb of 3-day-old (P3) rats was transected and the cut end sutured to a nerve graft taken from donor rats, which ranged between P3 and P21. The extent of motoneuron survival and axon regeneration was established 7 days later. Since integrins play an important role in regeneration, we also examined the effect of manipulating integrin binding in nerve grafts. Following axotomy at P3 and implantation of nerve grafts from 3-day-old rats, approximately 38% of motoneurons survived. In contrast, grafts from rats aged 5 days and older resulted in an improvement in regeneration, and over 70% of motoneurons survived. This survival-promoting effect of P5 grafts was prevented by blocking beta1-integrins. In contrast, increasing beta1-integrin levels in grafts from P3 rats dramatically increased motoneuron survival. Thus, following neonatal nerve injury, exposure to a more mature nerve environment significantly increases motoneuron survival, an effect that is dependent upon beta1-integrin signaling. Therefore, pharmacological upregulation of beta1-integrins may significantly improve the outcome of neonatal nerve injuries.
R. F. Rakowski, D. C. Gadsby, and P. DeWeer have reported a persistent, tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium ion current (I(NaP)) in squid giant axons having a low threshold (-90 mV) and a maximal inward amplitude of -4 microA/cm(2) at -50 mV. This report makes the case that most of I(NaP) is attributable to an ion channel mechanism distinct from the classical rapidly activating and inactivating sodium ion current, I(Na), which is also tetrodotoxin sensitive. The analysis of the contribution of I(Na) to I(NaP) is critically dependent on slow inactivation of I(Na). The results of this gating process reported here demonstrate that inactivation of I(Na) is complete in the steady-state for V &gt; -40 mV, thereby making it unlikely that I(NaP) in this potential range is attributable to I(Na). Moreover, -90 mV is well below I(Na) threshold, as demonstrated by the C. A. Vandenberg and F. Bezanilla model of I(Na) gating in squid giant axons. Their model predicts a persistent current having a threshold of -60 mV and a peak amplitude of -25 microA/cm(2) at -20 mV. Modulation of this component by the slow inactivation process predicts a persistent current that is finite in the -60- to -40-mV range having a peak amplitude of -1 microA/cm(-2) at -50 mV. Subtraction of this current from the I(NaP) measurements yields the portion of I(NaP) that appears to be attributable to an ion channel mechanism distinct from I(Na).
The innervation patterns of vestibular saccular afferents were quantitatively investigated in pigeons using biotinylated dextran amine as a neural tracer and three-dimensional computer reconstruction. Type I hair cells were found throughout a large portion of the macula, with the highest density observed in the striola. Type II hair cells were located throughout the macula, with the highest density in the extrastriola. Three classes of afferent innervation patterns were observed, including calyx, dimorph, and bouton units, with 137 afferents being anatomically reconstructed and used for quantitative comparisons. Calyx afferents were located primarily in the striola, innervated a number of type I hair cells, and had small innervation areas. Most calyx afferent terminal fields were oriented parallel to the anterior-posterior axis and the morphological polarization reversal line. Dimorph afferents were located throughout the macula, contained fewer type I hair cells in a calyceal terminal than calyx afferents and had medium sized innervation areas. Bouton afferents were restricted to the extrastriola, with multi-branching fibers and large innervation areas. Most of the dimorph and bouton afferents had innervation fields that were oriented dorso-ventrally but were parallel to the neighboring reversal line. The organizational morphology of the saccule was found to be distinctly different from that of the avian utricle or lagena otolith organs and appears to represent a receptor organ undergoing evolutionary adaptation toward sensing linear motion in terrestrial and aerial species.
Previous studies have perturbed the association between motor commands and arm movements by applying forces to the arm during two-dimensional movements. These studies have revealed that, when the normal hand path is perturbed, subjects gradually adapt their motor commands to return to this path. The present study used the spin of a gyroscope to create a complex perturbation, as subjects reached to targets presented in three dimensions. Hand path did not change, but the whole-arm geometry (&quot;arm configuration&quot; in four dimensions) was altered. Over a series of several hundred reaches to various targets, subjects gradually returned the arm movement to its normal configuration. Furthermore, during the course of this learning, subjects used a strategy that involved manipulating arm posture. A similar strategy was observed when subjects made reaching movements with a rod attached to the upper arm to change its inertial characteristics. In both cases, the gradual return to the normal arm movement was accomplished without an increase in kinetic energy, suggesting that arm postures and movements (kinematics) and muscular forces (kinetics) may be mutually optimized. In contrast to previous studies, the present results highlight the role of arm configuration (rather than hand path) in learning and control.
The preceding study demonstrated that normal subjects compensate for the additional interaction torques generated when a reaching movement is made during voluntary trunk rotation. The present paper assesses the influence of trunk rotation on finger trajectories and on interjoint coordination and determines whether simultaneous turn-and-reach movements are most simply described relative to a trunk-based or an external reference frame. Subjects reached to targets requiring different extents of arm joint and trunk rotation at a natural pace and quickly in normal lighting and in total darkness. We first examined whether the larger interaction torques generated during rapid turn-and-reach movements perturb finger trajectories and interjoint coordination and whether visual feedback plays a role in compensating for these torques. These issues were addressed using generalized Procrustes analysis (GPA), which attempts to overlap a group of configurations (e.g., joint trajectories) through translations and rotations in multi-dimensional space. We first used GPA to identify the mean intrinsic patterns of finger and joint trajectories (i.e., their average shape irrespective of location and orientation variability in the external and joint workspaces) from turn-and-reach movements performed in each experimental condition and then calculated their curvatures. We then quantified the discrepancy between each finger or joint trajectory and the intrinsic pattern both after GPA was applied individually to trajectories from a pair of experimental conditions and after GPA was applied to the same trajectories pooled together. For several subjects, joint trajectories but not finger trajectories were more curved in fast than slow movements. The curvature of both joint and finger trajectories of turn-and-reach movements was relatively unaffected by the vision conditions. Pooling across speed conditions significantly increased the discrepancy between joint but not finger trajectories for most subjects, indicating that subjects used different patterns of interjoint coordination in slow and fast movements while nevertheless preserving the shape of their finger trajectory. Higher movement speeds did not disrupt the arm joint rotations despite the larger interaction torques generated. Rather, subjects used the redundant degrees of freedom of the arm/trunk system to achieve similar finger trajectories with differing joint configurations. We examined finger movement patterns and velocity profiles to determine the frame of reference in which turn-and-reach movements could be most simply described. Finger trajectories of turn-and-reach movements had much larger curvatures and their velocity profiles were less smooth and less bell-like in trunk-based coordinates than in external coordinates. Taken together, these results support the conclusion that turn-and-reach movements are controlled in an external frame of reference.
When reaching movements involve simultaneous trunk rotation, additional interaction torques are generated on the arm that are absent when the trunk is stable. To explore whether the CNS compensates for such self-generated interaction torques, we recorded hand trajectories in reaching tasks involving various amplitudes and velocities of arm extension and trunk rotation. Subjects pointed to three targets on a surface slightly above waist level. Two of the target locations were chosen so that a similar arm configuration relative to the trunk would be required for reaching to them, one of these targets requiring substantial trunk rotation, the other very little. Significant trunk rotation was necessary to reach the third target, but the arm's radial distance to the body remained virtually unchanged. Subjects reached at two speeds-a natural pace (slow) and rapidly (fast)-under normal lighting and in total darkness. Trunk angular velocity and finger velocity relative to the trunk were higher in the fast conditions but were not affected by the presence or absence of vision. Peak trunk velocity increased with increasing trunk rotation up to a maximum of 200 degrees /s. In slow movements, peak finger velocity relative to the trunk was smaller when trunk rotation was necessary to reach the targets. In fast movements, peak finger velocity was approximately 1.7 m/s for all targets. Finger trajectories were more curved when reaching movements involved substantial trunk rotation; however, the terminal errors and the maximal deviation of the trajectory from a straight line were comparable in slow and fast movements. This pattern indicates that the larger Coriolis, centripetal, and inertial interaction torques generated during rapid reaches were compensated by additional joint torques. Trajectory characteristics did not vary with the presence or absence of vision, indicating that visual feedback was unnecessary for anticipatory compensations. In all reaches involving trunk rotation, the finger movement generally occurred entirely during the trunk movement, indicating that the CNS did not minimize Coriolis forces incumbent on trunk rotation by sequencing the arm and trunk motions into a turn followed by a reach. A simplified model of the arm/trunk system revealed that additional interaction torques generated on the arm during voluntary turning and reaching were equivalent to &lt; or =1.8 g (1 g = 9.81 m/s(2)) of external force at the elbow but did not degrade performance. In slow-rotation room studies involving reaching movements during passive rotation, Coriolis forces as small as 0.2 g greatly deflect movement trajectories and endpoints. We conclude that compensatory motor innervations are engaged in a predictive fashion to counteract impending self-generated interaction torques during voluntary reaching movements.
This study investigated whether drug-naive patients with schizophrenia present procedural learning disturbances, given that this function is known to involve the striatum and that structural abnormalities of the striatum have been described in these patients. Eleven neuroleptic-free schizophrenic patients were compared with 11 healthy control subjects on a visuomotor procedural learning task (the Mirror Drawing Test). Average performance and learning rate did not differ between the two groups. However, schizophrenia patients were lower in learning smoothness (the consistency with which performance improves from trial to trial), which would indicate difficulty in benefiting from past experience to perform better on a current task. Because low smoothness has recently been found to be associated with striatal dysfunction, these results might indicate a premature dysfunction of the striatum in young drug-naive patients with schizophrenia. However, this dysfunction is not severe enough to prevent learning.
Although traumatic brain injury (TBI) frequently results in significant handicap, empirical investigations of pharmacological treatment of the neurobehavioral sequelae of TBI are rare. This review presents evidence that supports hypotheses of a cholinergic mechanism underlying some neurobehavioral sequelae of TBI, as well as a critical review of the preliminary evidence supporting the efficacy of cholinergic agents in TBI. Despite numerous methodological limitations, preliminary evidence exists for the efficacy of cholinergic agents in ameliorating attention and memory deficits following TBI. The authors highlight the need for large, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials that include a broad range of cognitive and behavioral outcome measures.
Advances in software, networking, and imaging technology provide a unique opportunity for developing information systems in anatomy that can deliver relevant knowledge to the clinicians, researchers, educators, and students. Recent software tools initially produced for graphic imaging are now available in the medical graphic design field. The authors describe an original method they used to create electronic images of the central nervous system and its coverings with photo-realistic rendering. They present preliminary results and discuss the potential of this new technique as a teaching tool for neuroanatomy.
Responses to monetary reward in humans have been assessed in a number of recent functional imaging studies, and it is clear that the neuronal substrates of financial reinforcement overlap extensively with regions responding to primary reinforcers, such as food. Money has the practical advantage of being an objectively quantifiable reinforcer. In this study, we exploit this advantage using a parametric functional magnetic resonance imaging design to look at the patterns of responding to systematically varying reward values. Twelve healthy volunteers were scanned during performance of a rewarded target detection task, in which the reward value varied between task blocks. We observed three distinct patterns of responding in different regions. Amygdala, striatum, and dopaminergic midbrain responded to the presence of rewards, regardless of value. In contrast, premotor cortex showed a linear increase in response with increasing reward value. Finally, medial and lateral foci of orbitofrontal cortex responded nonlinearly, such that response was enhanced for the lowest and highest reward values relative to the midrange. These results suggest functional distinction in response patterns within a distributed reward system.
We examined the effects of DARP-36aa on the survival and morphological development of embryonic rat mesencephalic neurons. Treatment of mesencephalic cultures with DARP-36aa, a synthetic peptide corresponding to the N terminal of dopamine-releasing protein (DARP), resulted in a 1.8-fold increase in neuron survival. Morphological analysis revealed that DARP-36aa-treated neurons contained 48% more branching points per neuron compared with controls. DARP-36aa selectively affected mesencephalic cultures; diencephalic and C6 glioma cells were not affected by DARP-36aa treatments. Mesencephalic cultures were also incubated with polyclonal antibodies against DARP-36aa (anti-DARP-36aa) to assess the effect of immunoneutralization of endogenous DARP on these cells. Mesencephalic cultures treated with anti-DARP-36aa contained 43% fewer neurons, and the number of branching points per neuron was decreased by nearly twofold compared with cultures grown with medium alone. Similar to cultures treated with DARP-36aa, immunoneutralization of DARP had no effect on any parameters examined in primary diencephalic and C6 glioma cultures. Mesencephalic cultures maintained in the presence of DARP-36aa had a 3.2-fold increase in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive neurons, whereas anti-DARP-36aa incubations decreased TH-immunoreactive neurons by 40% compared with control cultures. Finally, coincubation of the specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein with DARP-36aa resulted in a complete attenuation of DARP-36aa-mediated neuron survival and development in mesencephalic cultures. The findings indicate that DARP-36aa is a novel neurotrophic peptide that selectively promotes the survival and development of mesencephalic neurons.
The initiation of mammalian puberty requires the activation of hypothalamic neurons secreting the neuropeptide luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH). It is thought that this activation is caused by changes in trans-synaptic input to LHRH neurons. More recently, it has been postulated that the pubertal increase in LHRH secretion in female animals also requires neuron-glia signaling mediated by growth factors of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) family and their astrocytic erbB receptors. Although it appears clear that functional astrocytic erbB1 receptors are necessary for the timely advent of puberty, the physiological contribution that erbB4 receptors may make to this process has not been established. To address this issue, we generated transgenic mice expressing a dominant-negative erbB4 receptor (DN-erbB4) under the control of the GFAP promoter, which targets transgene expression to astrocytes. DN-erbB4 expression is most abundant in hypothalamic astrocytes, where it blocks the ligand-dependent activation of glial erbB4 and erbB2 receptors, without affecting erbB1 (EGF) receptor signaling. Mice carrying the transgene exhibit delayed sexual maturation and a diminished reproductive capacity in early adulthood. These abnormalities are related to a deficiency in pituitary gonadotropin hormone secretion, caused by impaired release of LHRH, the hypothalamic neuropeptide that controls sexual development. In turn, the reduction in LHRH release is caused by the inability of hypothalamic astrocytes to respond to neuregulin (NRG) with production of prostaglandin E(2), which in wild-type animals mediates the stimulatory effect of astroglial erbB receptor activation on neuronal LHRH release. Thus, neuron-astroglia communication via NRG-erbB4/2 receptor signaling appears to be essential for the timely unfolding of the developmental program by which the brain controls mammalian sexual maturation.
The generation of new neurons in the adult mammalian hippocampus is thought to play a role in repairing the brain after injury. Here, we show that 7 d after focal cerebral ischemia, newly divided cells in the dentate gyrus of adult rats increased to approximately sevenfold, compared with sham controls. In the same area, this enhanced dentate neurogenesis was associated with activation of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). Inhibition of iNOS by aminoguanidine prevented ischemia-induced neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus. In null mutant mice lacking the iNOS gene, increased neurogenesis was not observed after focal cerebral ischemia. This study demonstrates that expression of iNOS is necessary for ischemia-stimulated cell birth in the dentate gyrus and indicates that activation of iNOS may provide a possible strategy for functional recovery from cerebral ischemic insult.
Nuclear factor I (NFI) genes are expressed in multiple organs throughout development (Chaudhry et al., 1997; for review, see Gronostajski, 2000). All four NFI genes are expressed in embryonic mouse brain, with Nfia, Nfib, and Nfix being expressed highly in developing cortex (Chaudhry et al., 1997). Disruption of the Nfia gene causes agenesis of the corpus callosum (ACC), hydrocephalus, and reduced GFAP expression (das Neves et al., 1999). Three midline structures, the glial wedge, glia within the indusium griseum, and the glial sling are involved in development of the corpus callosum (Silver et al., 1982; Silver and Ogawa, 1983; Shu and Richards, 2001). Because Nfia(-)/- mice show glial abnormalities and ACC, we asked whether defects in midline glial structures occur in Nfia(-)/- mice. NFI-A protein is expressed in all three midline populations. In Nfia(-)/-, mice sling cells are generated but migrate abnormally into the septum and do not form a sling. Glia within the indusium griseum and the glial wedge are greatly reduced or absent and consequently Slit2 expression is also reduced. Although callosal axons approach the midline, they fail to cross and extend aberrantly into the septum. The hippocampal commissure is absent or reduced, whereas the ipsilaterally projecting perforating axons (Hankin and Silver, 1988; Shu et al., 2001) appear relatively normal. These results support an essential role for midline glia in callosum development and a role for Nfia in the formation of midline glial structures.
Voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels of chromaffin cells are modulated by locally released neurotransmitters through autoreceptor-activated G-proteins. Clear evidence exists in favor of a Ca(2+) channel gating inhibition mediated by purinergic, opioidergic, and alpha-adrenergic autoreceptors. Few and contradictory data suggest also a role of beta-adrenergic autoreceptors (beta-ARs), the action of which, however, remains obscure. Here, using patch-perforated recordings, we show that rat chromaffin cells respond to the beta-AR agonist isoprenaline (ISO) by either upmodulating or downmodulating the amplitude of Ca(2+) currents through two distinct modulatory pathways. ISO (1 microm) could cause either fast inhibition (approximately 25%) or slow potentiation (approximately 25%), or a combination of the two actions. Both effects were completely prevented by propranolol. Slow potentiation was more evident in cells pretreated with pertussis toxin (PTX) or when beta(1)-ARs were selectively stimulated with ISO + ICI118,551. Potentiation was absent when the beta(2)-AR-selective agonist zinterol (1 microm), the protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor H89, or nifedipine was applied, suggesting that potentiation is associated with a PKA-mediated phosphorylation of L-channels (approximately 40% L-current increase) through beta(1)-ARs. The ISO-induced inhibition was fast and reversible, preserved in cell treated with H89, and mimicked by zinterol. The action of zinterol was mostly on L-channels (38% inhibition). Zinterol action preserved the channel activation kinetics, the voltage-dependence of the I-V characteristic, and was removed by PTX, suggesting that beta(2)AR-mediated channel inhibition was mainly voltage independent and coupled to G(i)/G(o)-proteins. Sequential application of zinterol and ISO mimicked the dual action (inhibition/potentiation) of ISO alone. The two kinetically and pharmacologically distinct beta-ARs signaling uncover alternative pathways, which may serve the autocrine control of Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis and other related functions of rat chromaffin cells.
Pain has a strong emotional-affective dimension, and the amygdala plays a key role in emotionality. Mechanisms of pain-related changes in the amygdala were studied at the cellular and molecular levels in a model of arthritis pain. The influence of the arthritic condition induced in vivo on synaptic transmission and group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR1 and mGluR5) function was examined in vitro using whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings of neurons in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA). G-protein-coupled mGluRs are implicated in various forms of neuroplasticity as well as in neurological and psychiatric disorders. Synaptic transmission was evoked by electrical stimulation of afferents from the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and the pontine parabrachial (PB) area in brain slices from control (untreated or saline-injected) rats and from arthritic rats. This study shows enhanced synaptic transmission of nociceptive-specific inputs (PB--&gt;CeA synapse) and polymodal sensory inputs (BLA--&gt;CeA synapse) in the arthritis model. CeA neurons from arthritic rats also developed increased excitability compared with control CeA neurons. Synaptic plasticity in the CeA was accompanied by increased presynaptic mGluR1 function and upregulation of mGluR1 and mGluR5. A selective mGluR1 antagonist reduced transmission in CeA neurons from arthritic animals but not in control neurons, and increased levels of mGluR1 and mGluR5 protein were measured in the CeA of arthritic rats compared with controls. Our results show that plastic changes in the amygdala in an arthritis model that produces prolonged pain involve a critical switch of presynaptic mGluR1 expression and function.
Na,K-ATPase plays a critical role in energy metabolism and ion fluxes. Its loss was investigated in the G93A mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in which the mutation of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) is thought to lead to aberrant oxidative damage. Observed losses in spinal cord Na,K-ATPase activity exceeded all expectations. All three catalytic subunit isoforms (alpha1, alpha2, alpha3) were reduced, and the global alpha subunit loss affected not just neurons, glia, and myelinated axon tracts but even ependymal and pial membranes. Decreases in Na,K-ATPase activity were greater than losses of protein, and there were losses of Na,K-ATPase alpha, but not beta, subunits. Together, these observations are consistent with selective degradation of the alpha subunit after damage. Overexpression of normal SOD1 does not cause ALS-like symptoms, but it has other known pathological effects. In transgenic mice overexpressed normal human SOD1 had a smaller but still considerable effect on Na,K-ATPase. Furthermore, the nitric oxide-mediated regulatory pathway for Na,K-ATPase inhibition was undetectable in spinal cord tissue slices from mice overexpressing either mutant or normal human SOD1. Na,K-ATPase activity did not respond to nitric oxide donors, and the free radical-dependent step of the pathway could not be bypassed by the addition of the downstream protein kinase G activator, 8-Br-cGMP. The data demonstrate that Na,K-ATPase is vulnerable to aberrant SOD1 activity, making it a potential contributing factor in disease pathology. Moreover, the global cellular distribution of Na,K-ATPase loss indicates that SOD1 overexpression is far-reaching in its pathological effects.
In cultured chick ciliary neurons, when ATP synthesis is inhibited, ATP depletion is reduced approximately 50% by slowing actin filament turnover with jasplakinolide or latrunculin A. Jasplakinolide inhibits actin disassembly, and latrunculin A prevents actin assembly by sequestering actin monomers. Cytochalasin D, which allows assembly-disassembly, but only at pointed ends, is less effective in conserving ATP. Ouabain, an Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase inhibitor, and jasplakinolide both prevent approximately 50% of the ATP loss. When applied together, they completely prevent ATP loss over a period of 20 min, suggesting that filament stabilization reduces ATP consumption by decreasing actin-ATP hydrolysis directly rather than indirectly by modulating the activity of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase, a major energy consumer.
Antiglycolipid antibodies cause a distinctive form of dysmyelination in vivo characterized by marked widening of the myelin period. Such &quot;expanded&quot; or &quot;wide-spaced&quot; myelin occurs in peripheral nerves in certain paraproteinemias and in the CNS in multiple sclerosis. We have used an in vitro system to reproduce this pathology under controlled conditions to assess the role of antibody specificity and class and the need for cofactors in generating this kind of lesion in peripheral myelin. Schwann cell myelin formed in vitro around dorsal root ganglion cell axons was exposed for 3-14 days to hybridoma cells that produce specific monoclonal antibodies. Typical wide-spaced myelin developed after exposure to either O4, which produces an IgM antisulfatide antibody, or O1, which produces an IgM antigalactocerebroside antibody. In both cases, the effect was apparent by three days in paranodal as well as internodal myelin, especially in the outer lamellae. This change did not depend on the presence of complement or macrophages in the cultures. Exposure to anti-GalC hybridoma cells, which produce an IgG3 antiglycolipid antibody, did not produce wide-spaced myelin, nor did exposure to hybridoma cells that secrete IgM antibodies directed against a non-myelin antigen. The location and rapidity of the pathologic changes seen after O4 or O1 are consistent with penetration of the antibodies through the external mesaxon of already formed myelin and then between compact lamellae, progressively spreading them apart in the centripetal direction. This in vitro model shows that either of two specific monoclonal IgM antiglycolipid antibodies can alone reproduce a well known form of myelin pathology under defined conditions.
Several neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's Disease (PD) and Alzheimer's Disease (AD) are associated with elevated brain iron accumulation relative to the amount of ferritin, the intracellular iron storage protein. The accumulation of more iron than can be adequately stored in ferritin creates an environment of oxidative stress. We developed a heavy chain (H) ferritin null mutant in an attempt to mimic the iron milieu of the brain in AD and PD. Animals homozygous for the mutation die in utero but the heterozygotes (+/-) are viable. We examined heterozygous and wild-type (wt) mice between 6 and 8 months of age. Macroscopically, the brains of +/- mice were well formed and did not differ from control brains. There was no evidence of histopathology in the brains of the heterozygous mice. Iron levels in the brain of the +/- and wild-type (+/+) mice were similar, but +/- mice had less than half the levels of H-ferritin. The other iron management proteins transferrin, transferrin receptor, light chain ferritin, Divalent Metal Transporter 1, ceruloplasmin, were increased in the +/- mice compared to +/+ mice. The relative amounts of these proteins in relation to the iron concentration are similar to that found in AD and PD. Thus, we hypothesized that the brains of the heterozygote mice should have an increase in indices of oxidative stress. In support of this hypothesis, there was a decrease in total superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in the heterozygotes coupled with an increase in oxidatively modified proteins. In addition, apoptotic markers Bax and caspase-3 were detected in neurons of the +/- mice but not in the wt. Thus, we have developed a mouse model that mimics the protein profile for iron management seen in AD and PD that also shows evidence of oxidative stress. These results suggest that this mouse may be a model to determine the role of iron mismanagement in neurodegenerative disorders and for testing antioxidant therapeutic strategies.

Several case reports and small clinical series have reported benefits of decompressive hemicraniectomy in patients with intractable cerebral edema and early clinical herniation. Specific indications and timing for this intervention remain unclear. We present our experience with this procedure in a subset of 18 patients with massive cerebral edema refractory to medical management, treated with decompressive craniectomy over a 3-year period (1997 to 2000). Computerized tomography (CT) scans were independently analyzed by a neuroradiologist blinded to clinical outcome. Eleven male and seven female patients, ages 20 to 69 years (mean +/- SEM, 46 +/- 14 years), underwent hemicraniectomy for the following diagnoses: 12 hemispheric infarcts, 3 traumatic intracerebral hemorrhages/contusions, 2 nontraumatic intraparenchymal hemorrhages (ICH), and 1 subdural empyema. This population included four patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Patients were followed for a mean of 10 months. Clinical factors including age, side of lesion, preoperative herniation signs, and early surgery (&lt;12 or &lt;24 hours) were not significantly associated with mortality or Glasgow outcome score (GOS). Preoperative CT evidence of transtentorial herniation (present in 5/17 patients) was associated with mortality ( = 0.04), while preoperative uncal herniation (8/17 patients) was associated with poor outcome (GOS &gt; 1) ( = 0.01). Favorable outcome (GOS &gt; 3) occurred in six patients, three with spontaneous or traumatic focal hematomas. Of four patients with SAH, one died while the others were severely disabled (GOS 3). Seven of nine patients with malignant MCA infarctions unrelated to SAH had poor outcomes. The overall mortality was 4/18 (22%). Patients with refractory cerebral swelling secondary to focal hematomas may have better outcomes following decompressive craniectomy. Patients with preexisting SAH seem to have poor outcomes, possibly related to other neurologic comorbidities. Hemicraniectomy requires definition of proper timing. Preoperative CT findings, especially transtentorial and uncal herniation may be useful in defining when decompressive surgery should not be performed.

The present prospective study investigated whether elevated total serum homocysteine concentration is a risk factor for cognitive decline. The outcomes were compared to the possible relation between cognition and vitamin B12 or folic acid. Cognitive performance of 144 normal aging individuals (aged 30-80 years) was tested at baseline and after six years of follow-up. Domains of cognitive function addressed were cognitive speed (Letter-Digit Coding test), attention and information processing (Stroop test) and verbal learning and memory (Word Learning Test Total; Delayed Recall). Serum concentrations of homocysteine, folic acid and vitamin B12 were determined. Serum concentrations of homocysteine correlated negatively with cognitive performance on the Word Learning tests at baseline, independent of age, sex, education level or folic acid concentration. Homocysteine concentration at baseline correlated negatively with cognitive performance on the Stroop and Word Learning tests during the whole six-year follow-up period. The folic acid concentration correlated to the Delayed Recall test at baseline only and no correlations were observed for vitamin B12. Thus, while a relation between vitamin B12 or folic acid and cognition was almost absent, elevated homocysteine concentrations were associated with prolonged lower cognitive performance in this normal aging population.
Gingipains are trypsin-like cysteine proteinases produced by Porphyromonas gingivalis, a major causative bacterium of adult periodontitis. HRgpA (95 kDa) and RgpB (50 kDa), products of 2 distinct but related genes, rgpA and rgpB, respectively, are specific for Arg-Xaa peptide bonds. Kgp, a product of the kgp gene, is specific for Lys-Xaa bonds. HRgpA and Kgp are non-covalent complexes containing separate catalytic and adhesion/ hemagglutinin domains, while RgpB has only a catalytic domain with a primary structure essentially identical to that of the catalytic subunit of HRgp. HRgpA and RgpB induce vascular permeability enhancement through activation of the kallikrein/kinin pathway and activate the blood coagulation system, which, respectively, are potentially associated with gingival crevicular fluid production and progression of inflammation leading to alveolar bone loss in the periodontitis site. Kgp is the most potent fibrinogen/fibrin degrading enzyme of the 3 gingipains in human plasma and is involved in the bleeding tendency at the diseased gingiva. HRgpA activates coagulation factors and degrades fibrinogen/fibrin more efficiently than RgpB due to the adhesion/hemagglutinin domains, which have affinity for phospholipids and fibrinogen. Gingipains degrade macrophage CD14, thus inhibiting activation of the leukocytes through the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) receptor, and thereby facilitating sustained colonization of P. gingivalis. Gingipains play a role in bacterial housekeeping and infection, including amino acid uptake from host proteins and fimbriae maturation. Based on the important activities of gingipains in the bacterial infection and the pathogenesis of periodontitis, the bacterial proteinases can be targets for periodontal disease therapy. Immunization with RgpB, HRgpA, or a portion of HRgpA catalytic domain attenuated P. gingivalis induced disorders in mice. In addition, a trypsin-like proteinase inhibitor retarded P. gingivalis growth specifically. Gingipains are potent virulence factors of P. gingivalis, and are likely to be associated with the development of periodontitis. It is, therefore, suggested that gingipain inhibition by vaccination and gingipain-specific inhibitors is a useful therapy for adult periodontitis caused by P. gingivalis infection.
Caspase-3 is an intracellular cysteine protease, activated as part of the apoptotic response to cell injury. Its interest as a therapeutic target has led many to pursue the development of inhibitors. To date, only one series of nonpeptidic inhibitors have been described, and these have limited selectivity within the caspase family. Here we report the properties of a series of anilinoquinazolines (AQZs) as potent small molecule inhibitors of caspase-3. The AQZs inhibit human caspase-3 with Ki values in the 90 to 800 nM range. A subset of AQZs are equipotent against caspase-6, although most lack activity against this isoform and caspase-1, -2, -7, and -8. The AQZs inhibit endogenous caspase-3 activity toward a cell permeable, exogenously added substrate in staurosporine-treated SH-SY5Y cells. The AQZs reduce biochemical and cellular features of apoptosis that are thought to be a consequence of caspase-3 activation including DNA fragmentation, TUNEL staining, and the various morphological features that define the terminal stages of apoptotic cell death. Moreover, the AQZs also inhibit apoptosis induced by nerve growth factor withdrawal from differentiated PC12 cells. Thus, the AQZs represent a new and structurally novel class of inhibitors, some of which selectively inhibit caspase-3 and will thereby allow evaluation of the role of caspase-3 activity in various cellular models of apoptosis.
The ability of the two opioid receptor-like receptor 1 (ORL1) agonists nociceptin (5 nmol i.c.v.) and synthetic (1S,3aS)-8-(2,3,3a,4,5,6-hexahydro-1H-phenalen-1-yl)-1-phenyl-1,3,8-triaza-spiro[4.5]decan-4-one hydrochloride (Ro 64-6198; 0.1, 0.3, and 1.0 mg/kg i.p.) and the opioid antagonist naloxone (0.1, 1.0, and 10.0 mg/kg s.c.) to modify ethanol-induced conditioned place preference was examined in NMRI male mice. The ORL1 agonists were found to significantly reduce the acquisition, expression, and ethanol-induced reinstatement of conditioned place preference. Unlike the ORL1 agonists, naloxone at the doses relevant for opioid receptor blockade failed to significantly influence the acquisition of ethanol-induced conditioned place preference. However, naloxone at 1.0 but not 0.1 mg/kg s.c. potently blocked the expression of ethanol-induced conditioned place preference and significantly inhibited ethanol-induced reinstatement of the conditioned place preference after extinction. Separate experiments indicated that nociceptin and Ro 64-6198 are both devoid of reinforcing or aversive properties. Naloxone, however, at 1.0 and 10.0 mg/kg, produced conditioned place aversion, indicating motivational properties of its own. Both nociceptin and Ro 64-6198 reduced locomotor activity after acute administration. However, tolerance developed very quickly to this effect and already after three i.c.v. (or i.p.) injections, there was no significant reduction of locomotor activity. It is concluded that ORL1 agonists can modulate the acquisition, expression, and reinstatement of the conditioned reinforcing effects of ethanol with no reinforcing or aversive properties of their own. This property might be a potential advantage in the treatment of alcoholism compared with nonselective opioid antagonist naltrexone.
Functional coupling between Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR) and quantal exocytosis in 5-hydroxytryptamine-loaded INS-1 beta cells was assessed through the use of carbon fibre amperometry in combination with Fura-2. CICR was evoked by the glucagon-like-peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist exendin-4 (Ex-4) and was accompanied by quantal secretory events appearing as amperometric current spikes time-locked to the increase of [Ca(2+)](i). The action of Ex-4 was reproduced by treatment with caffeine, and the source of Ca(2+) serving as a stimulus for exocytosis originated from ryanodine and thapsigargin-sensitive Ca(2+) stores. Two distinct patterns of exocytosis occurred within 5 s following the initiation of CICR. Non-summating exocytosis (NS-type) was defined as multiple asynchronous current spikes, and the half-height duration of each spike was 12-48 ms. Summating exocytosis (S-type) was defined as a cluster of spikes. It generated a macroscopic current, the half-height duration of which was 243-682 ms. The release charge of S-type exocytosis was 3.2-fold greater than that of NS-type when measured 2 s following the initiation of secretion. NS-type exocytosis was observed frequently under conditions in which the basal Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](B)) was low (75-150 nM), whereas S-type exocytosis predominated under conditions in which the [Ca(2+)](B) was elevated (200-275 nM). Depolarization-induced Ca(2+) influx triggered NS-type exocytosis in most cells tested, irrespective of [Ca(2+)](B). It is concluded that CICR is a highly effective stimulus for exocytosis in INS-1 cells. The increase of [Ca(2+)](i) that accompanies CICR stimulates the asynchronous release of a small number of secretory granules under conditions of low [Ca(2+)](B). When [Ca(2+)](B) is slightly elevated, CICR targets a much larger pool of secretory granules that undergo summating exocytosis. The transition from NS-type to S-type exocytosis may represent an amplification mechanism for Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis.
This review summarizes recent data from our lab concerning the development of motor activities in the developing zebrafish. The zebrafish is a leading model for studies of vertebrate development because one can obtain a large number of transparent, externally and rapidly developing embryos with motor behaviors that are easy to assess (e.g. for mutagenic screens). The emergence of embryonic motility was studied behaviorally and at the cellular level. The embryonic behaviors appear sequentially and include an early, transient period of spontaneous, alternating tail coilings, followed by responses to touch, and swimming. Patch clamp recording in vivo revealed that an electrically coupled network of a subset of spinal neurons generates spontaneous tail coiling, whereas a chemical (glutamatergic and glycinergic) synaptic drive underlies touch responses and swimming and requires input from the hindbrain. Swimming becomes sustained in larvae once serotonergic neuromodulatory effects are integrated. We end with a brief overview of the genetic tools available for the study of the molecular determinants implicated in locomotor network development in the zebrafish. Combining genetic, behavioral and cellular experimental approaches will advance our understanding of the general principles of locomotor network assembly and function.
A 3-neuron central pattern generator, whose sufficiency and necessity has been directly demonstrated, mediates aerial respiratory behaviour in the pond snail, Lymnaea stagnalis. This behaviour can be operantly conditioned, and this associative learning is consolidated into long-lasting memory. Depending on the operant conditioning training procedure used the learning can be consolidated into intermediate term (ITM) or long-term memory (LTM). ITM persists for only 2-3 h, whilst LTM persists for days to weeks. LTM is dependent on both altered gene activity and new protein synthesis while ITM is only dependent on new protein synthesis. We have now directly established that one of the 3-CPG neurons, RPeD1, is a site of LTM formation and storage. We did this by ablating the soma of RPeD1 and leaving behind a functional primary neurite capable of mediating the necessary synaptic interactions to drive aerial respiratory behaviour by the 3-neuron CPG. However, following soma ablation the neuronal circuit is only capable of mediating learning and ITM. LTM can no longer be demonstrated. However, if RPeD1's soma is ablated after LTM consolidation memory is still present. Thus the soma is not needed for the retention of LTM. Using a similar strategy it may be possible to block forgetting.

This study was aimed at investigating the relationships between sleep EEG abnormalities and hypothalamo pituitary adrenal (HPA) and hypothalamo pituitary thyroid (HPT) disturbances in major depressive disorder. Post dexamethasone (DXM) cortisol levels and the dual TSH response to 08:00 h and 23:00 h TRH administration were determined after a 2 weeks wash-out period in a group of 113 DSM-IV major depressed patients (72 females aged 44.3+/-13.0 and 41 males aged 45.7+/-11) who were consecutively admitted to undergo sleep EEG recordings. Post-DXM cortisolemia, 08:00 and 23:00 post-TRH TSH values, time spent in rapid eye movement sleep (REMS), in slow wave sleep (SWS), and in stage 2 as well as time awake after sleep onset were introduced in a principal component (PC) analysis. The four 3 PC scores explaining up to 74% of the data set were further calculated for each patients and used in a cluster analysis. A three-cluster solution was retained. Controlling for the effects of age and gender, patients belonging to these three clusters could clearly be differentiated on the basis of their neuroendocrine responses and on their sleep EEG profiles. Compared to the two other clusters, cluster I (n=26) patients showed the most severe sleep continuity disturbances. Post-DXM cortisol escape and sleep architecture disturbances (consisting of a shortening of REMS latency and a decreased SWS) identified patients belonging to cluster II (n=39). Patients in cluster III (n=48) had the lowest TSH response to TRH and the less marked sleep EEG alteration. Clinical or demographic variables were unable to differentiate the three clusters. Our results suggest that different biological dysfunctions could each underlie particular neuroendocrine and sleep EEG disturbances in major depression.
The sense of &quot;a presence&quot; or of a sentient being during partial sensory deprivation and exposure to very weak, complex magnetic fields across the cerebral hemispheres may be a normal neurocognitive experience that is associated with the brief intrusion of the right hemispheric homologue of the left hemispheric (and strongly linguistic) sense of self into awareness. Within an optimal experimental setting, women reported more frequent experiences of a sensed presence than did men, and men were more likely than women to consider these experiences as &quot;intrusions&quot; from extrapersonal or ego-alien sources. Both effects were predicted by the vectorial hemisphericity hypothesis and the known neurocognitive differences between right-handed men and right-handed women. Sociobiological implications for gender differences in the probability of intercalation between distinctive processes within the left and right temporoparietal lobes are discussed.

The appearance of the vertebrates demarcates some of the most far-reaching changes of structure and function seen during the evolution of the metazoans. These drastic changes of body plan and expansion of the central nervous system among other organs coincide with increased gene numbers. The presence of several groups of paralogous chromosomal regions in the human genome is a reflection of this increase. The simplest explanation for the existence of these paralogies would be two genome doublings with subsequent silencing of many genes. It is argued that gene localization data and the delineation of paralogous chromosomal regions give more reliable information about these types of events than dendrograms of gene families as gene relationships are often obscured by uneven replacement rates as well as other factors. Furthermore, the topographical relations of some paralogy groups are discussed.
Immediately following spaceflight, many astronauts are unable to maintain adequate perfusion of the brain after assuming an upright posture; this condition is called post-spaceflight orthostatic intolerance (PSOI). Considerable evidence shows that inputs from otolith organs and other graviceptors play an important role in regulating blood pressure during changes in posture in a 1-g environment. However, reflexes elicited by graviceptors, presumably including those affecting the cardiovascular system, are attenuated during spaceflight. Thus, PSOI could be related to effects of microgravity on the processing of inputs from otolith organs and other graviceptors by the central vestibular system. It is likely that successful countermeasures for PSOI must address the plastic changes induced in the nervous system by changes in the patterns of graviceptive inputs that occur during spaceflight.
In this paper we review space flight experiments performed by our laboratory. Rhesus monkeys were tested before and after 12 days in orbit on COSMOS flights 2044 (1989) and 2229 (1992-1993). There was a long-lasting decrease in post-flight ocular counter-rolling (70%) and vergence (50%) during off-vertical axis rotation. In one animal, the orientation of optokinetic after-nystagmus shifted by 28 degrees from the spatial vertical towards the body vertical early post-flight. Otolith-ocular and perceptual responses were also studied in four astronauts on the 17-day Neurolab shuttle mission (STS-90) in 1998. Ocular counter-rolling was unchanged in response to 1-g and 0.5-g Gy centrifugation during and after flight and to post-flight static roll tilts relative to pre-flight values. Orientation of the optokinetic nystagmus eye velocity axis to gravito-inertial acceleration (GIA) during centrifugation was also unaltered by exposure to microgravity. Perceptual orientation to the GIA was maintained in-flight, and subjects did not report sensation of translation during constant velocity centrifugation. These studies suggest that percepts and ocular responses to tilt are determined by sensing the body vertical relative to the GIA. The findings also raise the possibility that 'artificial gravity' during the Neurolab flight counteracted adaptation of these otolith-ocular responses.
Normal movements performed while voluntarily fixing the head to the torso can lead to motion sickness in susceptible individuals. The underlying mechanism may involve excessive suppression of vestibular responses. A similar motor strategy is often adopted in the early days of a space flight and might contribute to the development of space motion sickness. In a recent experiment, we monitored the eye, head and upper torso rotations of four Life and Microgravity Spacelab crew members. For the purposes of this study, all data were excluded except for periods during which the subject was performing pure yaw-axis head movements. All subjects showed a significant increase in gaze slip on the first day of their mission, suggesting that increased vestibular suppression was occurring. Furthermore, this amount of increased suppression would have been more than adequate to produce motion sickness in susceptible individuals on the ground. The results support the theory of two, independent mechanisms for space motion sickness.
It has been demonstrated that various vestibular and oculomotor responses can be adapted in a context-specific manner: different adapted states are associated with different states of a prevailing context cue, and a change in the context state triggers a change in the response such that each adapted state is associated with a given context state. We review selected literature on context-specific adaptation, including our own recent results on adaptation of saccades, pursuit, and the linear and angular vestibulo-ocular reflexes (LVOR and AVOR), and suggest some ways in which context-specific adaptation might be useful as a countermeasure to the adverse neurovestibular effects of space flight.
Preparation for extended travel by astronauts within the Solar System, including a possible manned mission to Mars, requires more complete understanding of adaptation to altered inertial environments. Improved understanding is needed to support development and evaluation of interventions to facilitate adaptations during transitions between those environments. Travel to another planet escalates the adaptive challenge because astronauts will experience prolonged exposure to microgravity before encountering a novel gravitational environment. This challenge would have to be met without ground support at the landing site. Evaluation of current adaptive status as well as intervention efficacy can be performed using perceptual, eye movement and postural measures. Due to discrepancies of adaptation magnitude and time-course among these measures, complete understanding of adaptation processes, as well as intervention evaluation, requires examination of all three. Previous research and theory that provide models for comprehending adaptation to altered inertial environments are briefly examined. Reports from astronauts of selected pre- in- and postflight self-motion illusions are described. The currently controversial tilt-translation reinterpretation hypothesis is reviewed and possible resolutions to the controversy are proposed. Finally, based on apparent gaps in our current knowledge, further research is proposed to achieve a more complete understanding of adaptation as well as to develop effective counter-measures.
A series of pioneering experiments on adaptation to rotating artificial gravity environments was conducted in the 1960s. The results of these experiments led to the general belief that humans with normal vestibular function would not be able to adapt to rotating environments with angular velocities above 3 or 4 rpm. By contrast, our recent work has shown that sensory-motor adaptation to 10 rpm can be achieved relatively easily and quickly if subjects make the same movement repeatedly. This repetition allows the nervous system to gauge how the Coriolis forces generated by movements in a rotating reference frame are deflecting movement paths and endpoints and to institute corrective adaptations. Independent mechanisms appear to underlie restoration of straight movement paths and of accurate movement endpoints. Control of head movements involves adaptation of vestibulo-collic and vestibulo-spinal mechanisms as well as adaptation to motor control of the head as an inertial mass. The vestibular adaptation has a long time constant and the motor adaptation a short one. Surprisingly, Coriolis forces generated by natural turning and reaching movements in our normal environment are typically larger than those elicited in rotating artificial gravity environments. They are not recognized as such because self-generated Coriolis forces during voluntary trunk rotation are perceptually transparent. After adaptation to a rotating environment is complete, the Coriolis forces generated by movements within it also become transparent and are not felt although they are still present.
Normally, the nervous system must process ambiguous graviceptor (e.g., otolith) cues to estimate tilt and translation. The neural processes that help perform these estimation processes must adapt upon exposure to weightlessness and readapt upon return to Earth. In this paper we present a review of evidence supporting a new hypothesis that explains some aspects of these adaptive processes. This hypothesis, which we label the rotation otolith tilt-translation reinterpretation (ROTTR) hypothesis, suggests that the neural processes resulting in spaceflight adaptation include deterioration in the ability of the nervous system to use rotational cues to help accurately estimate the relative orientation of gravity (&quot;tilt&quot;). Changes in the ability to estimate gravity then also influence the ability of the nervous system to estimate linear acceleration (&quot;translation&quot;). We explicitly hypothesize that such changes in the ability to estimate &quot;tilt&quot; and &quot;translation&quot; will be measurable upon return to Earth and will, at least partially, explain the disorientation experienced when astronauts return to Earth. In this paper, we present the details and implications of ROTTR, review data related to ROTTR, and discuss the relationship of ROTTR to the influential otolith tilt-translation reinterpretation (OTTR) hypothesis as well as discuss the distinct differences between ROTTR and OTTR.
Dynamic models have played a more prominent role in the vestibular and oculomotor field than in any other branch of physiology. The ease of identification of input and output variables and the challenge of multi-loop, multi-axis adaptive control has attracted numerous modelers from engineering and shaped behavioral and neurophysiological experimental programs. In particular, the adaptive characteristics of the neurovestibular system have generated continuing speculation as to mechanisms. This treatment of adaptation and multi-sensor integration covers the development and application of such models, principally in the author's laboratory. It emphasizes the continuing relevance of both &quot;model reference&quot; and &quot;error pattern recognition&quot; notions of adaptive control.
Perceiving a direction as &quot;up&quot; is fundamental to human performance and perception. Astronauts in microgravity frequently experience reorientation illusions in which they, or their world, appear to flip and 'up' becomes arbitrarily redefined. This paper assesses the relative importance of visual cues in determining the perceived up direction. In the absence of information about the origin of illumination, people interpret surface structure by assuming that the direction of illumination is from above. Here we exploit this phenomenon to measure the influence of head and body orientation, gravity and visual cues on the perceived up direction. Fifteen subjects judged the shape of shaded circles presented in various orientations. The circles were shaded in such a way that when the shading was compatible with light coming from above, the circle appeared as a convex hemisphere. Therefore, by finding which shaded circle appeared most convex, we can deduce the direction regarded as &quot;up&quot;. The different cues contributing to this percept were separated by varying both the orientation of the subject and the surrounding room relative to gravity. The relative significance of each cue may be of use in spacecraft interior design to help reduce the incidence of visual reorientation illusions.
We measured how much the visual world could be moved during various head rotations and translations and still be perceived as visually stable. Using this as a monitor of how well subjects know about their own movement, we compared performance in different directions relative to gravity. For head rotations, we compared the range of visual motion judged compatible with a stable environment while rotating around an axis orthogonal to gravity (where rotation created a rotating gravity vector across the otolith macula), with judgements made when rotation was around an earth-vertical axis. For translations, we compared the corresponding range of visual motion when translation was parallel to gravity (when imposed accelerations added to or subtracted from gravity), with translations orthogonal to gravity. Ten subjects wore a head-mounted display and made active head movements at 0.5 Hz that were monitored by a low-latency mechanical tracker. Subjects adjusted the ratio between head and image motion until the display appeared perceptually stable. For neither rotation nor translation were there any differences in judgements of perceptual stability that depended on the direction of the movement with respect to the direction of gravity.
The processing and detection of tilts relative to gravity from actual motion (translational accelerations) is one of the most fundamental issues for understanding vestibular sensorimotor control in altered gravity environments. In order to better understand the nature of multisensory signals in detecting motion and tilt, we summarize here our recent studies regarding the central processing of vestibular signals during multi-axis rotational and translational stimuli. Approximately one fourth of the cells in the vestibular nuclei exclusively encoded rotational movements (Canal-Only neurons) and were unresponsive to translation. The Canal-Only central neurons encoded head rotation in canal afferent coordinates, exhibited no orthogonal canal convergence and were characterized by significantly higher sensitivities to rotation as compared to canal afferents. Another fourth of the neurons modulated their firing rates during translation (Otolith-Only cells). During rotations, these neurons typically only responded when the axis of rotation was earth-horizontal and the head was changing orientation relative to gravity. The remaining cells (approximately half of total population) were sensitive to both rotations and translations (Otolith+Canal neurons). Maximum sensitivity vectors to rotation were distributed throughout the 3D space, suggesting strong convergence from multiple semicircular canals. Only a small subpopulation (approximately one third) of these Otolith+Canal neurons seems to encode a true estimate of the translational component of the imposed passive head and body movement. These results provide the first step in further understanding multisensory convergence in normal gravity, as this task is fundamental to our appreciation of neurovestibular adaptation to altered gravity.
Utricular sensitivity and preponderance of the right or left utricle can be assessed by means of the unilateral centrifugation test. In this test, subjects are rotated about an earth vertical axis at a velocity of 400 degrees per second. During the ongoing rotation, the subject is gradually translated 4 cm first to the right, and then to the left, along an interaural axis, to a position at which one utricle becomes aligned with the axis of rotation, and at this point is subjected only to gravitational forces. At this eccentric position, the contralateral utricle is exposed to the combination of gravity and a centrifugal acceleration of 0.4g, corresponding to an apparent roll-tilt of 21.7 degrees. This stimulus induces ocular counterrolling (OCR), which is measured on-line using three-dimensional video-oculography (VOG). We observed that ocular counterrolling appears as a linear function of the gravito-inertial acceleration tilt of the head centre (GIA(HC)) during the lateral translation. We present a theoretical model for this linear relationship that contains two parameters: 1) the slope of the linear regression is a measure for the utricular sensitivity and 2) the intercept of the linear regression is a measure of the preponderance of the right or left utricle. The strength of the model is supported by data obtained from 28 healthy subjects and 14 patients with unilateral vestibular deafferentiation (UVD) due to acoustic neuroma surgery.
The otoliths of adult animals do not change significantly during space flight. However, during the period when otoliths are first developing, rearing in space produces significantly larger otoliths. Conversely, animals reared on a centrifuge have smaller than normal otoliths. To identify a critical period during development for gravitational effects on otolith growth, fertilized zebrafish (Danio rerio) eggs were reared on a centrifuge for 1 week. The fine structure of their inner ear during development was studied by both light- and transmission electron microscopy. By 16 hours after fertilization (1-g, at 28.5 degrees C), precursors of the otoliths are seen but no sign of a sensory epithelium is present. Mature hair cells, appearing capable of mechanotransduction, are not seen until between 48 and 72 hours after fertilization. Zebrafish reared at 3-g from 1 to 7 days after fertilization exhibit significantly slower otolith growth than did 1-g controls. Fish exposed to 3-g only from 12-36 h after fertilization had slightly smaller otoliths than 1-g controls, but this difference was not significant. Animals exposed to 3-g from 36 h to 7d after fertilization did have significantly smaller otoliths. If the fish use their hair cells to assess otolith weight in a regulatory role, the hair cells would have to be functional. Thus the earliest stage zebrafish, which were not significantly affected by centrifugation, probably did not have an adequate means of sensing otolith weight to &quot;correct&quot; for the excess weight.
In order to investigate whether bilateral peripheral vestibular lesions cause long-term impairment of spatial learning, rats were tested in a reference memory radial arm maze learning task at least 5 weeks following a bilateral labyrinthectomy (BL) or sham control lesion. All control rats reached criterion (i.e., 1 error or less, averaged across 7 trials for 3 consecutive days of training) but only 4 of the 8 BL rats had reached criterion by day 21 of the training sessions. The control rats reached criterion more quickly than the lesioned rats (Control, 7.0 +/- 0.63 days, Lesioned, 15.8 +/- 1.4 days, t10= 5.84, p &lt; 0.0001). This difference resulted from the greater number of errors made by the BL animals. However, the latency to respond was comparable as a result of the increased locomotor activity of the BL group (i.e., 'hyperkinesis), and the overall rate of acquisition of the task, as indicated by analysis of the exponential decrease in errors over the entire training period, was not significantly different between the 2 groups. The results of this study demonstrate that BL in rats produces long-term changes in performance in a spatial reference memory task, which are not simply due to the inability to move but may relate to the way that the brain uses vestibular information to create spatial representations and determines behavioural strategies on the basis of these representations.
How long does it take for the human visual system to recognize objects? This issue is important for understanding visual cortical function as it places constraints on models of the information processing underlying recognition. We designed a series of event-related potential (ERP) experiments to measure the timecourse of electrophysiological correlates of object recognition. We find two distinct types of components in the ERP recorded during categorization of natural images. One is an early presentation-locked signal arising around 135 ms that is present when there are low-level feature differences between images. The other is a later, recognition-related component arising between 150-300 ms. Unlike the early component, the latency of the later component covaries with the subsequent reaction time. In contrast to previous studies suggesting that the early, presentation-locked component of neural activity is correlated to recognition, these results imply that the neural signatures of recognition have a substantially later and variable time of onset.
We model the visual interpolation of missing contours by extending contour fragments under a smoothness constraint. Interpolated trajectories result from an algorithm that computes the vector sum of two fields corresponding to different unification factors: the good continuation (GC) field and the minimal path (MP) field. As the distance from terminators increases, the GC field decreases and the MP field increases. Viewer-independent and viewer-dependent variables modulate GC-MP contrast (i.e., the relative strength of GC and MP maximum vector magnitudes). Viewer-independent variables include the local geometry as well as more global properties such as contour support ratio and shape regularity. Viewer-dependent variables include the retinal gap between contour endpoints and the retinal orientation of their stems. GC-MP contrast is the only free parameter of our field model. In the case of partially occluded angles, interpolated trajectories become flatter as GC-MP contrast decreases. Once GC-MP contrast is set to a specific value, derived from empirical measures on a given configuration, the model predicts all interpolation trajectories corresponding to different types of occlusion of the same angle. Model predictions fit psychophysical data on the effects of viewer-independent and viewer-dependent variables.
Natural visual scenes are a rich source of information. Objects often carry luminance, colour, motion, depth and textural cues, each of which can serve to aid detection and localization of the object within a scene. Contemporary neuroscience presumes a modular approach to visual analysis in which each of these attributes are processed within ostensibly independent visual streams and are transmitted to geographically distinct and functionally dedicated centres in visual cortex (van Essen &amp; Maunsell, 1983; Zihl, von Cramon &amp; Mai, 1983; Maunsell &amp; Newsome, 1987; Tootell, Hadjikhani, Mendola, Marrett &amp; Dale, 1998). In the present study we ask how the visual system localizes objects within this framework. Specifically, we investigate how the visual system assigns a unitary location to objects defined by multiple stimulus attributes, where such attributes provide conflicting positional cues. The results show that conflicting sources of visual information can be effortlessly combined to form a global estimate of spatial position, yet, this conflation of visual attributes is achieved at a cost to localization accuracy. Furthermore, our results suggest that the visual system assigns more perceptual weight (Landy, 1993; Landy &amp; Kojima, 2001) to visual attributes which are reliably related to object contours.
Animals as well as humans adjust their gait patterns in order to minimize energy required for their locomotion. A particularly important factor is the constant force of earth's gravity. In many dynamic systems, gravity defines a relation between temporal and spatial parameters. The stride frequency of an animal that moves efficiently in terms of energy consumption depends on its size. In two psychophysical experiments, we investigated whether human observers can employ this relation in order to retrieve size information from point-light displays of dogs moving with varying stride frequencies across the screen. In Experiment 1, observers had to adjust the apparent size of a walking point-light dog by placing it at different depths in a three-dimensional depiction of a complex landscape. In Experiment 2, the size of the dog could be adjusted directly. Results show that displays with high stride frequencies are perceived to be smaller than displays with low stride frequencies and that this correlation perfectly reflects the predicted inverse quadratic relation between stride frequency and size. We conclude that biological motion can serve as a cue to retrieve the size of an animal and, therefore, to scale the visual environment.



A three-neuron network (a central pattern generator [CPG]) is both sufficient and necessary to generate aerial respiratory behavior in the pond snail, Lymnaea stagnalis. Aerial respiratory behavior is abolished following a specific nerve crush that results in axotomy to one of the three CPG neurons, RPeD1. Functional regeneration of the crushed neurite occurs within 10 days, allowing aerial respiratory behavior to be restored. Functional regeneration does not occur if the connective is cut rather than crushed. In unaxotomized snails, aerial respiratory behavior can be operantly conditioned, and following memory consolidation, long-term memory (LTM) persists for at least 2 weeks. We used the Lymnaea model system to determine (1) If in naive animals axotomy and the subsequent regeneration result in a nervous system that is competent to mediate associative learning and LTM, and (2) if LTM survives RPeD1 axotomy and the subsequent regenerative process. We show here that (1) A regenerated nervous system is competent to mediate associative memory and LTM, and (2) LTM survives axotomy and the subsequent regenerative process.
Recent studies demonstrate a requirement for the Extracellular signal Regulated Kinase (ERK) mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade in both the induction of long-lasting forms of hippocampal synaptic plasticity and in hippocampus-dependent associative and spatial learning. In the present studies, we investigated mechanisms by which ERK might contribute to synaptic plasticity at Schaffer collateral synapses in hippocampal slices. We found that long-term potentiation (LTP) induced with a pair of 100-Hz tetani does not require ERK activation in mice whereas it does in rats. However, in mice, inhibition of ERK activation blocked LTP induced by two LTP induction paradigms that mimicked the endogenous theta rhythm. In an additional series of studies, we found that mice specifically deficient in the ERK1 isoform of MAPK showed no impairments in tests of hippocampal physiology. To investigate ERK-dependent mechanisms operating during LTP-inducing stimulation paradigms, we monitored spike production in the cell body layer of the hippocampus during the period of theta-like LTP-inducing stimulation. Theta-burst stimulation (TBS) produced a significant amount of postsynaptic spiking, and the likelihood of spike production increased progressively over the course of the three trains of TBS independent of any apparent increase in Excitatory Post-Synaptic Potential (EPSP) magnitude. Inhibition of ERK activation dampened this TBS-associated increase in spiking. These data indicate that, for specific patterns of stimulation, ERK may function in the regulation of neuronal excitability in hippocampal area CA1. Overall, our data indicate that the progressive increase in spiking observed during TBS represents a form of physiologic temporal integration that is dependent on ERK MAPK activity.
Both acute and chronic liver failure result in impaired cerebral function known as hepatic encephalopathy (HE). Evidence suggests that HE is the consequence of the accumulation in brain of neurotoxic and/or neuroactive substance including ammonia, manganese, aromatic amino acids, mercaptans, phenols, short-chain fatty acids, bilirubin and a variety of neuroactive medications prescribed as sedatives to patients with liver failure. Brain ammonia concentrations may attain levels in excess of 2 mm, concentrations which are known to adversely affect both excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission as well as brain energy metabolism. Manganese exerts toxic effects on dopaminergic neurones. Prevention and treatment of HE continues to rely heavily on the reduction of circulating ammonia either by reduction of gut production using lactulose or antibiotics or by increasing its metabolism using L-ornithine-L-aspartate. No specific therapies have so far been designed to reduce circulating concentrations of other toxins. Liver assist devices offer a potential new approach to the reduction of circulating neurotoxins generated in liver failure. In this regard, the Molecular Adsorbents Recirculating System (MARS) appears to offer distinct advantages over hepatocyte-based systems.
Central nervous system (CNS) involvement may occur in 20-70% of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients where neurological symptoms are overt; this is termed neuropsychiatric lupus or NPSLE. This review summarizes evidence that damage to the brain endothelium forming the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a contributory factor in NPSLE. The normal CNS is protected by blood-tissue barriers at three sites, the brain endothelium (BBB), the choroid plexus epithelium (blood-CSF barrier) and the arachnoid epithelium. The tight junctions of the barrier layers severely restrict entry of plasma constituents including proteins, so that the CSF and brain interstitial fluid contain low levels of protein. Methods for diagnosing BBB damage include imaging (CT, MRI) using contrast agents, and analysing protein content and profiles of CSF Changes in the albumin quotient Qalbumin show evidence for barrier damage, while changes in the immunoglobulin (Ig) index can indicate intrathecal antibody production. However, BBB damage may be transient, and hence undetected or underestimated. Few mechanistic studies exist, but the two main candidate mechanisms for BBB damage are microthrombi in cerebral vessels leading to ischaemia, and immune-mediated attack and activation of the endothelium leading to local cytokine production. Both can result in barrier breakdown. Neurological syndromes could then be secondary to damage to the BBB. The implications for treatment of NPSLE are discussed.
Despite the fact that the central nervous system parenchyma does not contain lymphatics, extracranial lymphatic vessels play a very important role in volumetric cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) transport. The most important extracranial location at which lymphatics gain access to CSF is in the nasal submucosa after CSF convects through the cribriform plate. At relatively low intracranial pressures (ICPs), the majority of cranial CSF absorption occurs through this pathway. Global CSF transport parameters in the late gestation fetus and adult sheep are very similar, even though significant numbers of arachnoid projections seem to exist only in the adult. Therefore, extracranial lymphatic vessels play an important role in CSF transport before birth and may represent the primary mechanism for CSF absorption in the neonate. Based on these considerations, hydrocephalus may involve reduced CSF transport to, or into extracranial lymphatic absorption sites.
Solitary plasmacytoma of the head and neck is a rare disease entity. Its description in the literature consist of some case reports. Solitary plasmacytoma presenting with exophthalmos are rare. We report a case of intracranial solitary plasmacytoma in an elderly lady with involvement of the right orbitocranial region presenting with severe exophthalmos. The tumour was debulked and radiotherapy was given.
There is no report in the English literature on the criteria for neuroablation or neuroaugmentation for the treatment of Parkinson's disease in a developing country like Malaysia. A prospective study of patients with Parkinson's disease from the north-eastern peninsular Malaysia was done to assess their suitability of surgery. Age, race, duration of illness and dementia were considered important factors towards the success of such surgical procedures. A mathematical model is suggested for future cases deemed to be suitable for neuroaugmentative or ablative surgery.
A commercially available wheelchair has been modified for propulsion by movements of the lower legs. The feet are attached securely to a foot rest that can rotate around the knee joint. Movement is generated either with residual voluntary activation of the quadriceps (knee extensor) and hamstring (knee flexor) muscles, or with electrical stimulation of these muscles, if voluntary control is absent. Either a chain or a lever can couple the movements through a gearbox to the wheel to propel the wheelchair forward. Control of a wheelchair with the legs is more efficient than using the arms and has the potential to increase the mobility and whole-body fitness of many wheelchair users, but there is considerable variability between subjects. To address this variability, we measured for individual subjects the passive properties of the legs and foot at rest (effective stiffness and viscosity), the length-tension (torque-angle) properties of the active muscle groups, as well as their force-velocity curve and their activation and fatigue rates. The measured values were then inserted into a model of the leg-propelled wheelchair. The purpose of this paper is to test whether the model could predict the performance of individual subjects accurately and could be used, for example, to optimize the speed of the wheelchair for a given subject.
Scientific aspects providing a foundation for working out the instruments and equipment systems designed for psychophysiological examinations are presented in the article. The already developed instruments and equipment systems for psychophysiology are described; projects implemented jointly with the leading institutions and experts of the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences and Ministry of Health of Russia, and which are already related with the use of the developed instruments and equipment systems in the field psychophysiology, are also described.
Autism is a behaviorally defined disorder characterized by a broad constellation of symptoms. Numerous studies directed to the biological substrate demonstrate clear effects of neurodevelopmental differences that will likely point to the etiology, course, and long-term outcomes of the disorder. Consistently replicated research on the neural underpinnings of autism is reviewed. In general, results suggest several main conclusions: First, autism is a heterogeneous disorder and is likely to have multiple possible etiologies; second, structural brain studies have indicated a variety of diffuse anatomical differences, reflective of an early developmental change in the growth or pruning of neural tissue, rather than localized lesions; similarly, neurochemical studies suggest early, neuromodulatory discrepancies rather than gross or localized abnormalities; and finally, there are a number of limitations on studies of brain activity that to date preclude definitive answers to questions of how the brain functions differently in autism. The large number of active research programs investigating the cognitive neuroscience of autism spectrum disorders, in combination with the exciting development of new methodologies and tools in this area, indicates the drama and excitement of work in this area.
This review discusses recent cognitive neuroscience investigations into the biological bases of developmental dyslexia, a common disorder impacting approximately 5 to 17 percent of the population. Our aim is to summarize central findings from several lines of evidence that converge on pivotal aspects of the brain bases of developmental dyslexia. We highlight ways in which the approaches and methodologies of developmental cognitive neuroscience that are addressed in this special issue-including neuroimaging, human genetics, refinement of cognitive and biological phenotypes, neural plasticity and computational model-can be employed in uncovering the biological bases of this disorder. Taking a developmental perspective on the biological bases of dyslexia, we propose a simple cascading model for the developmental progression of this disorder, in which individual differences in brain areas associated with phonological processing might influence the specialization of visual areas involved in the rapid processing of written words. We also discuss recent efforts to understand the impact of successful reading interventions in terms of changes within cortical circuits associated with reading ability.
Diffusion tensor imaging is unique in its ability to noninvasively visualize white matter fiber tracts in the human brain in vivo. Diffusion is the incoherent motion of water molecules on a microscopic scale. This motion is itself dependent on the micro-structural environment that restricts the movement of the water molecules. In white matter fibers there is a pronounced directional dependence on diffusion. With white matter fiber tracking or tractography, projections among brain regions can be detected in the three-dimensional diffusion tensor dataset according to the directionality of the fibers. Examples of developmental changes in diffusion, tracking of major fiber tracts, and examples of how diffusion tensor tractography and functional magnetic resonance imaging can be combined are provided. These techniques are complimentary and allow both the identification of the eloquent areas of the brain involved in specific functional tasks, and the connections between them. The noninvasive nature of magnetic resonance imaging will allow these techniques to be used in both longitudinal developmental and diagnostic studies. An overview of the technique and preliminary applications are presented, along with its current limitations.
Nongenetic as well as genetic etiologies must be explored in the child with identified hearing loss. Graduates of the neonatal intensive care unit are at increased risk for developing hearing loss due to hypoxia, hyperbilirubinemia, very low birth weight, and ototoxic medications. Although meningitis has decreased in frequency, it is still a risk factor for hearing loss. Cytomegalovirus remains the most common congenital infection and a relatively common etiology of hearing loss, which can be progressive. Preventable causes of hearing loss include those caused by head trauma, noise, and ototoxic medications. Identification of the etiology of hearing loss can facilitate the development of a treatment and management plan.
Adenoviruses infect a wide range of cell types, do not require integration into the host cell genome, and can be produced as replication-deficient viruses capable of expressing transgenes behind any desired promoter. Thus, they are ideal for use in expressing transgenes in the postmitotic neuron. This chapter describes simplifications in the protocols for making recombinant adenoviruses and their use in expressing transgenes in primary neurons of several different types.
Cytoskeletal polymers and other cytosolic protein complexes are transported along axons in the slow components of axonal transport. Studies on the movement of neurofilaments and microtubules in the axons of cultured neurons indicate that these polymers actually move at fast rates and that the movements are also infrequent and highly asynchronous. These observations indicate that the slow rate of slow axonal transport is due to rapid movements interrupted by prolonged pauses which presents special challenges for studies on the mechanism of movement. This chapter describes the procedures that the author's laboratory has used to observe and analyze the movement of neurofilaments and microtubules in axons of cultured neurons from the superior cervical ganglia of neonatal rats. In particular, the author describes how to culture these neurons, how to transfect them by nuclear injection, and how to detect the rapid and infrequent movement of cytoskeletal polymers using time-lapse fluorescence imaging.
As neurons extend axons to their targets during development, growth cones must reorient their direction of migration in response to extracellular guidance cues. A variety of model systems have been employed in order to dissect the cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie this complex process. One preparation, the developing grasshopper limb bud, has proved to offer a number of advantages in which to examine mechanisms of growth cone guidance and motility in vivo. First, the relatively large size of the embryonic nervous system allows for straightforward imaging of both fixed and live neurons in vivo. Second, the peripheral nerves generated in the limb bud are highly stereotyped. Third, intact embryos can be cultured for a period of days, allowing for fairly easy perturbations at precise developmental stages. Fourth, due to the ease of dissection, numerous cell biological and molecular techniques can be utilized in the limb bud. Finally, axon guidance molecules and mechanisms are conserved between grasshoppers and other organism, including vertebrates.
This chapter describes the function and development of the ciliary ganglion, the potential of ciliary ganglion neurons as a cell biological tool, and their dissection, dissociation, and culturing. Ciliary ganglion neurons grow unusually rapidly on a laminin-based substratum and develop large, thin calyx terminals in culture in less than 12 h. The two neuronal classes present in the cultures can be identified by size alone. The limited number of ganglia per animal renders this ganglion a poor choice for biochemical studies based on the extraction of cultured cells. However, they are ideally suited for studies based on single-cell observation, particularly investigation of presynaptic mechanisms using fluorescence microscopy.
Several reports indicate that the cytosol is acidified during apoptosis although the mechanism is not yet fully elucidated. The most acidic organelle found in the cell is the lysosome, raising the possibility that lysosomal proton release may contribute to the cytosolic acidification. We here describe methods for measurement of the cytosolic and lysosomal pH in U937 cells by a dual-emission ratiometric technique suitable for flow cytometry. Cytosolic pH was analysed in cells loaded with the fluorescent probe BCECF, while lysosomal pH was determined after endocytosis of FITC-dextran. Standard curves were obtained by incubating cells in buffers with different pH in the presence of the proton ionophore nigericin. Apoptosis was induced by exposure of cells to 10 ng/ml TNF-alpha for 4 h, and apoptotic cells were identified using a fluorescent marker for active caspases. By gating of control and apoptotic cells, the cytosolic and lysosomal pH were calculated in each population. The cytosolic pH was found to decrease from 7.2+/-0.1 to 5.8+/-0.1 and the lysosomal increased from 4.3+/-0.4 to 5.2+/-0.3. These methods will be useful in future attempts to evaluate the involvement of lysosomes in the acidification of the cytosol during apoptosis.
Zebrafish provide a rapid and effective means for assessing gene function in the vertebrate nervous system. By employing gain- and loss-of-function techniques it is possible to obtain insights into the roles of both wild-type and heterologously expressed genes. Such approaches enable rapid progression from gene discovery to gene expression and finally to gene function even when examining development of a tissue as complex as the nervous system. Exploiting the full potential of zebrafish as a bioassay for the nervous system will require, not only an understanding of the molecular and cellular basis of normal zebrafish development, but also an appreciation of comparative processes in other species. When applied to mutant animals, classic morphological approaches and contemporary molecular genetic techniques are providing a wealth of information on the development of the nervous system at the molecular, cell, system and behavioural levels. Zebrafish are now emerging as an important tool, supporting mouse genetical approaches for understanding neural function in vertebrates.







Differential display (DD) is a method used worldwide for identifying differentially expressed genes in eukaryotic cells. The mRNA DD technology works by systematic amplification of the 3' terminal regions of mRNAs. Using anchored primers designed to bind 5' boundary of the polyA tails for reverse transcription, followed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification with additional upstream primers of arbitrary sequences, mRNA subpopulations are separated by denaturing polyacrylamide electrophoresis. This allows direct side-by-side comparison of most of the mRNAs between or among related cells. Because of its simplicity, sensitivity, and reproducibility, the mRNA DD method is finding wide-ranging and rapid applications in developmental biology, cancer research, neuroscience, pathology, endocrinology, plant physiology, and many other areas. Since the recent development of the fluorescent differential display (FDD), the first nonradioactive DD system with equivalent sensitivity to the original 33P isotopic labeling method, it is now possible with this technology to automate, which can greatly increase the throughput and accuracy of mRNA DD.












Increased vascular permeability and oxidative stress are important in diabetic retinopathy. Because the cerebral microcirculation is much less affected in diabetes, our objectives are to compare: (1) glutathione peroxidase activity, (2) superoxide dismutase levels, (3) superoxide production, and (4) junctional protein (ZO-1) levels between retinal and brain-derived endothelial cells. Bovine brain and retinal endothelial cell cultures are incubated in medium containing either mM or 30 mM glucose for 5 days. Superoxide is measured in the medium and endothelial cells are then lysed and analyzed for glutathione peroxidase activity as well as levels of superoxide dismustase and ZO-1. The results demonstrate that, compared to brain-derived endothelial cells, retinal endothelial cells release high levels of superoxide, have less glutathione peroxidase activity and lower levels of superoxide dismutase, and ZO-1. Also, unlike brain-derived endothelial cells where ZO-1 levels increased in response to glucose, in retinal endothelial cells, ZO-1 levels are unaffected by glucose. These findings suggest that greater oxidative stress and lower junctional protein levels in retinal endothelial cells may contribute to blood/retinal barrier dysfunction in diabetic retinopathy.
Transforming growth factor beta2 (TGF-beta2), a prototypic member of a large superfamily of multifunctional cytokines, is expressed by neurons and glial cells. Its subcellular compartmentalization and release from neurons, however, are largely unknown. Here we show that TGF-beta2 colocalizes with the trans-Golgi network marker TGN38 and a marker molecule for secretory granules, chromogranin B (CgB), in PC12 cells. Similarly, primary hippocampal neurons show colocalization of TGN38 and TGF-beta2. A substantial amount of endogenous as well as transfected TGF-beta2 in PC12 cells comigrates with CgB on an equilibrium gradient, suggesting costorage in secretory granules. TGF-beta biological activity peaks in identical fractions. Depolarization of PC12 cells with high potassium triggers colocalization of CgB and TGF-beta2 at the cell surface, suggesting their regulated corelease from secretory granules. High potassium also liberates biologically active TGF-beta from PC12 cells and primary neurons. Our results indicate that a substantial portion of TGF-beta2 is secreted by the regulated secretory pathway in PC12 cells and hippocampal neurons.
Our laboratory has identified mouse and human monoclonal antibodies that promote myelin repair in multiple models of demyelinating disease. We have proposed that these antibodies promote remyelination by directly activating central nervous system glia. Intracellular calcium concentration was monitored using a Fura2 ratiometric assay. Repair-promoting antibodies induced distinct Ca2+ signals in both astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Astrocyte Ca2+ signaling is mediated by a phospholipase C-dependent pathway while oligodendrocyte Ca2+ signaling is mediated via AMPA-sensitive glutamate receptors. An antibody's ability to induce Ca2+ signals is statistically correlated with promotion of myelin repair. These findings support the hypothesis that remyelination-promoting antibodies are acting directly at the surface of glial cells to induce calcium-dependent physiologic reparative function.

Although valuable antischizophrenic drugs exist, they only partially ameliorate symptoms and elicit substantial side effects. Classic neuroleptic drugs act by blocking dopamine receptors. They can relieve some symptoms but not behavioral withdrawal features that are designated &quot;negative&quot; symptoms. Clozapine and related newer atypical neuroleptics may be more efficacious in relieving negative symptoms. Understandng their actions may facilitate new drug discovery. Agents influencing glutamate neurotransmission and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, especially the cotransmitter D-serine, are promising. Stimulation of the alpha7 subtype of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor may also be efficacious. The search for genes linked to schizophrenia has revealed several leads that may permit development of novel therapeutic agents. Promising genes include disrupted-in-schizophrenia-1, dysbindin, and neuregulin.
In the present study, we have investigated the influence of telomerase inhibition in chemosensitivity of melanoma cells to temozolomide (TMZ), a methylating agent with promising antitumor activity against metastatic melanoma. In fact, telomerase, a ribonucleoprotein enzyme expressed in the majority of tumors, is presently considered an attractive target for anticancer therapy, with the double aim of reducing tumor growth and increasing chemosensitivity of cancer cells. Susceptibility to TMZ and to other antitumor agents used for treatment of metastatic melanoma was initially assessed in melanoma lines with different basal levels of telomerase activity. Thereafter, chemosensitivity was investigated after inhibition of telomerase by means of stable transfection of a catalytically inactive, dominant-negative mutant of hTERT (DN-hTERT). This study shows for the first time that: a) susceptibility to TMZ of melanoma lines derived from the same patient did not depend on basal telomerase activity; b) inhibition of telomerase by DN-hTERT resulted in reduced growth rate and increased resistance to TMZ and to the chloroethylating agent carmustine, increased sensitivity to cisplatin, and no change in response to tamoxifen or to a selective N3-adenine methylating agent; c) inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), an enzyme involved in the repair of N-methylpurines, restored sensitivity of DN-hTERT clones to TMZ. These results indicate that a careful selection of the antitumor agent has to be made when antitelomerase therapy is combined with chemotherapy. Moreover, the data presented here suggest that TMZ + PARP inhibitor combination is active against telomerase-suppressed and slowly growing tumors.
The aim of the present study was to examine the effects of intermittent binocular and monocular vision on the preparation and execution of the transport and grasp phases of prehension, and hence the temporal limit of binocular and monocular integration. Participants in two groups (speed or accuracy) performed prehensile movements of two amplitudes (20 and 40 cm) to either a large or small object (6 x 6 x 2 and 6 x 4x 2 cm) under conditions of binocular and monocular viewing. The interval between visual samples was manipulated with liquid crystal goggles (continuous vision, 20on/60off, and 20on/120off ms). A kinematic analysis indicated that participants modified variables associated with the preparation and execution of prehension in the intermittent vision conditions when instructed to emphasize accuracy. Participants instructed to emphasize speed, modified variables associated with the preparation phase only. The impact of intermittent vision was similar under binocular and monocular viewing. Thus, for prehension, it appears that consecutive binocular or monocular samples need to occur less than 60 ms apart in order to be fully integrated for limb control.
We describe a 48-year-old patient, with a diagnosis of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, who presented to our service with a parkinsonian syndrome that markedly improved after corticosteroid treatment. To the best of our knowledge, only 12 cases of parkinsonism have been reported from 1970 to the present, of which only 8 seemed secondary to MS, i.e., those presenting conclusive imaging evidence or unequivocal response to corticosteroids.
We have measured some oscillatory properties of severe lower limb spasms experienced by a low-thoracic complete paraplegic during assisted standing. Electromyograms (EMG) were recorded from the leg muscles while the patient stood passively in a standing frame. The patient also stood using functional electrical stimulation (FES) while ground and handle reaction force vectors were measured together with EMG activity. During passive standing, spasms appeared simultaneously in all leg muscle groups on one side. The interval between spasms varied between 3 and 30 seconds. Within the spasms, there was a tendency of repetitive grouped discharge of motor units as well as a strong 10-Hz component in the EMG that was coherent across ipsilateral muscle groups. Thus, the spasms were inherently oscillatory. During FES-assisted standing, clinically similar spasms were observed. However, the interspasm interval became relatively fixed at around 16 seconds, which may indicate entraining of the spasm cycle by FES. There are similarities between this patient's spasms and the pathological motor activities seen in other movement disorders that may also be of spinal origin.
Stroke is one of the oldest but least understood diseases, and it is one of the major public health problems facing the elderly. Recent epidemiological investigations have found that the incidence of stroke has been underestimated by about 50%, and that the burden of disease is highest in minority populations. Recent clinical and basic neuroscience research indicates that stroke is neither unpredictable nor irreversible. Many risk factors for stroke are readily identifiable, and evidence-based treatment may be used to reduce the likelihood of stroke among those at risk. Rapid diagnosis and evaluation of stroke and transient ischemic attack and their treatment, including surgery, anticoagulation, antiplatelet and other medical therapies, reduce the chance of recurrence. More aggressive treatment of blood pressure, even among patients who are not necessarily hypertensive, may also reduce the risk of future strokes. Once ischemic stroke has occurred, emergent therapy using thrombolysis may significantly reduce disability, even among the elderly. This review presents an update on definitions of stroke and its subtypes, stroke epidemiology, and the results of recent studies of stroke prevention and acute treatment.
A 37-year-old woman had a 2-week history of progressive weakness, muscle hypotonia, and absent or hypoactive deep tendon reflexes. Nerve conduction studies showed diminished H-reflexes and absent or decreased persistence of F-waves in all limbs. The patient was admitted to the hospital with a diagnosis of Guillain-Barr syndrome. Laboratory studies revealed severe anemia with a hemoglobin level of 4.1 g/dl and hematocrit of 15.1%. Immediate blood transfusion resulted in a hemoglobin of 13.2 g/dl and hematocrit of 40.2%, associated with rapid neurological recovery (normal stretch reflexes and muscle strength) and normalization of F-waves and H-reflexes. This case demonstrates that severe anemia may be associated with signs and symptoms that mimic Guillain-Barr syndrome, both clinically and electrophysiologically. It also suggests that a relative depression of spinal motoneuron excitability may be a possible mechanism for the weakness that is commonly observed in severe anemia.
Paretic human muscle rapidly loses strength and oxidative endurance, and electrical stimulation training may partly reverse this. We evaluated the effects of two training protocols on the contractile and metabolic properties of the wrist extensor in 12 C-5/6 tetraplegic individuals. The wrist extensor muscles were stimulated for 30 min/day, 5 days/week, for 12 weeks, using either a high-resistance (Hr) or a low-resistance (Lr) protocol. Total work output was similar in both protocols. The nontrained arm was used as a control. Maximum voluntary torque increased in the Hr (P &lt; 0.05) but not the Lr group. Electrically stimulated peak tetanic torque at 15 HZ, 30 HZ, and 50 HZ were unchanged in the Lr group and tended to increase only at 15 HZ (P &lt; 0.1) in the Hr group. Resistance to fatigue, however, increased (P &lt; 0.05) in both Hr (42%) and Lr (41%) groups. Muscle metabolism was evaluated by (31)P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((31)P-NMRS) during and following a continuous 40-s 10-HZ contraction. In the Hr group the cost of contraction decreased by 38% (P &lt; 0.05) and the half-time of phosphocreatine (PCr) recovery was shortened by 52% (P &lt; 0.05). Thus, long-term electrically induced stimulation of the wrist extensor muscles in spinal cord injury (SCI) increases fatigue resistance independent of training pattern. However, only the Hr protocol increased muscle strength and was shown to improve muscle aerobic metabolism after training. Muscle Nerve 27: 72-80, 2003

Axon extension during development of the nervous system is guided by many factors, but the signalling mechanisms responsible for triggering this extension remain mostly unknown. Here we have examined the role of Rho family small guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases) in mediating axon guidance by diffusible factors. Expression of either dominant-negative or constitutively active Cdc42 in cultured Xenopus laevis spinal neurons, at a concentration that does not substantially affect filopodial formation and neurite extension, abolishes the chemoattractive growth cone turning induced by a gradient of brain-derived neurotrophic factor that can activate Cdc42 and Rac in cultured neurons. Chemorepulsion induced by a gradient of lysophosphatidic acid is also abolished by the expression of dominant-negative RhoA. We also show that an asymmetry in Rho kinase or filopodial initiation across the growth cone is sufficient to trigger the turning response and that there is a crosstalk between the Cdc42 and RhoA pathways through their converging actions on the myosin activity essential for growth cone chemorepulsion.

Why do some people have superior memory capabilities? We addressed this age-old question by examining individuals renowned for outstanding memory feats in forums such as the World Memory Championships. Using neuropsychological measures, as well as structural and functional brain imaging, we found that superior memory was not driven by exceptional intellectual ability or structural brain differences. Rather, we found that superior memorizers used a spatial learning strategy, engaging brain regions such as the hippocampus that are critical for memory and for spatial memory in particular. These results illustrate how functional neuroimaging might prove valuable in delineating the neural substrates of mnemonic techniques, which could broaden the scope for memory improvement in the general population and the memory-impaired.
For binocular animals viewing a three-dimensional scene, the left and right eyes receive slightly different information, and the brain uses this 'binocular disparity' to interpret stereoscopic depth. An important theoretical conjecture in this mechanism is that coarse processing precedes and constrains finely detailed processing. We present three types of neurophysiological data from the cat's visual cortex that are consistent with a temporal coarse-to-fine tuning of disparity information. First, the disparity tuning of cortical cells generally sharpened during the time course of response. Second, cells responsive to large and small spatial scale had relatively shorter and longer temporal latencies, respectively. Third, cross-correlation analysis between simultaneously recorded pairs of cortical cells showed that connections between disparity-tuned neurons were generally stronger for coarse-to-fine processing than for fine-to-coarse processing. These results are consistent with theoretical and behavioral studies and suggest that rapid, coarse percepts are refined over time in stereoscopic depth perception.
Neural stem cells exist in the developing and adult nervous systems of all mammals, but the basic mechanisms that control their behavior are not yet well understood. Here, we investigated the role of Sonic hedgehog (Shh), a factor vital for neural development, in regulating adult hippocampal neural stem cells. We found high expression of the Shh receptor Patched in both the adult rat hippocampus and neural progenitor cells isolated from this region. In addition, Shh elicited a strong, dose-dependent proliferative response in progenitors in vitro. Furthermore, adeno-associated viral vector delivery of shh cDNA to the hippocampus elicited a 3.3-fold increase in cell proliferation. Finally, the pharmacological inhibitor of Shh signaling cyclopamine reduced hippocampal neural progenitor proliferation in vivo. This work identifies Shh as a regulator of adult hippocampal neural stem cells.
The mechanism controlling the development of dopaminergic (DA) and serotonergic (5HT) neurons in vertebrates is not well understood. Here we characterized a zebrafish mutant--too few (tof)--that develops hindbrain 5HT and noradrenergic neurons, but does not develop hypothalamic DA and 5HT neurons. tof encodes a forebrain-specific zinc finger transcription repressor that is homologous to the mammalian Fezl (forebrain embryonic zinc finger-like protein). Mosaic and co-staining analyses showed that fezl was not expressed in DA or 5HT neurons and instead controlled development of these neurons non-cell-autonomously. Both the eh1-related repressor motif and the second zinc finger domain were necessary for tof function. Our results indicate that tof/fezl is a key component in regulating the development of monoaminergic neurons in the vertebrate brain.



The stochastic mechanism of synchronous firing in a population of neurons is studied from the point of view of information geometry. Higher-order interactions of neurons, which cannot be reduced to pairwise correlations, are proved to exist in synchronous firing. In a neuron pool where each neuron fires stochastically, the probability distribution q(r) of the activity r, which is the fraction of firing neurons in the pool, is studied. When q(r) has a widespread distribution, in particular, when q(r) has two peaks, the neurons fire synchronously at one time and are quiescent at other times. The mechanism of generating such a probability distribution is interesting because the activity r is concentrated on its mean value when each neuron fires independently, because of the law of large numbers. Even when pairwise interactions, or third-order interactions, exist, the concentration is not resolved. This shows that higher-order interactions are necessary to generate widespread activity distributions. We analyze a simple model in which neurons receive common overlapping inputs and prove that such a model can have a widespread distribution of activity, generating higher-order stochastic interactions.
We consider a correlation-based model for the orientation map formation proposed by Miller [Journal of Neuroscience 14 (1994) 409] and study the formation mathematically. We perform the Fourier transform and compute the principal component of the model. With our analysis, the roles of functions are clarified and the result indicates that the developed orientation maps have the following properties. (1) Maps have oriented receptive fields. (2) Preferred orientations smoothly change on the cortical surface. (3) Periodicity of preferred orientations does not appear. (4) Periodicity of phases appears. (5) Singular points appear irregularly on the cortical surface. Our analytical results are justified by computer simulations.

This paper briefly reviews the functional anatomy of the basal ganglia and their relationships with the thalamocortical system. The basal ganglia, including the striatum, pallidum, subthalamic nucleus, and substantia nigra, are involved in a number of parallel, functionally segregated cortical-subcortical circuits. These circuits support a wide range of sensorimotor, cognitive and emotional-motivational brain functions. A main role of the basal ganglia is the learning and selection of the most appropriate motor or behavioral programs. The internal functional organization of the basal ganglia is very well suited for such selection mechanisms, both in development and in adulthood. The question of whether clumsiness may be, at least in part, attributed to dysfunction of the basal ganglia is discussed in the context of the differential, complementary, or interactive roles of the basal ganglia and the cerebellum in the development of motor control.

Little is known about prenatal and perinatal brain injury resulting in subsequent clumsy behavior in children. One candidate motor system is the pyramidal tract. The tract traverses the entire central nervous system and, through direct and indirect connections to the brainstem and spinal cord sensory and motor nuclei, is involved in the learning and execution of skilled movements. Here, rats, either naive or pretrained on a number of motor tasks, were assessed for acute and chronic impairments following complete or incomplete pyramidal tract lesions. Postsurgery rats with complete lesions were impaired on the qualitative measures of limb aiming, supination, and posture. Impaired movements require fixations, complementary movements in different body segments. The impairment in fixations was manifest acutely and underwent no improvement with subsequent training/testing. The finding that complete and partial pyramidal tract lesions produce chronic impairment in fixations provides insight for understanding clumsy behavior in humans and its potential remediation via specific training in making fixations.

The present study investigated if a causal relation exists between serum concentrations of precursors and metabolites of cholesterol and cognitive performance in a healthy aging population. Cognitive function addressing four domains of 144 individuals (30-80 years) was tested at baseline and after 6 years of follow-up. Serum concentrations of different sterols related to cholesterol were measured. Serum levels of lathosterol and lanosterol correlated negatively with cognitive performance on the Word Learning tests for verbal learning and memory. This was observed at baseline and follow-up and was independent of age, sex and educational level. Furthermore, the levels of lathosterol and lanosterol at baseline correlated with performance on the Stroop test and Word Learning tests over the 6-year follow-up period. Serum levels of 27-hydroxycholesterol and 24S-hydroxycholesterol showed inconsistent correlations, while cholesterol, desmosterol, sitosterol and campesterol were not related to cognitive performance.Thus, relative high serum ratios of the cholesterol precursors lanosterol and lathosterol, indicative for a high rate of endogenous cholesterol synthesis, are associated with relatively low memory performance in this aging population.
An alternative pathway for dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) synthesis has been suggested by treating rat and human brain cells with ferrous sulfate and beta-amyloid (Abeta). To determine if this pathway exists in human brain, levels of DHEA in hippocampus, hypothalamus and frontal cortex from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and age-matched controls were measured. DHEA is significantly higher in AD brain than control, and was highest in AD hippocampi. Cytochrome p450 17alpha-hydroxylase, responsible for peripheral DHEA synthesis, is not present in hippocampus. DHEA levels in AD cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were significantly higher than age-matched controls. AD serum DHEA levels are lower than CSF, and not significantly different from controls. Treatment of control hippocampus, hypothalamus and serum with FeSO(4) increases DHEA, suggesting that levels of precursor are higher in control that in AD brain. This suggests that (i). an alternative precursor is present in control brain, (ii). AD brain DHEA is formed by oxidative stress metabolism of precursor, and (iii). CSF DHEA levels and serum DHEA formation in response to FeSO(4) may serve as an indicator of AD pathology.
Young and aged female rats were tested on a water radial-arm maze designed to measure performance as working memory load increased, followed by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF), and neurotrophin 3 (NT3) protein assessments in hippocampus and frontal cortex. Aged rats showed deficiencies in both working and reference memory. There were also profound age-related working memory load effects. Aged rats made more errors as working memory load increased and showed learning only during early trials when memory load was low, while young rats exhibited learning over all trials. Neurotrophin assessment showed that frontal cortex NGF and BDNF levels were positively, and hippocampal NT3 negatively, correlated with number of errors made during specific trials in aged animals. Comparison to untested rats showed that testing increased NT3, but not BDNF or NGF, protein levels in both age groups. Findings suggest that young rats learn to handle a higher working memory load as testing progresses, while aged rats do not, and that frontal cortex and hippocampal neurotrophin levels may relate to working memory proficiency in aged female rats.
Estrogen is implicated in hippocampus-dependent spatial learning as well as structural organization and electrophysiological properties of the rat hippocampus but little is known about its mechanisms of action in mice. In this study, we investigated pharmacologically whether estrogen interacts with the hippocampal N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in ovariectomized mice as postulated for rats. Female C57BL/6J mice were ovariectomized at 5 months, and 2 weeks before testing at 12 months, half of them received subcutaneous estrogen pellets containing 0.18 mg of 17 beta-estradiol. The competitive NMDA-antagonist, 3-((+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP), was administered at 5.0 and 10.0 microM to block induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampal slice and intraperitoneally at 0.5, 2.0, and 5.0 mg/kg to impair spatial learning in the water maze. Estrogen treatment shifted the dose-response curve to CPP in both experiments. First, 10 microM CPP blocked the initiation of LTP in all mice, but 5 microM only in ovariectomized non-estrogen-treated mice. Second, final level of acquisition and probe trial performance in the water maze were less affected by high doses of CPP in the estrogen-treated ovariectomized mice than in non-treated group. In control tests for motor side effects, estrogen treatment did not reduce the tendency of CPP to decrease locomotor activity in the open field and impair balance on a rotating rod, and estrogen by itself decreased swimming speed as did CPP, but these effects did not interact. Our findings support the notion that estrogen treatment increases the number of active NMDA-receptors in the mouse hippocampus.
Male and female Long-Evans hooded rats were placed in the complex environments for 3 months either at weaning (22 days), in young adulthood (120 days), or in senescence (24 months). The dendritic morphology of both the apical and basilar fields of layer III pyramidal cells was analyzed in both parietal and visual cortex. There were two novel results. First, although spine density was increased significantly with complex-housing in adulthood, it was decreased significantly by the same housing during development. Second, dendritic length was increased in both parietal and occipital cortex at all ages in males and was increased in adult females as well, but juvenile females showed no change in dendritic length in the occipital cortex and only a small effect on the apical field in parietal cortex. Thus, there are qualitative differences in the changes in spine density at different ages and the dendritic changes in response to complex versus isolated housing vary with sex, and in females, the changes vary with age as well. These results may explain some of the apparent inconsistencies in reports of spine and dendrite changes in the literature.
We report a patient, Newton, with a progressive classical anomia resulting from focal degeneration of the left hemisphere. In naming tasks Newton spelt aloud picture names that he could not retrieve, indicating a dissociation between orthography and phonology. Unusually, his writing and letter-pointing performance were impaired and spelling was achieved only through alphabet recitation. A study of automatic speech tasks demonstrated strikingly preserved naming performance on automatic compared to nominative tasks. We argue that automatic tasks provide phonological cues that facilitate phonological activation. With progression of disease Newton has shown increasing difficulty reading and repeating words, which we interpret in terms of a progressive elevation in the threshold for activation of phonology. Phonological cueing of picture names has yielded superior naming than word reading and even repetition, a finding consistent with the notion that task characteristics influence likelihood of phonological activation and naming success, but contrary to the notion that there exist separate task-specific output systems. We conclude that Newton exhibits a unique pattern of deficits, which have theoretical relevance for the debate on the relationship between phonology and orthography, the role of automatic speech and the relationship between naming, reading and repetition.
Limbic seizures were induced in rats by intraperitoneal injection of the glutamate receptor agonist kainic acid, followed, 24h later by injection of [1-13C]glucose and [1,2-13C]acetate. Analyses of forebrain extracts were performed using 13C magnetic resonance spectroscopy and HPLC. A significant increase in label derived from [1,2-13C]acetate was observed in glutamine and glutamate. Label in most metabolites derived from [1-13C]glucose was unchanged, however, a decrease was observed in [2-13C]GABA, possibly due to reduced GABA release, 24h after kainic acid injection. It should be noted that only astrocytes are able to utilize acetate as a substrate efficiently, whereas acetyl CoA derived from glucose is metabolized predominantly in the neuronal tricarboxylic acid cycle. No significant differences were found in total amounts of amino acids between the two groups. Thus, these results indicate that turnover of metabolites was increased predominantly in astrocytes whereas glutamatergic neurons were not affected. Previous results obtained using the same model [Neurosci. Lett. 279 (2000) 169] showed an increased turnover in both glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons 2 weeks after kainic acid injection. Combining the results from the two studies, it can be suggested that increased astrocytic activity 1 day after epileptic seizures results, subsequently, in an increased amino acid turnover in neurons.

Turnover rates of myelin membrane components in mouse brains were determined by a method using stable isotope-labeling and mass spectrometry. The half-replacement times based on incorporation rates of newly synthesized molecules for young adult mice were 359 days for cholesterol, 20 days for phosphatidylcholine, 25 days for phosphatidylethanolamine, 94 days for cerebroside and 102 days for ganglioside GM1. The turnover rates of half-lives of myelin components were calculated from the decay curves of initially labeled molecules, and they were about the same as the half-replacement times. Individual components were thus revealed to be metabolized at different rates, and their turnover rates were differently affected by aging. As was observed with phospholipids, myelin pools appeared to be compartmentalized into rapidly and slowly exchanging pools. The turnover rates of cerebroside and GM1 decreased between the young and adult periods and slightly increased in senescence. The latter phenomenon may indicate an enhanced myelin turnover in senescence. The present study reveals the dynamic aspects of myelin membrane turnover during the life span of mouse.
Prolactin (PRL) secretion is inhibited by dopamine (DA) released from hypothalamic neuroendocrine neurons designated tuberoinfundibular (TIDA), tuberohypophyseal (THDA) and periventricular hypophyseal (PHDA) dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons. Since PRL is secreted in many physiological states with a circadian rhythm, the purpose of these experiments was to determine if patterns of neuroendocrine DAergic neuronal activity in rats are also circadian. The activity of neuroendocrine DAergic neurons, defined as DA turnover rate in nerve terminals and quantitated as the ratio of DOPAC (a primary DA metabolite) to DA content, was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (HPLC-EC) in these populations of DA neurons of OVX rats. TIDA neurons exhibit a rhythm of activity in a light:dark cycle which free-runs in constant dark (DD) and is entrained by light, indicating that TIDA neuronal activity is circadian. THDA and PHDA neurons also display daily rhythms entrained to a photoperiod and PHDA neuronal activity free-runs in DD with a period of approximately 24 h. However, a significant rhythm of THDA neuronal activity was not detected under DD. In the OVX rat, the activities of TIDA and PHDA neurons, but not THDA neurons, describe all the characteristics of a circadian rhythm as they are both entrained by light, but only TIDA and PHDA neurons maintain a significant rhythm of activity under DD.
For us to interact with our environment we need to know where objects are around us, relative to our body. In monkeys, a body-centered map of visual space is known to exist within the parietal eye fields. This map is formed by the modulation of retinal responses by gain fields to gaze position. In humans, no map of body-centered space has yet been discovered but clinical data suggest that the right parietal lobe is predominantly responsible for visuospatial function. Using functional MRI, we have been able to demonstrate that an area in the intraparietal sulcus of humans has properties very similar to the parietal eye fields of monkeys. This area demonstrates BOLD signal changes related to the visual, saccadic, and memory components of saccade tasks that are analogous to the visual, saccadic, and memory responses of neurons within the parietal eye fields of monkeys. More importantly, the amount of signal change seen in this region is modulated by head position relative to the body, suggesting that a gain field dependent body-centered representation of space exists bilaterally within the parietal lobes in humans.


Within this paper, we describe a neuroinformatics project (called &quot;NeuroScholar,&quot; http://www.neuroscholar.org/) that enables researchers to examine, manage, manipulate, and use the information contained within the published neuroscientific literature. The project is built within a multi-level, multi-component framework constructed with the use of software engineering methods that themselves provide code-building functionality for neuroinformaticians. We describe the different software layers of the system. First, we present a hypothetical usage scenario illustrating how NeuroScholar permits users to address large-scale questions in a way that would otherwise be impossible. We do this by applying NeuroScholar to a &quot;real-world&quot; neuroscience question: How is stress-related information processed in the brain? We then explain how the overall design of NeuroScholar enables the system to work and illustrate different components of the user interface. We then describe the knowledge management strategy we use to store interpretations. Finally, we describe the software engineering framework we have devised (called the &quot;View-Primitive-Data Model framework,&quot; [VPDMf]) to provide an open-source, accelerated software development environment for the project. We believe that NeuroScholar will be useful to experimental neuroscientists by helping them interact with the primary neuroscientific literature in a meaningful way, and to neuroinformaticians by providing them with useful, affordable software engineering tools.
NeuroNames is a nomenclature designed as a tool for indexing digital databases of neuroscientific information. It can be used, for example, as the entry point to a digital dictionary of neuroanatomy, to a brain atlas, or to a database of information referenced to specific brain structures. The user can query with terms from many different nomenclatures. One can create a neuroanatomic ontology from NeuroNames by relating an appropriate subset of terms to a conceptual model represented by structures illustrated in a brain atlas. At the conceptual core of NeuroNames are primary structures, the elementary units of the brain in the spatial domain. Each primary structure is associated with a set of synonyms that represent the structure in the symbolic domain. One of the synonyms is designated the default name for use in verbal definitions of other structures. A unique abbreviation based on the default name is provided for labeling images. Neuroscientists classify structures in different contexts reflecting different attributes of interest. Thus, the name of a given structure can appear in any number of hierarchical contexts. In NeuroNames all primary structures are now represented in at least two hierarchies. The first is a nine-level &quot;Brain Hierarchy,&quot; in which volumetric structures are grouped by proximity to form successively larger units that represent the brain at different levels of dissection. Secondly, primary structures are categorized in a three-level &quot;spatial attribute hierarchy&quot; used to color- code them for visual display. Grouped structures in the nine-level volumetric hierarchy are designated superstructures, each of which has synonyms, a default term, and an abbreviation. All names of structures not in the hierarchy are designated ancillary terms and are defined in words using the default names of hierarchy structures. With NeuroNames as entry point, we have developed BrainInfo (http://braininfo.rprc.washington.edu), a website that allows searchers to proceed intuitively in a few steps to descriptions and images of specific structures. Currently NeuroNames resides in a Microsoft ACCESS database and includes some 12,200 terms in seven languages.


We have developed a program NeuroText to populate the neuroscience databases in SenseLab (http://senselab.med.yale.edu/senselab) by mining the natural language text of neuroscience articles. NeuroText uses a two-step approach to identify relevant articles. The first step (pre-processing), aimed at 100% sensitivity, identifies abstracts containing database keywords. In the second step, potentially relevant abstracts identified in the first step are processed for specificity dictated by database architecture, and neuroscience, lexical and semantic contexts. NeuroText results were presented to the experts for validation using a dynamically generated interface that also allows expert-validated articles to be automatically deposited into the databases. Of the test set of 912 articles, 735 were rejected at the pre-processing step. For the remaining articles, the accuracy of predicting database-relevant articles was 85%. Twenty-two articles were erroneously identified. NeuroText deferred decisions on 29 articles to the expert. A comparison of NeuroText results versus the experts' analyses revealed that the program failed to correctly identify articles' relevance due to concepts that did not yet exist in the knowledgebase or due to vaguely presented information in the abstracts. NeuroText uses two &quot;evolution&quot; techniques (supervised and unsupervised) that play an important role in the continual improvement of the retrieval results. Software that uses the NeuroText approach can facilitate the creation of curated, special-interest, bibliography databases.
An approach and software tools are described for identifying and extracting compound terms (CTs), acronyms and their associated contexts from textual material that is associated with neuroanatomical atlases. A set of simple syntactic rules were appended to the output of a commercially available part of speech (POS) tagger (Qtag v 3.01) that extracts CTs and their associated context from the texts of neuroanatomical atlases. This &quot;hybrid&quot; parser. appears to be highly sensitive and recognized 96% of the potentially germane neuroanatomical CTs and acronyms present in the cat and primate thalamic atlases. A comparison of neuroanatomical CTs and acronymsbetween the cat and primate atlas texts was initially performed using exact-term matching. The implementation of string-matching algorithms significantly improved the identification of relevant terms and acronyms between the two domains. The End Gap Free string matcher identified 98% of CTs and the Needleman Wunsch (NW) string matcher matched 36% of acronyms between the two atlases. Combining several simple grammatical and lexical rules with the POS tagger (&quot;hybrid parser&quot;) (1) extracted complex neuroanatomical terms and acronyms from selected cat and primate thalamic atlases and (2) and facilitated the semi-automated generation of a highly granular thalamic terminology. The implementation of string-matching algorithms (1) reconciled terminological errors generated by optical character recognition (OCR) software used to generate the neuroanatomical text information and (2) increased the sensitivity of matching neuroanatomical terms and acronyms between the two neuroanatomical domains that were generated by the &quot;hybrid&quot; parser.
The inherent complexity of traditional relational database systems is a key obstacle to more widespread use of database technology in the neuroscience community. As an alternative to relational technology, we propose a simpler semistructured data model for documenting laboratory procedures and results. The semistructured data model allows researchers to document their data in an organized, regularly formatted, machine-readable, and network accessible manner, without requiring the services of database professionals. We present proof-of-concept software, consisting of an HTML interface that communicates with a remotely located, semistructured database. We also discuss the importance of standardized terminology and the importance of building flexible data description systems that are more easily adapted and reconfigured to conform with standardized terminologies as they evolve.
The requirements for neuroinformatics to make a significant impact on neuroscience are not simply technical--the hardware, software, and protocols for collaborative research--they also include the legal and policy frameworks within which projects operate. This is not least because the creation of large collaborative scientific databases amplifies the complicated interactions between proprietary, for-profit R&amp;D and public &quot;open science.&quot; In this paper, we draw on experiences from the field of genomics to examine some of the likely consequences of these interactions in neuroscience. Facilitating the widespread sharing of data and tools for neuroscientific research will accelerate the development of neuroinformatics. We propose approaches to overcome the cultural and legal barriers that have slowed these developments to date. We also draw on legal strategies employed by the Free Software community, in suggesting frameworks neuroinformatics might adopt to reinforce the role of public-science databases, and propose a mechanism for identifying and allowing &quot;open science&quot; uses for data whilst still permitting flexible licensing for secondary commercial research.


The Mouse Atlas Project (MAP) aims to produce a framework for organizing and analyzing the large volumes of neuroscientific data produced by the proliferation of genetically modified animals. Atlases provide an invaluable aid in understanding the impact of genetic manipulations by providing a standard for comparison. We use a digital atlas as the hub of an informatics network, correlating imaging data, such as structural imaging and histology, with text-based data, such as nomenclature, connections, and references. We generated brain volumes using magnetic resonance microscopy (MRM), classical histology, and immunohistochemistry, and registered them into a common and defined coordinate system. Specially designed viewers were developed in order to visualize multiple datasets simultaneously and to coordinate between textual and image data. Researchers can navigate through the brain interchangeably, in either a text-based or image-based representation that automatically updates information as they move. The atlas also allows the independent entry of other types of data, the facile retrieval of information, and the straight-forward display of images. In conjunction with centralized servers, image and text data can be kept current and can decrease the burden on individual researchers' computers. A comprehensive framework that encompasses many forms of information in the context of anatomic imaging holds tremendous promise for producing new insights. The atlas and associated tools can be found at http://www.loni.ucla.edu/MAP.
The creation of structured shared data repositories for molecular data in the form of web-accessible databases like GenBank has been a driving force behind the genomic revolution. These resources serve not only to organize and manage molecular data being created by researchers around the globe, but also provide the starting point for data mining operations to uncover interesting information present in the large amount of sequence and structural data. To realize the full impact of the genomic and proteomic efforts of the last decade, similar resources are needed for structural and biochemical complexity in biological systems beyond the molecular level, where proteins and macromolecular complexes are situated within their cellular and tissue environments. In this review, we discuss our efforts in the development of neuroinformatics resources for managing and mining cell level imaging data derived from light and electron microscopy. We describe the main features of our web-accessible database, the Cell Centered Database (CCDB; http://ncmir.ucsd.edu/CCDB/), designed for structural and protein localization information at scales ranging from large expanses of tissue to cellular microdomains with their associated macromolecular constituents. The CCDB was created to make 3D microscopic imaging data available to the scientific community and to serve as a resource for investigating structural and macromolecular complexity of cells and tissues, particularly in the rodent nervous system.
There is a paucity of image-centric neuroinformatics infrastructure within the individual investigator's laboratory despite the obvious need for automation and integration of experimental results. Yet, solutions can often be readily built using off-the-shelf databases and associated tools. Doing so simplifies day-to-day research operation and increases throughput. Proper construction of in-house solutions may also expedite community-wide integration of private and public data repositories. Here we describe neuroinformatics approaches at different levels of functionality, required expertise, and size of image datasets. The simplest approach offers ease of image browsing and rudimentary searching. More sophisticated systems provide powerful search capabilities, a means of tracking analysis, and even automated serial processing pipelines. In this practicum, we provide guidance in selecting among the different options.
Full genome sequencing, high-density genotyping, expanding sets of microarray assays, and systematic phenotyping of neuroanatomical and behavioral traits are producing a wealth of data on the mouse central nervous system (CNS). These disparate resources are still poorly integrated. One solution is to acquire these data using a common reference population of isogenic lines of mice, providing a point of integration between the data types. Recombinant inbred (RI) mice, derived through inbreeding of progeny from an inbred cross, are a powerful tool for complex trait mapping and analysis of the challenging phenotypes of neuroscientific interest. These isogenic RI lines are a retrievable genetic resource that can be repeatedly studied using a wide variety of assays. Diverse data sets can be related through fixed and known genomes, using tools such as the interactive web-based system for complex trait analysis, www.WebQTL.org. In this report, we demonstrate the use of WebQTL to explore complex interactions among a wide variety of traits--from mRNA transcripts to the impressive behavioral and pharmacological variation among RI strains. The relational approach exploiting a common set of strains facilitates study of multiple effects of single genes (pleiotropy) without a priori hypotheses required. Here we demonstrate the power of this technique through genetic correlation of gene expression with a database of neurobehavioral phenotypes collected in these strains of mice through more than 20 years of experimentation. By repeatedly studying the same panel of mice, early data can be re-examined in light of technological advances unforeseen at the time of their initial collection.
In recent years, there has been an explosion in the number of tools and techniques available to researchers interested in exploring the genetic basis of all aspects of central nervous system (CNS) development and function. Here, we exploit a powerful new reductionist approach to explore the genetic basis of the very significant structural and molecular differences between the brains of different strains of mice, called either complex trait or quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis. Our specific focus has been to provide universal access over the web to tools for the genetic dissection of complex traits of the CNS--tools that allow researchers to map genes that modulate phenotypes at a variety of levels ranging from the molecular all the way to the anatomy of the entire brain. Our website, The Mouse Brain Library (MBL; http://mbl.org) is comprised of four interrelated components that are designed to support this goal: The Brain Library, iScope, Neurocartographer, and WebQTL. The centerpiece of the MBL is an image database of histologically prepared museum-quality slides representing nearly 2000 mice from over 120 strains--a library suitable for stereologic analysis of regional volume. The iScope provides fast access to the entire slide collection using streaming video technology, enabling neuroscientists to acquire high-magnification images of any CNS region for any of the mice in the MBL. Neurocartographer provides automatic segmentation of images from the MBL by warping precisely delineated boundaries from a 3D atlas of the mouse brain. Finally, WebQTL provides statistical and graphical analysis of linkage between phenotypes and genotypes.
WebQTL is a website that combines databases of complex traits with fast software for mapping quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and for searching for correlations among traits. WebQTL also includes well-curated genotype data for five sets of mouse recombinant inbred (RI) lines. Thus, to identify QTLs, users need provide only quantitative trait data from one of the supported populations. The WebQTL databases include both biological traits--neuroanatomical, pharmacological, and behavioral traits--and microarray-based gene expression data from BXD RI lines. A search function finds correlations between RNA expression and biological traits, and mapping functions find QTLs for either type of trait. The WebQTL service is available at http://www.webqtl.org/.

Responses to neuronal degeneration are complex, involving activation of microglia, astrocytes, and synaptic remodeling. It has also been suggested that neuronal injury stimulates neurogenesis, the production of new neurons from neural stem cells. Because dietary restriction (DR) can increase hippocampal neurogenesis and promotes the survival of neurons following injury, we determined the effects of DR on the responses of neural stem cells, microglia, and astrocytes in the hippocampus to seizure-induced hippocampal damage. Mice on ad libitum or DR diets were given an intrahippocampal injection of kainate, administered the DNA precursor bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) during a 5-d period, and euthanized 1 d or 3 wk later. Although kainate greatly increased the numbers of BrdU-labeled cells, it did not enhance neurogenesis and damaged neurons were not replaced. Instead, most BrdU-labeled cells were either proliferating microglia or neural progenitor cells that subsequently died. Microgliosis was transient and was strongly correlated with the amount of damage to CA3 neurons, whereas astrocytosis was delayed and not correlated with neuronal loss. Surprisingly, neurogenesis was not increased in response to seizure-induced damage, and although DR increased basal neurogenesis, it did not promote neurogenesis following brain injury. DR significantly decreased seizure-induced microgliosis, but did not affect astrocytosis. Our findings show that DR suppresses injuryinduced microgliosis suggesting a contribution of a reduced microglial response to the neuroprotective effects of DR.
Aggregation of abnormal proteins, both inside and outside of cells, is a prominent feature of major neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, polyglutamine expansion, and prion diseases. Other articles in this special issue of NeuroMolecular Medicine describe the genetic and molecular factors that promote aberrant protein aggregation. In the present article, we consider how it is that pathogenic aggregation-prone proteins compromise signal transduction pathways that regulate neuronal plasticity and survival. In some cases the protein in question may have widespread and relatively nonspecific effects on signaling. For example, amyloid beta-peptide induces membrane-associated oxidative stress, which impairs the function of various receptors, ion channels and transporters, as well as downstream kinases and transcription factors. Other proteins, such as polyglutamine repeat proteins, may affect specific protein -protein interactions, including those involved in signaling pathways activated by neurotransmitters, neurotrophins, and steroid hormones. Synapses are particularly sensitive to abnormal protein aggregation and impaired synaptic signaling may trigger apoptosis and related cell death cascades. Impairment of signal transduction in protein aggregation disorders may be amenable to therapy as demonstrated by a recent study showing that dietary restriction can preserve synaptic function and protect neurons in a mouse model of Huntington's disease. Finally, emerging findings are revealing how activation of certain signaling pathways can suppress protein aggregation and/or the cytotoxicity resulting from the abnormal protein aggregation. A better understanding of how abnormal protein aggregation occurs and how it affects and is affected by specific signal transduction pathways, is leading to novel approaches for preventing and treating neurodegenerative disorders.
Abnormal interactions and misfolding of synaptic proteins in the nervous system are being extensively explored as important pathogenic events resulting in neurodegeneration in various neurological disorders. These include Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). In AD, misfolded amyloid beta peptide 1-42 (Abeta), a proteolytic product of amyloid precursor protein metabolism, accumulates in the neuronal endoplasmic reticulum and extracellularly as plaques. In contrast, in PD and DLB cases there is abnormal accumulation of alpha-synuclein in neuronal cell bodies, axons, and synapses. Furthermore, in DLB, Abeta 1-42 may promote alpha-synuclein accumulation and neurodegeneration. The central event leading to synaptic and neuronal loss in these diseases is not completely clear yet; however, recent advances in the field suggest that nerve damage might result from the conversion of nontoxic monomers to toxic oligomers and protofibrils. The mechanisms by which misfolded Abeta peptide and alpha-synuclein might lead to synapse loss are currently under investigation. Several lines of evidence support the possibility that Abeta peptide and alpha-synuclein might interact to cause mitochondrial and plasma membrane damage upon translocation of protofibrils to the membranes. Accumulation of Abeta and alpha-synuclein oligomers in the mitochondrial membrane might result in the release of cytochrome C with the subsequent activation of the apoptosis cascade. Conversely, the oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction associated with AD and PD may also lead to increased membrane permeability and cytochrome C release, which promotes Abeta and alpha-synuclein oligomerization and neurodegeneration. Together, these studies suggest that the translocation of misfolded proteins to the mitochondrial membrane might play an important role in either triggering or perpetuating neurodegeneration. The insights obtained from the characterization of this process may be applied to the role of mitochondrial dysfunction in other neurodegenerative disorders, including AD. New evidence may also provide a rationale for the mitochondrial membrane as a target for therapy in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves the progressive extracellular deposition of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta), a self-aggregating 40-42 amino acid protein that can damage neurons resulting in their dysfunction and death. Studies of neurons have shown that Abeta perturbs cellularcalcium homeostasis so that calcium responses to agonists that induce calcium influx or release from internal stores are increased. The recent discovery of intercellular calcium waves in astrocytes suggests intriguing roles for astrocytes in the long-range transfer of information in the nervous system. We now report that Abeta alters calcium-wave signaling in cultured rat cortical astrocytes. Exposure of astrocytes to Abeta1-42 resulted in an increase in the amplitude and velocity of evoked calcium waves, and increased the distance the waves traveled. Suramin decreased wave propagation in untreated astrocytes and abrogated the enhancing effect of Abeta on calciumwave amplitude and velocity, indicating a requirement for extracellular ATP in wave propagation. Treatment of astrocytes with an uncoupler of gap junctions did not significantly reduce the amplitude, velocity, or distance of calcium waves in control cultures, but completely abolished the effects of Abeta on each of the three wave parameters. These findings reveal a novel action of Abeta on the propagation of intercellular calcium signals in astrocytes, and also suggests a role for altered astrocyte calcium-signaling in the pathogenesis of AD.
A form of programmed cell-death called apoptosis occurs in neurons during development of the nervous system, and may also occur in a variety of neuropathological conditions. Here we present evidence obtained in studies of adult mice and neuronal cell cultures showing that p53 protein is present in synapses where its level and amount of phosphorylation are increased following exposure of the cells to the DNA-damaging agent etoposide. We also show that levels of active p53 increase in isolated cortical synaptosomes exposed to oxidative and excitotoxic insults. Increased levels of p53 also precede loss of synapsin I immunoreactive terminals in cultured hippocampal neurons exposed to etoposide. Synaptosomes from p53-deficient mice exhibit increased resistance to oxidative and excitotoxic insults as indicated by stabilization of mitochondrial membrane potential and decreased production of reactive oxygen species. Finally, we show that a synthetic inhibitor of p53 (PFT-alpha) protects synaptosomes from wild-type mice against oxidative and excitotoxic injuries, and preserves presynaptic terminals in cultured hippocampal neurons exposed to etoposide. Collectively, these findings provide the first evidence for a local transcription-independent action of p53 in synapses, and suggest that such a local action of p53 may contribute to the dysfunction and degeneration of synapses that occurs in various neurodegenerative disorders.
Although damage to white matter occurs in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), the underlying mechanisms are unknown. Recent findings suggest that individuals with elevated levels of homocysteine are at increased risk of AD. Here we show that oligodendrocytes from mice expressing a mutant form of presenilin-1 (PS1) that causes familial AD exhibit increased sensitivity to death induced by homocysteine compared to oligodendrocytes from wild-type control mice. Homocysteine also sensitized oligodendrocytes to the cytotoxicity of amyloid beta-peptide. Folate deficiency, which is known to result in elevated levels of homocysteine in vivo, also sensitized oligodendrocytes to the cell-death-promoting actions of mutant PS1 and amyloid beta-peptide. Inhibitors of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase and p53 protected oligodendrocytes against cell death induced by homocysteine and amyloid beta-peptide, consistent with a role for a DNA-damage response in the cell death process. These findings demonstrate an adverse effect of homocysteine on oligodendrocytes, and suggest roles for homocysteine and folate deficiency in the white matter damage in AD and related neurodegenerative disorders.
Glutamate transporter proteins appear crucial to controlling levels of glutamate in the central nervous system (CNS). Abnormal and/or decreased levels of various transporters have been observed in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in other neurological disorders. We have assessed glutamate transporter (GLT-1/EAAT2) levels in mice fed washed cycad flour containing a suspected neurotoxin that induces features resembling the Guamanian disorder, ALS-PDC. Down-regulation of glutamate transporter subtypes was detected by immunohistology using antibodies specific for two glial glutamate transporter splice variants (GLT-1alpha and GLT-1B). Immunohistology showed a &quot;patchy&quot; loss of antibody label with the patches centered on blood vessels. Computer densitometry showed significantly decreased GLT-1alpha levels in the spinal cord and primary somatosensory cortex of cycad-fed mice. GLT-1B levels were significantly decreased in the spinal cord, in the motor, somatosensory, and piriform cortices, and in the striatum. Western blots showed a 40% decrease in frontal motor cortex and lumbar spinal cord of cycad-fed mice that appeared to be phosphorylation-dependent. Receptor-binding assays showed decreased NMDA and AMPA receptor levels and increased GABAA receptor levels in cycad-fed mice cortex. These receptor data are consistent with an increased level of extracellular glutamate. The generalized decrease in GLT-1, decreased excitatory amino acid receptor levels, and increased GABAA receptor levels may reflect an early glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity following cycad exposure. Deciphering the series of events leading to neurodegeneration in cycad-fed animals may provide clues leading to therapeutic approaches to halt the early stages of disease progression.
Activation of glutamate receptors can trigger the death of neurons and some types of glial cells, particularly when the cells are coincidentally subjected to adverse conditions such as reduced levels of oxygen or glucose, increased levels of oxidative stress, exposure to toxins or other pathogenic agents, or a disease-causing genetic mutation. Such excitotoxic cell death involves excessive calcium influx and release from internal organelles, oxyradical production, and engagement of programmed cell death (apoptosis) cascades. Apoptotic proteins such as p53, Bax, and Par-4 induce mitochondrial membrane permeability changes resulting in the release of cytochrome c and the activation of proteases, such as caspase-3. Events occurring at several subcellular sites, including the plasma membrane, endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria and nucleus play important roles in excitotoxicity. Excitotoxic cascades are initiated in postsynaptic dendrites and may either cause local degeneration or plasticity of those synapses, or may propagate the signals to the cell body resulting in cell death. Cells possess an array of antiexcitotoxic mechanisms including neurotrophic signaling pathways, intrinsic stress-response pathways, and survival proteins such as protein chaperones, calcium-binding proteins, and inhibitor of apoptosis proteins. Considerable evidence supports roles for excitotoxicity in acute disorders such as epileptic seizures, stroke and traumatic brain and spinal cord injury, as well as in chronic age-related disorders such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. A better understanding of the excitotoxic process is not only leading to the development of novel therapeutic approaches for neurodegenerative disorders, but also to unexpected insight into mechanisms of synaptic plasticity.
Damage to white matter occurs in the brains of patients with Alzheimer s disease (AD), but it is not known if and how oligodendrocytes are affected in AD, nor whether white matter alterations contribute to the cognitive dysfunction in this disease. Mutations in the gene encoding presenilin-1 (PS1) cause some cases of early-onset inherited AD. These mutations may promote neuronal degeneration by increasing the production of neurotoxic forms of amyloid beta-peptide and by perturbing cellular calcium homeostasis. Damage to oligodendrocytes induced by a demyelinating agent is enhanced, and spatial learning is impaired in PS1 mutant knockin mice. Oligodendrocytes from PS1 mutant knockin mice are more vulnerable to being killed by glutamate and amyloid beta-peptide, and exhibit an abnormality in calcium regulation which is responsible for their death. These findings demonstrate an adverse effect of a disease-causing PS1 mutation in oligodendrocytes, and suggest a mechanism responsible for white matter damage in AD and a contribution of such damage to cognitive impairment.
Membrane bound glycogen storage in muscle is characteristic for the lysosomal storage disorder acid maltase (acid alpha-glucosidase) deficiency while in phosphofructokinase and phosphorylase deficiency, glycogen is stored free in the cytoplasm. Using immunohistochemistry, we examined whether acid maltase deficiency had an effect on early endosomes, recycling endosomes and trans-Golgi network, vesicle systems linked to lysosomes. Vacuolated glycogen containing fibres stained intensely for the lysosomal marker lysosomal-membrane-protein-1 within fibres and at the sarcolemma. There was a similar increase in immunoreactivity for markers of early endosomes (rab5), recycling endosomes (transferrin receptor) and the trans-Golgi network. In acid maltase deficiency, but not in normal muscle or other glycogenoses, staining for the insulin responsive glucose transporter 4 was markedly increased and partially co-localised with all vesicular markers. Our results suggest an effect of acid maltase deficiency extending to various vesicle systems linked to lysosomes. The enzyme defect may also affect the homoeostasis of receptors cycling through these organelles such as glucose transporter 4.
Previously, we have shown that the AMPA (iGluR1-4) antagonist LY293558 attenuates the morphine-withdrawal-induced activation of locus coeruleus neurons and behavioral signs of morphine withdrawal. However, LY293558 has since been shown to also have affinity for one subtype of kainate receptor (iGluR5). In this study, we examined the effects of a selective antagonist of iGluR1-4 receptors, LY300168 (GYKI 53655), and a selective antagonist of iGluR5 receptors, LY382884, on the morphine-withdrawal-induced activation of locus coeruleus neurons and behavioral signs of morphine withdrawal. In in vivo recordings from anesthetized rats, pretreatment with LY300168 (0.3-3.0 mg/kg, s.c.), but not LY382884 (at a dose known to have central effects; 100 mg/kg, s.c.) attenuated the morphine-withdrawal-induced activation of LC neurons. In unanesthetized, morphine-dependent rats, pretreatment with LY300168 (0.3-3.0 mg/kg, s.c.), but not LY382884 (100 mg/kg, s.c.), suppressed the severity and occurrence of naltrexone-precipitated morphine-withdrawal signs. These results indicate iGluR1-4 (AMPA) receptors, but not iGluR5 receptors, play an important role the morphine-withdrawal-induced activation of LC neurons and a subset of behavioral signs of morphine withdrawal. In addition, selective AMPA antagonists may have therapeutic effects in man for the treatment of withdrawal from opiates and other drugs of abuse.
Attempts to link transmitter system genes to certain aspects of personality have been performed. Several monoamine-related gene variants have been investigated. We previously reported an association between a transcription factor activating protein-2beta (AP-2beta) variant and anxiety-related personality traits as estimated by Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP). To confirm this reported association, we have, in the present study, analysed an enlarged group of healthy volunteers (n = 370) with regard to AP-2beta genotype and personality traits. For estimation of personality traits, individuals completed 5 different personality questionnaires, i.e. Swedish Universities Scales of Personality (SSP), Health-Relevant 5- Factor Personality Inventory (HP5i), Temperament and Character Inventory, the Revised NEO Personality Inventory and KSP. In contrast to men, women having two long AP-2beta alleles displayed lower scores for muscular tension (KSP; F = 10.65, p = 0.0013), somatic trait anxiety (SSP; F = 7.18, p = 0.0081), trait irritability (SSP; F = 4.51, p = 0.032), mistrust (SSP; F = 4.01, p = 0.0468) and negative affectivity (HP5i; F = 10.20, p = 0.0017) than women with at least one short allele. The data presented in this study, together with our previously published data, suggest that AP-2beta intron 2 genotype is associated with low levels of anxiety-related personality traits in women. Hence, these data further suggest the human AP-2beta gene as a novel candidate gene in personality.
In the present study, we investigated the effects of a single and a repeated (5 days) administration of naftidrofuryl, a serotonin 5-HT2 receptor inhibitor having neuroprotective properties, on functional brain physiology in male healthy elderly subjects, using quantitative electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Twelve subjects aged 60 +/- 3.8 years completed the quantitative EEG study, where the effects of 400 and 600 mg were assessed, and 12 other subjects (aged 56 +/- 4.7 years) completed the fMRI study, where the effect of 400 mg was assessed on the brain activation induced by the continuous performance test (CPT). Naftidrofuryl induced a transient reduction in alpha activity followed by a specific synchronisation of the 9.5- to 11-Hz EEG activity most pronounced after repeated administration. Such regimen also increased the CPT-induced brain activation visualized by way of fMRI. The results of the present study can be interpreted at the functional level that naftidrofuryl induced an improved level of vigilance or an increased capacity of alertness in healthy elderly subjects.
Previous behavioral studies suggest that people who have an abnormal eating behavior may perceive information concerning body image distortion more aversively than others. We performed a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study on 15 young women, using an emotional decision task including unpleasant words concerning body image and neutral words. The left amygdala and right parahippocampal gyrus were activated by unpleasant words concerning body image relative to neutral words. In addition, activation of the right parahippocampal gyrus was negatively correlated with the severity of psychological and behavioral problems assessed by the Eating Disorder Inventory-2. This activation also positively correlated with the subjects' rating of pleasantness of words concerning body image. These results demonstrated that the temporomesial area plays an important role in the perception of unpleasant words concerning body image. In particular, it is suggested that the right parahippocampal gyrus may be associated with subjective sensitivity to unpleasant information concerning body image.
Functional neuroimaging studies on patients with depression have found abnormal activity in the left prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortex compared with healthy controls. Other studies have shown that these regions become active in healthy subjects during verbal fluency tasks, while patients with depression show impaired performance on such tasks. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate changes in cerebral blood oxygenation associated with a verbal fluency task in depressed patients and healthy volunteers. In contrast to 10 age- and sex-matched healthy control subjects who activated the left prefrontal cortex and the anterior cingulate cortex during word generation, 10 depressed subjects showed attenuated activation in the left prefrontal cortex and did not show significant activation in the anterior cingulate cortex. These findings suggest that impaired performance during verbal fluency task in depressed patients is associated with abnormal neural responses within these regions.
Aggressive, suicidal and violent behaviour have been associated with impulsive personality and difficulty in inhibiting responses. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the whole brain to examine the neural correlates of response inhibition in 19 normal subjects as they performed a Go/NoGo task. Subjects completed Eysenck's Impulsivity Scale, Barratt's Impulsivity Scale (BIS) and behavioural impulsivity tasks. Associations between blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) response, trait impulsivity, task performance and National Adult Reading Test (NART) IQ were investigated. Neural response during response inhibition was most prominent in the right lateral orbitofrontal cortex. Responses were also seen in superior temporal gyrus, medial orbitofrontal cortex, cingulate gyrus, and inferior parietal lobule, predominantly on the right side. Subjects with greater scores on impulsivity scales and who made more errors had greater activation of paralimbic areas during response inhibition, while less impulsive individuals and those with least errors activated higher order association areas. Exploratory factor analysis of orbital activations, personality measures and errors of commission did not reveal a unitary dimension of impulsivity. However, the strong association between posterior orbital activation and Eysenck's impulsivity score on a single factor suggests that greater engagement of right orbitofrontal cortex was needed to maintain behavioural inhibition in impulsive individuals. Lower IQ was more important than impulsivity scores in determining errors of commission during the task. Neuroimaging of brain activity during the Go/NoGo task may be useful in understanding the functional neuroanatomy and associated neurochemistry of response inhibition. It may also allow study of the effects of physical and psychological interventions on response inhibition in clinical conditions such as antisocial personality disorder.
Previous work has described human reflexive grasp patterns in early infancy and visually guided reaching and grasping in late infancy. There has been no examination of hand movements in the intervening period. This was the purpose of the present study. We video recorded the spontaneous hand and digit movements made by alert infants over their first 5 months of age. Over this period, spontaneous hand and digit movements developed from fists to almost continuous, vacuous movements and then to self-directed grasping movements. Amongst the many hand and digit movements observed, four grasping patterns emerged during this period: fists, pre-precision grips associated with numerous digit postures, precision grips including the pincer grasp, and self-directed grasps. The finding that a wide range of independent digit movements and grasp patterns are displayed spontaneously by infants within their first 5 months of age is discussed in relation to the development of the motor system, including the suggestion that direct connections of the pyramidal tract are functional relatively early in infancy. It is also suggested that hand babbling, consisting of first vacuous and then self-directed movements, is preparatory to targeted reaching.
Positron emission tomography (PET) was performed in normal volunteers during a serial recall task under the influence of irrelevant speech comprising both single item repetition and multi-item sequences. An interaction approach was used to identify brain areas specifically related to the irrelevant speech effect. We interpreted activations as compensatory recruitment of complementary working memory processing, and decreased activity in terms of suppression of task relevant areas invoked by the irrelevant speech. The interaction between the distractors and working memory revealed a significant effect in the left, and to a lesser extent in the right, superior temporal region, indicating that initial phonological processing was relatively suppressed. Additional areas of decreased activity were observed in an a priori defined cortical network related to verbal working memory, incorporating the bilateral superior temporal and inferior/middle frontal cortices extending into Broca's area on the left. We also observed a weak activation in the left inferior parietal cortex, a region suggested to reflect the phonological store, the subcomponent where the interference is assumed to take place. The results suggest that the irrelevant speech effect is correlated with and thus tentatively may be explained in terms of a suppression of components of the verbal working memory network as outlined. The results can be interpreted in terms of inhibitory top-down attentional mechanisms attenuating the influence of the irrelevant speech, although additional studies are clearly necessary to more fully characterize the nature of this phenomenon and its theoretical implications for existing short-term memory models.
In an earlier paper, we reported task-specific impairments and improvements caused by applying TMS over cortical visual area V5 [Proceedings of the Royal Society of London B 265 (1998) 537]. The phenomenon is further investigated in the present study using two of the previous tasks: a motion/form conjunction in which TMS impaired performance and a colour/form conjunction in which performance was enhanced with TMS. In the earlier experiment, subjects were presented with blocks of trials of one task type perhaps allowing some of the observed effects to arise from knowing the type of stimulus to be discriminated. When blocks of trials consisted of randomly mixed moving/form and colour/form conjunction tasks, TMS over V5 still impaired target-present responses for the moving/form conjunction, but the facilitation seen for colour/form conjunction target-present responses disappeared. We suggest that the competitive inhibition postulated between visual movement areas and colour areas in the brain, in our previous paper, are subject to expectation or knowledge of forthcoming stimulus type.
The present experiment was aimed at investigating the effects of memory and attention deficits and of information processing slowing on time estimation in patients with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). Patients with TBI and normal control subjects reproduced and produced durations (5, 14, 38s) in both a control counting condition and in a concurrent reading condition. They also performed finger-tapping tasks at a free rate and at a 1s rate. Both groups were assessed on processing speed using a reaction-time task, and on memory and attention using a battery of neuropsychological tests. The results showed that time estimation was not less accurate in patients with TBI than in control subjects on the reproduction task or on the production task performed either in the control counting condition or in the concurrent reading condition. Conversely, duration judgments were more variable in patients with TBI than in control subjects on both tasks in both conditions. The results also showed that TBI patients exhibited slower reaction-times, and poorer working and episodic memory scores than control subjects. Most importantly, the variability index in the duration reproduction task was related to both working memory scores and processing speed measures, whereas the variability index in the duration production task was only related with the processing speed measures. The temporal performance pattern in TBI patients does not appear to reflect specific deficits in timing, but rather overall problems in attention, working memory, and processing speed mechanisms.
Normal subjects were asked to produce the &quot;first word that comes to mind&quot; in response to pictures or words that differed with respect to manipulability and animacy. In separate analyses across subjects and items, normal subjects produced a significantly higher proportion of action words (that is, verbs) to pictures as compared to words, to manipulable as compared to non-manipulable stimuli and to inanimate as compared to animate stimuli. The largest proportion of action words was elicited by pictures of non-living, manipulable objects. Furthermore, associates to words matched standard word associates significantly more often than those elicited by pictures. These data suggest that pictures and words initially contact different forms of conceptual information and are consistent with an account of semantic organization that assumes that information is distributed across different domains reflecting the mode of acquisition of that knowledge.
