Autopsy findings of rapidly progressive and widespread multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in a 75-year-old woman with no known predisposing disease are demonstrated. Originally she was given a clinical working diagnosis of syndrome of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). The neuropathological investigation revealed widespread white and gray matter changes consistent with PML, and the JC virus was verified by EM, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. In contrast to the few chronic inflammatory cells generally seen in PML in this case there was a substantial cell-mediated inflammatory response reflected in numerous T-helper and T-killer cells. The uncommon, widespread distribution of lesions and substantial cell-mediated response reported might indicate that the rearrangement of viral genome, previously suggested of importance for viral growth in the central nervous system (CNS), is also important for viral spread within the CNS, infectivity of glial cells and for the activation of cell-mediated immunity.


Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) has been widely implicated as playing a major role in modulating the endocrine, autonomic, behavioral and immune responses to stress. The recent cloning of multiple receptors for CRF as well as the discovery of non-peptide receptor antagonists for CRF receptors have begun a new era of CRF study. Presently, there are five distinct targets for CRF with unique cDNA sequences, pharmacology and localization. These fall into three distinct classes, encoded by three different genes and have been termed the CRF1 and CRF2 receptors (belonging to the superfamily of G-protein coupled receptors) and the CRF-binding protein. The CRF2 receptor exists as three splice variants of the same gene and have been designated CRF2a CRF2b and CRF2g. The pharmacology and localization of all of these proteins in brain has been well established. The CRF1 receptor subtype is localized primarily to cortical and cerebellar regions while the CRF2a receptor is localized to subcortical regions including the lateral septum, and paraventricular and ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus. The CRF2b receptor is primarily localized to heart, skeletal muscle and in the brain, to cerebral arterioles and choroid plexus. The CRF2g receptor has most recently been identified in human amygdala. Expression of these receptors in mammalian cell lines has made possible the identification of non-peptide, high affinity, selective receptor antagonists. While the natural mammalian ligands oCRF and r/hCRF have high affinity for the CRF1 receptor subtype, they have lower affinity for the CRF2 receptor family making them ineffective labels for CRF2 receptors. [125I]Sauvagine has been characterized as a high affinity ligand for both the CRF1 and the CRF2 receptor subtypes and has been used in both radioligand binding and receptor autoradiographic studies as a tool to aid in the discovery of selective small molecule receptor antagonists. A number of non-peptide CRF1 receptor antagonists that can specifically and selectively block the CRF1 receptor subtype have recently been identified. Compounds such as CP 154,526 (12), NBI 27914 (129) and Antalarmin (154) inhibit CRF-stimulation of cAMP or CRF-stimulated ACTH release from cultured rat anterior pituitary cells. Furthermore, when administered peripherally, these compounds compete for ex vivo [125I]sauvagine binding to CRF1 receptors in brain sections demonstrating their ability to cross the blood-brain-barrier. In in vivo studies, peripheral administration of these compounds attenuate stress-induced elevations in plasma ACTH levels in rats demonstrating that CRF1 receptors can be blocked in the periphery. Furthermore, peripherally administered CRF1 receptor antagonists have also been demonstrated to inhibit CRF-induced seizure activity. These data clearly demonstrate that non-peptide CRF1 receptor antagonists, when administered systemically, can specifically block central CRF1 receptors and provide tools that can be used to determine the role of CRF1 receptors in various neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. In addition, these molecules will prove useful in the discovery and development of potential orally active therapeutics for these disorders.
We found 15 patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and 232 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) among 327 consecutive patients with mild to moderate dementia in a Japanese dementia registry, using the clinical criteria of the Consortium on DLB International Workshop. The percentage of females was significantly lower in DLB than in AD (p &lt; 0.01), while age at examination, Mini-Mental State Examination score and duration of cognitive symptoms were comparable between the two diseases. Eight of the 15 DLB patients (53%) had spontaneous parkinsonism, which was observed in 6 of the 232 AD patients (2.6%). Visual hallucinations were reported by 11 of the 15 DLB patients (73%) and 8 of the 232 AD patients (3.4%). Cognitive fluctuation was positive in 13 of the 15 DLB patients (87%). We found two types of episodic cognitive deterioration: one was characterized by pronounced disturbances of attention and alertness (inattention type), and the other was characterized by marked and bizarre disturbances of orientation in time and places, and misidentification of persons (disorientation type). Systematized delusion was observed in 8 DLB patients, and 5 patients showed neuroleptic sensitivity. Patients with DLB have a unique dementia syndrome even in the stage of mild to moderate cognitive impairments. Further studies are recommended to establish diagnosis, treatment and management.
Animals lacking neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) are born with deficits in almost all sensory ganglia. Among these, the trigeminal ganglion is missing 70% of the normal number of neurons, a deficit which develops during the major period of neurogenesis between embryonic stages (E) 10.5 and E13.5. In order to identify the mechanisms for this deficit, we used antisera specific for TrkA, TrkB, and TrkC to characterize and compare the expression patterns of each Trk receptor in trigeminal ganglia of wild type and NT-3 mutants between E10.5 and E15.5. Strikingly, TrkA, TrkB, and TrkC proteins appear to be exclusively associated with neurons, not precursors. While some neurons show limited co-expression of Trk receptors at E11.5, by E13. 5 each neuron expresses only one Trk receptor. Neuronal birth dating and cell counts show that in wild-type animals all TrkB- and TrkC-expressing neurons are generated before E11.5, while the majority of TrkA-expressing neurons are generated between E11.5 and E13.5. In mice lacking NT-3, the initial formation of the ganglion, as assessed at E10.5, is similar to that in wild-type animals. At E11.5, however, the number of TrkC-expressing neurons is dramatically reduced and the number of TrkC-immunopositive apoptotic profiles is markedly elevated. By E13.5, TrkC-expressing neurons are virtually eliminated. At E11.5, compared to wild type, the number of TrkB-expressing neurons is also reduced and the number of TrkB immunoreactive apoptotic profiles is increased. TrkA neurons are also reduced in the NT-3 mutants, but the major deficit develops between E12.5 and E13.5 when elevated numbers of TrkA-immunoreactive apoptotic profiles are detected. Normal numbers of TrkA- and TrkB-expressing neurons are seen in a TrkC-deficient mutant. Therefore, our data provide evidence that NT-3 supports the survival of TrkA-, TrkB- and TrkC-expressing neurons in the trigeminal ganglion by activating directly each of these receptors in vivo.
From the initial stages of axon outgrowth to the formation of a functioning synapse, neuronal growth cones continuously integrate and respond to multiple guidance cues. To investigate the role of semaphorins in the establishment of appropriate axon trajectories, we have characterized a novel secreted semaphorin in grasshopper, gSema 2a. Sema 2a is expressed in a gradient in the developing limb bud epithelium during Ti pioneer axon outgrowth. We demonstrate that Sema 2a acts as chemorepulsive guidance molecule critical for axon fasciculation and for determining both the initial direction and subsequent pathfinding events of the Ti axon projection. Interestingly, simultaneous perturbation of both secreted Sema 2a and transmembrane Sema I results in a broader range and increased incidence of abnormal Ti pioneer axon phenotypes, indicating that different semaphorin family members can provide functionally distinct guidance information to the same growth cone in vivo.
PC2 is a member of the eukaryotic family of subtilisin-related proprotein convertases which are thought to be involved in the intracellular proteolytic processing of prohormones and proneuropeptides. The presence of only small amounts of PC2 in the secretory granules of certain mammalian neuroendocrine cell types has made the characterization and further study of this enzyme difficult. We report here the expression of proteolytically active human PC2 protein in the insect cell-baculovirus system. Human PC2 expressed in insect cells is a calcium-dependent intracellular protein active at neutral pH. In insect cells, human PC2 was found intracellularly as 75-kDa and 71-kDa proteins. Both 73-kDa and 68-kDa forms were found in the conditioned medium, but no PC2 proteolytic activity was detected. We demonstrated the presence of a soluble inhibitor in infected-cell medium which may block PC2 activity.
Hunting, fishing, and recreational rates of 276 American Indians attending a festival at Fort Hall, near the Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL), were examined. Nearly half of the sample lived on the Fort Hall Reservation, and half were American Indians from elsewhere in the western United States. An additional 44 White people attending the festival were also interviewed. The hypothesis that there are differences in hunting, fishing, and recreational rates as a function of tribal affiliation, educational level, gender, and age was examined. Information on hunting and fishing rates are central for understanding potential exposure scenarios for American Indians if the Department of Energy's INEEL lands are ever opened to pubic access, and the data are important because of the existence of tribal treaties that govern the legal and cultural rights of the Shoshone-Bannock regarding INEEL lands. Variations in hunting, fishing, and photography rates were explained by tribal affiliation (except fishing), gender, age, and schooling. Hunting rates were significantly higher for Indians (both those living on Fort Hall and others) than Whites. Men engaged in significantly higher rates of outdoor activities than women (except for photography). Potential and current hunting and fishing on and adjacent to INEEL was more similar among the local Whites and Fort Hall Indians than between these two groups and other American Indians.

In recent years there has been increased recognition of a severe perinatal lethal form of Gaucher disease, the inherited deficiency of lysosomal glucocerebrosidase. We previously reported a case of severe type 2 Gaucher disease which was seen in a medical center in Rotterdam and now present three new cases from two other families seen at the same center. Mutational analyses of these cases revealed two novel mutations, H311R and V398F, located in exons 8 and 9, respectively. The identification of four cases of lethal type 2 Gaucher disease in a single center seems to be a function of increased awareness of this phenotype, rather than of geographic clustering. The actual incidence of lethal type 2 Gaucher disease may be underestimated, as many cases may have been misclassified as collodion babies or hydrops of unknown cause.
A 76-year-old man insidiously developed diffuse neurological symptoms: cognitive decline, dysphagia, dysphasia and mental disturbance. Computed tomography of the cranium revealed widespread bilateral brain edema and symmetrical bilateral sphenoid wing hyperostosis. Adjacent to the hyperostosis that resembled skull base meningiomas, two separate parenchymatous temporal lobe lesions enhancing with contrast medium were observed. The patient had earlier been diagnosed to have prostatic carcinoma. Dexamethasone therapy resulted in discontinuation of the neurological symptoms. The diagnosis of metastasized adenocarcinoma of the prostate was confirmed histologically on autopsy after a sudden death from pneumonia. Intracranial metastases of prostate cancer may have a predilection site at the sphenoid wing, and can mimic a skull base meningioma. Intracranial spread of prostatic adenocarcinoma should be considered in elderly men as a treatable cause of gradual neurological deterioration, especially if cranial malignancy or hyperostosis is found.
We describe three sibling patients with autosomal dominantly inherited sensory neuropathy, sensorineural hearing loss and dementia. The features of cognitive-behavioral deficits in the patients, including executive dysfunction, apathy, indifference and inattention, were consistent with a frontal lobe dysfunction. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a diffuse brain atrophy. A fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in one patient and a single photon emission computed tomography in another demonstrated a glucose hypometabolism or a hypoperfusion in the medial frontal and thalamic regions. Primary frontal involvement or frontal dysfunction secondary to thalamic lesions may contribute to the nature of dementia in these patients.
Increasing evidence suggests the involvement of the cerebellum in non-motor functions. We describe a patient who presented speech deficits after a right cerebellar infarction without other cognitive impairments. 99mTc-HMPAO single-photon emission computed tomography showed a marked hypoperfusion in the right cerebellar hemisphere, but did not show crossed cerebellar- cerebral diaschisis. The absence of neuroradiological evidence of structural supratentorial lesions supports the cerebellar role in modulating not only the motor system, but also higher order functions.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is an autosomal dominant, multisystemic disorder with a variable phenotypic expression including muscle weakness and myotonia. The muscle wasting is most marked in distal limbs and in facial and neck muscles, although proximal limb muscles become affected as the disease progresses. The CTG-trinucleotide-repeat expansion associated with myotonic dystrophy is usually larger in muscle tissue than in leukocytes. It is unclear whether the repeat length itself bears any relation to the differences in the degree of weakness and atrophy between different muscles. We therefore analysed CTG-repeat lengths in blood and in proximal (m. vastus lateralis) and distal (m. tibialis anterior) muscles of patients with DM (n = 4) and non-symptomatic carriers of the mutant DM allele (n = 2) using conventional Southern blot hybridization. Muscle strength and histopathological abnormalities were evaluated for each muscle. In patients with clinical symptoms, the degree of paresis and morphological abnormalities was markedly more pronounced in m. tibialis anterior than in m. vastus lateralis. In these individuals, the CTG-repeat length was larger in muscles than in leukocytes, whereas in the two non-symptomatic carriers no difference could be detected. Furthermore, there was no clear difference in the repeat length between the two muscles in any of the patients. In conclusion, the selective muscular weakness and atrophy in DM do not seem to be related to differences in CTG-repeat length between different muscles.
Post-stroke depression and functional outcome were examined in a population-based stroke register active in four different districts (total population, 134 804) in Finland. Five hundred and ninety four first time strokes were registered. Beck's depression inventory (BDI), with ten as the cutoff point for depression, was applied to 321 of 423 survivors after three months and to 311 of 390 survivors after 12 months. Functional outcome was measured with the Barthel Index (BI) and the Rankin Scale (RS). One hundred and fifty one of 321 (47.0%) and 147 of 311 (47.3%) patients were depressed after three and 12 months, respectively. Depression at three months was associated with poor functional outcome at the one-year follow-up (P = 0.001 for the BI and the RS). On the other hand, poor functional outcome at three months was associated with depression after one year (P = 0.004 and 0.002 for the BI and the RS, respectively). Patients who were depressed at three months were more often in institutional care between three and 12 months later than non-depressed patients (P = 0.005). Post-stroke depression is associated with poor functional recovery of patients. If depression were diagnosed and treated early, it might help patients to recover more completely and/or faster, which could save community healthcare resources by avoiding or shortening the time of institutional care or reducing the need for home care.
This report describes the operation of a multidisciplinary university hospital memory clinic in a neurological setting, and the diagnostic evaluations in 400 consecutive patients referred for cognitive symptoms and possible dementia during a period of 27 months (1 September 1995-31 December 1997). The mean age of the patients was 63.6 years (range 19-97). On clinical and neuropsychological examination, 46% of the patients fulfilled DSM IV criteria for dementia, 5% had selective amnesia, and 14% had other selective cognitive deficits. The remaining patients had either no significant cognitive deficits (31%) or were not evaluable (4%). A wide range of disorders from the fields of neurology, psychiatry, neurosurgery and internal medicine were identified as the underlying etiologies for the cognitive symptoms. Potentially reversible conditions were observed in 26% of the patients, not including the 11% in whom no specific underlying disease was identified. Concomitant conditions or risk factors with a potential influence on cognitive functions were identified in 61% of the patients. Diagnostic evaluation of patients with mild to moderate cognitive symptoms and possible dementia is an integrated multidisciplinary task, which should focus on the identification of non-progressive and potentially reversible etiologies, co-morbidity, selective cognitive deficits, and rare or atypical neurological conditions, as well as on the early identification of common progressive dementia disorders.
We and colleagues have shown that the amyloid protein precursor of Alzheimer's disease (APP) is distributed along the surface of neurites of fixed but nonpermeabilized neurons in primary culture in a segmental pattern, which shows colocalization with some markers of adhesion patches. This is in contrast to the diffuse pattern of immunoreactivity seen after permeabilization. We have also recently demonstrated that the APP in these surface patches is likely to be integral to the membrane rather than secreted and re-adsorbed, based on alkali stripping experiments and on soluble APP adsorption experiments. Total cellular APP has previously been shown to have a short half-life of approximately 30-60 min. We confirm this in neurons in primary culture in pulse-chase experiments using short labelling times. Additionally, we provide evidence that a separate, stable pool of neuronal APP can be demonstrated in pulse-chase experiments using long labelling times. Experiments involving inhibition of protein synthesis suggest that this corresponds with the surface, segmental pool. Metabolic labelling followed by surface biotinylation and two-stage precipitation demonstrates that the surface APP is trans-membrane and full-length (not carboxyl-terminal truncated), and confirms that the surface APP belongs to the stable pool. This two-stage procedure is necessary as the surface APP appears to be present in low copy number, and is difficult to detect by direct labelling. This information is consistent with a role for APP in stable cell-matrix or cell-cell interactions.
The highly polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) is one of the most promising molecules that contributes to plasticity in the central nervous system. We evaluated PSA-NCAM immunoreactivity in the hippocampal formation of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. We found significant increases over control levels in the optical density ratios of PSA-NCAM immunoreactivity in the outer molecular layer/granule cell layer (ODoml/grl) and in the inner molecular layer/granule cell layer (ODiml/grl) in the dentate gyrus of AD patients. The optical density of the granule cell layer in the dentate gyrus did not differ significantly between AD patients and control subjects. However, the number of PSA-NCAM-immunopositive infragranule cells was higher in the AD group compared with control subjects. The major finding in the CA1, subiculum and entorhinal cortex of AD patients was the disorganization of PSA-NCAM-immunoreactive fibres. These results indicate that neuronal remodelling occurs, especially in the dentate gyrus of patients with AD.
Injury to a peripheral nerve induces in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) sprouting of sympathetic and peptidergic terminals around large-diameter sensory neurons that project in the damaged nerve. This pathological change may be implicated in the chronic pain syndromes seen in some patients with peripheral nerve injury. The mechanisms underlying the sprouting are not known. Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical techniques, we have now found that nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT3) synthesis is upregulated in satellite cells surrounding neurons in lesioned DRG as early as 48 h after nerve injury. This response lasts for at least 2 months. Quantitative analysis showed that the levels of mRNAs for NT3 and NGF increased in ipsilateral but not contralateral DRG after nerve injury. Noradrenergic sprouting around the axotomized neurons was associated with p75-immunoreactive satellite cells. Further, antibodies specific to NGF or NT3, delivered by an osmotic mini-pump to the DRG via the lesioned L5 spinal nerve, significantly reduced noradrenergic sprouting. These results implicate satellite cell-derived neurotrophins in the induction of sympathetic sprouting following peripheral nerve injury.
Glial cells are believed to play a major role in the regulation of the extracellular potassium concentration ([K+]o), particularly when the [K+]o is increased. Using ion-selective electrodes, we compared the [K+]o changes in the dentate gyrus of urethane-anaesthetized adult rats in the presence of reactive astrocytes and after reduction of glial function. The regulation of [K+]o in the dentate gyrus was determined by measuring the ceiling level of [K+]o and the half-time of recovery of [K+]o during and after seizures produced by 20 Hz trains of stimulation to the angular bundle. Reactive astrocytes were induced by repeated seizures and their presence was confirmed by a qualitative increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin immunoreactivity. To inhibit glial function, fluorocitrate (FC), a reversible metabolic inhibitor, or alpha-aminoadipate (alpha-AA), an irreversible toxin, was injected into the dentate gyrus region, and the regulation of [K+]o was monitored for 8 h or 2 days later, respectively. After alpha-aminoadipate, loss of astrocytes in the dentate gyrus was demonstrated by loss of staining for GFAP. In the presence of reactive astrocytes there was no significant change in the peak [K+]o during seizures or the half-time of recovery of [K+]o after seizures compared to control animals. alpha-Aminoadipate significantly slowed the rate of recovery of [K+]o, but did not change the ceiling [K+]o. Fluorocitrate reversibly decreased the ceiling [K+]o, but also slowed the rate of recovery of [K+]o. Overall our results suggest that normal glial function is required for the recovery of elevated [K+]o after seizures in vivo.
Repeated treatment with psychostimulant drugs produces changes in brain and behaviour that far outlast their initial neuropharmacological actions. The nature of persistent drug-induced neurobehavioural adaptations is of interest because they are thought to contribute to the development of dependence and addiction, and other forms of psychopathology, e.g. amphetamine psychosis. There are many reports that psychostimulants produce biochemical adaptations in brain monoamine systems, especially dopamine systems. The purpose of the present study was to determine if they might also alter the morphology of neurons in brain regions that receive monoaminergic innervation. Rats were given repeated injections of either amphetamine or cocaine, or, to control for general motor activity, allowed access to a running wheel. They were then left undisturbed for 24-25 days before their brains were processed for Golgi-Cox staining. Treatment with either amphetamine or cocaine (but not wheel running experience) increased the number of dendritic branches and the density of dendritic spines on medium spiny neurons in the shell of the nucleus accumbens, and on apical dendrites of layer V pyramidal cells in the prefrontal cortex. Cocaine also increased dendritic branching and spine density on the basilar dendrites of pyramidal cells. In addition, both drugs doubled the incidence of branched spines on medium spiny neurons. It is suggested that some of the persistent neurobehavioural consequences of repeated exposure to psychostimulant drugs may be due to their ability to reorganize patterns of synaptic connectivity in the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex.
Both glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and its recently discovered congener, neurturin (NTN), have been shown to exert neuroprotective effects on lesioned nigral dopamine (DA) neurons when administered at the level of the substantia nigra. In the present study, we have explored the relative in vivo potency of these two neurotrophic factors using two alternative routes of administration, into the striatum or the lateral ventricle, which may be more relevant in a clinical setting. In rats subjected to an intrastriatal (IS) 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion, GDNF and NTN were injected every third day for 3 weeks starting on the day after the 6-OHDA injection. GDNF provided almost complete (90-92%) protection of the lesioned nigral DA neurons after both IS and intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration. NTN, by contrast, was only partially effective after IS injection (72% sparing) and totally ineffective after ICV injection. Although the trophic factor injections protected the nigral neurons from lesion-induced cell death, the level of expression of the phenotypic marker, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), was markedly reduced in the rescued cell bodies. The extent of 6-OHDA-induced DA denervation in the striatum was unaffected by both types of treatment; consistent with this observation, the high rate of amphetamine-induced turning seen in the lesioned control animals was unaltered by either GDNF or NTN treatment. In the GDNF-treated animals, and to a lesser extent also after IS NTN treatment, prominent axonal sprouting was observed within the globus pallidus, at the level where the lesioned nigrostriatal axons are known to end at the time of onset of the neurotrophic factor treatment. The results show that GDNF is highly effective as a neuroprotective and axon growth-stimulating agent in the IS 6-OHDA lesion model after both IS and ICV administration. The lower efficacy of NTN after IS, and particularly ICV, administration may be explained by the poor solubility and diffusion properties at neutral pH.
Bath application of the tachykinin neuropeptide substance P (1 microm) for 10 min causes long-lasting (&gt; 24 h) modulation of the frequency and regularity of NMDA-evoked locomotor bursts in the lamprey. The change in burst frequency has an induction phase (&lt; 2 h), which depends on the potentiation of NMDA responses and an increase in intracellular calcium levels, and a maintenance phase (&gt; 2 h), that is blocked by translational protein synthesis inhibitors. Here, the maintenance phase has been examined further. Unlike translation inhibitors, the transcription inhibitors actinomycin D and 5,6-dichlorobenzimidazole riboside (DRB) failed to reverse the change in burst frequency 2-3 h after substance P application, suggesting that the protein synthesized at this time does not require de novo RNA synthesis. Transcription inhibitors, however, reversed the change in burst frequency 15-24 h after substance P application, as did brefeldin A, which disrupts the Golgi complex and thus interferes with the post-translational transport of proteins. The change in burst regularity was unaffected by transcription or translation inhibitors, but was partially reversed by protein kinase A inhibitors applied 2.5-8 h after substance P. The glycoprotein synthesis inhibitor 2-deoxygalactose did not affect the changes in burst frequency or burst regularity. These results suggest that there are two phases to the maintenance of the change in burst frequency: an intermediate protein-, but not RNA-, synthesis-dependent phase, and a final RNA-synthesis-dependent phase. The change in burst regularity is protein-synthesis-independent, but may depend on activation of protein kinase A for at least 8 h after substance P application.
The analysis of errors in two-joint reaching movements has provided clues about sensorimotor processing algorithms. The present study extends this focus to situations where the head, trunk, and legs join with the arm to help reach targets placed slightly beyond arm's length. Subjects reached accurately to touch &quot;real targets&quot; or reached to the remembered locations of &quot;virtual targets&quot; (i.e., targets removed at the start of the reach). Subjects made large errors in the virtual-target condition and these errors were analyzed with the aim of revealing the implications for whole-body coordination. Subjects were found to rotate the head less in the virtual-target condition (when compared with accurate movements to real targets). This resulted in a more limited range of head postures, and the final head angles at the end of the movements were geometrically related to the incorrect hand locations, perhaps accounting for some portion of the errors. This suggests that head-eye-hand coordination plays an important role in the organization of these movements and leads to the hypothesis that a representation of current gaze direction may serve as a reference signal for arm motor control.
Successful performance of a sensorimotor task arises from the interaction of descending commands from the brain with the intrinsic properties of the lower levels of the sensorimotor system, including the dynamic mechanical properties of muscle, the natural coordinates of somatosensory receptors, the interneuronal circuitry of the spinal cord, and computational noise in these elements. Engineering models of biological motor control often oversimplify or even ignore these lower levels because they appear to complicate an already difficult problem. We modeled three highly simplified control systems that reflect the essential attributes of the lower levels in three tasks: acquiring a target in the face of random torque-pulse perturbations, optimizing fusimotor gain for the same perturbations, and minimizing postural error versus energy consumption during low- versus high-frequency perturbations. The emergent properties of the lower levels maintained stability in the face of feedback delays, resolved redundancy in over-complete systems, and helped to estimate loads and respond to perturbations. We suggest a general hierarchical approach to modeling sensorimotor systems, which better reflects the real control problem faced by the brain, as a first step toward identifying the actual neurocomputational steps and their anatomical partitioning in the brain.
In an in vitro model of granulation tissue, early passage human diploid fibroblasts under mechanical tension showed little or no apoptosis. Release of mechanical tension triggered an apoptotic response that occurred within 3-6 h and reached a plateau by 24 h. The percentage of apoptotic cells (approximately 15%) remained constant up to 7 days, and after 3 days, total cell number declined. Identification of mechanical unloading as a stimulus for apoptosis, without application of pharmacologic or genetic intervention, is a novel observation that permits us to model similar events that occur during wound healing. Studies on the mechanism regulating apoptosis under these conditions established that the apoptotic response does not require differentiation of cells into myofibroblasts but is governed by a combination of mechanical tension and growth factors in the collagen matrix.
We have examined the expression of the multifunctional protein clusterin in the axotomized red nucleus, at the lesion site in the lateral funiculus of C3, as well as along the Wallerian degeneration in the lateral funiculus of T1. There was a marked increase in clusterin-immunoreactivity (IR) and clusterin mRNA in red nucleus nerve cell bodies. An early, transient occurrence of large, heavily clusterin-IR globules were found in axons in the spinal cord at the lesion site in C3 as well as a marked upregulation of mRNA for clusterin, presumably associated with reactive astrocytes and oligodendrocytes from 1 to 4 weeks postoperatively. Clusterin-IR and its mRNA were markedly increased in the zone of Wallerian degeneration at T1, where some strongly expressing cells were identified as oligodendrocytes. Taken together with previous changes in clusterin expression following peripheral nerve and dorsal root injury, we suggest that this protein is involved in regenerative as well as degenerative neural responses.
Neuronal migration is an essential step in normal mammalian neocortical development, and the expression of defined cellular and molecular signals within the developing cortical microenvironment is likely crucial to this process. Therapy via transplanted or manipulated endogenous precursors for diseases which involve neuronal loss may depend critically on whether newly incorporated cells can actively migrate to repopulate areas of neuronal loss within the adult brain. Previous studies demonstrated that embryonic neurons and multipotent precursors transplanted into the neocortex of adult mice undergoing targeted apoptosis of pyramidal neurons migrate long distances into neuron-deficient regions, undergo directed differentiation, accept afferent synaptic input, and make appropriate long-distance projections. The experiments presented here: (1) use time-lapse digital confocal imaging of neuronal migration in living slice cultures to assess cellular mechanisms utilized by immature neurons during such long distance migration, and (2) identify changes within the host cortical astroglial population that may contribute to this migration. Prelabeled embryonic day 17 mouse neocortical neurons were transplanted into adult mouse primary somatosensory cortex undergoing targeted apoptotic degeneration of callosal projection neurons. Four to 7 days following transplantation, living slice cultures containing the region of transplanted cells were prepared and observed. Sequential time-lapse images were recorded using a video-based digital confocal microscope. Transplanted cells displayed bipolar morphologies characteristic of migrating neuroblasts and moved in a saltatory manner with mean rates of up to 14 microm/h. To investigate whether a permissive glial phenotype may provide a potential substrate for this directed form of neuronal migration, slice cultures were immunostained with the RC2 monoclonal antibody, which identifies radial glia that act as a substrate for neuronal migration during corticogenesis. RC2 does not label mature stellate astrocytes, which express glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). RC2 expression was observed in glial cells closely apposed to migrating donor neurons within the slice cultures. The timing and specificity of RC2 expression was examined immunocytochemically at various times following transplantation. RC2 immunostaining within regions of neuronal degeneration was transient, with peak staining between 3 and 7 days following transplantation. Strongly RC2-immunoreactive cells that did not express GFAP were found within these regions, but not in distant cortical regions or within control brains. RC2-positive cells were identified in recipient transgenic mice which express beta-galactosidase under a glial specific promoter. Coexpression of RC2 and beta-galactosidase identified these cells as host astroglia. These results demonstrate that adult cortical astrocytes retain the capacity to reexpress an earlier developmental phenotype that may partially underlie the observed active migration of transplanted neurons and neural precursors. Further understanding of these processes could allow directed migration of transplanted or endogenous precursors toward therapeutic cellular repopulation and complex circuit reconstruction in neocortex and other CNS regions.
Genetic strategies provide new ways to define the molecular cascades that regulate the responses of the mammalian nervous system to injury. Genetic interventions also provide opportunities to manipulate and control key molecular steps in these cascades, so as to modify the outcome of CNS injury. Most current genetic strategies involve the use of mice, an animal that has not heretofore been used extensively for neurotrauma research. Therefore, one purpose of the present review is to consider how mice respond to neural trauma, focusing especially on recent information that reveals important differences between mice and rats, and between different inbred strains of mice. The second aim of this review is to provide a brief introduction to the opportunities, caveats, and potential pitfalls of studies that use genetically modified animals for neurotrauma research.
We review recent advances regarding the pathogenesis of Huntington's disease (HD). This genetic neurodegenerative disorder is caused by an expanded CAG repeat in a gene coding for a protein, with unknown function, called huntingtin. There is selective death of striatal and cortical neurons. Both in patients and a transgenic mouse model of the disease, neuronal intranuclear inclusions, immunoreactive for huntingtin and ubiquitin, develop. Huntingtin interacts with the proteins GAPDH, HAP-1, HIP1, HIP2, and calmodulin, and a mutant huntingtin is specifically cleaved by the proapoptotic enzyme caspase 3. The pathogenetic mechanism is not known, but it is presumed that there is a toxic gain of function of the mutant huntingtin. Circumstantial evidence suggests that excitotoxicity, oxidative stress, impaired energy metabolism, and apoptosis play a role.

The developmental sequence of markers for hematopoietic, hormone-producing, and folliculo-stellate cells in the chicken adenohypophysis is described using immunohistochemical staining techniques. Hematopoietic cells are detected in cryosections of the adenohypophysis starting from 10- or 12-day embryos, using chicken-specific monoclonal antibodies against the leukocyte common antigen (CD45) and the macrophage antigen CVI-ChNL-68.1, respectively. During the second half of embryonic development, CVI-ChNL-68.1-positive macrophages, which are also found in several lymphoid and nonlymphoid tissues of the embryo, progressively populate the adenohypophysis, simultaneously with the maturation of the different hormone-producing cell types in their characteristic topographical location. In cryosections of embryonic chicken adenohypophyses, from day 10, distinct cell populations gradually become immunoreactive to chicken-specific monoclonal antibodies against proopiomelanocortin, the beta-subunit of luteinizing hormone, growth hormone, and prolactin. At hatching, these pituitary hormones are immunohistochemically detectable in a topographical pattern corresponding to the known distribution of hormone-producing cells in the adult chicken adenohypophysis. However, in the hatchling, there is no immunoreactivity to the S100 protein, a marker characteristic for the non-hormone-producing folliculo-stellate (FS) cells in the adult adenohypophysis, although FS cells in the 4-week-old chicken show a strong immunoreactivity to a polyclonal antiserum against bovine S100. Immunoreactivity to the major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-class II of the chicken) is also absent in the embryonic adenohypophysis, thereby corroborating the absence of these characteristic markers of dendritic cells (MHC class II) and FS cells (S100) in the perinatal adenohypophysis, as in the rat. It is concluded that, whereas early macrophages populate the adenohypophysis simultaneously with the maturation of hormone-producing cells (i.e., during the second half of embryonic development), the FS cell-specific expression of S100 protein does not take place before hatching, and neither does the expression of MHC-class II antigens in the embryonic chicken adenohypophysis.

In the present brief overview we summarize results from several studies focusing on two neuropeptides, galanin and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in discrete neuronal systems, where they coexist with classic transmitters. On the basis of studies in different animal models we propose that these peptides may be involved in regulation of certain CNS functions and that drugs acting on their receptors may be of use in new therapeutic strategies. At the spinal level galanin and NPY are regulated in DRG neurons by nerve injury and in dorsal horn neurons by inflammation. It is possible that this leads to attenuation of pain sensitivity. Moreover, both peptides may exert trophic effects, for example to enhance regeneration. In the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus NPY and its receptors are part of the feeding circuitry, and we suggest that derangement of these NPY neurons may at least in part underlay the lethal phenotype of anorectic mice, which die 22 days postnatally after showing decreased food intake and growth retardation. Expression of NPY and NPY receptors is changed in the hippocampus of mice comparatively early after prion inoculation, indicating that this peptide system is affected in this spongiform degenerative disease in a region of importance for learning and memory. Finally, galanin is co-localized with classic monoamine transmitters in two central systems, the dorsal raphe serotonin neurons and the locus coeruleus noradrenergic neurons. In both cases galanin causes hyperpolarization (at high concentrations) and prolongs monoamine-induced outward currents (at low concentrations), thus modulating activity in two systems of importance for many brain functions including mood regulation. It may therefore be interesting to analyse to what extent drugs affecting galaninergic transmission also may be efficient in the treatment of, for example, depression.
General cognitive ability (g), which is related to many aspects of brain functioning, is one of the most heritable traits in neuroscience. Similarly to other heritable quantitatively distributed traits, genetic influence on g is likely to be due to the combined action of many genes of small effect [quantitative trait loci (QTLs)], perhaps several on each chromosome. We used DNA pooling for the first time to search a chromosome systematically with a dense map of DNA markers for allelic associations with g. We screened 147 markers on chromosome 4 such that 85% of the chromosome were estimated to be within 1 cM of a marker. Comparing pooled DNA from 51 children of high g and from 51 controls of average g, 11 significant QTL associations emerged. The association with three of these 11 markers ( D4S2943, MSX1 and D4S1607 ) replicated using DNA pooling in independent samples of 50 children of extremely high g and 50 controls. Furthermore, all three associations were confirmed when each individual was genotyped separately ( D4S2943, P = 0. 00045; MSX1, P = 0.011; D4S1607, P = 0.019). Identifying specific genes responsible for such QTL associations will open new windows in cognitive neuroscience through which to observe pathways between genes and learning and memory.

Though very frequently assumed, the necessity to operate a joint processing of simultaneous magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG) recordings for functional brain imaging has never been clearly demonstrated. However, the very last generation of MEG instruments allows the simultaneous recording of brain magnetic fields and electrical potentials on the scalp. But the general fear regarding the fusion between MEG and EEG data is that the drawbacks from one modality will systematically spoil the performances of the other one without any consequent improvement. This is the case for instance for the estimation of deeper or radial sources with MEG. In this paper, we propose a method for a cooperative processing of MEG and EEG in a distributed source model. First, the evaluation of the respective performances of each modality for the estimation of every dipole in the source pattern is made using a conditional entropy criterion. Then, the algorithm operates a preprocessing of the MEG and EEG gain matrices which minimizes the mutual information between these two transfer functions, by a selective weighting of the MEG and EEG lead fields. This new combined EEG/MEG modality brings major improvements to the localization of active sources, together with reduced sensitivity to perturbations on data.
This placebo-controlled, double-blind, 1-year pilot study aimed at investigating possible clinical advantages of combining initial light therapy with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) citalopram as well as the effects of continuous long-term administration of this drug in patients with seasonal affective disorder (SAD). Eight physically healthy women who met the DSM-III-R criteria for SAD were included in the study. Four women were randomized to the citalopram group receiving 40 mg citalopram daily from the first of 10 light treatment days and throughout the 1-year study. The remaining four women were allocated to the placebo group using the same double-blind repeated measures design. The clinical outcome was measured by using three versions of the Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale (CPRS) and Visual Analog Scales (VAS), respectively. Taking the initial rating scores into account in covariance analyses, no statistically significant group difference was found during the light treatment period. However, during the follow-up period the full version of the CPRS and the self-rating version of CPRS and the VAS-scales for global condition and depressed mood were statistically significantly lower in the citalopram group compared with the placebo group. Thus, in this small but carefully observed sample of SAD-patients combining initial light therapy and long-term citalopram treatment was clinically more effective over time than the placebo combination. Our findings support the notion that light therapy with concomitant and continued SSRI (citalopram) treatment is a useful strategy to achieve beneficial long-term effects in patients with the SAD syndrome.
Several isolated dimorphisms recur in many HLA class II alleles, but it is not clear whether they merely influence the binding of peptides locally or have more general effects on their recognition by T cells. For example, interchanges in HLA-DRbeta include 86Gly &lt;--&gt; Val and 57Asp &lt;--&gt; Ser at either end of its alpha helix, and 71Arg &lt;--&gt; Lys in the middle. In DR4, the existence of six subtypes differing by single substitutions at these sites enabled us to assess their functional effects--both in isolation and in their natural context--on peptide presentation to a specific T cell clone with unusually broad cross-restrictions. Unexpectedly, the restriction imposed by 86Val was much more severe in the context of 71Arg than 71Lys, but was also more readily overcome by reducing the bulk of the 'p1' peptide 'anchor' residue (149Trp --&gt; Phe). Moreover, when there was also a distant 57Asp--&gt;Ser substitution, compensating similarly for 86Val proved much more difficult. Thus 86Val and 57Ser in combination had far more drastic effects on peptide presentation than they did separately, when peptide binding was also largely unchanged. These and other interactions with position 71 together provide strong evidence that the configuration of the peptide-DR4 complex is critical for T cell recognition, which could be affected by subtle conformational influences on the p1-9 core of the peptide or on the alpha helix of DR4beta (between positions 86 and 57). Ideally, therefore, the effects of individual class II substitutions should be considered in their natural context rather than in isolation.
Squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) is the sixth most common malignancy worldwide. Approximately half of the patients afflicted die within 5 years of diagnosis, and surviving patients may be left with severe esthetic and functional compromise. In this study, we discovered that an endogenous opioid peptide, [Met5]-enkephalin, inhibited the growth of human SCCHN in vitro; in view of this pentapeptide's action it has been termed opioid growth factor (OGF). OGF was found to be a constitutively expressed, receptor-mediated growth inhibitory agent that appears to be autocrine produced and secreted. Growth regulation was dose-related, reversible, cytostatic, and independent of serum. All 6 human SCCHN cell lines examined exhibited growth modulation by OGF. Blockade of peptide-receptor interaction by opioid antagonists (naltrexone), or addition of antibody to OGF, resulted in substantial increases in cell number compared to control levels, showing the tonic nature of OGF-zeta activity. Immunocytochemical studies detected both OGF and its related receptor, zeta, in these cells, correlating with earlier findings of peptide and receptor in specimens of SCCHN obtained at surgery. These data suggest that a native opioid peptide, OGF, interacts with a novel opioid receptor, zeta, to tonically arrest the growth of human SCCHN.
Despite the advent of new technology and pharmacological agents, post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV) continues to have an incidence of 20-30% today. Development of PONV can lead to serious complications such as aspiration, dehydration, electrolyte disturbances and disruption of the surgical site. PONV leads to increased cost of treatment, and may be associated with increased anxiety, dissatisfaction with the surgical experience and anticipatory nausea in the future. The mechanisms of PONV are examined with associated risk factors. A review of the literature of PONV management is included covering pharmacological, dietary and behavioural interventions; culminating in the development of assessment and management guidelines and identification of areas for further study.

The purpose of the present study was to determine the effect of leg exercise training on sympathetic nerve responses at rest and during dynamic exercise. Six men were trained by using high-intensity interval and prolonged continuous one-legged cycling 4 day/wk, 40 min/day, for 6 wk. Heart rate, mean arterial pressure (MAP), and muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA; peroneal nerve) were measured during 3 min of upright dynamic one-legged knee extensions at 40 W before and after training. After training, peak oxygen uptake in the trained leg increased 19 +/- 2% (P &lt; 0.01). At rest, heart rate decreased from 77 +/- 3 to 71 +/- 6 beats/min (P &lt; 0.01) with no significant changes in MAP (91 +/- 7 to 91 +/- 11 mmHg) and MSNA (29 +/- 3 to 28 +/- 1 bursts/min). During exercise, both heart rate and MAP were lower after training (108 +/- 5 to 96 +/- 5 beats/min and 132 +/- 8 to 119 +/- 4 mmHg, respectively, during the third minute of exercise; P &lt; 0.01). MSNA decreased similarly from rest during the first 2 min of exercise both before and after training. However, MSNA was significantly less during the third minute of exercise after training (32 +/- 2 to 22 +/- 3 bursts/min; P &lt; 0.01). This training effect on MSNA remained when MSNA was expressed as bursts per 100 heartbeats. Responses to exercise in five untrained control subjects were not different at 0 and 6 wk. These results demonstrate that exercise training prolongs the decrease in MSNA during upright leg exercise and indicates that attenuation of MSNA to exercise reported with forearm training also occurs with leg training.
Reviewed in this article are those studies that have contributed heavily to our current conceptualizations of glial participation in the functioning of the magnocellular hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system. This system undergoes remarkable morphological and functional reorganization induced by increased demand for peptide synthesis and release, and this reorganization involves the astrocytic elements in primary roles. Under basal conditions, these glia appear to be vested with the responsibility of controlling the neuronal microenvironment in ways that reduce neuronal excitability, restrict access to neuronal membranes by neuroactive substances and deter neuron neuron interactions within the system. With physiological activation, the glial elements, via receptor-mediated mechanisms, take up new positions. This permissively facilitates neuron neuron interactions such as the exposure of neuronal membranes to released peptides and the formation of gap junctions and new synapses, enhances and prolongs the actions of those excitatory neurotransmitters for which there are glial uptake mechanisms, and facilitates the entry of peptides into the blood. In addition, subpopulations of these glia either newly synthesize or increase synthesis of neuroactive peptides for which their neuronal neighbors have receptors. Release of these peptides by the glia or their functional roles in the system have not yet been demonstrated.
The frontal lobe and the basal ganglia are involved in a number of parallel, functionally segregated circuits. Information is thought to pass from distinct parts of the (pre)frontal cortex, via the striatum, the pallidum/substantia nigra and the thalamus, back to the premotor/prefrontal cortices. Currently, different views exist as to whether these circuits are to be considered as open or closed loops, as well as to the degree of interconnection between different circuits. The main goal of the present study is to answer some of these questions for the limbic corticostriatal circuits. The latter circuits involve the nucleus accumbens, the ventral pallidum/dorsomedial substantia nigra pars reticulata, the medial parts of the mediodorsal and ventromedial thalamic nuclei and the prefrontal cortex. Within the nucleus accumbens, a core and a shell region are recognized on the basis of anatomical and functional criteria. The shell of the nucleus accumbens projects predominantly to the mediodorsal, the midline and the reticular thalamic nuclei via the ventral pallidum, whereas the core reaches primarily the medial part of the ventromedial thalamic nucleus, the intralaminar and mediodorsal thalamic nuclei via a relay in the dorsomedial substantia nigra pars reticulata. By means of double labeling experiments with injections of anterograde tracers in both the ventral pallidum and the substantia nigra of rats, we were able to demonstrate that circuits involving the shell and the core of the nucleus accumbens remain largely segregated at the level of the thalamus. Only restricted areas of overlap of ventral pallidal and reticular nigral projections occur in the mediodorsal and ventromedial thalamic nuclei, which allows for a limited degree of integration, at the thalamic level, of information passing through the two circuits.
In most instances, traditional EEG methodology provides insufficient spatial detail to identify relationships between brain electrical events and structures and functions visualized by magnetic resonance imaging or positron emission tomography. This article describes a method called Deblurring for increasing the spatial detail of the EEG and for fusing neurophysiologic and neuroanatomic data. Deblurring estimates potentials near the outer convexity of the cortex using a realistic finite element model of the structure of a subject's head determined from their magnetic resonance images. Deblurring is not a source localization technique and thus makes no assumptions about the number or type of generator sources. The validity of Deblurring has been initially tested by comparing deblurred data with potentials measured with subdural grid recordings. Results suggest that deblurred topographic maps, registered with a subject's magnetic resonance imaging and rendered in three dimensions, provide better spatial detail than has heretofore been obtained with scalp EEG recordings. Example results are presented from research studies of somatosensory stimulation, movement, language, attention and working memory. Deblurred ictal EEG data are also presented, indicating that this technique may have future clinical application as an aid to seizure localization and surgical planning.
Meningeal melanocytoma is an uncommon, benign melanocytic tumour of the meninges. Only 15 cases have been reported to date. We present the MR and CT appearance of a case of compressive myelopathy due to cervical meningeal melanocytoma. Careful analysis of the imaging features, as illustrated in the present case, allows a preoperative diagnosis. The differential diagnosis includes malignant melanoma and melanocytic meningioma.
Granulomatous inflammation restricted to muscle is an uncommon cause of myopathic syndromes. Two patients were diagnosed with idiopathic granulomatous polymyositis after appropriate investigations failed to reveal a systemic or alternative explanation for the granulomas seen in their muscle biopsy. One patient presented with a syndrome indistinguishable from polymyalgia rheumatica but both patients manifested disabling myalgias which were strikingly corticosteroid responsive. The two cases underscore the potential importance of muscle biopsy in polymyalgic states, the non-specificity of polymyalgia rheumatica as a syndrome which can be simulated by other disorders including granulomatous myositis, and the potential corticosteroid responsiveness of prominent, functionally limiting myalgias which can be seen in this disorder. Some controversy continues regarding the correct nosology of this disease, largely perpetuated by an awareness of the inherent limitations of current non-invasive evaluation techniques to confirm occult granulomatous involvement of non-myogenous organs.
This study was performed to determine whether modulation of light delivery could improve tumour kill in photodynamic therapy (PDT) of brain tumours, as optimal dosimetry has not been fully established. One hundred and sixty-five adult Wistar rats were treated, of which 70 had an implanted C6 cerebral glioma. Haematoporphyrin derivative (HpD) was injected at doses between 0 and 20 mg/kg, 24 h prior to irradiation with 630 nm laser light. The total energy dose was varied from 0 to 1200 J/cm(2), with fluence rates of 625, 3125 or 9375 mW/cm(2). In some studies, the light delivered at 3125 mW/cm(2) was divided into 10 fractions of approximately 13 s, with refractory intervals of 60 s. The most striking finding was that HpD was much more potent than previously reported. All doses greater than 1.0 mg/kg resulted in normal brain damage with light doses above 50 J/cm(2). However, at 1.0 mg/kg, significant normal injury was not apparent until 1200 J/cm(2). Failure of drug-light dose reciprocity indicated that photobleaching occurred, protecting normal tissue. Selective tumour kill was observed to 2.2. mm depth (SE +/- 0.44 mm). Using lower power or fractionated light did not improve tumour kill and normal tissue injury occured with fluence rates of 9375 mW/cm(2). In conclusion, the doses of HpD currently used in clinical brain tumour trials may be too high to achieve selective tumour kill. Higher light fluence rates allowed shorter intraoperative irradiation times with no loss of efficacy. Photodynamic therapy continues to demonstrate potential as an effective treatment for local control of cerebral lesions.
Neuronal mechanisms underlying focal convulsions and secondary generalized convulsions continue to be intensively investigated and many important pathophysiological processes are now recognized. Our understanding of primary generalized convulsions remains limited in spite of a variety of approaches. While there are well known clinical situations offering insights into some aspects of the pathophysiology, studies in animal models of generalized convulsions offer a deeper understanding of some of the processes likely to be occurring. Animal studies have indicated that generalized convulsive epilepsies are likely to be comprised of several types of convulsion and that these arise from more than one neuronal network. In particular, the cortex and brain stem can interact in various ways to lead to convulsions and may even act independently. Pharmacological agents can produce specific changes in the excitability of neurons and cause generalized convulsions, so providing models of the possible neurophysiological defects in humans. Based on electrophysiological recordings of generalized convulsions in these animal models, we also suggest that the convulsion involves subcortical mechanisms and raise the idea that primary generalized convulsive epilepsy arises out of intensified (synchronized) normal brain rhythms. Copyright 1999 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

We employ computer simulation to investigate the function of neural circuitries between thalamic sensory relay nuclei, primary sensory cortices, and the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN). Computational similarities exist between these circuits and the architecture of a simple artificial neural network. We impose processing parameters on this network architecture in keeping with anatomical and physiological details of the mammalian geniculo-cortical visual pathway, and then run the simulation on a task involving multiple simultaneous inputs from the simulated visual field. After two to three loops through the simulation, activity in cortical and thalamic units whose receptive fields include the stronger stimulus remains constant, while activity in other cortical and thalamic units activated by weaker stimuli declines toward resting values. These results suggest that the modeled neural circuitry functions to &quot;prime&quot; selective attentional mechanisms further up the visual streams toward specific portions of the total visual stimulus. Besides extending existing models and evidence about the function of these neural circuits, our results also provide physiologists with predicted activity profiles of thalamic and cortical elements of the modeled neural system for a task not yet studied experimentally.
Beyond continuation of currently active areas, some less studied ones are selected for predictions of marked advance. (1) Most discoveries will be in cellular components and molecular mechanisms for different classes of receptor or central pathways. (2) More major taxa, possibly birds, reptiles or invertebrates, will be found to have electroreceptive species representing independent evolutionary 'inventions'. (3) Electric organs with weak and episodic electric discharges will be found in new taxa; first, among siluriforms. (4) New examples are to be expected, such as lampreys, where synchronized muscle action potentials sum to voltages in the range of weakly electric fish. Some of these will look like intermediates in the evolution of electric organs. (5) Ethological significance will be found for a variety of known physiological features; e.g. uranoscopids, skates and weakly electric catfish with episodic electric discharges; electroreceptive ability of animals such as lampreys, chimaeras, lungfish, sturgeons, paddlefish and salamanders with Lorenzinian-type ampullae; gymnotiform and mormyrid detection of the capacitative component of impedance. (6) The organization of some higher functions in the cerebellum and forebrain will gradually come to light.
Weakly electric fish emit electric organ discharges (EODs) to locate objects around themselves and for communication. The EOD is generated by a simple hierarchically organized, neurophysiologically accessible circuit, the electromotor system. A number of forms of plasticity of the EOD waveform are initiated by social or environmental factors and mediated by hormones or neurotransmitters. Because the behavior itself is in the form of electric discharges, behavioral observations easily lead to testable hypotheses about the biophysical bases of these plasticities. This allows us to study ionic channels in their native cellular environments, where the regulation of various parameters of these currents have obvious functional consequences. In this review, we discuss three types of plasticity: a rapidly occurring, long-lasting, N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor-dependent increase in baseline firing frequency of neurons in the pacemaker nucleus that underlies a readjustment of the baseline EOD frequency after long bouts of the jamming avoidance response; a rapidly occurring diurnal change in amplitude and duration of the EOD pulse that depends in part on modulation of the magnitude of the electrocyte Na+ current by a protein kinase; and a slowly occurring, hormonally modulated tandem change in pacemaker firing frequency and in the duration of the EOD pulse in which changes in EOD pulse duration are mediated by coordinated shifts in the activation and inactivation kinetics of the electrocyte Na+ and K+ currents.
Oscillatory and burst discharge is recognized as a key element of signal processing from the level of receptor to cortical output cells in most sensory systems. The relevance of this activity for electrosensory processing has become increasingly apparent for cells in the electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL) of gymnotiform weakly electric fish. Burst discharge by ELL pyramidal cells can be recorded in vivo and has been directly associated with feature extraction of electrosensory input. In vivo recordings have also shown that pyramidal cells are differentially tuned to the frequency of amplitude modulations across three ELL topographic maps of electroreceptor distribution. Pyramidal cell recordings in vitro reveal two forms of oscillatory discharge with properties consistent with pyramidal cell frequency tuning in vivo. One is a slow oscillation of spike discharge arising from local circuit interactions that exhibits marked changes in several properties across the sensory maps. The second is a fast, intrinsic form of burst discharge that incorporates a newly recognized interaction between somatic and dendritic membranes. These findings suggest that a differential regulation of oscillatory discharge properties across sensory maps may underlie frequency tuning in the ELL and influence feature extraction in vivo.
The electric organ has evolved independently from muscle in at least six lineages of fish. How does a differentiated muscle cell change its fate to become an electrocyte? Is the process by which this occurs similar in different lineages? We have begun to answer these questions by studying the formation and maintenance of electrocytes in the genus Sternopygus, a weakly electric teleost. Electrocytes arise from the fusion of fully differentiated muscle fibers, mainly those expressing fast isoforms of myosin. Electrocytes briefly co-express sarcomeric proteins, such as myosin and tropomyosin, and keratin, a protein not found in mature muscle. The sarcomeric proteins are subsequently down-regulated, but keratin expression persists. We investigated whether the maintenance of the electrocyte phenotype depends on innervation. We found that, after spinal cord transection, which silences the electromotor neurons that innervate the electrocytes, or destruction of the spinal cord, which denervates the electrocytes, mature electrocytes re-express sarcomeric myosin and tropomyosin, although keratin expression persists. Ultrastructural examination of denervated electrocytes revealed nascent sarcomeres. Thus, the maintenance of the electrocyte phenotype depends on neural activity.
The complete sequences and expression patterns of the NR1 (aptNR1) subunit of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor and its alternative splice isoforms have been determined for the weakly electric fish Apteronotus leptorhynchus. The deduced amino acid sequence of aptNR1 is approximately 88 % identical to the NR1 sequences of other vertebrate. Two of the three alternative splice cassettes previously described for mammalian NR1s, N1 and C1, are present in aptNR1, but the third cassette, C2, is not found. In addition, two teleost-specific splice cassettes occur on the N-terminal side of the C1 sequence. The cellular patterns of aptNR1 expression, including the patterns of N1 and C1 splicing, have been mapped using the in situ hybridization technique. High levels of aptNR1 mRNA were detected throughout the central nervous system including most neurons of the electrosensory system, with the highest levels in electrosensory lateral line lobe pyramidal cells. Expression of the N1 splice isoform was higher in more caudal regions of the brain, and expression of the C1 splice isoform was higher in more rostral regions. The N1 splice isoform was present in almost all NR1-positive cells, in contrast to the C1 splice isoform which was restricted to a subset of NR1-positive cells. These results demonstrate that the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor is evolutionarily conserved across species and that regulation of alternative RNA splicing modulates the properties of NR1 in different neurons of the central nervous system of A. leptorhynchus.
Sensory systems are faced with the task of extracting behaviorally relevant information from complex sensory environments. In general, sensory acquisition involves two aspects: the control of peripheral sensory surfaces to improve signal reception and the subsequent neural filtering of incoming sensory signals to extract and enhance signals of interest. The electrosensory system of weakly electric fish provides a good model system for studying both these aspects of sensory acquisition. On the basis of infrared video recordings of black ghost knifefish (Apteronotus albifrons) feeding on small prey (Daphnia magna) in the dark, we reconstruct three-dimensional movement trajectories of the fish and prey. We combine the reconstructed trajectory information with models of peripheral electric image formation and primary electrosensory afferent response dynamics to estimate the spatiotemporal patterns of transdermal potential change and afferent activation that occur during prey-capture behavior. We characterize the behavioral strategies used by the fish, with emphasis on the functional importance of the dorsal edge in prey capture behavior, and we analyze the electrosensory consequences. In particular, we find that the high-pass filter characteristics of P-type afferent response dynamics can serve as a predictive filter for estimating the future position of the prey as the electrosensory image moves across the receptor array.

pH is a potent modulator of gap junction (GJ) mediated cell-cell communication. Mechanisms proposed for closure of GJ channels by acidification include direct actions of H+ on GJ proteins and indirect actions mediated by soluble intermediates. Here we report on the effects of acidification on connexin (Cx)46 cell-cell channels expressed in Neuro-2a cells and Cx46 hemichannels expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Effects of acidification on hemichannels were examined macroscopically and in excised patches that permitted rapid (&lt;1 ms) and uniform pH changes at the exposed hemichannel face. Both types of Cx46 channel were found to be sensitive to cytoplasmic pH, and two effects were evident. A rapid and reversible closure was reproducibly elicited with short exposures to low pH, and a poorly reversible or irreversible loss occurred with longer exposures. We attribute the former to pH gating and the latter to pH inactivation. Half-maximal reduction of open probability for pH gating in hemichannels occurs at pH 6.4. Hemichannels remained sensitive to cytoplasmic pH when excised and when cytoplasmic [Ca2+] was maintained near resting ( approximately 10(-7) M) levels. Thus, Cx46 hemichannel pH gating does not depend on cytoplasmic intermediates or a rise in [Ca2+]. Rapid application of low pH to the cytoplasmic face of open hemichannels resulted in a minimum latency to closure near zero, indicating that Cx46 hemichannels directly sense pH. Application to closed hemichannels extended their closed time, suggesting that the pH sensor is accessible from the cytoplasmic side of a closed hemichannel. Rapid closure with significantly reduced sensitivity was observed with low pH application to the extracellular face, but could be explained by H+ permeation through the pore to reach an internal site. Closure by pH is voltage dependent and has the same polarity with low pH applied to either side. These data suggest that the pH sensor is located directly on Cx46 near the pore entrance on the cytoplasmic side.
Clinically relevant differences in cognition and behavior exist between men and women with Alzheimer's disease. Underlying these differences are variations in the topographic brain changes caused by pathologic processes, as well as differences in hormonal brain physiology and genetic influences. Our understanding of how these gender differences affect the clinical expression of Alzheimer's disease is in its infancy. Research in this area will likely yield further insights into potential therapies directed toward symptomatic and preventive interventions.

Little information exists regarding the performance of Spanish-speaking versus English-speaking patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) on the Mini-Mental State Examination and the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale. In an attempt to identify culturally biased MMSE items or DRS subscales, we matched Spanish-speaking Hispanic and English-speaking non-Hispanic White community-dwelling AD patients by their MMSE scores and examined specific items within each scale. Our findings indicate that Hispanic AD patients perform significantly worse than non-Hispanics in terms of total DRS score, scores on the DRS subscales for Conceptualization and Memory, and on serial subtraction (or backward spelling item) of the MMSE. While mildly to moderately demented Hispanic and non-Hispanic patients obtained comparable scores on the DRS, severely impaired Spanish-speaking participants obtained considerably lower DRS scores than their English-speaking counterparts. The discrepancy in the DRS scores of the severely impaired Hispanic and non-Hispanic examinees might reflect a cultural bias in the test or educational differences between the groups. Alternatively, the DRS may be more sensitive than the MMSE for detecting severe cognitive impairment in Hispanic patients.
Cytoplasmic calcium, which acts as a second messenger, is derived not only from outside the cell but also from intracellular stores. A receptor for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3), an intracellular second messenger, is located on these internal calcium stores and functions as a calcium releasing channel. The &quot;type 1&quot; IP3 receptor (IP3R1) is concentrated predominantly in cerebellar Purkinje cells and is also widely present in other neural and peripheral tissues, but many of its physiological roles in these cells are still unclear. We have previously succeeded in obtaining mice with disruption of this IP3R1 gene, in which brain IP3-induced calcium release was almost completely abolished. They were rarely born alive, indicating that IP3R1 has some functions during embryonic development. Animals exhibited severe neurological symptoms, ataxia and epilepsy, and were shown to be deficient in the cerebellar long-term depression. They give us promising clues regarding the physiological roles of calcium release from internal stores and serve as a model for the relevant human disease states.
A paucity of information exists about the electrophysiological and anatomical correlates of neurons committed to die in vivo. Thus, we examined how an identified neuron, motoneuron MN-12, dies during development in the intact moth Manduca sexta. The developmental programmed cell death of this motoneuron was examined because of its defined commitment point of death. In addition, its ability to be unambiguously identified between animals and its accessibility to recording and dye injection facilitated our examination. MN-12 becomes committed to die approximately 28-30 h after adult emergence. At this time, MN-12 can no longer be saved by manipulations of steroid hormone levels, protein synthesis, or removal of descending inputs. Our initial prediction was that within a few hours after the commitment point, MN-12 would begin showing a gradual loss of central arbors and alterations in membrane properties. Contrary to our expectations, we found the MN-12 motoneuron to exhibit a stable central morphology and electrophysiological profile for approximately 12 h, followed by a rapid dismantling that occurred within a 1- to 2-h period. Several hours prior to the commitment point, the target muscle of MN-12 was no longer viable; yet, this did not affect the death of MN-12 or cause retraction of its motor terminals. We conclude that the delayed (12-h) onset of rapid cell death is not preceded by a slow accumulation of damages to the neuronal membrane (e.g., ion channels or cytoskeletal components) as both the electrical activity and morphology of MN-12 remained measurably unaltered during this 12-h lag.
Gene expression of major urinary protein (MUP) mRNAs was examined in the mouse nasal tissue. By polymerase chain reaction, we identified two cDNA segments encoding MUP 4 and MUP 5 genes in the nose. The expression level of both MUP 4 and 5 mRNAs in the nasal tissue was very high and exceeded that of the liver. Liver MUPs are excreted into the urine and are known to play an important role in pheromonal communication. We showed that nose and liver MUPs were composed of different subtypes of MUPs and that nose MUP mRNAs was detected in prepubescent periods when liver MUP mRNAs had not yet been transcripted. In situ hybridization revealed that nose MUP mRNAs are localized in the lateral wall and nasal septum and their expression pattern is identical to that of rat odorant-binding protein (OBP)-I. We also identified cDNA of mouse OBP-II gene from the nasal tissue and showed that the expression pattern of MUP gene was identical to that of OBP-II gene in the nose. These histological data indicate that nose MUPs are favorable for catching odorant molecules rather than pheromones, and may share their function with OBPs.
Interleukin (IL)-18 (interferon-gamma-inducing factor or IL-1gamma) belongs structurally to the IL-1 cytokine family and shares biological properties with IL-12. Expression, intracellular signaling, and functional relevance of IL-18 within the CNS are mostly unknown. We show that IL-18 protein is synthesized within mouse brain, preferentially during early postnatal stages, and that microglial cells but not astrocytes are a potential source. IL-18 is produced by cultured microglia on exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Microglia also express major components of the IL-1/IL-18 receptor system. On IL-18 stimulation, microglial IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) can be coprecipitated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) but not with IL-1 receptor type I, indicating that IRAK recruits TRAF6 during IL-18 signaling. IL-18 inhibits the LPS-induced release of IL-12 and attenuates that of TNF-alpha, whereas the production of IL-6 and macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha is only marginally affected. IL-18 may play a role during CNS development and can be produced by activated microglia, thus probably contributing to immune and inflammatory processes in the brain.
In the present study, we have examined the effects of prolonged (up to 72 h) inhibition of high-affinity glutamate reuptake by L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (PDC; 100 microM) on glutamate receptor functions in primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule neurons. This was done by comparing the effects of various glutamate receptor agonists on neuronal 45Ca2+ uptake, free cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), and cell viability. We also determined the parameters of[3H]MK-801 binding as well as the expression of the NMDAR1 subunit protein in control and PDC-exposed cultures. The blockade of glutamate reuptake by PDC led to a gradual increase of ambient glutamate to concentrations that are neurotoxic when applied acutely to control cells. In PDC-exposed cells, however, the acute glutamate-induced NMDA receptor-mediated calcium fluxes were strongly diminished and no toxicity was observed. The down-regulation of the functional effects of glutamate was dependent on the duration of PDC exposure and was accompanied by a reduced NMDAR1 subunit expression and decreased [3H]MK-801 binding, indicative of a pronounced structural rearrangement of NMDA receptors. The possibility that the decrease of NMDA glutamate receptor sensitivity can be explained on the basis of a reduced density or altered subunit composition of NMDA receptors is discussed.
Anandamide [N-arachidonoylethanolamide (NAE)] was initially isolated from porcine brain and proposed as an endogenous ligand for cannabinoid receptors in 1992. Accumulating evidence has now suggested that, in the tissue, NAE is generated from N-arachidonoylphosphatidylethanolamides (N-ArPEs) by phosphodiesterase. In this study a sensitive and specific procedure was developed to quantify NAE and N-ArPE, including organic solvent extraction, reverse-phase C-18 cartridge separation, derivatization, and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) analysis. NAE is converted by a two-step derivatization procedure to a pentafluorobenzoyl ester followed by pentafluoropropionyl acylation. Quantification was performed by isotope dilution GC/MS using deuterium-labeled NAE (NAE-2H8) as an internal standard. The same chemical derivatization was applicable to N-ArPE quantification. The separated N-ArPE fractions were converted by a two-step cleavage/derivatization procedure into the pentafluorobenzoyl ester of NAE and then to its pentafluoropropionyl amide. The derivative was quantified by GC/MS using deuterium-labeled 1,2-[2H8]dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho(arachidonoyl)ethanolamid e as an internal standard. Using these methods, we have found that endogenous NAE levels in rat brain, spleen, testis, liver, lung, and heart were below the level of quantification achievable (0.1 pmol/mg of protein) but that N-ArPE is readily quantifiable and is widely distributed in the rat CNS with the highest level in the spinal cord. The striatum, hippocampus, and accumbens contain intermediate concentrations of N-ArPE, whereas the value is lowest in the cerebellum.
Microglial activation, oxidative stress, and dysfunctions in mitochondria, including the reduction of cytochrome oxidase activity, have been implicated in neurodegeneration. The current experiments tested the effects of reducing cytochrome oxidase activity on the ability of microglia to respond to inflammatory insults. Inhibition of cytochrome oxidase by azide reduced oxygen consumption and increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production but did not affect cell viability. Azide also attenuated microglial activation, as measured by nitric oxide (NO.) production in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). It is surprising that the inhibition of cytochrome oxidase also diminished the activity of the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC), a Krebs cycle enzyme. This reduction was exaggerated when the azide-treated microglia were also treated with LPS. The combination of the azide-stimulated ROS and LPS-induced NO. would likely cause peroxynitrite formation in microglia. Thus, the possibility that KGDHC was inactivated by peroxynitrite was tested. Peroxynitrite inhibited the activity of isolated KGDHC, nitrated tyrosine residues of all three KGDHC subunits, and reduced immunoreactivity to antibodies against two KGDHC components. Thus, our data suggest that inhibition of the mitochondrial respiratory chain diminishes aerobic energy metabolism, interferes with microglial inflammatory responses, and compromises mitochondrial function, including KGDHC activity, which is vulnerable to NO. and peroxynitrite that result from microglial activation. Thus, activation of metabolically compromised microglia can further diminish their oxidative capacity, creating a deleterious spiral that may contribute to neurodegeneration.
The functional viability of cells can be evaluated using a number of different assay determinants. One common assay involves exposing cells to 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT), which is converted intracellularly to a colored formazan precipitate and often used to assess amyloid peptide-induced cytotoxic effects. The MTT assay was employed to evaluate the role of endosomal uptake and lysosomal acidification in amyloid peptide-treated differentiated PC12 cell cultures using selective vacuolar-type (V-type) ATPase inhibitors. The macrolides bafilomycin A1 (BAF) and concanamycin A (CON) block lysosomal acidification through selective inhibition of the V-type ATPase. Treating nerve growth factor-differentiated PC12 cells with nanomolar concentrations of BAF or CON provides complete protection against the effects of beta-amyloid peptides Abeta(1-42), Abeta(1-40), and Abeta(25-35) and of amylin on MTT dye conversion. These macrolides do not inhibit peptide aggregation, act as antioxidants, or inhibit Abeta uptake by cells. Measurements of lysosomal acidification reveal that the concentrations of BAF and CON effective in reversing Abeta-mediated MTT dye conversion also reverse lysosomal pH. These results suggest that lysosomal acidification is necessary for Abeta effects on MTT dye conversion.
Axotomy of sympathetic and sensory neurons leads to changes in their neuropeptide phenotypes. These changes are mediated in part by the induction of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) by nonneuronal cells. In the present study, we identified satellite/Schwann cells as a possible source of the injury-induced LIF. Using a Schwann cell line, SC-1 cells, we examined mechanisms of LIF induction. LIF mRNA levels increased rapidly when the cells were treated with 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), or A23187. Among these reagents, PMA was the most efficacious. Inhibition of protein kinase C (PKC) by GF-1 09203X significantly reduced the PMA-induced LIF mRNA levels. As PKC is known to activate the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathway, the involvement of this pathway in the PMA-stimulated induction of LIF mRNA was examined. Phosphorylation of ERKs was increased following PMA treatment in SC-1 cells. Moreover, inhibition of ERK kinase activity by PD98059 dramatically reduced PMA-stimulated phosphorylation of ERKs and induction of LIF mRNA. These results indicate that LIF mRNA levels can be regulated by ERK activation via stimulation of PKC in Schwann cells.
Na+/myo-inositol cotransporter has been shown to protect cells from the perturbing effects of hypertonic stress by the accumulation of myo-inositol. Here we report a regulatory mechanism for the cotransporter. Induction of myo-inositol cotransporter mRNA was observed after exposure to veratridine, a voltage-gated sodium channel opener. The veratridine-elicited induction was inhibited when Na+ was eliminated from the bath, although calcium chelation failed to modify the gene expression. Veratridine evoked an accumulation of Na+ in the cells, which paralleled the abundance of the mRNA. These results strongly suggested that an increase in Na+ influx due to sodium channel opening affected transcription of the cotransporter gene. Activity of the myo-inositol cotransporter was also up-regulated after veratridine exposure. To clarify the possible roles of myoinositol accumulation under veratridine exposure, we next examined the neurotoxic effects of veratridine when myo-inositol uptake was blocked. Neither 30 microM veratridine nor 500 microM 2-O,C-methylene myo-inositol, a competitive inhibitor of myo-inositol, elicited apparent cytotoxicity. However, a combination of these agents markedly increased cytotoxicity in culture, suggesting that an adequate amount of myo-inositol was necessary when the cells were stimulated with veratridine.
Although there are now widely accepted diagnostic criteria for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) there are few epidemiological data. A prevalence study was performed in the four Thames health regions, population 14 049 850. The prevalence date was 1 January 1995. Data were from a national consultant neurologist surveillance programme and the personal case series of two investigators. A diagnosis of CIDP was made according to definite, probable, possible, or suggestive diagnostic criteria. A wide difference in prevalence rates between the four health regions was noted, probably due to reporting bias. In the South East Thames Region, from which the data were most comprehensive the prevalence for definite and probable cases was 1.00/100 000; the highest total prevalence (if possible and suggestive cases were included) would have been 1.24/100 000. On the prevalence date 13% of patients required aid to walk and 54% were still receiving treatment.

Delivery of iron to the brain traditionally has been considered the responsibility of transferrin. However, transferrin receptors in brain are located primarily within gray matter areas rather than in the iron rich white matter tracts. In this report we present the first demonstration of ferritin binding sites in human brain and provide evidence that these binding sites are primarily in white matter tracts. This distribution of ferritin binding is opposite of that seen for the distribution of the transferrin receptor in normal adult human brain. Ferritin binds to human brain tissue in a competitive and saturable manner with a dissociation constant of 0.35 nM and a binding site density of 116.7 fmol/mg protein. In brain tissue from multiple sclerotic (MS) patients the normal pattern of transferrin and ferritin binding distributions is disrupted. Ferritin binding is absent in the lesion itself and in the immediate periplaque region within the white matter but returns to normal as the distance from the lesion becomes greater. In direct contrast to ferritin binding, transferrin binding in the MS tissue is present in the white matter tracts, but only in the periplaque region. The periplaque region also contains transferrin receptor positive cells (as determined by immunocytochemistry) morphologically consistent with oligodendrocytes. Gray matter binding of transferrin in MS patients appears normal. These data provide the initial evidence of ferritin binding in human brain, address the enigma of the apparent absence of an iron delivery system to the iron-rich white matter, and suggest loss of ferritin binding is involved in or is a consequence of demyelination associated with MS.
There is continuing controversy as to whether or not anti-leprosy drugs prevent Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, we examined the effect of anti-leprosy drugs on the prevalence of AD in leprosy patients, and also investigated the effect of anti-leprosy drugs on amyloid beta-protein (Abeta)-induced neurotoxicity in vitro. The present study suggests that anti-leprosy treatments do not prevent the onset of AD. None of our data found anti-leprosy drugs (dapsone, rifampicin, clofazimine, minomycin or ofloxacin) had any effect on Abeta neurotoxicity. It is now important to examine the infection of Mycobacterium leprae in the central nervous system to clarify the reason for the low prevalence of senile dementia, and low frequency of Abeta deposition in leprosy patients.
Complex I is the largest of the mitochondrial respiratory chain proteins, and contains subunits encoded by both mitochondrial and nuclear genomes. Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy has been clearly linked to mutations of mitochondrial DNA complex I genes, and variable complex I functional defects have been reported. We have confirmed an approximate 60% defect in mitochondrial NADH CoQ1 reductase activity in cultured fibroblasts bearing the 3460-bp G to A mutation within the ND1 gene. However complex I-linked ATP synthesis was found to be normal in these fibroblasts. A 60% rotenone-induced decrease in complex I activity was shown to reduce ATP synthesis in normal fibroblasts, indicating that this level of complex I activity was below the threshold required to affect ATP synthesis. Although 3460 LHON mitochondria were less sensitive to rotenone inhibition, this did not explain the decreased complex I activity as the rotenone insensitive activity was not increased, nor did the inhibitor diphenyleneiodonium inhibit the NADH CoQ1 reductase activity to a greater extent. Decreased NADH cytochrome c reductase activity in cybrids homoplasmic for the 3460 LHON mtDNA mutation confirmed that the decrease in complex I activity was not specific to the assay used and was not caused by inhibitory effects of ubiquinone analogues used in the NADH CoQ1 reductase assay. These findings have important implications for our understanding of complex I dysfunction in the pathogenesis of 3460 Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy.
The Medical Research Council (MRC) BR2 study [1] is a randomised trial of two doses of cranial radiation for patients with malignant glioma. We reanalysed data to examine the effect of using change in ranked scales of neurological status (MRC Neurological Status Scale) and performance (World Health Organisation Scale: WHO) to determine progression rather than clinician's impression. Four hundred and seventy four patients were studied. Where clinicians recorded no progression, ranked scales frequently documented progression (MRC 13%; WHO 13%). Where clinicians recorded progression, ranked scales frequently did not alter (MRC 33%; WHO 30%) or occasionally improved (MRC 5%; WHO 3%). When analysing time to progression based on a variety of measures, the estimated difference between treatments was most extreme (hazard ratio 0.81, logrank p = 0.04) when change in WHO status was used, and least extreme when change in MRC neurological status was used (hazard ratio 0.99, p = 0.94). This study highlights how different outcome measures can significantly alter the interpretation of randomised studies.
A population of precursor cells is known to exist in the subependyma of the lateral ventricles in adult rodents. However, the source of the precursor cells in the adult mammalian spinal cord has not been identified in vivo, although the adult spinal cord was recently reported to contain neural stem cells in vitro. In this study we found active cell proliferation and nestin expression in the adult ependyma of the central canal after spinal cord injury. The normal ependyma showed limited proliferative activity indicated by a low Ki-67 labeling index (1.5% at T1 level) and no immunoreactivity to nestin, a marker for neural precursor cells. In contrast, the spinal cord injured by clip compression demonstrated a dramatic increase in ependymal proliferation indicated by a high Ki-67 labeling index (maximum of 26% at 3 days [d] after injury) and concomitant strong nestin expression in the ependyma. These responses were downregulated by 7 d after injury. The increased cell proliferation in the ependyma was observed only at sites immediately adjacent to the lesion. After injury, nestin positive, GFAP negative cell populations were found in areas surrounding the ependymal layer, which suggests migration of the ependymal cells. These results indicate the precursor cell qualities of the adult ependyma after injury. Thus, we propose the ependyma of the central canal, which is normally latent but activates locally and temporally in response to spinal cord injury, as the in vivo source for precursor cells in the adult mammalian spinal cord.
Enhanced NR2A subunit expression and decreased NMDA receptor decay time at the onset of ocular dominance plasticity in the ferret. The NMDA subtype of glutamate receptor is known to exhibit marked changes in subunit composition and functional properties during neural development. The prevailing idea is that NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic responses decrease in duration after the peak of cortical plasticity in rodents. Accordingly, it is believed that shortening of the NMDA receptor-mediated current underlies the developmental reduction of ocular dominance plasticity. However, some previous evidence actually suggests that the duration of NMDA receptor currents decreases before the peak of plasticity. In the present study, we have examined the time course of NMDA receptor changes and how they correlate with the critical period of ocular dominance plasticity in the visual cortex of a highly binocular animal, the ferret. The expression of NMDA receptor subunits NR1, NR2A, and NR2B was examined in animals ranging in age from postnatal day 16 to adult using Western blotting. Functional properties of NMDA receptors in layer IV cortical neurons were studied using whole cell patch-clamp techniques in an in vitro slice preparation of ferret primary visual cortex. We observed a remarkable increase in NR1 and NR2A, but not NR2B, expression after eye opening. The NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic currents showed an abrupt decrease in decay time concurrent with the increase in NR2A subunit expression. Importantly, these changes occurred in parallel with increased ocular dominance plasticity reported in the ferret. In conclusion, molecular changes leading to decreased duration of the NMDA receptor excitatory postsynaptic current may be a requirement for the onset, rather than the end, of the critical period of ocular dominance plasticity.
Encoding of visual information by LGN bursts. Thalamic relay cells respond to visual stimuli either in burst mode, as a result of activation of a low-threshold Ca2+ conductance, or in tonic mode, when this conductance is inactive. We investigated the role of these two response modes for the encoding of the time course of dynamic visual stimuli, based on extracellular recordings of 35 relay cells from the lateral geniculate nucleus of anesthetized cats. We presented a spatially optimized visual stimulus whose contrast fluctuated randomly in time with frequencies of up to 32 Hz. We estimated the visual information in the neural responses using a linear stimulus reconstruction method. Both burst and tonic spikes carried information about stimulus contrast, exceeding one bit per action potential for the highest variance stimuli. The &quot;meaning&quot; of an action potential, i.e., the optimal estimate of the stimulus at times preceding a spike, was similar for burst and tonic spikes. In within-trial comparisons, tonic spikes carried about twice as much information per action potential as bursts, but bursts as unitary events encoded about three times more information per event than tonic spikes. The coding efficiency of a neuron for a particular stimulus is defined as the fraction of the neural coding capacity that carries stimulus information. Based on a lower bound estimate of coding efficiency, bursts had approximately 1.5-fold higher efficiency than tonic spikes, or 3-fold if bursts were considered unitary events. Our main conclusion is that both bursts and tonic spikes encode stimulus information efficiently, which rules out the hypothesis that bursts are nonvisual responses.
Effects of osmotic stress on dextran diffusion in rat neocortex studied with integrative optical imaging. This study investigated how dextran (Mr = 3,000) diffused in rat cortical slices when the osmolarity of the bathing artificial cerebrospinal fluid was altered by varying the NaCl content. The apparent diffusion coefficient, D*, was measured in the neocortex region using fluorescent molecules and the integrative optical imaging (IOI) method. The main results were: 1) the value of D* in rat neocortex in the isotonic (300 mOsm) artificial cerebrospinal fluid at 34 degrees C was D* = 0.68 +/- 0. 01 x 10(-6) cm2 s-1 (mean +/- SE, n = 78) and it could be changed within minutes by varying the extracellular osmolarity. 2) Hypotonic stresses up to -100 mOsm decreased D* by 35% and were fully reversible when the slices were returned to the isotonic medium. Further hypotonic stress to -150 mOsm caused further decrease in D* but after removal of the stress, D* overshot its control value. 3) Hypertonic stress of +50 mOsm increased D*, but the maximum reversible increase in D* was only 15%. Further hypertonic stress (to +200 mOsm) did not cause any further increase in D* and, after removal of the stress, D* undershot the control value. The changes in D* are thought to be related to volume changes of cells in tissue: hypotonic solutions caused cell swelling, resulting in reduced extracellular space and compressed extracellular matrix so that the dextran diffusion was more hindered. Hypertonic solutions had the opposite effect. Recordings of extracellular field potentials in the hippocampal CA1 region demonstrated that, on return to the isotonic solution after exposure to an extreme hypotonic or hypertonic stress, the neurons retained their ability to generate synaptic responses.
Influence of previous visual stimulus or saccade on saccadic reaction times in monkey. Saccadic reaction times (SRTs) to suddenly appearing targets are influenced by neural processes that occur before and after target presentation. The majority of previous studies have focused on how posttarget factors, such as target attributes or changes in task complexity, affect SRTs. Studies of pretarget factors have focused on how prior knowledge of the timing or location of the impending target, gathered through cueing or probabilistic information, affects SRTs. Our goal was to investigate additional pretarget factors to determine whether SRTs can also be influenced by the history of saccadic and visual activity even when these factors are spatially unpredictive as to the location of impending saccadic targets. Monkeys were trained on two paradigms. In the saccade-saccade paradigm, monkeys were required to follow a saccadic target that stepped from a central location, to an eccentric location, back to center, and finally to a second eccentric location. The stimulus-saccade paradigm was similar, except the central fixation target remained illuminated during presentation of the first eccentric stimulus; the monkey was required to maintain central fixation and to make a saccade to the second eccentric stimulus only on disappearance of the fixation point. In both paradigms, the first eccentric stimulus was presented at the same, opposite, or orthogonal location with respect to the final target location in a given trial. We measured SRTs to the final target under conditions in which all parameters were identical except for the location of the first eccentric stimulus. In the saccade-saccade paradigm, we found that the SRT to the final target was slowest when it was presented opposite to the initial saccadic target, whereas in the stimulus-saccade paradigm the SRT to the final target was slowest when it was presented at the same location as the initial stimulus. In both paradigms, these increases in SRTs were greatest during the shortest intervals between presentation of successive eccentric stimuli, yet these effects remained present for the longest intervals employed in this study. SRTs became faster as the direction and eccentricity of the two successive stimuli became increasingly misaligned from that which produced the maximal SRT slowing in each paradigm. The results of the stimulus-saccade paradigm are similar to the phenomenon of inhibition of return (IOR) in which human subjects are slower to respond to stimuli that are presented at previously cued locations. We interpret these findings in terms of overlapping representations of visuospatial and oculomotor activity in the same neural structures.
Emergence of postural patterns as a function of vision and translation frequency. We examined the frequency characteristics of human postural coordination and the role of visual information in this coordination. Eight healthy adults maintained balance in stance during sinusoidal support surface translations (12 cm peak to peak) in the anterior-posterior direction at six different frequencies. Changes in kinematic and dynamic measures revealed that both sensory and biomechanical constraints limit postural coordination patterns as a function of translation frequency. At slow frequencies (0.1 and 0.25 Hz), subjects ride the platform (with the eyes open or closed). For fast frequencies (1.0 and 1.25 Hz) with the eyes open, subjects fix their head and upper trunk in space. With the eyes closed, large-amplitude, slow-sway motion of the head and trunk occurred for fast frequencies above 0.5 Hz. Visual information stabilized posture by reducing the variability of the head's position in space and the position of the center of mass (CoM) within the support surface defined by the feet for all but the slowest translation frequencies. When subjects rode the platform, there was little oscillatory joint motion, with muscle activity limited mostly to the ankles. To support the head fixed in space and slow-sway postural patterns, subjects produced stable interjoint hip and ankle joint coordination patterns. This increase in joint motion of the lower body dissipated the energy input by fast translation frequencies and facilitated the control of upper body motion. CoM amplitude decreased with increasing translation frequency, whereas the center of pressure amplitude increased with increasing translation frequency. Our results suggest that visual information was important to maintaining a fixed position of the head and trunk in space, whereas proprioceptive information was sufficient to produce stable coordinative patterns between the support surface and legs. The CNS organizes postural patterns in this balance task as a function of available sensory information, biomechanical constraints, and translation frequency.
Modulation of receptive field properties of thalamic somatosensory neurons by the depth of anesthesia. The dominant frequency of electrocorticographic (ECoG) recordings was used to determine the depth of halothane or urethan anesthesia while recording extracellular single-unit responses from thalamic ventral posterior medial (VPM) neurons. A piezoelectric stimulator was used to deflect individual whiskers to assess the peak onset latency, magnitude, probability of response, and receptive field (RF) size. There was a predictable increase in the dominant ECoG frequency from deep stage IV to light stage III-1 anesthetic levels. There was no detectable frequency at stage IV, a 1- to 2-Hz dominant frequency at stage III-4, 3-4 Hz at stage III-3, 5-7 Hz at stage III-2, and a dual 6- and 10- to 13-Hz pattern at stage III-1. Reflexes and other physical signs showed a correlation with depth of anesthesia but exhibited too much overlap between stages to be used as a criterion for any single stage. RF size and peak onset latency of VPM neurons to whisker stimulations increased between stage III-4 and III-1. A dramatic increase in RF size and response latency occurred at the transition from stage III-3 (RF size approximately 2 whiskers, latency approximately 7 ms) to stage III-2 (RF size approximately 6 whiskers, latency approximately 11 ms). Response probability and magnitude decreased from stage III-4 to stage III-3 and III-2. No responses were ever evoked in VPM cells by vibrissa movement at stage IV. These changes in VPM responses as a function of anesthetic depth were seen only when the nucleus principalis (PrV) and nucleus interpolaris (SpVi) trigeminothalamic pathways were both intact. Eliminating SpVi inputs to VPM, either by cutting the primary trigeminal afferent fibers to SpVi or cutting axons projecting from SpVi to VPM, immediately reduced the RF size to fewer than three whiskers. In addition, the predictable changes in VPM response probability, response magnitude, and peak onset latency at different anesthetic depths were all absent after SpVi pathway interruption. We conclude that 1) the PrV input mediates the near &quot;one-to-one&quot; correspondence between a neuronal response in VPM and a single mystacial whisker, 2) in contrast, the SpVi input to VPM is primarily responsible for the RF properties of VPM neurons at light levels of anesthesia and presumably in the awake animal, and 3) alterations in VPM responses produced by changing the depth of anesthesia are due to its selective influence on the properties mediated by SpVi inputs at the level of the thalamus.
Contact-evoked changes in EMG activity during human grasp. 2215 Cutaneous receptors in the digits discharge bursts of activity on contact with an object during human grasp. In this study, we investigated the contribution of this sensory activity to the responses of muscles involved in the task. Twelve subjects performed a standardized precision grasp task without the aid of vision. Electromyographic (EMG) responses in trials when the object was present were compared with those in which the object, and hence the associated afferent responses, were unexpectedly absent. Significant differences in EMG amplitude occurred in the interval 50-100 ms after contact in all subjects and in 33/46 of the muscles sampled. The differences emerged as early as 34 ms after contact and comprised as much as a fourfold change in EMG from 50 to 100 ms after contact with the object. Typically, EMG responses were larger when the object was present (OP), though there were cases, particularly in the thenar muscles, in which the responses increased when the object was absent (OA). Local anesthesia of the thumb and index finger attenuated contact-evoked EMG activity in at least one muscle in all four subjects tested. In one subject, contact-evoked responses were abolished completely during the anesthesia in all four muscles sampled. The results indicate that the sensory activity signaling contact plays a key role in regulating EMG activity during human grasp. Much of this feedback action is attributable to cutaneous receptors in the digits and probably involves both spinal and supraspinal pathways.
Anatomic, intrinsic, and synaptic properties of dorsal and ventral division neurons in rat medial geniculate body. Presently little is known about what basic synaptic and cellular mechanisms are employed by thalamocortical neurons in the two main divisions of the auditory thalamus to elicit their distinct responses to sound. Using intracellular recording and labeling methods, we characterized anatomic features, membrane properties, and synaptic inputs of thalamocortical neurons in the dorsal (MGD) and ventral (MGV) divisions in brain slices of rat medial geniculate body. Quantitative analysis of dendritic morphology demonstrated that tufted neurons in both divisions had shorter dendrites, smaller dendritic tree areas, more profuse branching, and a greater dendritic polarization compared with stellate neurons, which were only found in MGD. Tufted neuron dendritic polarization was not as strong or consistent as earlier Golgi studies suggested. MGV and MGD cells had similar intrinsic properties except for an increased prevalence of a depolarizing sag potential in MGV neurons. The sag was the only intrinsic property correlated with cell morphology, seen only in tufted neurons in either division. Many MGV and MGD neurons received excitatory and inhibitory inferior colliculus (IC) inputs (designated IN/EX or EX/IN depending on excitation/inhibition sequence). However, a significant number only received excitatory inputs (EX/O) and a few only inhibitory (IN/O). Both MGV and MGD cells displayed similar proportions of response combinations, but suprathreshold EX/O responses only were observed in tufted neurons. Excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs and IPSPs) had multiple distinguishable amplitude levels implying convergence. Excitatory inputs activated alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors the relative contributions of which were variable. For IN/EX cells with suprathreshold inputs, first-spike timing was independent of membrane potential unlike that of EX/O cells. Stimulation of corticothalamic (CT) and thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) axons evoked a GABAA IPSP, EPSP, GABAB IPSP sequence in most neurons with both morphologies in both divisions. TRN IPSPs and CT EPSPs were graded in amplitude, again suggesting convergence. CT inputs activated AMPA and NMDA receptors. The NMDA component of both IC and CT inputs had an unusual voltage dependence with a detectable DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid-sensitive component even below -70 mV. First-spike latencies of CT evoked action potentials were sensitive to membrane potential regardless of whether the TRN IPSP was present. Overall, our in vitro data indicate that reported regional differences in the in vivo responses of MGV and MGD cells to auditory stimuli are not well correlated with major differences in intrinsic membrane features or synaptic responses between cell types.
We induced specific expectations of analgesia on four different parts of the body to understand how endogenous opioid systems are activated by expectancies. The left hand, right hand, left foot, and right foot were simultaneously stimulated by means of a subcutaneous injection of capsaicin, which produces a painful burning sensation. Specific expectations of analgesia were induced by applying a placebo cream on one of these body parts and by telling the subjects that it was a powerful local anesthetic. In such a way, expectancy of the anesthetic effect was directed only toward the part on which the placebo cream was applied. We found that a placebo analgesic response occurred only on the treated part, whereas no variation in pain sensitivity was found on the untreated parts. If the same experiment was performed after an intravenous infusion of the opioid antagonist naloxone, this highly spatial-specific placebo response was totally abolished, indicating that it was completely mediated by endogenous opioid systems. These findings show that a spatially directed expectation of pain reduction is capable of inducing a specific effect only on the part of the body which is the target of the expectation. Most important, this specific effect is mediated by endogenous opioids, indicating that placebo-activated opioids do not act on the entire body but only on the part where expectancy is directed. This suggests that a highly organized and somatotopic network of endogenous opioids links expectation, attention, and body schema.
The cytokine leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) modulates glial and neuronal function in development and after peripheral nerve injury, but little is known regarding its role in the injured adult CNS. To further understand the biological role of LIF and its potential mechanisms of action after CNS injury, effects of cellularly delivered LIF on axonal growth, glial activation, and expression of trophic factors were examined after adult mammalian spinal cord injury. Fibroblasts genetically modified to produce high amounts of LIF were grafted to the injured spinal cords of adult Fischer 344 rats. Two weeks after injury, animals with LIF-secreting cells showed a specific and significant increase in corticospinal axon growth compared with control animals. Furthermore, expression of neurotrophin-3, but not nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, glia cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, or ciliary neurotrophic factor, was increased at the lesion site in LIF-grafted but not in control subjects. No differences in astroglial and microglial/macrophage activation were observed. Thus, LIF can directly or indirectly modulate molecular and cellular responses of the adult CNS to injury. These findings also demonstrate that neurotrophic molecules can augment expression of other trophic factors in vivo after traumatic injury in the adult CNS.
Catecholamine neurotransmitters are synthesized by hydroxylation of tyrosine to L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-Dopa) by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). The elimination of TH in both pigmented and albino mice described here, like pigmented TH-null mice reported previously (Kobayashi et al., 1995; Zhou et al., 1995), demonstrates the unequivocal requirement for catecholamines during embryonic development. Although the lack of TH is fatal, TH-null embryos can be rescued by administration of catecholamine precursors to pregnant dams. Once born, TH-null pups can survive without further treatment until weaning. Given the relatively rapid half-life of catecholamines, we expected to find none in postnatal TH-null pups. Despite the fact that the TH-null pups lack TH and have not been supplemented with catecholamine precursers, catecholamines are readily detected in our pigmented line of TH-null mice by glyoxylic acid-induced histofluorescence at postnatal day 7 (P7) and P15 and quantitatively at P15 in sympathetically innervated peripheral organs, in sympathetic ganglia, in adrenal glands, and in brains. Between 2 and 22% of wild-type catecholamine concentrations are found in these tissues in mutant pigmented mice. To ascertain the source of the catecholamine, we examined postnatal TH-null albino mice that lack tyrosinase, another enzyme that converts tyrosine to L-Dopa but does so during melanin synthesis. In contrast to the pigmented TH-null mice, catecholamine histofluorescence is undetectable in postnatal albino mutants, and the catecholamine content of TH-null pups lacking tyrosinase is 18% or less than that of TH-null mice with tyrosinase. Thus, these extraordinary circumstances reveal that tyrosinase serves as an alternative pathway to supply catecholamines.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a survival factor for different classes of neurons, including gustatory neurons. We have studied innervation and development of the gustatory system in transgenic mice overexpressing BDNF under the control of regulatory sequences from the nestin gene, an intermediate filament gene expressed in precursor cells of the developing nervous system and muscle. In transgenic mice, the number and size of gustatory papillae were decreased, circumvallate papillae had a deranged morphology, and there was also a severe loss of lingual taste buds. Paradoxically, similar deficits have been found in BDNF knock-out mice, which lack gustatory neurons. However, the number of neurons in gustatory ganglia was increased in BDNF-overproducing mice. Although gustatory fibers reached the tongue in normal numbers, the amount and density of nerve fibers in gustatory papillae were reduced in transgenic mice compared with wild-type littermates. Gustatory fibers appeared stalled at the base of the tongue, a site of ectopic BDNF expression, where they formed abnormal branches and sprouts. Interestingly, palatal taste buds, which are innervated by gustatory neurons whose afferents do not traverse sites of ectopic BDNF expression, appeared unaffected. We suggest that lingual gustatory deficits in BDNF overexpressing mice are a consequence of the failure of their BDNF-dependent afferents to reach their targets because of the effects of ectopically expressed BDNF on fiber growth. Our findings suggest that mammalian taste buds and gustatory papillae require proper BDNF-dependent gustatory innervation for development and that the correct spatial expression of BDNF in the tongue epithelium is crucial for appropriate target invasion and innervation.
During pathfinding, growth cones respond to guidance cues by altering their motility. This study shows that motile responses can be highly specific: filopodial contact with two different, physiologically relevant cells differentially alters discrete elements of motility. With each cell type, the responses to contact are invariant. Each cell induces a distinct response in sensory growth cones with every filopodial contact. Contact with an inhibitory cell, posterior sclerotome, alters a discrete motile characteristic; contact locally inhibits the ability of veils to extend down contacting filopodia. The inhibition is precise. Contact fails to alter other individual veil characteristics such as initiation frequency or extension rate. Moreover, despite local veil inhibition, the general level of extension across the growth cone is retained, as though protrusive activity is regulated to some set point. Contact with a stimulatory cell, anterior sclerotome, elicits a biphasic response. First, contact stimulates extension generally, altering the set point of protrusion. Contact increases veils and filopodia throughout the growth cone persistently. Then contacting processes consolidate, forming neurite. Filopodia contacting either cell type have similar lifetimes but different fates. Filopodia contacting posterior cells show morphological indications of structural instability, likely related to their inability to support veil extension. Filopodia contacting anterior cells branch, become morphologically complex, and ultimately consolidate into neurite. The invariance and precision of these responses suggests they are the steering components elicited by contact. These steering components, when integrated with other motile events, modulate growth cone trajectory. The discreteness of these responses suggests that guidance cues affect equally discrete elements in signaling cascades.
Lurcher (Lc) is a gain-of-function mutation in the delta2 glutamate receptor gene that results in a large, constitutive inward current in the cerebellar Purkinje cells of +/Lc mice. +/Lc Purkinje cells fail to differentiate fully and die during postnatal development. In normal mice, interactions with granule cells promote Purkinje cell dendritic differentiation. Partial destruction of the granule cell population in young +/Lc mice by x irradiation resulted in a significant increase in Purkinje cell dendritic growth and improved cytoplasmic structure but did not prevent Purkinje cell death. These results indicate two components to Purkinje cell abnormalities in +/Lc mice: a retardation/blockade of dendritic development that is mediated by interactions with granule cells and the death of the cell. Thus, the normal trophic effects of granule cell interaction on Purkinje cell development are absent in the +/Lc cerebellum, suggesting that granule cells are powerful regulators of Purkinje cell differentiation.
Recent studies have shown that release of mitochondrial cytochrome c is a critical step in the apoptosis process. We have reported that cytosolic redistribution of cytochrome c in vivo occurred after transient focal cerebral ischemia (FCI) in rats and preceded the peak of DNA fragmentation. Although the involvement of reactive oxygen species in the cytosolic redistribution of cytochrome c in vitro has been suggested, the detailed mechanism by which cytochrome c release is mediated in vivo has not yet been established. Also, the role of mitochondrial oxidative stress in cytochrome c release is unknown. These issues can be addressed using knock-out mutants that are deficient in the level of the mitochondrial antioxidant manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD). In this study we examined the subcellular distribution of the cytochrome c protein in both wild-type mice and heterozygous knock-outs of the Mn-SOD gene (Sod2 -/+) after permanent FCI, in which apoptosis is assumed to participate. Cytosolic cytochrome c was detected as early as 1 hr after ischemia, and correspondingly, mitochondrial cytochrome c showed a significant reduction 2 hr after ischemia (p &lt; 0.01). Cytosolic accumulation of cytochrome c was significantly higher in Sod2 -/+ mice compared with wild-type animals (p &lt; 0.05). N-benzyloxycarbonyl-val-ala-asp-fluoromethyl ketone (z-VAD.FMK), a nonselective caspase inhibitor, did not affect cytochrome c release after ischemia. A significant amount of DNA laddering was detected 24 hr after ischemia and increased in Sod2 -/+ mice. These data suggest that Mn-SOD blocks cytosolic release of cytochrome c and could thereby reduce apoptosis after permanent FCI.
Hormones and neurotransmitters have both short-term and long-term modulatory effects on the activity of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. Although much is known about the signal transduction underlying short-term modulation, there is far less information on mechanisms that produce long-term effects. Here, the molecular basis of long-lasting suppression of Ca2+ channel current in pituitary melanotropes by chronic dopamine exposure is examined. Experiments involving in vivo and in vitro treatments with the dopaminergic drugs haloperidol, bromocriptine, and quinpirole show that D2 receptors persistently decrease alpha1D L-type Ca2+ channel mRNA and L-type Ca2+ channel current without altering channel gating properties. In contrast, another L-channel (alpha1C) mRNA and P/Q-channel (alpha1A) mRNA are unaffected. The downregulation of alpha1D mRNA does not require decreases in cAMP levels or P/Q-channel activity. However, it is mimicked and occluded by inhibition of L-type channels. Thus, interruption of the positive feedback between L-type Ca2+ channel activity and alpha1D gene expression can account for the long-lasting regulation of L-current produced by chronic activation of D2 dopamine receptors.
We developed a novel system, for tracking a freely moving object (animal) in a limited 3D space, based on a closed loop TV and PC. Instead of using a pair of TV cameras to capture the 3D scene through the pair of its orthogonal projections, the system captures these projections by using a single TV camera. The direct view of the scene (e.g. its ground plan, i.e. projection onto the x-y plane) is captured together with its side projection, (i.e. projection onto the z-x plane) observed in a slanted mirror. The system uses a simple detection algorithm and hardware that were originally developed for 2D tracking of a single, contrast object on a stable and homogeneous background. All three coordinates of the tracked object are evaluated, displayed and stored in real-time, at 25 interlaced frames (samples) per second. The system was implemented on an IBM PC enhanced by an universal I/O board (Kaminsky, Yu, Krekule, I. Universal multifunctional IBM PC I/O board for clinical examinations and experimental research in neuroscience. Physiol Res 1994;43:193-199) and tested by tracking a LED marker, a small living fish in a water tank and a pair of LED markers which were activated one at the time in alternating TV frames thereby demonstrating the ability to simultaneously track two or more objects in 3D.
Previous results from our laboratory showed that monkey amniotic epithelial cells (MAEC) possess the catecholamine synthesizing enzymes and have the capacity to synthesize and release CA. Recently, we also reported that these cells express dopamine D1 receptor mRNA and binding sites. This study was designed to investigate the presence of dopamine D2 receptors in MAEC. Using RT-PCR, we found that MAEC express dopamine D2 receptor mRNA that is having 98% homology with human dopamine D2 receptors. Radioligand saturation binding studies showed a 3H-YM-09151-2 high-affinity binding site with a K(D) of 0.293+/-0.06 nM and Bmax of 180.69+/-11.61 fmol/mg protein. Competition experiments with a variety of displacing drugs demonstrated that D2 antagonists potently compete with 3H-YM-09151-2 binding, whereas D1 antagonists displayed a weaker competition for the binding sites. The rank order of potency of these compounds in competing with 3H-YM-09151-2 for binding sites was consistent with the pharmacology of the dopamine D2 receptors. All competition curves were better fitted to a one-site model with a Hill coefficient around unity, indicating that 3H-YM-09151-2 is labeling a single population of receptors. These results provide, for the first time, a compelling evidence that MAEC natively express dopamine D2 receptor mRNA and binding sites, and they suggest that monkey amniotic epithelial cells (MAEC) could represent a source of primate dopamine receptors without the need for transformation or cloning procedures using nonprimate cells, as generally happens.

An extremely unusual calvarial meningioma in a 77-year-old woman is reported. The meningioma spread widely and symmetrically within the calvaria and grew extracranially within the scalp as well as intracranially. Reactive dural hyperplasia induced narrowing of the intracranial space and occlusion of the superior sagittal sinus, resulting in intracranial hypertension. After external decompression, the patient's symptoms markedly resolved. The authors review the literature on calvarial meningioma, discuss its pathogenesis, and propose mechanisms responsible for the patient's intracranial hypertension.

Several mechanisms are involved in the development of secondary ischemic brain damage, including microthrombi formation, which is thought to play a prominent role. Ninety-four autopsy cases were macro- and microscopically examined by specific staining for fibrin, 74 of which showed cortical contusion after a craniocerebral trauma. Twenty cases with no neurological pathology were used as controls. Traumatic cases comprised 52 males and 22 females, with a mean age of 48 years; most cases died in the first 48 h. The total number of fibrinous microthrombi in a slice of each hemisphere was determined. The mean number of microthrombi found in contused hemisphere was 152 (37-283), with 88 in the contralateral hemisphere (21-139) as compared to 13 (0-27) in control cases. Differences were statistically significant. Globular microthrombi or &quot;shock bodies&quot; (2-60 micro diameter) were present in five cases. Enhanced presence of microthrombi in contused brain areas, higher incidence in young people, an increase in the amount of microthrombi up to the 9th day after injury and involvement of the contralateral hemisphere free of contusion foci were all demonstrated. Microthrombi would therefore seem to be one of the central secondary events after brain trauma to bear in mind when designing treatment strategies.


The stimulation of food consumption after i.c.v. administration of various neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor agonists was examined in CD-1 mice. These agonists, including endogenous peptides NPY, peptide YY (PYY), and pancreatic polypeptide, as well as several N-terminal truncated and synthetic peptides that are prototypic receptor agonists at Y1-Y6 NPY receptors ([Leu31Pro34]NPY, NPY2-36, NPY3-36, NPY13-36, PYY3-36, Pro34PYY, and D-Trp32NPY), showed varying abilities to elicit food consumption such that PYY &gt; NPY2-36 = NPY = PYY3-36 &gt; Pro34PYY &gt; NPY3-36 &gt; [Leu31Pro34]NPY &gt; NPY13-36 = D-Trp32NPY = pancreatic polypeptide. Published reports have suggested that NPY-induced feeding is mediated via the Y1 or the Y5 receptor subtypes. However, the relative ability of the various peptide analogs to elicit feeding differed from the relative ability of these peptides to bind to cloned Y1-Y6 receptors. The effects of prototypic Y1 receptor antagonists on NPY-induced feeding were also evaluated after i.c.v. administration. GR231118 (1229U91), a peptide Y1 antagonist, did not block NPY-induced feeding at the doses tested. BIBP3226, a nonpeptide Y1 receptor antagonist, as well as its opposite enantiomer, BIBP3435, which is inactive at Y1 receptors, blocked feeding elicited by NPY, [Leu31Pro34], or PYY at doses that did not cause overt behavioral dysfunction. The lack of effects with GR231118 and the nonstereoselective effects of BIBP3226 suggested that NPY-induced feeding in mice was not mediated via the Y1 receptor. Thus, by using currently available prototypic peptide NPY receptor agonists for Y1-Y6 receptors and peptide and nonpeptide Y1 receptor antagonists GR231118 and BIBP3226, the mediation of NPY-induced feeding cannot be unequivocally attributed to any one of the known NPY receptors. It is possible that NPY-induced feeding is mediated either by a combination of more than one NPY receptor subtype or by a unique NPY receptor subtype. Additional subtype-selective receptor antagonists, when available, will help to clarify this issue further.
The stimulation of the periaqueductal gray (PAG) produces behavioral analgesia in rats, cats, monkeys, and humans. This analgesia is believed to be mediated by several neurotransmitter systems, including the serotonergic, noradrenergic, glycinergic, gamma-aminobutyric acidergic, and opiatergic systems. The present study was designed to determine whether PAG stimulation produces the release of serotonin (5-HT), norepinephrine (NE), Gly, and gamma-aminobutyric acid in the spinal cord dorsal horn and whether the release of these neurotransmitters by PAG stimulation is associated with a long-lasting inhibition of the evoked nociceptive responses of dorsal horn neurons. The effect of different frequencies of stimuli on the release of neurotransmitters in the spinal cord was also examined. Microdialysis in combination with HPLC was used to measure the concentrations of neurotransmitters in the lumbar dorsal horn before, during, and after electrical stimulation of the PAG. The PAG was stimulated with electrical pulses at 333 Hz first and then at 67 Hz with the same intensity for 27 min, respectively. Both stimulus frequencies produced a significant increase in the release of 5-HT, NE, Gly, and Asp in the spinal dialysate, but the low-frequency stimulus was more potent in causing the release of neurotransmitters. Low-frequency stimulation also significantly increased the release of Glu. The time course of inhibition of dorsal horn neurons induced by long-lasting PAG stimulation corresponded to the time course of neurotransmitter release. Therefore, the results suggest that the long-lasting inhibition induced by PAG stimulation is mediated in part by the release of 5-HT, NE, and inhibitory amino acids in the spinal cord.
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is commonly used for relief of pain. The literature on the clinical application of TENS is extensive. However, surprisingly few reports have addressed the neurophysiological basis for the actions of TENS. The gate control theory of pain is typically used to explain the actions of high-frequency TENS, whereas, low-frequency TENS is typically explained by release of endogenous opioids. The current study investigated the role of mu, delta, and kappa opioid receptors in antihyperalgesia produced by low- and high-frequency TENS by using an animal model of inflammation. Antagonists to mu (naloxone), delta (naltrinodole), or kappa (nor-binaltorphimine) opioid receptors were delivered to the spinal cord by microdialysis. Joint inflammation was induced by injection of kaolin and carrageenan into the knee-joint cavity. Withdrawal latency to heat was assessed before inflammation, during inflammation, after drug (or artificial cerebral spinal fluid as a control) administration, and after drug (or artificial cerebral spinal fluid) administration + TENS. Either high- (100 Hz) or low- frequency (4 Hz) TENS produced approximately 100% inhibition of hyperalgesia. Low doses of naloxone, selective for mu opioid receptors, blocked the antihyperalgesia produced by low-frequency TENS. High doses of naloxone, which also block delta and kappa opioid receptors, prevented the antihyperalgesia produced by high-frequency TENS. Spinal blockade of delta opioid receptors dose-dependently prevented the antihyperalgesia produced by high-frequency TENS. In contrast, blockade of kappa opioid receptors had no effect on the antihyperalgesia produced by either low- or high-frequency TENS. Thus, low-frequency TENS produces antihyperalgesia through mu opioid receptors and high-frequency TENS produces antihyperalgesia through delta opioid receptors in the spinal cord.
Alcohol and tobacco use is highly correlated in humans, and studies with animal models suggest an interaction of alcohol with neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). The aim of the present study was to characterize the effect of acute ethanol treatment on different combinations of human nAChR (hnAChR) subunits expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Ethanol (75 mM) potentiated ACh-induced currents in alpha2beta4, alpha4beta4, alpha2beta2, and alpha4beta2 receptors. This effect was due to an increase in Emax, without a change in the EC50 or Hill coefficient. hnAChR alpha2beta4 did not develop tolerance to repeated applications of ethanol or continuous exposure (10 min). The alpha3beta2 and alpha3beta4 combinations were insensitive to ethanol. Low concentrations of ethanol (25 and 50 mM) significantly inhibited homomeric alpha7 receptor function, but these receptors showed highly variable responses to ethanol. These results indicate that ethanol effects on hnAChRs depend on the receptor subunit composition. In light of recent evidence indicating that nAChRs mediate and modulate synaptic transmission in the central nervous system, we postulate that acute intoxication might involve ethanol-induced alterations in the function of these receptors.
Convulsions associated with cocaine abuse can be life threatening and resistant to standard emergency treatment. Cocaine (75 mg/kg, i. p.) produced clonic convulsions in approximately 90% of male, Swiss-Webster mice. A variety of clinically used antiepileptic agents did not significantly protect against cocaine convulsions (e. g., diazepam and phenobarbital). Anticonvulsants in clinical practice that did significantly protect against convulsion did so only at doses with significant sedative/ataxic effects (e.g., clonazepam and valproic acid). In contrast, functional N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists all produced dose-dependent and significant protection against the convulsant effects of cocaine. Anticonvulsant efficacy was achieved by blockade of both competitive and noncompetitive modulatory sites on the NMDA receptor complex. Thus, competitive antagonists, ion-channel blockers, polyamine antagonists, and functional blockers of the strychnine-insensitive glycine modulatory site all prevented cocaine seizures. The role of NMDA receptors in the control of cocaine-induced convulsions was further strengthened by the positive correlation between the potencies of noncompetititve antagonists or competitive antagonists to block convulsions and their respective affinities for their specific binding sites on the NMDA receptor complex. Although some NMDA blockers produced profound behavioral side effects at efficacious doses (e.g., noncompetitive antagonists), others (e.g., some low-affinity channel blockers, some competitive antagonists, and glycine antagonists) demonstrated significant and favorable separation between their anticonvulsant and side effect profiles. The present results provide the most extensive evidence to date identifying NMDA receptor blockade as a potential strategy for the discovery of agents for clinical use in averting toxic sequelae from cocaine overdose. Given the literature suggesting a role for these drugs in other areas of drug abuse treatments, NMDA receptor antagonists sit in a unique position as potential therapeutic candidates.
The gigantocellular depressor area (GiDA) is a functionally defined subdivision of the medullary gigantocellular reticular formation where vasodepressor responses are evoked by glutamate nanoinjections. The GiDA also contains reticulospinal neurons that contain the alpha2A-adrenergic receptor (alpha2A-AR). In the present study, we sought to determine whether nanoinjections of the alpha2-AR agonist clonidine into the GiDA evoke cardiovascular responses and whether these responses can be attributed to the alpha2-AR. We found that nanoinjections of clonidine into the GiDA evoke dose-dependent decreases in arterial pressure and heart rate. These responses were equivalent in magnitude to responses produced by clonidine nanoinjections into the sympathoexcitatory region of the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Furthermore, the vasodepressor and bradycardic responses produced by clonidine injections into the GiDA were blocked in a dose-dependent fashion by the highly selective alpha2-AR antagonist 2-methoxyidazoxan, but not by prazosin, which is an antagonist at both the alpha1-AR and the 2B subtype of the alpha-AR. The antagonism by 2-methoxyidazoxan was site specific because injections of the antagonist into the rostral ventrolateral medulla failed to block the responses evoked by clonidine injections into the GiDA. These findings support the notion that clonidine produces sympathoinhibition through multiple sites within the medullary reticular formation, which is consistent with the wide distribution of the alpha2A-AR in reticulospinal neurons. These data also suggest that clonidine may have multiple mechanisms of action because it evokes a cardiovascular depressive response from regions containing neurons that have been determined to be both sympathoinhibitory and sympathoexcitatory.
1. If a purpose of photostasis - absorption of a constant number of photons by the retina, regardless of incident light levels - is to maintain rods at saturation during the light period, then in retinal regions where light intensity is low, rhodopsin concentration should be high, and vice versa. 2. Our ocular transmission photometric measurements revealed that the distribution of light intensity across the rat retina was not as simple as had been thought and, furthermore, that the local concentration of rhodopsin had a high negative correlation with the light intensity. 3. The reciprocity between these two parameters leads to nearly uniform rates of photon absorption in rods across the retina.
1. Molecular and biophysical properties of GABAA receptors of dopaminergic (DA) neurones of the pars compacta of the rat substantia nigra were studied in slices and after acute dissociation. 2. Single-cell reverse transcriptase-multiplex polymerase chain reaction confirmed that DA neurones contained mRNAs encoding for the alpha3 subunit of the GABAA receptor, but further showed the presence of alpha4 subunit mRNAs. alpha2, beta1 and gamma1 subunit mRNAs were never detected. Overall, DA neurones present a pattern of expression of GABAA receptor subunit mRNAs containing mainly alpha3/4beta2/3gamma3. 3. Outside-out patches were excised from DA neurones and GABAA single-channel patch-clamp currents were recorded under low doses (1-5 microM) of GABA or isoguvacine, a selective GABAA agonist. Recordings presented several conductance levels which appeared to be integer multiples of an elementary conductance of 4-5 pS. This property was shared by GABAA receptors of cerebellar Purkinje neurones recorded in slices (however, with an elementary conductance of 3 pS). Only the 5-6 lowest levels were analysed. 4. A progressive change in the distribution of occupancy of these levels was observed when increasing the isoguvacine concentration (up to 10 microM) as well as when adding zolpidem (20-200 nM), a drug acting at the benzodiazepine binding site: both treatments enlarged the occupancy of the highest conductance levels, while decreasing that of the smallest ones. Conversely, Zn2+ (10 microM), a negative allosteric modulator of GABAA receptor channels, decreased the occupancy of the highest levels in favour of the lowest ones. 5. These properties of alpha3/4beta2/3gamma3-containing GABAA receptors would support the hypothesis of either single GABAA receptor channels with multiple open states or that of a synchronous recruitment of GABAA receptor channels that could involve their clustering in the membranes of DA neurones.
1. We performed single channel analysis on human alpha3 acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) in Xenopus oocytes and native AChRs from the human neuroblastoma cell line IMR-32. alpha3 AChRs exhibit channel properties that reflect subunit composition. 2. alpha3beta2 AChR open times were 0.71 +/- 0.14 and 3.5 +/- 0.4 ms with a predominant conductance of 26 pS. alpha3beta4 AChRs had open times of 1.4 +/- 0.2 and 6.5 +/- 0.8 ms and a predominant conductance of 31 pS. Burst times were 0.82 +/- 0.12 and 5.3 +/- 0.7 ms for alpha3beta2 and 1.7 +/- 0.1 and 16 +/- 1 ms for alpha3beta4. Desensitization was faster for AChRs with the beta2 subunit than for those with the beta4 subunit. 3. One open time for alpha3alpha5beta2 AChRs (5.5 +/- 0.3 ms) was different from those of alpha3beta2 AChRs. For alpha3alpha5beta4 AChRs, an additional conductance, open time and burst time (36 pS, 22 +/- 3 ms and 43 +/- 4 ms, respectively) were different from those for alpha3beta4 AChRs. 4. alpha3 AChRs were inhibited by hexamethonium or mecamylamine. The rate constants for block of alpha3beta4 by hexamethonium and of alpha3beta2 by mecamylamine were 1.2 x 107 and 4.6 x 107 M-1 s-1, respectively. 5. AChRs from IMR-32 cells had a predominant conductance of 32 pS and open times of 1.5 +/- 0.3 and 9.6 +/- 1.2 ms. These properties were most similar to those of alpha3beta4 AChRs expressed in oocytes. Antibodies revealed that 5 +/- 2 % of IMR-32 alpha3 AChRs contained alpha5 subunits and 6 +/- 2 % contained beta2 subunits. IMR-32 alpha3 AChRs are primarily alpha3beta4 AChRs.
Application of the glutamate agonists alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionate (AMPA, 5-10 microM), or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA, 50-100 microM) to the turtle spinal cord produced fictive hindlimb motor patterns in low-spinal immobilized animals (in vivo) and in isolated spinal cord-hindlimb nerve preparations (in vitro). For in vivo experiments, drugs were applied onto the dorsal surface of 2-4 adjacent spinal cord segments in and near the anterior hindlimb enlargement. Motor output was recorded unilaterally or bilaterally from hindlimb muscle nerves. AMPA elicited vigorous motor patterns in vivo that included strict hip flexor-extensor and right-left alternation. In most turtles, the monoarticular knee extensor nerve FT-KE was active during the HE phase of AMPA evoked burst cycles, similar to the timing of pocket scratch motor patterns. NMDA was less effective in vivo, typically producing only weak and irregular bursting from hip nerves and little or no knee extensor (KE) discharge. Sensory stimulation of a rostral scratch reflex in vivo could reset an ongoing AMPA-evoked motor rhythm, indicating that cutaneous reflex pathways interact centrally with the chemically activated rhythm generator. Most in vitro preparations consisted of six segments of spinal cord, including the entire 5-segment hindlimb enlargement (D8-S2) and the segment immediately anterior to the enlargement (D7), with attached hindlimb nerves. In contrast to in vivo experiments, in vitro preparations exhibited highly regular, long-lasting motor rhythms when NMDA was superfused over the spinal cord. AMPA also produced rhythmic motor patterns in vitro, but these lasted only a few minutes before they were replaced with tonic discharge. FT-KE timing during in vitro chemically elicited activity was similar to that of sensory-evoked pocket scratch motor patterns. Some NMDA-evoked rhythmicity persisted even in 3-segment (D6-D8) and 1-segment (D8) in vitro preparations, demonstrating that neural mechanisms for chemically activated rhythmogenesis reside even in a single segment of the hindlimb enlargement.



Neurotrophic factors participate in both developmental and adult synaptic plasticity; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. Using soma-soma synapses between the identified Lymnaea neurons, we demonstrate that the brain conditioned medium (CM)-derived trophic factors are required for the formation of excitatory but not the inhibitory synapse. Specifically, identified presynaptic [right pedal dorsal 1 (RPeD1) and visceral dorsal 4 (VD4)] and postsynaptic [visceral dorsal 2/3 (VD2/3) and left pedal dorsal 1 (LPeD1)] neurons were soma-soma paired either in the absence or presence of CM. We show that in defined medium (DM-does not contain extrinsic trophic factors), appropriate excitatory synapses failed to develop between RPeD1 and VD2/3. Instead, inappropriate inhibitory synapses formed between VD2/3 and RPeD1. Similarly, mutual inhibitory synapses developed between VD4 and LPeD1 in DM. These inhibitory synapses were termed novel because they do not exist in the intact brain. To test whether DM-induced, inappropriate inhibitory synapses could be corrected by the addition of CM, cells were first paired in DM for an initial period of 12 hr. DM was then replaced with CM, and simultaneous intracellular recordings were made from paired cells after 6-12 hr of CM substitution. Not only did CM induce the formation of appropriate excitatory synapses between both cell pairs, but it also reduced the incidence of inappropriate inhibitory synapse formation. The CM-induced plasticity of synaptic connections involved new protein synthesis and transcription and was mediated via receptor tyrosine kinases. Taken together, our data provide the first direct insight into the cellular mechanism underlying trophic factor-induced specificity and plasticity of synaptic connections between soma-soma paired Lymnaea neurons.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been shown to promote synapse formation and maturation in neurons of many brain regions, including inhibitory synapses. In the cerebellum, the Golgi cell-granule cell GABAergic synaptic responses undergo developmental transition from slow-decaying to fast-decaying kinetics, which parallels a developmental increase of GABA(A) receptor alpha6 subunit expression in the cerebellar granule cells. In culture, BDNF accelerates the expression of GABA(A) receptor alpha6 subunit expression in granule cells. Here we examined synaptic GABA(A) response kinetics in BDNF transgenic mice. The mutant mouse, which carries a BDNF transgene driven by a beta-actin promoter, overexpresses BDNF (two- to fivefold increase compared with wild types) in all brain regions. Recordings of the spontaneous GABA(A) responses indicate that the decay time constant of the GABAergic responses decreases during early postnatal development; this transition is accelerated in the BDNF transgenic mouse. The amplitude of the spontaneous GABA(A) responses was also larger in the transgenic mouse than in the wild-type mouse. However, the frequency of the spontaneous GABA(A) responses were not different between the two groups. Our results suggest that BDNF may modulate GABAergic synapse maturation in the cerebellum.
Blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) contrast MRI is a simple non-invasive method of estimating &quot;perfusion,&quot; and combined with a vasodilatory stimulus, may allow estimation of cerebral vascular reserve. We compared BOLD carbon dioxide (CO2) reactivity in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) perfusion territory to MCA flow velocity reactivity determined using transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) in 16 patients with unilateral carotid artery stenosis or occlusion. Both BOLD and TCD reactivities were calculated from measurements acquired when the subjects were breathing air, and again when breathing a 6% CO2/air mixture, and were normalized by dividing by the difference in end tidal (ET) CO2. There was a significant correlation between interhemispheric MCA reactivity difference (contralateral-ipsilateral to the stenosis or occlusion) determined by BOLD MRI and TCD (r = 0.75, p &lt; 0.001). In contrast, treating each hemisphere individually, there was no correlation between the absolute BOLD and TCD MCA CO2 reactivities (r = 0.08, p = 0.670). This appeared to be due to a variable BOLD signal change in the non-stenosed hemisphere between subjects, with little change in the normal hemisphere of a few subjects. In one patient, focal regions of reduced reactivity were seen in non-infarcted regions of the stenosed hemisphere, in the borderzones between arterial territories. BOLD reactivity maps provide information on the whole MCA territory reactivity, and may identify small regions of impaired reactivity which are not detected using TCD. However, BOLD reactivity maps only appear to provide semi-quantitative rather than quantitative data.
The application of T2*-weighted gradient and spin-echo (GRASE) imaging was investigated as a method for blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD)-based functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The displaced-echo method was implemented to produce single-shot T2*-weighted GRASE images. This technique removes the requirement that the Carr-Purcell Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) condition be fulfilled. T2*-weighted GRASE images that are free from interference artifacts can thus be obtained, hence allowing the possibility of using single-shot GRASE for BOLD-based functional imaging. The method was demonstrated at 3 T and gave robust and reproducible activation-induced signal changes.
Barbiturate dependence is associated with the development of physiological dependence (withdrawal), tolerance, or a maladaptive pattern of drug use. Analysis of strain and individual differences with animal models for physiological dependence liability are useful means to identify potential genetic determinants of liability in humans. Behavioral and quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping analyses were conducted with mice that are resistant versus sensitive to pentobarbital withdrawal. With a multistage genetic mapping strategy, a pentobarbital withdrawal QTL (Pbw1) was mapped to the distal region of mouse Chromosome (Chr) 1 and may be identical to an alcohol withdrawal QTL mapped to this chromosomal region. Two suggestive QTLs for pentobarbital withdrawal, both in proximity to QTLs definitely mapped for alcohol withdrawal, were also tentatively identified. These were on Chr 11 in proximity to a gene cluster including several members of the GABAA receptor gene family, and on Chr 4 near a locus associated with beta-carboline-induced seizure severity. These data represent the first detection and mapping of loci influencing risk for physiological dependence on barbiturates, and suggest the involvement of common genes in physiological dependence on pentobarbital and alcohol.
John Hughlings Jackson described the system-level organization of the nervous system in terms of functional-control relations between neural centers. His model emphasized hierarchical organization along a rostral-caudal dimension, with applications primarily to cases of clinical disorders such as epilepsy and motor paralysis. This paper outlines a new systems-level model of brain function, updating Jackson's original idea to account for all three orientations of body/brain organization, and additional, non-hierarchical types of relations. The approach may provide a powerful tool for addressing many aspects of human brain and behavior, ranging from normal characteristics (such as individual differences and gender differences), to cases of frank neurological injury, to other conditions, such as hyperactivity and chronic pain, conventionally considered as 'neurologically silent'.
Both semantic and syntactic context constraints can influence word processing at the level of lexical integration. In event-related brain potentials (ERPs), semantic integration is reflected by a negativity around 400 msec (N400), whereas phrase structure assignment and syntactic integration are assumed to be reflected by an early left anterior negativity and a late positivity (P600), respectively. An ERP study is presented in which participants read different types of sentences whose terminal verb was either congruent with the preceding context or incongruent due to a phrase structure violation, a semantic violation, or both. The main finding was that only the pure semantic violation condition, but not the combined semantic and syntactic violation condition, elicited a large N400. The two conditions containing phrase structure violations were predominantly characterized by a P600. Both semantic violation conditions, moreover, displayed a late negativity around 700 msec that overlapped with the P600 in the double violation condition. The absence of an N400 effect for elements that are syntactically as well as semantically incongruent with prior context suggests an early influence of phrase structure information on processes of lexical-semantic integration. The present data are discussed in comparison to previous ERP findings, and a new view of lexical integration processes is proposed.
Several distinct classes of proteins positively regulate axonal growth; some of these are known to activate the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling cascade, at least in nonneuronal cells. We have found that N-cadherin, as well as laminin (LN) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), can activate ERK in embryonic chick retinal neurons. Additionally, adhesion of retinal neurons to LN or N-cadherin substrates induced a redistribution of ERK from the cytoplasm toward the plasma membrane. Neurite outgrowth induced by bFGF, LN, or N-cadherin was strongly inhibited by treatment with inhibitors of ERK kinase activation, but not by an inhibitor of p38 MAPK. We conclude (1) that N-cadherin and LN can activate ERK in retinal neurons and (2) that activation of ERK is required for full neurite outgrowth induced by these proteins. Our results suggest that ERK activation is one point of convergence for signaling pathways generated by a variety of axon growth inducers.
The density of striatal dopamine D2 receptors has been shown to vary considerably among healthy subjects. This variability might be due to genetic or environmental factors. In the present analysis we searched for relationships between dopamine D2 receptor gene (DRD2) polymorphisms and striatal dopamine D2 receptor density in vivo, as measured by positron emission tomography and [11C]raclopride in 56 healthy subjects. There was a significant association between presence of a putative functional DRD2 promoter allele (-141C Del) and high striatal dopamine receptor density (t= 2.32, P= 0.02). In agreement with some previous studies the presence of the DRD2 TaqIA1 allele was associated with measures of low dopamine receptor density (t=2.58, P=0.01). Also the DRD2 TaqIB1 allele was associated with low dopamine receptor density (t= 2.58, P= 0.01) wheras there was no significant relationship between another common silent intronic DRD2 short tandem repeat polymorphism (STRP) and striatal dopamine D2 receptor density. The results suggest that DRD2 genotypes may participate differentially in the regulation of striatal dopamine D2 receptor density in healthy human subjects. The results should be interpreted with caution because of the limited sample size.
Drug-induced dyskinesias (DID) manifested as hyperkinetic and/or dystonic movements or postures are common problems in Parkinson's disease (PD). Novel therapeutic interventions may offer possibilities to counteract these common adverse effects of an otherwise necessary treatment. To be able to evaluate the effects of such interventions on DID, reliable and relevant clinical assessment tools are needed. We tested the inter- and intrarater reliability of a new clinical dyskinesia rating scale consisting of separate ratings of different body parts, including lateralization and separate ratings of dystonia and hyperkinesias. Interrater reliability was tested both with and without a defined scoring code and clarification of the dystonia section. The nondefined version was also tested for intrarater reliability. Thirteen raters independently reviewed 23 videotape sequences showing PD patients performing standardized motor tests. Inter- and intrarater agreement was significant in all evaluations, and no differences were detected when comparing ratings performed with the defined and nondefined version of the scale. The rationale for, and the role and use of, the present scale are addressed.
We established an efficient method for obtaining expression of a foreign marker gene transferred in vitro into myoblasts and in vivo into adult mouse skeletal muscles using adenovirus vector. After infection of the C2 myoblasts with the adenovirus vector containing the beta-actin promoter with cytomegalovirus (CMV) enhancer (CAG promoter) AxCALacZ, significantly greater number of cells express beta-galactosidase when compared with the adenovirus vector expressing the lacZ gene under the control of the SR alpha viral terminal repeat promoter (AxSRLacZL) or the myosin heavy chain (MHC) IIB promoter (AxMHCLacZ). We also injected AxCALacZ into the skeletal muscles of 5- to 6-week-old C57BL/10 mice and determined that more than 60% of their muscle fibers expressed the lacZ gene 7 days after injection. The CAG promoter may have application in the development of gene therapy for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) using adenovirus vector.
Familial Alzheimer disease mutations of presenilin 1 (PS-1) enhance the generation of A beta1-42, indicating that PS-1 is involved in amyloidogenesis. However, PS-1 transgenic mice have failed to show amyloid plaques in their brains. Because PS-1 mutations facilitate apoptotic neuronal death in vitro, we did careful quantitative studies in PS-1 transgenic mice and found that neurodegeneration was significantly accelerated in mice older than 13 months (aged mice) with familial Alzheimer disease mutant PS-1, without amyloid plaque formation. However, there were significantly more neurons containing intracellularly deposited A beta42 in aged mutant transgenic mice. Our data indicate that the pathogenic role of the PS-1 mutation is upstream of the amyloid cascade.
The basal ganglia are a highly interconnected network of nuclei essential for the modulation and execution of voluntary behavior. The neostriatum is the principal input and one of the principal controllers of the output of the basal ganglia. Neostriatal projection neurons seem to be dynamically and powerfully controlled by GABAergic inputs, but the source(s) and physiological properties of these inputs remain unclear. Here we use paired whole-cell recordings to show that this inhibition derives from small populations of GABAergic interneurons that are themselves interconnected through functional electrotonic synapses. Inhibitory synaptic potentials generated from single interneurons are sufficiently powerful to delay or entirely block the generation of action potentials in a large number of projection neurons simultaneously.

Stimuli outside classical receptive fields have been shown to exert a significant influence over the activities of neurons in the primary visual cortex. We propose that contextual influences are used for pre-attentive visual segmentation. The difference between contextual influences near and far from region boundaries makes neural activities near region boundaries higher than elsewhere, making boundaries more salient for perceptual pop-out. The cortex thus computes global region boundaries by detecting the breakdown of homogeneity or translation invariance in the input, using local intra-cortical interactions mediated by the horizontal connections. This proposal is implemented in a biologically based model of V1, and demonstrated using examples of texture segmentation and figure-ground segregation. The model is also the first that performs texture or region segmentation in exactly the same neural circuit that solves the dual problem of the enhancement of contours, as is suggested by experimental observations. The computational framework in this model is simpler than previous approaches, making it implementable by V1 mechanisms, though higher-level visual mechanisms are needed to refine its output. However, it easily handles a class of segmentation problems that are known to be tricky. Its behaviour is compared with psycho-physical and physiological data on segmentation, contour enhancement, contextual influences and other phenomena such as asymmetry in visual search.
The immunotoxin 192-saporin, infused intracerebroventricularly into rats, destroys cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain nuclei. Doses required for complete cholinergic loss also kill some Purkinje cells. The immunotoxin OX7-saporin, when infused intraventricularly into rats, destroys Purkinje cells in a pattern similar to that produced by 192-saporin, without affecting cholinergic neurons. Thus, we used OX7-saporin to distinguish behavioral effects of 192-saporin due to cerebellar damage versus those due to cholinergic cell loss. Three doses of 192-saporin (1.6, 2.6, and 3.3 micrograms/rat) were chosen along with a dose of OX7-saporin (2.0 micrograms/rat) that produced Purkinje loss equivalent to the two highest doses of 192-saporin. Groups of Fischer-344 rats were trained in the multiple choice reaction time task and retested with more complex tasks after lesioning. They were also tested in the water maze, passive avoidance, acoustic startle, and open field. The OX7-saporin group exhibited changes in many tests suggesting hypermotility and sensory deficits. The 192-saporin groups differed from the OX7-saporin group when they displayed deficits in multiple choice reaction time tasks in which novel challenges were introduced, including sessions with a noise distractor, shortened and lengthened intertrial intervals, and use of nine instead of five sources of light stimulus. The 192-saporin groups showed no impairment in the other tasks. The cholinergic basal forebrain lesion may mask some of the effects of cerebellar damage up to a threshold after which effects of Purkinje cell loss predominate when 192-saporin is administered intraventricularly.
The positive allosteric effects of four structurally distinct general anaesthetics (propofol, pentobarbitone, etomidate and 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one [5alpha3alpha]) upon recombinant GABA(A) (alpha6beta3gamma2L), invertebrate GABA (RDL) and glycine (alpha1) receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes have been determined. Propofol and pentobarbitone enhanced agonist (GABA or glycine as appropriate) evoked currents at GABA(A), glycine, and RDL receptors, whereas etomidate and 5alpha3alpha were highly selective for the GABA(A) receptor. Utilizing site-directed mutagenesis, we demonstrate that the nature of the interaction of propofol, pentobarbitone and etomidate (but not 5alpha3alpha) with mammalian and invertebrate ionotropic GABA receptors depends critically upon the nature of a single amino acid located in the second transmembrane region (TM2) of these receptors. These data are discussed in relation to the specificity of action of general anaesthetics.
The equilibrium binding characteristics of the tritiated GABAA agonist, 5-aminomethyl-3-isothiazolol (thiomuscimol) are described. Using the filtration technique to separate bound- from free-ligand, [3H]thiomuscimol was shown to bind to the GABA(A) receptor site(s) in a saturable manner with a Kd value of 28+/-6.0 nM and a Bmax value of 50+/-4.0 fmol/mg original tissue. In parallel binding experiments, the Kd and Bmax values for [3H]muscimol were determined to be 5.4+/-2.8 nM and 82+/-11 fmol/mg original tissue, respectively. In binding assays using the centrifugation technique, Kd and Bmax values for [3H]thiomuscimol were found to be 116+/-22 nM and 154 13 fmol/mg original tissue, respectively, whereas a Kd value of 16+/-1.8 nM and a Bmax value of 155+/-8.0 fmol/mg original tissue were determined for [3H]muscimol. In comparative inhibition studies using the GABA(A) antagonist SR 95531 and a series of specific GABAA agonists, the binding sites for [3H]thiomuscimol and [3H]muscimol were shown to exhibit similar pharmacological profiles. Autoradiographic studies disclosed similar regional distribution of [3H]thiomuscimol and [3H]muscimol binding sites in rat brain. Highest densities of binding sites were detected in cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum, whereas low densities were measured in the midbrain structures of rat cortex. In conclusion, the equilibrium GABA(A) receptor binding characteristics of [3H]thiomuscimol are very similar to those of [3H]muscimol.
Until 1987, when the first GABA-A receptor subunit cDNAs were cloned and sequenced, it was thought that there were perhaps two subtypes of receptor in the brain. These were defined by the fact that benzodiazepines, which act through the GABA-A receptor, had two binding sites with different affinities. By 1991 it was known that the GABA-A receptor family existed as a family of subunits which coassembled to form a family of receptor subtypes in the brain. More recently, two additional GABA-A receptor subunits have been identified, epsilon and theta. The identification of these new members of the gene family, and the characterisation of the receptor subtypes into which they are incorporated, is reviewed.
To determine whether nitric oxide (NO) acts as a modulator of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mACh-R) function, we performed a radioligand receptor assay using [3H]quinuclidinyl benzylate ([3H]QNB), the NO radical (NO*) donor 3-(2-Hydroxy-1-methyl-2-nitrosohydrazino)-N-methyl-1-propanamin e (NOC7) and a gerbil brain cortical membrane preparation. NOC7 (at 10 microM, 100 microM or 1 mM concentrations) significantly reduced the [3H]QNB binding Kd values (from 0.196 +/- 0.009 nM in the control, to 0.151 +/- 0.013, 0.144 +/- 0.012 and 0.153 +/- 0.007 nM respectively). NOC7 did not alter the displacement curves of atropine or carbachol. Reduction of SH groups with dithiothreitol, in the presence of the NO donor, significantly increased [3H]QNB binding affinity whereas alkylation by N-ethylmaleimide markedly decreased it. The observed enhancing effect on mACh-R binding affinity for [3H]QNB, may reflect conformational changes in the receptors mediated by the NO generated, and these changes might be explained by NO reactions with such groups through conditions supporting redox reactions intrinsic to the NO molecule, similar to those occurring in redox regulatory sites reported for other neurotransmitter pathways in the CNS.
This paper describes methods for white matter segmentation in brain images and the generation of cortical surfaces from the segmentations. We have developed a system that allows a user to start with a brain volume, obtained by modalities such as MRI or cryosection, and constructs a complete digital representation of the cortical surface. The methodology consists of three basic components: local parametric modeling and Bayesian segmentation; surface generation and local quadratic coordinate fitting; and surface editing. Segmentations are computed by parametrically fitting known density functions to the histogram of the image using the expectation maximization algorithm [DLR77]. The parametric fits are obtained locally rather than globally over the whole volume to overcome local variations in gray levels. To represent the boundary of the gray and white matter we use triangulated meshes generated using isosurface generation algorithms [GH95]. A complete system of local parametric quadratic charts [JWM+95] is superimposed on the triangulated graph to facilitate smoothing and geodesic curve tracking. Algorithms for surface editing include extraction of the largest closed surface. Results for several macaque brains are presented comparing automated and hand surface generation.
Zinc (Zn2+) inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) activity involves both voltage-independent and voltage-dependent components. Recombinant NR1/NR2A and NR1/NR2B receptors exhibit similar voltage-dependent block, but voltage-independent Zn2+ inhibition occurs with much higher affinity for NR1/NR2A than NR1/NR2B receptors (nanomolar versus micromolar IC50, respectively). Here, we show that two neighboring histidine residues on NR2A represent the critical determinant (termed the &quot;short spacer&quot;) for high-affinity, voltage-independent Zn2+ inhibition using the Xenopus oocyte expression system and site-directed mutagenesis. Mutation of either one of these two histidine residues (H42 and H44) in the extracellular N-terminal domain of NR2A shifted the IC50 for high-affinity Zn2+ inhibition approximately 200-fold without affecting the EC50 of the coagonists NMDA and glycine. We suggest that the mechanism of high-affinity Zn2+ inhibition on the NMDAR involves enhancement of proton inhibition.
Several distinct mechanisms may cause synaptic depression, a common form of short-term synaptic plasticity. These include postsynaptic receptor desensitization, presynaptic depletion of releasable vesicles, or other presynaptic mechanisms depressing vesicle release. At the endbulb of Held, a fast central calyceal synapse in the auditory pathway, cyclothiazide (CTZ) abolished marked paired pulse depression (PPD) by acting presynaptically to enhance transmitter release, rather than by blocking postsynaptic receptor desensitization. PPD and its response to CTZ were not altered by prior depletion of the releasable vesicle pool but were blocked by lowering external calcium concentration, while raising external calcium enhanced PPD. We conclude that a major component of PPD at the endbulb is due to a novel, transient depression of release, which is dependent on the level of presynaptic calcium entry and is CTZ sensitive.
Comprehension of visually presented sentences in fluent bilinguals was studied with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) using a set of conceptually similar sentences in two orthographically and phonologically distinct languages, Mandarin and English. Responses were monitored during scanning. Sentence comprehension in each language was compared to fixation in nine subjects and Tamil-like pseudo-word strings in five subjects. Spatially congruent activations in the prefrontal, temporal, and superior parietal regions and in the anterior supplementary motor area were observed for both languages and in both experiments at the individual and group levels of analysis. Proficient bilinguals exposed to both languages early in life utilize common neuroanatomical regions during the conceptual and syntactic processing of written language irrespective of their differences in surface features.
The importance of lateral inhibition mediated by NOTCH signaling is well demonstrated to control neurogenesis both in invertebrates and vertebrates. We have identified the chicken homolog of Drosophila numb, which suppresses NOTCH signaling. We show that chicken NUMB (c-NUMB) protein is localized to the basal cortex of mitotic neuroepithelial cells, suggesting that c-NUMB regulates neurogenesis by the modification of NOTCH signaling through asymmetrical cell division. Consistent with this suggestion, we show (1) that c-NUMB interferes with the nuclear translocation of activated c-NOTCH-1 through direct binding to the PEST sequence in the cytoplasmic domain of c-NOTCH-1 and (2) that c-NUMB interferes with c-NOTCH-1-mediated inhibition of neuronal differentiation.
The present study investigated the regional distribution of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor containing the NR2B subunit protein in rat lumbar spinal cord and examined whether selective NR2B antagonists would exhibit antinociception with reduced side-effect liability than subtype non-selective NMDA antagonists and anticonvulsants. Immunocytochemical studies showed the NR2B subunit had a restricted distribution, with moderate labelling of fibres in laminas I and II of the dorsal horn suggesting a presynaptic location on primary afferent fibers and possible involvement in pain transmission. In the in vivo studies, the NMDA/glycine antagonists (MK-801, 0.02-1 mg/kg i.p., L-687,414 10-300 mg/kg i.p., and L-701,324 1-10 mg/kg i.p.) and the anticonvulsant, gabapentin (10-500 mg/kg p.o.), induced rotarod deficits at antinociceptive doses. In contrast, the selective NR2B antagonists, (+/-)-CP-101,606 (1-100 mg/kg p.o.) and (+/-)-Ro 25-6981 (3-100 mg/kg i.p.) showed a significant dose window. (+/-)-CP-101,606 caused no motor impairment or stimulation in rats at doses up to 100 mg/kg p.o., which is far in excess of those inhibiting allodynia in neuropathic rats (ID50 4.1 mg/kg, p.o.). (+/-)-Ro 25-6981 also showed a significant separation (ID50 allodynia 3.8 mg/kg, i.p.), however, some disruption of rotarod performance was observed at 100 mg/kg. The anticonvulsant lamotrigine (3-500 mg/kg p.o.) also showed a good dose window. These findings demonstrate that NR2B antagonists may have clinical utility for the treatment of neuropathic and other pain conditions in man with a reduced side-effect profile than existing NMDA antagonists.
Visual selective attention and response competition were tested in patients with frontal lobe lesions or with Parkinson's disease, and matched normal controls. The target stimuli were presented with flanking distractors that were either compatible, incompatible, or neutral to the target stimulus. The distance between the target and distractors was systematically varied. A control condition without distractors was also included. Subjects' response times to target stimuli and accuracy were measured. Both patient groups responded significantly slower and less accurately than their respective matched normal controls across all interference conditions and spatial distances. However, they did not show significantly greater interference or facilitation effects. Thus, the data suggest that the cognitive processes underlying selective attention are, in general, spared in patients with frontal lobe lesions or basal ganglia dysfunction.
In the present PET study we explore some functional aspects of the interaction between attentional/control processes and learning/memory processes. The network of brain regions supporting recall of abstract designs were studied in a less practiced and in a well practiced state. The results indicate that automaticity, i.e., a decreased dependence on attentional and working memory resources, develops as a consequence of practice. This corresponds to the practice related decreases of activity in the prefrontal, anterior cingulate, and posterior parietal regions. In addition, the activity of the medial temporal regions decreased as a function of practice. This indicates an inverse relation between the strength of encoding and the activation of the MTL during retrieval. Furthermore, the pattern of practice related increases in the auditory, posterior insular-opercular extending into perisylvian supramarginal region, and the right mid occipito-temporal region, may reflect a lower degree of inhibitory attentional modulation of task irrelevant processing and more fully developed representations of the abstract designs, respectively. We also suggest that free recall is dependent on bilateral prefrontal processing, in particular non-automatic free recall. The present results confirm previous functional neuroimaging studies of memory retrieval indicating that recall is subserved by a network of interacting brain regions. Furthermore, the results indicate that some components of the neural network subserving free recall may have a dynamic role and that there is a functional restructuring of the information processing networks during the learning process.
Future brain imaging studies of dyslexia should have a sufficient number of males and females to detect possible gender differences in the neurological underpinning of this disorder. Detailed knowledge about such differences may clarify our understanding of the structural and functional impairments which lead to the phonological deficits that characterize dyslexia. Functional brain imaging studies have shown that males and females exhibit different patterns of brain activation during phonological processing. Further differences between the brains of males and females have been suggested by studies of normal brain development, morphology, and functional activation during reading. Animal studies have shown that lesions, similar to those seen in postmortem studies of dyslexia, affect rapid auditory processing in males, but not in females. The large body of research on gender differences in brain development, functional organization, and activation during reading tasks urges separation of males and females in dyslexia research in order to minimize variance and to detect subtle, but functionally-relevant, differences. Well-controlled studies, with large numbers of male and female dyslexics, may produce more sensitive and accurate identification of the neurological substrates of dyslexia.
The present study compares, using a double-blind, placebo controlled design the effects of two alpha 2-agonists, clonidine (0.5, 2, and 5 micrograms/kg) and guanfacine (7 and 29 micrograms/kg) on spatial working memory, planning and attentional set-shifting, functions thought to be dependent on the &quot;central executive&quot; of the prefrontal cortex. Blood pressure and the subjective feeling of sedation were affected equally by clonidine and guanfacine. The 0.5 microgram/kg and 5 micrograms/kg doses of clonidine disrupted spatial working memory, but the medium dose had no effect. The 0.5 and 2 micrograms/kg doses of clonidine increased impulsive responding in the planning test. The 5 micrograms/kg dose of clonidine slowed responding at effortful levels of planning and attentional set-shifting tests. The 29 micrograms/kg dose of guanfacine improved spatial working memory and planning. Guanfacine had no effect on attentional set-shifting. These data indicate that guanfacine improved planning and spatial working memory, but clonidine dose-dependently disrupted performance. It is possible that the greater selectivity of guanfacine for alpha 2A-adrenoceptor subtype may underlie its differences from clonidine.

Animal studies indicate that central cholinergic neurotransmission stimulates CRH secretion, but several human studies suggest that the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal cortical (HPA) axis may be activated only by doses of cholinergic agonists that produce noxious side effects and, by inference, a nonspecific stress response. Physostigmine (PHYSO), a reversible cholinesterase inhibitor, was administered to normal women and men at a dose that elevated plasma ACTH1-39, cortisol, and arginine vasopressin (AVP) concentrations but produced few or no side effects. Exogenous AVP also was administered alone and following PHYSO, to determine if it would augment the effect of PHYSO on the HPA axis. Fourteen normal women and 14 normal men matched to the women on age and race underwent four test sessions 5 to 7 days apart: PHYSO (8 micrograms/kg i.v.), AVP (0.08 U/kg i.m.), PHYSO plus AVP, and saline control. Serial blood samples taken before and after pharmacologic challenge were analyzed for ACTH1-39, cortisol, and AVP. PHYSO and AVP administration produced no side effects in about half the subjects and mild side effects in the other half, with no significant female-male differences overall. There also were no significant female-male differences in ACTH1-39 or cortisol responses to AVP. In contrast, the men had significantly greater ACTH1-39 responses to PHYSO administration than did the women. The endogenous AVP response to PHYSO also was significantly greater in the men than in the women, and the ACTH1-39 and AVP responses to PHYSO were significantly correlated in the men (both = +0.70) but not in the women. None of the hormone responses was significantly correlated with the presence or absence of side effects in either group of subjects. These results indicate a greater sensitivity of the HPA axis to low-dose PHYSO in normal men than in normal women, which likely is mediated by increased secretion of AVP. The lack of difference in side effects between the two groups of subjects and the lack of significant correlations between presence or absence of side effects and hormone responses in either group suggest that the increased hormone responses in the men were due to increased responsivity of central cholinergic systems and not to a nonspecific stress response.
Reduced serotonergic activity has been associated with impulsive aggression in personality disordered patients in metabolite and pharmacologic challenge studies. This study used positron emission tomography to explore whether reduced serotonergic function occurs in critical brain regions such as orbital frontal and cingulate cortex that, may play a role in modulating aggression. Six impulsive-aggressive patients and five healthy volunteers were evaluated for changes in regional glucose metabolism after administration of the serotonergic releasing agent d,l-fenfluramine (60 mg, p.o.) or placebo. Volunteers demonstrated increases in orbital frontal and adjacent ventral medial frontal cortex, cingulate, and inferior parietal cortex, whereas impulsive-aggressive patients showed no significant increases in glucose metabolism after fenfluramine in any region. Compared with volunteers, patients showed significantly blunted metabolic responses in orbital frontal, adjacent ventral medial and cingulate cortex, but not in inferior parietal lobe. These results are consistent with reduced serotonergic modulation of orbital frontal, ventral medial frontal, and cingulate cortex in patients with impulsive-aggressive personality disorders.
Despite substantial differences between species in the organization and elaboration of the cortical dopamine innervation, little is known about the pharmacological response of cortical or striatal sites to antipsychotic medications in nonhuman primates. To examine this issue, rhesus monkeys were chronically implanted with guide cannulae directed at the principal sulcus, medial prefrontal cortex, premotor cortex, and caudate nucleus. Alterations in dopamine release in these discrete brain regions were measured in response to administration of clozapine or haloperidol. Clozapine produced significant and long-lasting increases in dopamine release in the principal sulcus, and to a lesser extent, in the caudate nucleus. Haloperidol did not produce a consistent effect on dopamine release in the principal sulcus, although it increased dopamine release in the caudate. Clozapine's preferential augmentation of dopamine release in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex supports the idea that clozapine exerts its therapeutic effects in part by increasing cortical dopamine neurotransmission.
The optimal coordination between the new mammalian mother and her young involves a sequence of behaviors on the part of each that ensures that the young will be adequately cared for and show healthy physical, emotional, and social development. This coordination is accomplished by each member of the relationship having the appropriate sensitivities and responses to cues that characterize the other. Among many mammalian species, new mothers are attracted to their infants' odors and some recognize them based on their odors; they also respond to their infants' vocalizations, thermal properties, and touch qualities. Together these cues ensure that the mother will nurse and protect the offspring and provide them with the appropriate physical and stimulus environment in which to develop. The young, in turn, orient to the mother and show a suckling pattern that reflects a sensitivity to the mothers odor, touch, and temperature characteristics. This article explores the sensory, endocrine, and neural mechanisms that underlie this early mother-young relationship, from the perspective of, first, the mother and, then, the young, noting the parallels between them. It emphasizes the importance of learning and plasticity in the formation and maintenance of the mother-young relationship and mediation of these experience effects by the brain and its neurochemistry. Finally, it discusses ways in which the infants' early experiences with their mothers (or the absence of these experiences) may come to influence how they respond to their own infants when they grow up, providing a psychobiological mechanism for the inter-generational transmission of parenting styles and responsiveness.
The role of extracellular endogenous gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in rescuing retinal cells in culture from the decrease in viability induced by Glu under metabolic inhibition is analyzed. Glutamate (10 microM-10 mM) dose-dependently decreased the intracellular GABA content, but increased the extracellular accumulation of GABA. In the absence of glucose, Glu (10-100 microM) decreased the intracellular GABA (2-fold), whereas the extracellular accumulation of GABA was increased by about 4-fold. Glu-mediated decrement in cell survival was not affected by inhibiting the GABA(A) receptors with bicuculline (1 or 10 microM) or by blocking the Na+ -dependent release of GABA with 1-(4,4-diphenyl-3-butenyl)-3-piperidinecarboxylic acid (SKF89976-A). Data suggest a non-protective role of endogenous GABA release after metabolic deprivation of retinal cells submitted to Glu.
Ribosomes and polyribosomes were detected by immuno-electron microscopy in the giant axon and small axons of the squid using a polyclonal antibody against rat brain ribosomes. The ribosomal fraction used as antigen was purified by ultracentrifugation on a sucrose density gradient and shown to contain ribosomal RNAs and native ribosomes. The polyclonal antibody raised in rabbits reacted with at least ten proteins on immunoblots of purified rat brain ribosomes as well as with a set of multiple ribosomal proteins prepared from the squid giant fiber lobe. Immunoreactions were performed on cryostat sections of the stellate nerve cut at a distance of more than 3 cm from the stellate ganglion, using pre-embedding techniques. Ribosomes and polyribosomes were identified within the giant axon and small axons using electron microscopic methods, following binding of peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG secondary antibody. Polysomes were more frequently localized in peripheral axoplasm, including the cortical layer of the giant axon, and were generally associated with unidentified cytoskeletal filaments or with dense matrix material. The immunochemical demonstration of ribosomes and polyribosomes in the giant axon and small axons of the squid confirms similar observations in the squid and the goldfish obtained with the method of electron spectroscopic imaging, and strongly supports the view that a local system of protein synthesis is present in axons. The immunochemical method here described offers an alternative tool for the selective identification of ribosomes, and is likely to prove of value in the analyses of other axonal systems.
It has been postulated that changes in thyrotropin-releasing hormone biosynthesis may be involved in the mechanism of kindling--an animal model of epileptogenesis. To test this hypothesis, a time-course study was carried out to investigate the effects of pentylenetetrazole kindling (40 mg/kg i.p., daily for eight days) on the expression of gene coding for preprothyrotropin-releasing hormone, the thyrotropin-releasing hormone tissue level and thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor parameters in rat brain. As shown by an in situ hybridization study, a single, convulsant dose of pentylenetetrazole (70 mg/kg i.p.) increased the preprothyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA level in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation and piriform cortex after 3 h and, to a greater extent, after 24 h. Those changes were accompanied with increases in the thyrotropin-releasing hormone level in the striatum, hippocampus, amygdala and piriform cortex. Seven days after single pentylenetetrazole administration, the thyrotropin-releasing hormone level was still significantly elevated in the piriform cortex and striatum. Acute pentylenetetrazole decreased the density (Bmax) of thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptors in the striatum after 3 and 24 h, and increased that density in the piriform cortex and amygdala after 24 h and seven days, respectively. The thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor affinity (Kd) was decreased in the striatum and increased in the amygdala after only 3 h. Kindled rats showed a moderate increase in the preprothyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA content in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation and piriform cortex after 3 and 24 h; however, a significant decrease in those parameters was found after 14 days. After 3 and 24 h, pentylenetetrazole kindling also elevated the thyrotropin-releasing hormone content in the hippocampus, piriform cortex, and striatum (in the latter structure after 24 h only), whereas in the septum the thyrotropin-releasing hormone level was decreased. After seven days, the thyrotropin-releasing hormone level was still elevated in the hippocampus and piriform cortex of kindled rats, but after 14 days it was significantly lowered in the hippocampus. The kindled rats also showed a significant decrease in the density (Bmax) of thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptors in the striatum (after 24 h, seven and 14 days), and an increase in the piriform cortex (after seven days). The thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor affinity (Kd) value was increased in the hippocampus after seven and 14 days, and in the piriform cortex after seven days. These results indicate that pentylenetetrazole kindling induces long-lasting alterations in the thyrotropin-releasing hormone biosynthesis and thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor affinity in discrete regions of rat brain. These region-specific changes, in particular down-regulation of the thyrotropin-releasing hormone biosynthesis in the hippocampus, may be involved in chronic neuronal hyperexcitability associated with kindling.
Nitric oxide has been proposed to act as an intercellular messenger in central brainstem circuits controlling gastrointestinal motility. In particular, a subpopulation of preganglionic vagal neurons of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus have been shown to be reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate(NADPH)-diaphorase positive; NADPH-diaphorase positive preganglionic fibers are also known to make contact with enteric neurons in the stomach. No studies, however, have correlated the neurochemical phenotype of preganglionic vagal neurons to their stomach target. The purpose of this study was to identify the subpopulation of nitric oxide synthase positive vagal neurons projecting to the stomach. Fluorescent retrograde tracers were injected in the fundus, corpus or antrum (Rhodamine beads) or painted on the anterior gastric branch of the vagus (DiI); five to 15 days later the brainstem was processed for nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity. Of the 532 DiI-labeled neurons from the vagal anterior gastric branch, 25 (4.7%, n=5 rats) were co-localized with nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity. Of the neurons labeled following injection of rhodamine beads in the antrum (N=231 neurons, n=5 rats) or corpus (N=166 neurons, n=4 rats) only three neurons showed nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity (two in antrum and one in corpus, respectively). Conversely, 26 of 222 neurons (12%, n=7 rats) labeled following injection of rhodamine in the fundus showed nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity. These results provide evidence for a discrete phenotypic subpopulation of vagal motoneurons that project to the gastric fundus, and suggest that these neurons may be the ones involved in the receptive relaxation reflex.
The expression of neurokinin-1 receptors in isolated dorsal root ganglion neurons of adult rats was investigated using substance P covalently bound to a 1.4-nm gold particle. Binding of substance P-gold was determined in neurons after 0.8, 1.8 or 3.8 days under culture conditions. Substance P-gold binding sites were identified in 9.5 +/- 1.8% of the neurons that were cultured for 0.8 days. The proportion of neurons with substance P-gold binding sites increased to 21.5 +/- 3.6% after 1.8 days in culture and returned to the initial values (9.2 +/- 2.1%) after 3.8 days in culture. Binding of substance P-gold was suppressed by co-administration of [Sar9, Met(O2)11] substance P, a specific agonist at the neurokinin-1 receptor, but not by co-administration of [beta-Ala8] Neurokinin A (4-10), an agonist at the neurokinin-2 receptor, and senktide, an agonist at the neurokinin-3 receptor. This indicates that substance P-gold was bound specifically to neurokinin-1 receptors. Double-labelling with RT97, an antibody that selectively labels somata of A-fibres revealed that substance P binding sites were present in small neurons with myelinated and unmyelinated axons. These data show that a proportion of dorsal root ganglion neurons of adult rat in culture exhibit neurokinin-1 receptors. A transient increase in the proportion of neurons expressing neurokinin-1 receptors after 1.8 days in culture suggests that the expression of neurokinin-1 receptors is subjected to regulation.
Neuronal voltage-dependent calcium channels are integral components of cellular excitation and neurosecretion. In addition to mediating the entry of calcium across the plasma membrane, both N-type and P/Q-type voltage-dependent calcium channels have been shown to form stable complexes with synaptic vesicle and presynaptic membrane proteins, indicating a structural role for the voltage-dependent calcium channels in secretion. Recently, detailed structural analyses of N-type calcium channels have identified residues amino acids 718-963 as the site in the rat alpha1B subunit that mediates binding to syntaxin, synaptosome-associated protein of 25,000 mol. wt and synaptotagmin [Sheng et al. (1996) Nature 379, 451-454]. The purpose of this study was to employ site-directed antibodies to target domains within and outside of the interaction site on the rat alpha1B to probe potential binding sites for syntaxin/SNAP-25/synaptotagmin. Our results demonstrate that both antibodies employed in this study have access to their epitopes on the alpha1B as evidenced by equivalent immunoprecipitation of native [125I]omega-conotoxin GVIA-labeled alpha1B protein from CHAPS-solubilized preparations. The N-type voltage-dependent calcium channel immunoprecipitated by Ab CW14, the antibody directed to a domain outside of the synprint site, is associated with syntaxin and SNAP-25 with the recovery of these proteins, increasing in parallel to the recovery of alpha1B. However, when we used the antibody raised to an epitope within the synprint site (Ab CW8) to immunoprecipitate N-type calcium channels, the alpha1B was depleted of more than 65% of syntaxin and 80% of SNAP-25 when compared to the recovery of these proteins using Ab CW14. This is the first report of a defined epitope on the alpha1B subunit II-III loop (amino acids 863-875) whose perturbation by a site-directed antibody influences the dissociation of SNAP-25 and syntaxin.
In vivo, neuronal over-expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 prevents axotomy-induced motoneuron death and prolongs life in a mouse model of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The mechanism of these protective effects is still unknown. We have examined, in situ, the influence of Bcl-2 over-expression on the messenger RNA level of two pro-apoptotic, bax and cpp32, and one anti-apoptotic, bcl-xl, regulators of neuronal death. In neonates wild-type mice, cpp32 mRNA was increased in axotomized, dying motoneurons. No changes in bax and bcl-xl messenger RNAs expression were detected. A similar course was observed in protected axotomized neonate motoneurons of transgenic mice over-expressing Bcl-2. In adult wild-type mice no motoneuron death was detected one week after axotomy: bax and cpp32 messenger RNAs were increased and bcl-xl messenger RNA was decreased. Four weeks after the lesion, 60% of the lesioned facial motoneurons had disappeared. In the remaining motoneurons only cpp32 messenger RNA expression was superior to control level. In Bcl-2 transgenic mice, no axotomy-induced facial motoneurons death was detected but the course of the neosynthesis of cell death genes messenger RNAs was similar to wild-type mice. Bax, Bcl-x and CPP32 immunoreactivity were increased in facial motoneurons after axotomy. Thus, fatal axotomy induces cell death genes bax and cpp32 messenger RNAs neosynthesis which is not prevented by athanatal Bcl-2 over-expression. This suggests that the protective effect of Bcl-2 results from interactions with Bax and CPP32 at the post-translation level without repercussion at the messenger RNA level. Axotomy induces cell death messenger RNA neosynthesis potentially harmful at long-term despite Bcl-2 over-expression.
Expression of platelet-derived growth factor B-chain and of its specific receptor (beta-receptor) was investigated in immature brains with hypoxic/ischemic injury. After the left common carotid arteries of seven-day-old rats were ligated and pups were placed in a hypoxic chamber, the protein and messenger RNA of both B-chain and beta-receptor were assessed using immunocytochemistry and northern analysis, respectively. Transcripts for B-chain were localized by in situ hybridization. Faint but definite expression of B-chain and beta-receptor was seen in the brains of untreated neonatal controls. Three to 48 h after hypoxia B-chain protein was generally increased above control levels, but focally decreased expression was seen in infarcted areas. Enhanced induction of messenger RNA of B-chain was seen in the both sides of cerebral cortices and hippocampi at 3 h. Strongly increased positivity for B-chain protein and mRNA occurred in the neurons surrounding the infarct. In situ hybridization still showed this up-regulation seven days after hypoxia. Beta-receptor protein expression was enhanced in some neurons immediately surrounding the infarct at 3 h of hypoxia, and marked up-regulation was seen at 16 h. Beta-receptor messenger RNA remained at control levels. Immunocytochemistry showed strong immunoreactivity for the beta-receptor on the neurons surrounding the infarct at 72 h. These results indicate that a neonatal hypoxic/ischemic insult induces neuronal up-regulation of the platelet-derived growth factor B-chain as well as beta-receptor immediately after hypoxia. While this up-regulation is relatively transient in most neurons, sublethal damage to neurons immediately surrounding an infarct induces sustained up-regulation. Through autocrine and paracrine mechanisms, platelet-derived growth factor B-chain molecules may act as a neuroprotective factor in immature brain experiencing with hypoxic/ischemic injury.
Transforming growth factor-betas are members of a superfamily of multifunctional cytokines regulating cell growth and differentiation. Their functions in neural and endocrine cells are not well understood. We show here that transforming growth factor-betas are synthesized, stored and released by the neuroendocrine chromaffin cells, which also express the transforming growth factor-beta receptor type II. In contrast to the developmentally related sympathetic neurons, chromaffin cells continue to proliferate throughout postnatal life. Using 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine pulse labeling and tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry as a marker for young postnatal rat chromaffin cells, we show that treatment with fibroblast growth factor-2 (1 nM) and insulin-like growth factor-II (10 nM) increased the fraction of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-labeled nuclei from 1% to about 40% of the cells in the absence of serum. In the presence of fibroblast growth factor-2 and insulin-like growth factor-II, transforming growth factor-beta1 (0.08 nM) reduced 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine labeling by about 50%, without interfering with chromaffin cell survival or death. Doses lower and higher than 0.08 nM were less effective. Similar effects were seen with transforming growth factor-beta3. In contrast to transforming growth factor-beta, ciliary neurotrophic factor, which inhibits proliferation of sympathetic progenitor cells, was not effective on rat chromaffin cells from postnatal day 6. Glucocorticoids also suppress DNA synthesis in fibroblast growth factor-2/insulin-like growth factor-II-treated chromaffin cells. This effect was not mediated by chromaffin cell-derived transforming growth factor-beta, as shown by addition of neutralizing antibodies. We conclude that one function of adrenal medullary transforming growth factor-beta may be to act as a negative regulator of chromaffin cell division.
G-protein-activated inward rectifier potassium channels are coupled to a number of neurotransmitter receptors, including some monoamine receptors. In the present study we have investigated the effect of electroconvulsive shock on gene expression of the G-protein-activated inward rectifier potassium channel subunits G-protein-coupled inward rectifier K+-channel (GIRK1) and GIRK2 in the rat brain using in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry. Acute electroconvulsive shock (a single shock) increased GIRK2 expression while causing a transient reduction of the messenger RNA abundance of GIRK1 in granule cells of the dentate gyrus. Chronic electroconvulsive shock (five shocks over 10 days) caused a larger increase in GIRK2 messenger RNA abundance, which was accompanied by an increase in GIRK2 immunoreactivity in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Unlike for acute electroconvulsive shock, GIRK1 messenger RNA abundance in the dentate gyrus was significantly increased after chronic electroconvulsive shock. No significant alterations in GIRK1 and GIRK2 messenger RNA abundance were detected in the other brain regions studied, including the CA1 and CA3 subfields of the hippocampus, the frontal-parietal cortex and piriform cortex. The neuroanatomically specific changes in expression of the potassium channel subunits may directly influence neuronal excitability as well as the functions of G-protein-coupled neurotransmitter receptors.
Production of nitric oxide and the activation of protein kinases are required for long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission at the giant synapses in chicken ciliary ganglion. In the present study, we investigated the ability of nitric oxide to regulate the phosphorylation of endogenous proteins under conditions that induced long-term potentiation in intact ciliary ganglion and the protein kinases responsible for the phosphorylation of these proteins in lysed ciliary ganglion. Using Calcium Green-1 we showed that the nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside did not change the intraterminal Ca2+ dynamics in ciliary ganglion. Two dimensional phosphopeptide analysis of 32Pi-labelled intact ciliary ganglion showed that the sodium nitroprusside (300 microM) increased the phosphorylation of several phosphopeptides (P50a, P50b and P41) derived from proteins at 50,000 and 41,000 mol. wts which we have called nitric oxide-responsive phosphoproteins. A similar stimulation of phosphorylation was achieved by 8-bromo-cyclic AMP (100 microM), which also induced long-term potentiation, but not by phorbol dibutyrate (2 microM) that does not induce long-term potentiation in ciliary ganglion. When subcellular fractions from lysed ciliary ganglion were labelled in vitro by [gamma-32P]ATP in the presence of purified cGMP-dependent, cAMP-dependent or Ca2+-phospholipid-dependent protein kinases, we identified cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase substrates that gave rise to phosphopeptides co-migrating with P50a, P50b and P41 from 32Pi-labelled intact ciliary ganglion. P50a and P41 were derived from soluble proteins while P50b was derived from a membrane-associated protein. The proteins giving rise to P50a, P50b and P41 were also substrates for cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, but not for calcium and phospholipid-dependent protein kinase in vitro, suggesting that nitric oxide-responsive phosphoproteins are convergence points in information processing in vivo and their phosphorylation might represent an important mechanism in nitric oxide-mediated synaptic plasticity in ciliary ganglion.
A rat olfactory bulb in vitro slice preparation was used to investigate the actions of norepinephrine on spontaneous and afferent (olfactory nerve) evoked activity of mitral cells. Single olfactory nerve shocks elicited a characteristic mitral cell response consisting of distinct, early and late spiking components separated by a brief inhibitory epoch. Bath-applied norepinephrine (1 microM) increased the early spiking component elicited by perithreshold (79% increase, P&lt;0.02), but not by suprathreshold (3% decrease, P&gt;0.05), intensity olfactory nerve shocks. The facilitatory effect of norepinephrine was due to a reduction in the incidence of response failures to perithreshold intensity shocks. Norepinephrine also decreased the inhibitory epoch separating the early and late spiking components by 44% (P&lt;0.05). By contrast, norepinephrine had no consistent effect on the spontaneous discharge rate of the mitral cells. The effects of norepinephrine were mimicked by the al receptor agonist phenylephrine (1 microM, P&lt;0.001). Both norepinephrine and phenylephrine modulation of mitral cell responses were blocked by the al adrenergic antagonist WB-4101 (1 microM). These findings are consistent with observations that the main olfactory bulb exhibits the highest density of alpha1 receptors in the brain. The alpha2 receptor agonist clonidine (100 nM) and the beta receptor agonist isoproterenol (1 microM) had inconsistent effects on mitral cell spontaneous and olfactory nerve-evoked activity. These results indicate that norepinephrine increases mitral cell excitatory responses to weak but not strong olfactory nerve inputs in vitro via activation of al receptors. This is consistent with recent findings in vivo that synaptically released norepinephrine preferentially increases mitral cell excitatory responses to weak olfactory nerve inputs. Taken together, these results suggest that the release of norepinephrine in the olfactory bulb may increase the sensitivity of mitral cells to weak odors. Olfactory cues evoke norepinephrine release in the main olfactory bulb, and norepinephrine plays important roles in early olfactory learning and reproductive/maternal behaviors. By increasing mitral cell responses to olfactory nerve input, norepinephrine may play a critical role in modulating olfactory function, including formation and/or recall of specific olfactory memories.
Circulating angiotensin II acts on neurons in circumventricular organs, leading to activation of central pathways involved in blood pressure regulation and body fluid homeostasis. Apart from this primary effect, an increase in the level of circulating angiotensin II may also activate brain neurons as a secondary consequence of the associated increase in blood pressure, which will stimulate arterial baroreceptors and thus activate central neurons that are part of the central baroreceptor reflex pathway. The aim of this study was to identify the population of neurons that are activated as a consequence of the direct actions of circulating angiotensin II on the brain, independent of secondary baroreceptor-mediated effects. For this purpose, we have mapped the distribution of neurons in the brainstem and forebrain that are immunoreactive for Fos (a marker of neuronal activation) following intravenous infusion of angiotensin II in conscious rabbits with chronically denervated carotid sinus and aortic baroreceptors. The distribution was compared with that evoked by the same procedure in two separate groups of barointact rabbits, in which angiotensin II was infused either at a rate similar to that in the barodenervated group, or at a rate approximately five times greater. In barodenervated rabbits, angiotensin II infusion evoked a significant increase in Fos expression, compared to control animals infused with the vehicle solution alone, in several forebrain nuclei (organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, subfornical organ, median preoptic nucleus, supraoptic nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and suprachiasmatic nucleus), but little or no increase in Fos expression in any lower brainstem region. In barointact rabbits infused with angiotensin II at a similar rate to that in barodenervated rabbits, a similar degree of Fos expression was evoked in all of the above forebrain regions, but in addition a significantly greater degree of Fos expression was evoked in several medullary regions (nucleus tractus solitarius, area postrema, and ventrolateral medulla), even though the angiotensin II-evoked increase in mean arterial pressure (17 +/- 3 mmHg) was less than that evoked in the barodenervated rabbits (26 +/- 2 mmHg). In barointact rabbits infused with angiotensin II at the higher rate, the increase in mean arterial pressure was 29 +/- 3 mmHg. In these animals, the pattern of Fos expression was similar to that evoked in barointact rabbits infused at the lower rate, but the degree of Fos expression in all medullary regions and in some forebrain regions was significantly greater. The results of the present study, together with those of previous studies from our laboratory in which we determined the effects of phenylephrine-induced hypertension on brain Fos expression [Li and Dampney (1994) Neuroscience 61, 613-634; Potts et al. (1997) Neuroscience 77, 503-520], indicate that in conscious rabbits circulating angiotensin II activates primarily circumventricular neurons within the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and subfornical organ, but not the area postrema, and this in turn leads to activation of neurons in other forebrain regions, including the median preoptic, supraoptic, paraventricular and suprachiasmatic nucleus as well as the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. In contrast, the activation of neurons in medullary regions evoked by an increase in the level of circulating angiotensin II is primarily a secondary effect resulting from stimulation of arterial baroreceptors.
We have shown that synaptosomal membrane Na+, K+-ATPase activity is stimulated or inhibited by norepinephrine according to the presence or absence of a brain soluble fraction. Gel filtration of such soluble fraction has allowed the separation of two fractions, peaks I and II, able to stimulate and inhibit Na+, K+-ATPase activity, respectively. Peak II behaves much like ouabain, which has suggested the term endobain. From peak II, a subfraction termed II-E (endobain E), which highly inhibits Na+, K+-ATPase, has been separated by anionic exchange chromatography in a Synchropack AX-300 column. We determined the in vitro effect of endobain E obtained from rat cerebral cortex on neuronal norepinephrine release by incubating rat hypothalamic tissue in the presence of [3H]norepinephrine. Neuronal norepinephrine release was quantified as the factor above basal [3H]norepinephrine released to the medium at experimental and three post-experimental periods. Endobain E was found to increase norepinephrine release in a concentration-dependent fashion, reaching 200%, equivalent to the effect achieved with 400 microM ouabain. Ouabain effect persisted along three post-experimental periods whereas that of endobain E remained only during the first post-experimental period. These results led us to conclude that endobain increases norepinephrine release in hypothalamic neurons at the presynaptic nerve ending level, an effect resembling that of ouabain. It is postulated that endobain E may enhance catecholamine availability in the synaptic gap, leading to an increase in noradrenergic activity.
The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus is the site of an endogenous circadian clock synchronized by daily light-dark cycles. At some daily phases, light exposure both shifts the clock and alters the expression of several immediate-early genes in cells of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. We have studied both spontaneous circadian and light-induced expression of several immediate-early gene messenger RNAs and proteins in hamsters in constant darkness or in response to brief light exposure. There was no detectable spontaneous expression of NGFI-A messenger RNA in suprachiasmatic nucleus cells at any circadian phase, but light pulses induced its expression selectively during the subjective night, with highest levels of expression 6 h into the night. We also found that there are two independent rhythms of expression of junB messenger RNA and JunB protein, as well as c-fos messenger RNA and c-Fos protein, in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of hamsters: a rhythm of photic sensitivity expressed throughout the night and a spontaneous rhythm of expression triggered around dawn. Induction of NGFI-A messenger RNA and c-fos messenger RNA and c-Fos protein in response to a light pulse were found throughout the suprachiasmatic nucleus, with the highest levels of expression in the ventrolateral subdivision; however, the spontaneous expression of JunB and c-Fos proteins was confined mainly to the dorsomedial suprachiasmatic nucleus. The temporal and anatomical differences in the expression of these immediate-early genes in the mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus suggest that their protein products may be involved in different signaling mechanisms mediating either photic entrainment or endogenous oscillations within distinct subpopulations of suprachiasmatic nucleus cells.
The responsiveness of trigeminal brain stem neurons to selective local mechanical and chemical stimulation of the cranial dura mater was examined in a preparation in the rat. The dura mater encephali was exposed and its surface stimulated with electrical pulses through bipolar electrodes. Extracellular recordings were made from neurons in the subnucleus caudalis of the spinal trigeminal nucleus. Single neurons driven by meningeal input were identified by their responses to electrical stimulation and to probing their receptive fields on the dura. Facial receptive fields were defined mechanically. Chemical stimuli (a combination of inflammatory mediators, bradykinin, prostaglandin E2, serotonin, capsaicin and acidic Tyrode's solution) were applied topically to the dura and by injection through a catheter into the superior sagittal sinus. All neurons with input from the parietal dura mater had convergent input from the facial skin, with preponderance of the periorbital region. Proportions of units were activated by the combination of inflammatory mediators (55%), bradykinin (64.5%), acidic Tyrode's solution (64.1%) and capsaicin (78.6%). We conclude that, among the chemical mediators of inflammation, bradykinin and low pH are the most effective chemical stimuli in activating meningeal nociceptors. These stimuli may be important during meningeal inflammatory processes that lead to the generation of headaches.
The role of mitochondrial dysfunction in alterations of calcium signalling in primary sensory neurons has been studied in mice with streptozotocin-induced and genetically predisposed diabetes mellitus before and after additional treatment with insulin infusions. Cytosolic calcium transients triggered by membrane depolarization were measured using a membrane-permeable form of fluorescent indicator indo-1, and their changes after application of mitochondrial uncoupler carbonyl cyanide m-chlorphenylhydrazone were compared in cells of control and diabetic animals. Considerable prolongation of residual elevation of cytosolic calcium after termination of membrane depolarization was observed in diabetic mice, which was expressed mainly in small-sized (nociceptive) neurons. This correlated with the level of hyperglycemia, which was maximal in cells from streptozotocin-treated mice. Insulin partly reversed these changes. Carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone application to neurons of control mice enlarged the peak of calcium transients and decreased residual calcium elevations, indicating that mitochondria in physiological conditions participate in shaping of these transients by diminishing their peak due to rapid uptake of calcium ions and by prolonging them due to subsequent slow calcium release back into the cytosol. Depression of the calcium accumulating function of mitochondria by carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone eliminated these changes. The prolonged residual elevation of cytosolic calcium characteristic for neurons of diabetic animals was also eliminated by carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone, confirming the suggestion that such elevation is determined mainly by mitochondrial dysfunction, the latter being dependent on the level of hyperglycemia. Predominant expression of such changes in small-sized neurons can be explained by the absence in them of effective calcium-buffering by the endoplasmic reticulum. Possible role of the described calcium signalling changes in the origin of neuropathic syndromes is discussed.
Protein de novo synthesis is mainly under the control at the level of gene transcription by transcription factors in cell nuclei in eukaryotes. The systemic administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate resulted in selective but transient potentiation of binding of a radiolabeled double-stranded oligonucleotide probe for the nuclear transcription factor activator protein-1 in murine hippocampus, without markedly affecting binding of probes for other transcription factors. By contrast, kainic acid induced more potent and more persistent potentiation of activator protein- binding in the hippocampus than N-methyl-D-aspartate. The protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide was effective in significantly preventing the potentiation by N-methyl-D-aspartate, but not that by kainic acid at the doses used. Moreover, kainic acid induced much more and longer expression of immunoreactive c-Fos protein in the hippocampus than N-methyl-D-aspartate. However, neither N-methyl-D-aspartate nor kainate induced expression of cyclic AMP response element binding protein phosphorylated at serine133 in the hippocampus from 10 min to 24 h after the administration. Instead, kainate was more potent than N-methyl-D-aspartate in facilitating both dephosphorylation at serine and phosphorylation at tyrosine of particular nuclear proteins in the hippocampus. These results suggest that N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate signals may be differentially transduced into cell nuclei to express the activator protein-1 complex through molecular mechanisms which differ from phosphorylation of cyclic AMP response element binding protein at serine133 but involve serine dephosphorylation and/or tyrosine phosphorylation of particular nuclear proteins in the murine hippocampus.
Axonal spike shape was examined in identified cutaneous C-fibres dissected from the saphenous nerves of anaesthetized pigs and rats, and was found to vary with functional class. In the pig, the action potential duration for heat nociceptor units (duration at half peak amplitude, 1.25 +/- 0.16 ms, mean +/- S.E.M., n=32) was significantly longer than the duration for polymodal nociceptive units (0.88 +/- 0.11 ms, n=32). Both classes of nociceptive C-fibre had action potentials of longer duration than the low-threshold mechanoreceptor units (0.49 +/- 0.04 ms, n=24) and the inexcitable C-fibres (0.56 +/- 0.06 ms, n=19). Undershoot durations were also longer in nociceptive than non-nociceptive C-fibres. In contrast, spike amplitudes were similar in all classes of C-afferent. In the rat, as in the pig, the polymodal nociceptor units had action potentials of longer duration (0.75 +/- 0.05 ms, n=73) than the mechanoreceptor units (0.60 +/- 0.01 ms, n=23). C-fibres identified as spontaneously active sympathetic efferent units had wider action potentials (main initial peak: 1.01 +/- 0.12 ms, n=22; undershoot: 4.1 +/- 1.23 ms, n=20) than the afferent C-fibres (main peak: 0.69 +/- 0.03 ms, n=130; undershoot: 1.4 +/- 0.09 ms, n=111). All rat C-fibre types had action potentials with main initial peaks of a similar height. However, cold thermoreceptor units had spikes with significantly smaller undershoots compared to nociceptive or inexcitable C-fibres. It is concluded that there are clear differences in axonal spike shape between the different functional classes of C-fibre and, in particular, that nociceptive C-afferents tend to have axonal action potentials of longer duration than non-nociceptive afferents. The ion channels responsible for the longer duration action potentials may provide a target for the development of highly selective analgesic drugs.
S100 calcium binding protein has been associated with a variety of intra- and extracellular calcium-mediated functions, including learning and memory. We have previously localized S100-immunoreactive neurons correlated with spontaneous discharge activity in the central nervous system of the mollusc, Helix pomatia. In this study, we further investigated the effects of S100 (S100B and S100A1) on electrical discharge activity and membrane currents of Helix neurons, using current- and voltage-clamp techniques. Extracellular application of disulphide-linked S100B (S100B-s-s) in pico- to nanogram/ml concentrations was found to hyperpolarize the membrane resting potential, to inhibit spontaneous discharge activity of action potentials, to alter the stimulus response behaviour from tonic to phasic, to decrease the duration and increase the afterhyperpolarization of action potentials, and to reduce the cell input resistance. Measurement of membrane currents revealed that the total outward current was increased by S100B-s-s. Separation of outward currents showed that three types of potassium currents were altered: (i) an inward rectifying current, (ii) a calcium-activated potassium outward current, both increased by S100B-s-s, and (iii) a delayed, voltage-dependent potassium outward current which was decreased by the protein. The transient potassium outward and the calcium inward currents were not affected by S100B-s-s. Immunocytochemistry showed intracellular labelling of the cytoplasm after extracellular application of the protein, indicating internalization and suggesting an internal site of action. Injection of S100A1 mimicked the effects of S100B-s-s on discharge activity and action potentials. We conclude from our experiments that S100 calcium binding protein, by modulation of potassium currents, may play a role as a neuromodulator in nervous functions.
Immunohistochemical studies have shown that the three calcium-binding proteins (calbindin-D28k, calretinin and parvalbumin) are heterogeneously distributed in the mammalian brain and are useful for delineating nuclear boundaries. We have investigated the distribution of the three calcium-binding proteins in the human thalamus in order to assist in the delineation of the equivocal nuclear boundaries of the intralaminar nuclei of the thalamus. The results show that each of the &quot;functional&quot; nuclear complexes in the human thalamus demonstrates a characteristic pattern of calcium-binding protein immunoreactivity. In particular, the intralaminar nuclei are characterized by a unique combination of calcium-binding protein staining which clearly delineates the component nuclei in this complex from the other nuclei of the human thalamus. The anterior group of intralaminar nuclei (central lateral nucleus, paracentral nucleus and central medial nucleus) showed intense staining for both calbindin-D28k and calretinin. By contrast, the posterior group of intralaminar nuclei (centre median nucleus and parafascicular nucleus) showed a complementary pattern of staining; the centre median nucleus showed immunoreactivity only for one calcium-binding protein, parvalbumin, while the parafascicular nucleus showed immunoreactivity for both calbindin-D28k and calretinin. No other nucleus in the human thalamus showed these particular combinations of calcium-binding protein staining. Since the intralaminar nuclei also have unique topographically organized connectional affiliations with both the cerebral cortex and the basal ganglia, these results suggest that the calcium-binding proteins may play an important role in the influence of the intralaminar nuclei on interactions between the cerebral cortex and the basal ganglia.
The dorsal regions of the midbrain and pons have been found to participate in sleep regulation. However, the physiological role of the ventral brainstem in sleep regulation remains unclear. We used N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced lesions of the ventral midbrain and pons to address this question. Unlike dorsal mesencephalic reticular formation lesions, which produce somnolence and electroencephalogram synchronization, we found that ventral midbrain lesions produce insomnia and hyperactivity. Marked increases in waking and decreases in slow wave sleep stage 1 (S1), stage 2 (S2) and rapid eye movement sleep were found immediately after the lesion. Sleep gradually increased, but never returned to baseline levels (baseline/month 1 post-lesion: waking, 30.6 +/- 4.58%/62.3 +/- 10.1%; S1, 5.1 +/- 0.74/3.9 +/- 1.91%; S2, 46.2 +/- 4.74%/23.1 +/- 5.47%; rapid eye movement sleep, 14.1 +/- 3.15%/7.2 +/- 5.42%). These changes are comparable in magnitude to those seen after basal forebrain lesions. Neuronal degeneration was found in the ventral rostral pons and midbrain, including the substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area, retrorubral nucleus, and ventral mesencephalic and rostroventral pontine reticular formation. We conclude that nuclei within the ventral mesencephalon and rostroventral pons play an important role in sleep regulation.
Nystatin-perforated patch recordings were made from rat parabrachial neurons in an in vitro slice preparation to examine the effect of dopamine on parabrachial cells and on excitatory synaptic transmission in this nucleus. In current clamp mode, dopamine reduced the amplitude of the evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential without significant change in membrane potential. In cells voltage-clamped at -65 mV, dopamine dose dependently and reversibly decreased evoked, pharmacologically isolated, excitatory postsynaptic currents with an EC50 of 31 microM. The reduction in excitatory postsynaptic current was accompanied by an increase in paired pulse ratio (a protocol used to detect presynaptic site of action) with no change in the holding current or in the decay of the evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents. In addition, dopamine altered neither postsynaptic (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate-induced currents, nor steady-state current voltage curves. Miniature excitatory postsynaptic current analysis revealed that dopamine caused a rightward shift of the frequency-distribution curve with no change in the amplitude-distribution curve, which is consistent with a presynaptic mechanism. The dopamine-induced attenuation of the excitatory postsynaptic current was almost completely blocked by the D1-like receptor antagonist SCH23390 (10 microM), although the D2-like antagonist sulpiride (10 microM) also partially blocked it. Combined application of both antagonists blocked all dopamine-induced synaptic effects. The synaptic effect of dopamine was mimicked by the D1-like agonist SKF38393 (50 microM), but the D2-1ike agonist quinpirole (50 microM) also had a small effect. Combined application of both agonists did not produce potentiated responses. Dopamine's effect on the excitatory postsynaptic current was independent of serotonin, GABA and adenosine receptors, but may have some interactions with adrenergic receptors. These results suggest that dopamine directly modulates excitatory synaptic events in the parabrachial nucleus predominantly via presynaptic D1-like receptors.
In this study, we describe a model of opiate sensitization characterized by a brief schedule of treatment with repeated morphine administrations. In this model, we investigated the changes produced by repeated morphine treatment on dopamine transmission at the level of the two major terminal dopaminergic areas, the dorsolateral caudate-putamen and the nucleus accumbens in its two subdivisions, the shell and the core. Rats were treated twice a day for three days with increasing doses of morphine (10, 20 and 40 mg/kg, s.c.) or with saline. After 15 days of withdrawal, rats were challenged with 1 and 5 mg/kg (s.c.) of morphine, and dopamine transmission was monitored by microdialysis. In this model, we show that repeated morphine produces a strong behavioral sensitization accompanied by increased stimulation of dopamine transmission in the core of the nucleus accumbens and in the caudate-putamen, and by a decreased stimulation of dopamine transmission in the shell of the nucleus accumbens, as compared to control rats. Moreover, we administered to these animals amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) and cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) to assess whether cross-sensitization occurs between opiates and psychostimulants in conditions independent of the context. In the present study, we did not observe either behavioral or biochemical sensitization to amphetamine and to cocaine in rats sensitized to morphine. These results suggest that rats behaviorally sensitized to morphine show opposite changes in the stimulant effect of morphine in the nucleus accumbens shell and core and in the dorsal caudate-putamen. Moreover, this study suggests that sensitization of the dopamine system to a given agent does not necessarily extend to drugs of abuse of different pharmacological classes.
The human striatum, which receives dopaminergic innervation from the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area (cell groups A8, A9 and A10), has structural and functional subdivisions both rostrocaudally and dorsoventrally. These relate to motor and non-motor origins of cortical projections and the specific areas of the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area providing dopaminergic innervation. In the present study, we have evaluated the distribution of a number of dopaminergic parameters in the caudate, putamen and nucleus accumbens at separate coronal levels in a post mortem study in a series of elderly normal individuals aged 55-94 years, with analysis of the effect of post mortem variables. Dopamine D1 receptor density displayed a rostrocaudally declining gradient in the putamen but not in the caudate, such that at levels posterior to the anterior commissure, there was significantly lower D1 binding in the putamen compared to the caudate. The density of dopamine D2 receptors was similar in the putamen and caudate, increasing rostrocaudally. The density of dopamine uptake sites exhibited an increasing rostrocaudal gradient in the caudate, especially ventrally, but not in the putamen, where binding was more constant. The dopamine D3 receptor was concentrated in the ventral striatum, particularly the nucleus accumbens, although there was no evidence of a rostrocaudal gradient. With respect to striosome-matrix compartmentalization, there was no complete segregation, although D1 and D3 receptors were concentrated in striosomes, whereas D2 receptors and uptake sites showed higher density in the matrix. Levels of dopamine were similar in the caudate and putamen, and were significantly elevated at levels including the nucleus accumbens and the anterior commissure. Homovanillic acid and the metabolic index (homovanillic acid/dopamine ratio) were significantly higher in the putamen compared to the caudate, especially at levels from and caudal to the anterior commissure. These distributions of dopamine receptors and metabolic indicators, reflecting the different functional domains of the striatum, are relevant to the interpretation of current in vivo imaging of the dopamine transporter and receptors in neurological and psychiatric disorders. They provide information to assist in the detection of perturbations in expression, in specific diseases, at particular points on rostrocaudal, lateromedial and dorsoventral axes, a level of resolution beyond current neuroimaging capability.
We have investigated the relationship between alterations in neuronal activity in the superior colliculus and behavioral responses which occur following disruption of basal ganglia circuitry. These changes were analysed following unilateral suppression of the immediate early genes, c-fos and ngfi-a, in the striatum and/or the globus pallidus. Animals with unilateral suppression of immediate early gene expression in the striatum exhibited robust circling activity, following administration of D-amphetamine, that was directed towards the side of suppression. The intensity of rotation was inversely related to the length of the recovery period following antisense infusion and increased significantly when the globus pallidus was infused simultaneously with the striatum. The difference between ipsiversive (towards the antisense-infused hemisphere) and contraversive rotations was calculated and animals were grouped by number according to their ipsiversive bias: I, &lt;50 turns; II, 50-500 turns; III, 500-1000 turns; IV, &gt;1000 turns. Immunohistochemical localization of Fos was used as an indicator of neuronal activity in the superior colliculus. While group I animals showed diffuse Fos-like immunoreactivity throughout the intermediate layers of the superior colliculus, those animals in groups II-IV showed increasing suppression of Fos-like immunoreactivity in the stratum album intermediale and marked enhancement in the stratum griseum intermediale. Correlation and regression analysis revealed a significant positive relationship between the number of ipsiversive rotations and the number of Fos-positive nuclei in the stratum griseum intermediale of the ipsilateral superior colliculus. These data suggest that the degree of rotation elicited in an animal may depend on reciprocal suppression/stimulation of adjacent intermediate strata of the superior colliculus. This study provides the first demonstration, using Fos immunohistochemistry, of changes in tectal activity produced by alterations in basal ganglia function. These findings support previous electrophysiological studies in this region and suggest that the nigrotectal projection may be an important site of altered basal ganglia output.
We have investigated the role of the globus pallidus in locomotor and postural control in a previously established animal model of striatal dysfunction. Striatal efferent activity was suppressed by intracerebral infusions of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides targeted to the messenger RNA of the proto-oncogene, c-fos. This suppression produced robust circling behavior and an atypical expression of c-fos in the ipsilateral globus pallidus following psychostimulant challenge. Simultaneous infusions of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides into both the caudate-putamen and the ipsilateral globus pallidus produced an approximate threefold increase in the intensity of rotation elicited by D-amphetamine. Excitotoxic lesioning of the globus pallidus produced marked postural asymmetry and circling behavior upon stimulation. The intensity of this rotational behavior was similar to that produced by dual infusions of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides into the caudate-putamen and the globus pallidus, and was not further potentiated by suppression of striatal c-fos expression. These results demonstrate the importance of the globus pallidus in postural and motor control, and suggest that activation of this nucleus through a reduction in striatopallidal inhibition may function to balance the output activity of the basal ganglia.
The inference of direction and length of a subsequent route during performance of a triangle completion task was studied in blindfolded human subjects. Subjects were transported and walked with guidance along two sides of left- and right-oriented isosceles triangles. Subjects had to walk without assistance along the inferential bases of triangles back to a starting point. The influence of two variables in the triangular trajectory--the side length (2, 3 and 4 m) and the angle between sides (30-150 degrees--on route inference accuracy was investigated. Changes in the length of the movement trajectory with retained configuration lead to an alteration in the linear but not the angular estimation of the inferred route. Changes in the configuration of equidistant movement trajectories result in an alteration in both the linear and angular estimations of the inferred route. Estimations of direction and length of inferred routes following passive transportation and those following walking along triangular sides showed similar degrees of accuracy. When the inference of a route was regarded as a geometrical sum of subjective angular and linear estimations of displacements, trajectories of backward paths could be predicted. The results obtained show that the vestibular cue can only provide a gross orientation when moving along a complex trajectory in the horizontal plane; the proprioceptive cue does not improve accuracy adequately.
Perception of angular displacement in the horizontal plane was studied in blindfolded human subjects. Subjects sitting on a rotating chair were turned and turned themselves about the earth-vertical axis. Magnitudes of left- and rightward directed rotations were in steps of 30 degrees and overlapped an entire circle. The averaged relative angular error in estimation of passive turns was 0.19 +/- 0.014 (M +/- m), that of active turns 0.16 +/- 0.011. Passively rotated subjects tended to overestimate turns with an increase in the rotation magnitude. Estimations of passive turns were linearly related to the turn magnitude (Y= -0.357+1.065X; R2=0.864). When turning themselves, subjects tended to overestimate rotations of lower magnitudes and underestimate those of higher magnitudes. Linearity was observed between estimations of active turns and their magnitude (Y=26.456+0.862X; R2=0.857). Turn estimation is regarded as a geometrical task, which associates subjectively defined angular and linear parameters of circular motion. It is proposed that during rotation blindfolded subjects perceive the horizontal plane as a heterometric space, the extent of which depends on the estimation of a turn.
Perception of linear displacement in the horizontal plane was studied in blindfolded human subjects. Subjects were transported and walked with guidance along 2-6 m straight lines and then had to retrace these paths walking backwards. Subjects solved a double orientational task: firstly, they defined the direction of the backward path and, secondly, estimated its length. Following passive transportation overestimation of shorter distances was observed, which tended towards underestimation with path lengthening. The absolute average error in estimating a 2-m path was 0.4 +/- 0.18 m (M +/- m), a 6-m path -0.2 +/- 0.19 m. Guided subjects constantly overestimated the path length with an averaged error of 0.51 +/- 0.064 m. In defining the direction of the backward path subjects made errors scattered over a range of 0-30 degrees. These errors did not vary in relation to path length. A reverse proportionality was revealed between errors in direction and estimation of path lengths following passive transportation. It is suggested that accuracy in perceiving a linear displacement is dependent upon subjective perception of the preceding change in the trajectory of movement.
The development of multiple calcium channel activities was studied in mouse hippocampal neurons in culture, using the patch-clamp technique. A depolarizing pulse (40-50 ms duration) from the holding potential of -80 mV to levels more depolarized than -40 mV produced a low threshold T-type current. The T-type current was observed in 52% of four days in vitro neurons. The number of neurons which expressed T-type current decreased with age of culture, so that the current was detected in only 18% of neurons after 16 days in vitro. The T-type current densities varied between 1.9 pA/pF and 3.29 pA/pF in the mean values during the period studied (4-16 days in vitro). A depolarizing pulse from -80 mV to levels more depolarized than -35 mV evoked a high threshold calcium channel current. The high threshold current density increased in the mean values from 3.9 pA/pF in four days in vitro neurons to 28 pA/pF in 16 days in vitro neurons. We have then examined the effect of nifedipine, omega-Agatoxin IVA and omega-conotoxin GVIA on the high threshold current. Nifedipine (1-5 microM) sensitive current density stayed in the range of 1.9-2.1 pA/pF during 4-16 days in vitro, while omega-Agatoxin IVA (200 nM) sensitive current density increased in the mean values from 1.54 pA/pF in four days in vitro neurons to 21.5 pA/pF in 16 days in vitro neurons. The omega-conotoxin GVIA sensitive N-type channel current was maximum at eight days in vitro (5.44 pA/pF) and it reduced progressively to reach almost half (2.46 pA/pF) in 16 days in vitro neurons. These results showed that diverse subtypes of calcium channels change in density during the early period of culture. We suggest that the temporal expression of each type of channel may be linked to the development of neural activities.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive interneurons are known to form three anatomically and neurochemically well-characterized neuron populations in the hippocampus. Two of these establish synaptic contacts selectively with other GABAergic cells (interneuron-selective cells), whereas the third type innervates pyramidal cell bodies and proximal dendrites like a conventional basket cell. Our aim was to examine which of the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing interneuron populations are among the targets of GABAergic septohippocampal and serotonergic raphe-hippocampal pathways. Anterograde tracing with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin combined with double immunocytochemistry for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide was used at the light and electron microscopic levels. Our results show that both interneuron-selective cells and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing basket cells receive synaptic input from the medial septum and median raphe nucleus. The GABAergic component of the septohippocampal pathway establishes multiple contacts on both cell types. In the case of the raphe-hippocampal projection, single or double contacts were more frequent on vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive interneuron selective cells (76%), whereas multiple contacts predominated on basket cells (83%). The extrinsic GABAergic innervation of interneuron-selective cells in the hippocampus indicates a complex interaction among GABAergic systems, which might ensure the timing and rhythmic synchronization of inhibitory processes in the hippocampus. On the other hand, our results suggest that the serotonergic effect on perisomatic inhibition is exerted via vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing basket cells that are functionally distinct from their parvalbumin-positive relatives, which appear to escape control of serotonergic as well as local interneuron-selective cells.
Neurotrophins play a crucial role in the development and activity-dependent plasticity of the visual cortex [Berardi N. et al. (1994) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 91, 684-688; Bonhoeffer T. (1996) Curr. Opin. Neurobiol. 6, 119-126; Cellerino A. and Maffei L. (1996) Prog. Neurobiol. 49, 53-71; Domenici L. et al. (1994) NeuroReport 5, 2041-2044; Galuske R. A. W. et al (1996) Eur. J. Neurosci. 8, 1554-1559; Katz L. C. and Shatz C. J. (1996) Science 274, 1133-1138; Maffei L. et al. (1992) J. Neurosci. 12, 4651-4662; Pizzorusso T. and Maffei L. (1996) Curr. Opin. Neurol. 9, 122-125; Thoenen H. (1995) Science 270, 593-598]. As a possible mechanism of action, it has been postulated that the activity-dependent expression of neurotrophins by cortical cells could regulate synapse stabilization during the first period of postnatal life (critical period). Indeed, brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA expression in the visual cortex is regulated by neuronal activity as well as during development [Castrn E. et al. (1992) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 89, 9444-9448]. Moreover, we showed that monocular deprivation decreases brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels in the visual cortex receiving input from the deprived eye [Bozzi Y. et al. (1995) Neuroscience 69, 1133-1144]. What is missing, however, is the demonstration that brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein expression follows that of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. The aim of the present study is to fill this important gap in order to support the hypothesis that brain-derived neurotrophic factor is fundamental in the plasticity of the visual cortex. We found that brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity peaks during the critical period and that it is preferentially localized in layers II-III and V-VI. We also demonstrated that monocular deprivation determines a decrease of brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity exclusively in the visual cortex contralateral to the deprived eye. Our results support the proposed role for brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the development and activity-dependent plasticity of the visual cortex [Cabelli R. J. et al. (1995) Science 267, 1662-1666].
In anaesthetized adult rats, facial nerve injury causes a disinhibition of the interhemispheric connections between homotopic representation fields in the primary motor cortex with a latency of 4 min (Toldi et al., 1996, Neurosci Lett. 203, 179-182). One possible explanation for the induction of such rapid changes is an alteration of the somatosensory input to the motor cortex. To test this hypothesis, unit activity in primary motor cortex was recorded during electrical stimulation of trigeminal afferents in the contralateral whisker-pad. About one-third of all recorded primary motor cortex neurons responded with latencies shorter than in the ventrolateral and posterior nuclei of the thalamus. Responses failed at stimulation frequencies &gt; or = 10 Hz and after elimination or inactivation of the somatosensory cortex. Within primary motor cortex, the activatable neurons displayed a bilaminar distribution and were identified as pyramidal neurons by neurobiotin labelling. The results suggest that trigeminal afferents participate in modulation of the activity of primary motor cortex output neurons via primary somatosensory cortex-to-primary motor cortex associational connections, even under anaesthesia.
Prolonged nociceptive input following peripheral injury results in hyperalgesia (enhanced response to a noxious stimulus), which is thought to occur as a consequence of sensitization of primary afferent nociceptors and enhanced excitability of spinal dorsal horn nociceptive neurons (central sensitization). Since there is often an expansion of hyperalgesia to tissue adjacent, and even distant from the site of injury (secondary hyperalgesia), it is thought that this phenomenon primarily involves mechanisms of central modulation/plasticity. In contrast, hyperalgesia observed at the site of tissue injury (primary hyperalgesia) involves peripheral mechanisms. In the current study, we examined the relative contribution of descending nociceptive facilitatory systems from the rostral medial medulla to enhanced behavioral nociceptive responses in models of primary and secondary hyperalgesia in awake rats. The effect of bilateral rostral medial medulla lesions produced by the soma-selective neurotoxin ibotenic acid was determined in three different models of cutaneous thermal hyperalgesia following peripheral inflammation: (i) intraplantar injection of carrageenan into the hindpaw (model of primary hyperalgesia); (ii) intra-articular injection of carrageenan/kaolin into the knee of the hind leg (model of secondary hyperalgesia); and (iii) topical application of mustard oil to the hind leg (model of secondary hyperalgesia). Compared with sham lesion animals, a bilateral lesion of the rostral medial medulla completely blocked thermal hyperalgesia in the two models of secondary hyperalgesia (intra-articular carrageenan/kaolin injection into the knee and topical mustard oil application to the hind leg), but was ineffective in blocking facilitation of the thermal paw withdrawal response in the model of primary hyperalgesia (intraplantar carrageenan injection into the hindpaw). These results suggest that primary and secondary hyperalgesia are differentially modulated in the CNS, and support the notion that descending nociceptive facilitatory influences from the rostral medial medulla significantly contribute to secondary, but not primary, hyperalgesia.
Recently we reported that in utero and lactational exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) or coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) resulted in a reduction of errors on a radial arm maze (RAM) working memory task. The effect was more pronounced in males than in females. In this study, we further investigated the effects of in utero and lactational exposure to TCDD on learning and memory by testing male and female TCDD-exposed rats on three different spatial learning and memory tasks: the RAM, the Morris water maze (MWM), and spatial discrimination-reversal learning (RL), as well as on a nonspatial learning task, visual RL. Time-mated Sprague-Dawley rats were gavaged with either TCDD (0.1 microg/kg/day) or corn oil vehicle on gestation days 10-16. Litters were culled to eight on day 2 and weaned on day 21. Beginning on day 80, one male and one female from each litter were tested on the same RAM working memory task used in the previous study. Again, the TCDD-exposed male rats displayed a pronounced decrease in errors relative to control males. Following the RAM testing, the same animals were tested on the MWM, but no differences between the exposed and control rats were observed. Another male and female from each litter were tested on spatial RL on a T-maze. There were no differences between the exposed and control rats on this task. Following spatial RL, the same rats were tested on visual RL on the same maze. The exposed animals did not differ from controls on original learning, but took more trials to reach criterion on the first and second reversals. These results demonstrate a reliable, but task-specific, facilitation of spatial learning and memory in male rats exposed to TCDD during gestation and lactation. In contrast, both male and female TCDD-exposed rats showed a deficit in learning on the visual RL task. This pattern is consistent with that seen in earlier monkey studies. Perinatally TCDD-exposed monkeys were facilitated on certain spatial tasks, but impaired on visual RL tasks.

Magnetic resonance (MR) is a remarkably versatile technology applicable to various aspects of medical science. Currently, there are three categories of MR techniques available for probing human brain function in detail. The first category comprises the most widely utilized techniques which make use of the metabolic effects of brain activation, represented by BOLD functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The second category of techniques deals with apparent diffusion tensor in probing the cellular aspects of brain function and is represented by three dimensional anisotropy contrast (3DAC) axonograpy. The third category of techniques is the oldest and as yet the most underutilized. These techniques which include MR spectroscopy (MRS) and spectroscopic imaging (SI), are based on classical nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and are capable of providing biochemical information in vivo. Because of its inherently non-invasive nature, MR technologies are especially important for the field of pediatric neurology and developmental neuroscience.
The cocaine congener 2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4'-iodophenyl)tropane (beta-CIT) has a chemical structure that enables labelling with carbon-11 either by N-methylation or by O-methylation. The regional brain uptake of [N-methyl-11C]beta-CIT and [O-methyl-11C]beta-CIT was compared in cynomolgus monkeys using positron emission tomography (PET). The striatal uptake of radioactivity after intravenous injection of [O-methyl-11C]beta-CIT reached a plateau at 30-40 min, whereas the uptake of [N-methyl-11C]beta-CIT increased continuously during the time of the PET measurement. Two of the putative labelled metabolites, [N-methyl-11C]beta-CIT-acid and [O-methyl-11C]nor-beta-CIT were prepared and examined with PET to investigate if they may enter the brain and thus add to the radioactivity uptake obtained with [11C]beta-CIT. Less than 0.4% of injected [N-methyl-11C]beta-CIT-acid entered the brain whereas 5-6% of [O-methyl-11C]nor-beta-CIT entered the brain and accumulated in the striatum and in the thalamus. The fraction of [O-methyl-11C]nor-beta-CIT obtained in plasma after intravenous injection of [O-methyl-11C]nor-beta-CIT, however, never exceeded 3%. Consequently, the formation of [N-methyl-11C]beta-CIT-acid and [O-methyl-11C]nor-beta-CIT cannot be the explanation for the different time-activity curves in the monkey brain demonstrated with [11C]beta-CIT labelled in two different positions. An unidentified labelled lipophilic metabolite, detected in monkey plasma after injection of [O-methyl-11C]beta-CIT, remains as the only possible explanation for the differences between [N-methyl-11C]beta-CIT and [O-methyl-11C]beta-CIT.
Raised intracranial pressure is a major, life-threatening complication addressed daily by nurses caring for the neuroscience patient. The primary nursing goal of caring for patients with severe head injury is to prevent secondary brain damage by controlling increases in intracranial pressure. Nursing management is complex and requires structured, specialised care in order to reduce the potential adverse effects of raised intracranial pressure associated with common nursing procedures.

Eighty-five infants ranging from 22 to 41 weeks gestation were diagnosed as having periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) using traditional neuropathologic methods. The lesions were also studied by immunocytochemistry for beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP), a glycoprotein that has been observed in PVL. Using this technique, the distribution of white matter tissue necrosis was defined as focal, widespread, and diffuse. The type of PVL correlated with the gestational age at birth. The youngest infants tended to demonstrate widespread necrosis, and the oldest infants exhibited more focal necrosis. beta-APP immunopositivity was present in the axons around the foci of white matter necrosis in 76% of the patients and in the neurons of the adjacent cortex in 66% of the patients. In age-matched control patients, there was no beta-APP reactivity in the cerebral white matter or the cortex. In most patients the distribution of beta-APP-positive axons proved to be a useful marker for demonstrating the type of PVL; however, the relationship of beta-APP to the pathogenesis of PVL requires further study.

Expression of Fos and Fos-related antigens was immunohistochemically analyzed in DBA/2J and C57BL/6J inbred mice in response to acute or repeated handling and injection stress. Both strains showed a strong induction of Fos and Fos-related antigens in discrete areas of hypothalamus, amygdala, neocortex, septum, and thalamus 2 h after an acute intraperitoneal injection of normal saline. To habituate animals to this procedure, mice were subjected to repeated handling and injections during 2 weeks preceding the experiment. This procedure led to complete habituation of the immediate early gene response to injection stress in stress-responsive brain areas of C57BL/6J mice, such that no significant difference was found between expression of these proteins in brains of saline-injected animals after repeated stress vs. control animals. In contrast, many brain areas of saline-injected DBA/2J mice still showed elevated Fos and Fos-related antigen expression after repeated injections. These results indicate that identical habituation procedures do not necessarily lead to identical levels of gene expression in brains of inbred strains of mice. In turn, they suggest that genetic components for some behavioral and pharmacological traits identified using inbred strains could be related to different rates of habituation to experimental procedures.
Binding properties of gastrointestinal prokinetic benzamides for both cloned human 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)3 receptors and cloned human 5-HT4 receptors were examined and pharmacological properties of YM-53389{(+)-(S)-2-chloro-5-methoxy-4-[5-(2-piperidylmethyl)-1,2, 4-oxadiazol-3-yl]aniline monohydrochloride} were characterised in animals. Cisapride, renzapride and zacopride inhibited specific binding of [3H]ramosetron to cloned human 5-HT3 receptors, with Ki values of 684, 7.64 and 0.38 n m, respectively. YM-53389, however, slightly replaced that (Ki&gt;10,000 n m). YM-53389, cisapride, renzapride and zacopride replaced specific binding of [3H]GR 113808 to cloned human 5-HT4 receptors, with Ki values of 54.6, 41.5, 115 and 373 n m, respectively. The potency for inhibitory effect of YM-53389 on 5-HT3 receptor-mediated contraction in the guinea-pig isolated colon was very low with pIC50 of 4.7. YM-53389 exerted 5-HT4 receptor-mediated relaxation in the carbachol-precontracted rat isolated oesophagus with pEC50 of 6.3. In mice, YM-53389 at 10 and 30 mg kg-1, s.c. significantly shortened whole gut transit time, in contrast to cisapride, renzapride and zacopride which were reported to delay that. YM-53389 had no significant effect on upper gastrointestinal propulsion at doses up to 30 mg kg-1, s.c. Based on these results, YM-53389 may surpass existing benzamides in facilitating lower intestinal propulsion and benefit patients with gastrointestinal disorders associated with impair of intestinal propulsion, such as constipation, based on the selective interaction with human 5-HT4 receptors vs human 5-HT3 receptors.
Treatment of rat aortic smooth muscle cells (RASMC) with 1 or 100 microg ml-1 lipopolysaccharide (LPS) for 20-24 h led to expression of the inducible form of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) as detected by Western blotting for iNOS protein, and by determination of increased cellular nitrite formation. LPS-induced nitrite production was inhibited almost completely by concomitant treatment of cells with LPS and either (a) pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC, 25 microm), an antioxidant inhibitor of NF-kappaB activation; (b) N-tosyl-L-phenylalanine chloromethyl ketone (TPCK, 20 and 40 microm), a proteasomal inhibitor which prevents NF-kappaB activation; (c) nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA, 10 and 50 microm), a lipoxygenase inhibitor; or (d) apocynin (2, 3.5 and 5 m m), an inhibitor of NADPH oxidase. Gel-shift assays using nuclear protein extracts incubated with a 32P-labelled DNA binding probe for NF-kappaB detected two electrophoretically separable complexes containing NF-kappaB. A faster migrating complex obtained when using both LPS-treated and untreated cells appeared to represent a basal or constitutive NF-kappaB activity, whereas a slower band was found only after LPS-treatment. The latter band was abolished when using cells treated for 1 h with LPS in the presence of PDTC (25 microm) or TPCK (20 microm), but was not inhibited by NDGA (50 microm) or apocynin (3.5 m m). The basal band was unaffected by any of the cell signalling inhibitors. Densitometry of Western blots indicated that LPS-induced iNOS protein expression was inhibited to a similar extent (between 74 and 87%) by the latter concentrations of PDTC, TPCK, NDGA and apocynin. The ability of PDTC and TPCK to abolish LPS-specific NF-kappaB activation, while also producing considerable inhibition of iNOS protein expression and nitrite formation, suggests that induction of iNOS by LPS in RASMC involves NF-kappaB-dependent transcription. However, the failure of NDGA and apocynin to prevent NF-kappaB activation, at least during early stages (up to 1 h) of its nuclear accumulation, suggests that these agents may affect cell signalling pathways which regulate iNOS induction by another mechanism to be determined.
The rationale underlying therapeutic strategies designed to inhibit the action of endogenous sex hormones in malignant breast cells is provided by the demonstration of their involvement in supporting the development and growth of breast carcinoma. The surgical removal of steroid-secreting glands, in order to reduce the level of oestrogens reaching their target tissues, has for years been substituted by the so-called endocrinotherapeutic approach, which is based on the counteraction of the steroid hormone activity by the hormonal receptor blockade with suitable antioestrogenic compounds. Over the past 25 years, the non-steroidal oestrogen antagonist tamoxifen has become the standard endocrine treatment for breast cancer. The triphenylethylene-derivative compound competes efficiently for binding to the oestrogen receptor, but the complex retains some transcriptional activity. Consequently, tamoxifen exhibits, both ' in vitro and in vivo ', a range of biological activity from full oestrogen antagonism to partial agonism. There is also evidence suggesting that the agonist activity of this compound may ultimately stimulate breast tumour growth, thus causing some treatment failures. Moreover, the use of tamoxifen is limited by the possible onset of drug-resistance in many patients. Nevertheless, widely tested tamoxifen has proved to be very helpful for the development of new compounds to be used as long-term adjuvant therapy or as preventive agents. These novel oestrogen antagonists belong to two major classes: tamoxifen analogs and new pure steroidal-like antioestrogens. The search for and development of compounds devoid of tamoxifen cross-resistance, with a safer toxicity profile as well as the lack of oestrogenic effects, provide the bases to improve the current therapeutic applications of antioestrogens.







A method is described for investigating life course influences on health in early old age. The lives of some 300 individuals at present aged 65-75 y have been reconstructed from the archived records of a pre-WWII survey, in which they took part as children, and from lifegrid interviews with the same individuals 60 y later. Despite loss to study at several points those interviewed are shown to be representative of the British population socio-demographically, in comparison with the 1931 and 1991 decennial censuses, and physically, in comparison with the Health Survey for England. Bias is conservative because the most disadvantaged were disproportionately affected by loss to follow-up through death and because non-responders to interview were more disadvantaged as children than the interviewees. Representativeness and conservative bias, it is argued, justify the use of these data for investigating life course influences on health in early old age.
A review of the different publications dealing with melatonin in humans shows that this field has been very active in the last few years. Normative melatonin values have been defined. Various relationships between melatonin and other traits have been studied, such as sleep, circadian rhythm, surgical stress and anaesthesia. Age-related melatonin studies and melatonin during depression and other psychiatric disorders have been reviewed. Finally, some studies have been performed to use melatonin as a medication for sleep disturbance in depression, for jet-lag and as a skin protector for ultraviolet light.
Subdural hematomas may affect 0.4-5 p. 100 of patients with cancer, because of predisposing risk factors or because of the cancer itself. The most likely association is with hematological cancer with coagulative disorders. An association with pachymeningitis carcinomatosa is less likely. In this instance the subdural hematoma is due to a neoplastic obstruction of dural vein with subdural engorgement and hemorrhage or subdural effusion. We report a case in which an acute neurological deterioration due to a subdural hematoma disclosed a dural metastasis from a breast cancer operated four years earlier and present a literature review.

Epilepsy care in general practice has been criticized, but what do GPs feel they deal with most and complete satisfactorily? If criticism is justified, education should be useful in improving epilepsy care, but what do general practitioners want to learn and how do they want to learn it? Questionnaires about these issues were sent to randomly chosen general practitioners throughout the United Kingdom. One hundred and twenty-four out of 200 (62%) responded. They were not biased by age, sex, type of practice or previous interest in epilepsy. Drug treatment and regular review were the two areas of care GPs said they dealt with most, but only half felt they dealt with them well. Sixty-six percent wanted to learn more about drug treatment, 46% about lifestyle advice, 45% about non-drug treatment, 44% about diagnosis and only 16% did not want to learn more about any aspect of care. Weekdays and evenings were the preferred times for study. Courses up to one full day away from practices were popular, distance learning and personal education plans were not, except for a group of younger GPs. When attending courses multi-disciplinary lectures rated highly and nearly three-quarters preferred to attend courses where epilepsy was covered in conjunction with other conditions. Future epilepsy education for GPs should recognize these findings if attendance and positive outcomes are to be maximized.
This study reports the results of a questionnaire survey of female members of the British Epilepsy Association (BEA). The women were asked about their concerns about their epilepsy with respect to being female, and, in particular, asked about the information they had been given on important topics such as contraception and pregnancy. A questionnaire was sent to 6000 BEA female members of whom 1855 (31%) replied. Forty-six percent of the women (mainly aged between 26 and 45) stated that they currently used some form of contraception. The most frequently used method was the condom (34%). Twenty-two percent of the women using contraception were taking the oral contraceptive pill whilst a further 4% were using a hormonal contraceptive injection. Fifty-one percent of the women aged between 16 and 55 claimed not to have received any advice about possible interactions between contraception and antiepileptic drug therapy. With regards to pregnancy, 34% claimed they had not received any advice and 25% had not discussed pregnancy with anyone. The women planning to have children over the subsequent 2 years received the greatest amount of advice about epilepsy and pregnancy, although 20% still claimed not to have received any information. Thirty-four percent of the women in the study stated that they were either menopausal or post-menopausal. Twenty-nine percent of women who had taken hormone replacement therapy in the past reported an increase in seizure frequency compared with 18% amongst current users. This survey has shown that women with epilepsy want, and need, more information and counselling about issues relating to contraception, pregnancy and the menopause.

Glutamate is critical for the induction and maintenance of behavioral sensitization and associated neuroadaptations in the mesocorticolimbic dopamine (DA) system. We have shown previously [Lu et al. (1997) Synapse 26:269-280] that repeated amphetamine administration alters AMPA receptor subunit mRNA levels in rat nucleus accumbens (NAc) and medial prefrontal cortex (PFC). The present study determined if amphetamine elicits corresponding changes in AMPA receptor subunit immunolabeling. Rats were injected with amphetamine sulphate (5 mg/kg/day) or saline for 5 days and perfused 3 or 14 days after the last injection. AMPA receptor subunit immunolabeling was quantified using autoradiographic immunocytochemistry. In the NAc, GluR1 and GluR2 immunolabeling were unchanged after 3 days of withdrawal, but both were decreased significantly after 14 days of withdrawal (GluR1, 85.5+/-2.6% of control group, P&lt;0.01; GluR2, 79.2+/-3.2%, P&lt;0.01). Analysis of core and shell subregions at the 14-day withdrawal time indicated that GluR1 immunolabeling decreased significantly in shell, while GluR2 immunolabeling decreased significantly in both core and shell. No changes in GluR2/3, GluR2/4, or GluR4 immunolabeling in NAc were found at either withdrawal time. In the PFC, GluR1 immunolabeling increased after 3 days of withdrawal (115.3+/-7.0%, P&lt;0.01) but returned to control levels after 14 days. The present results correspond well with our previous findings at the mRNA level. These alterations in AMPA receptor expression may account for previously described changes in the electrophysiological responsiveness of NAc and PFC neurons to glutamate and AMPA. Along with alterations in DA function, they may contribute to drug-induced dysregulation of reward-related neurotransmission.
Insect Malpighian tubules actively transport a variety of xenobiotics, and it has been proposed that P-glycoprotein (P-gp), or the multidrug transporter, is involved. To test this idea, we observed the interaction of known P-gp substrates with isolated, living Malpighian tubules from tobacco hornworm (Manduca sexta) larvae. Specifically, the fluorescent drugs daunomycin, rhodamine 123, acridine orange and Hoechst 33342 were applied to the basal side of tubules (proximal portion) in a well of fluid on a coverslip; the subsequent distribution of the drugs was monitored by laser scanning confocal microscopy. Contrary to expectation, none of the drugs appeared in the lumen even after 1-2 h of incubation, although the cells of the tubule were intensely stained within 1 min. For daunomycin, neither verapamil, a P-gp inhibitor, nor nicotine, an alkaloid which appears to be transported by a P-gp-like mechanism in this species, had any effect on the pattern of staining. In sharp contrast to the fast and intense staining of Malpighian tubules, portions of muscle, nerve cord and body fat showed only light staining with daunomycin, and only after prolonged periods. The results suggest that for some drugs, Malpighian tubules act as xenobiotic scavengers, and that this property is unrelated to P-gp-mediated transport.


The image of a rapidly approaching object has to elicit a quick response. An animal needs to know that the object is approaching on a collision course and how imminent a collision is. The relevant information can be computed from the way that the image of the object grows on the retina of one eye. Firm data about the types of neurones that react to such looming stimuli and trigger avoidance reactions come from recent studies on the pigeon and the locust. The neurones responsible are tightly tuned to detect objects that are approaching on a direct collision course. In the pigeon these neurones signal the time remaining before collision whereas in the locust they have a crucial role in the simple strategy this animal uses to detect an object approaching on a collision course.

There are many disorders of pyrimidine metabolism and those that involve an alteration in uridine metabolism have neurological and systemic effects, which provide insights into the biological activity of uridine and its analogues. Studies of the metabolism and actions of pyrimidines have uncovered a wealth of information on how these endogenous metabolites modulate cell physiology. In this article, the roles for the pyrimidine nucleoside uridine and its nucleotide derivatives in the regulation of a number of biological systems are examined and benefits of further studies are outlined. An understanding of how uridine and its nucleotides modulate such vastly complicated biological systems should ultimately lead to the development of new ways for modulating human physiology in both normal and diseased states. Likely targets for therapy include the respiratory, circulatory, reproductive, and nervous systems, and the treatment of cancer and HIV infection.
Nasal and temporal hemifield (14 x 24 degrees) pattern electroretinograms (PERGs) were recorded in eight patients (age range: 21-72 years) suffering from different post-geniculate lesions (documented by CT scan and/or MRI of the brain) and homonymous hemianopia at visual field testing. In total eight age-matched normal subjects served as controls. PERGs were elicited by alternating, sinusoidal gratings (90% contrast), whose spatial and temporal characteristics, 6 Hz-5 c deg-1 and 15 Hz-0.58 c deg-1, were chosen to enhance the relative contributions of parvo- (P) and magno- (M) retinal ganglion cell (GC) subsystems, respectively. Amplitudes and phases of the Fourier analyzed PERG 2nd harmonics were measured. In normal subjects, PERG amplitudes to 15 Hz-0.58 c deg-1, but not those of the 6 Hz-5 c deg-1 stimuli were on average larger (P &lt; 0.05) in nasal than in temporal hemiretinae. In hemianopic patients, PERG amplitudes of 6 Hz-5 c deg-1 stimuli were on average reduced (P &lt; 0.05) in the hemiretinae corresponding to blind hemifields, in comparison to those in the hemiretinae corresponding to functional hemifields. No differences between hemiretinae were observed for responses of the 15 Hz-0.58 c deg-1 stimuli. In both normal subjects and patients, average PERG phases did not differ between hemiretinae, while changing significantly (P &lt; 0.01) across stimulus conditions. The PERG naso-temporal asymmetries observed in normal subjects are consistent with the reported asymmetries in GC density observed histologically (Curcio &amp; Allen. (1990). Journal of Comparative Neurology, 300, 5-25). The results in patients indicate that the PERGs to specific spatio-temporal stimuli (i.e. of relatively low-temporal and high-spatial frequency), presented in the hemianopic field, are reduced in amplitude. This suggests, in agreement with the experimental findings in monkeys (Cowey &amp; Stoerig. (1991). Trends in Neuroscience, 14, 140-145), that retrograde trans-synaptic dysfunction of P-GCs, with relative sparing of the M-subsystem, may occur in humans following lesions of post-geniculate pathways.

Fast inhibitory neurotransmission in the mammalian CNS is mediated primarily by the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), which, upon binding to its receptor, leads to opening of the intrinsic ion channel, allowing chloride to enter the cell. Over the past 10 years it has become clear that a family of GABA-A receptor subtypes exists, generated through the coassembly of polypeptides selected from alpha 1-alpha 6, beta 1-beta 3, gamma 1-gamma 3, delta, epsilon, and pie to form what is most likely a pentomeric macromolecule. The gene transcripts, and indeed the polypeptides, show distinct patterns of temporal and spatial expression, such that the GABA-A receptor subtypes have a defined localization that presumably reflects their physiological role. A picture is beginning to emerge of the properties conferred to receptor subtypes by the different subunits; these include different functional properties, differential modulation by protein kinases, and the targeting to different membrane compartments. These properties presumably underlie the different physiological roles of the various receptor subtypes. Recently we have identified a further member of the GABA-A receptor gene family, which we have termed theta, which appears to be most closely related to the beta subunits. The structure, function, and distribution of theta-containing receptors, and receptors containing the recently reported epsilon subunit, are described.

Although the hippocampus expresses nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and receives cholinergic innervation, the functional roles of these receptors are not completely understood. Our results indicated that presynaptic nAChRs mediated a calcium influx that enhanced the release of both glutamate and GABA. Fura-2 detection of calcium in single mossy fiber presynaptic terminals indicated that nAChRs directly mediated a calcium influx. In hippocampal neurons in primary culture, both spontaneous vesicular release and evoked release of glutamate and GABA were enhanced by nicotine. The nicotinic current displayed rapid desensitization kinetics, and the response to nicotine was inhibited by alpha-bungarotoxin and methyllcaconitine, suggesting that nAChRs containing the alpha 7 subunit mediated the effect. Modulation of synaptic activity by presynaptic calcium influx may represent a physiological role of acetylcholine in the brain, as well as a mechanism of action of nicotine.


Four mammalian Kv3 genes have been identified, each of which generates, by alternative splicing, multiple protein products differing in their C-terminal sequence. Products of the Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 genes express similar delayed-rectifier type currents in heterologous expression systems, while Kv3.3 and Kv3.4 proteins express A-type currents. All Kv3 currents activate relatively fast at voltages more positive than -10 mV, and deactivate very fast. The distribution of Kv3 mRNAs in the rodent CNS was studied by in situ hybridization, and the localization of Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 proteins has been studied by immunohistochemistry. Most Kv3.2 mRNAs (approximately 90%) are present in thalamic-relay neurons throughout the dorsal thalamus. The protein is expressed mainly in the axons and terminals of these neurons. Kv3.2 channels are thought to be important for thalamocortical signal transmission. Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 proteins are coexpressed in some neuronal populations such as in fast-spiking interneurons of the cortex and hippocampus, and neurons in the globus pallidus. Coprecipitation studies suggest that in these cells the two types of protein form heteromeric channels. Kv3 proteins appear to mediate, in native neurons, similar currents to those seen in heterologous expression systems. The activation voltage and fast deactivation rates are believed to allow these channels to help repolarize action potentials fast without affecting the threshold for action potential generation. The fast deactivating current generates a quickly recovering after hyperpolarization, thus maximizing the rate of recovery of Na+ channel inactivation without contributing to an increase in the duration of the refractory period. These properties are believed to contribute to the ability of neurons to fire at high frequencies and to help regulate the fidelity of synaptic transmission. Experimental evidence has now become available showing that Kv3.1-Kv3.2 channels play critical roles in the generation of fast-spiking properties in cortical GABAergic interneurons.

The contributing roles of voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCC) to the generation of electrical signaling are well documented. VGCCs open in response to depolarization of the plasma membrane and mediate the flux of calcium into excitable cells, which further depolarizes the membrane. But a more relevant role of VGCCs is to serve as highly regulated mechanisms to deliver calcium ions into specific intracellular locales for a variety of calcium-dependent processes including neurotransmitter release, hormone secretion, neuronal survival, and muscle contraction. Recent biochemical and molecular biological studies have demonstrated that the calcium channel pore-forming subunit (alpha 1) is not an isolated entity, but in fact interacts physically with a variety of strategically localized proteins. The functional consequences of such interactions as well as other molecular aspects of VGCC will be discussed. Finally, although far from a final conclusion, what is currently known about the molecular composition of native calcium channels will be summarized.
This manuscript summarizes our recent attempts to regulate in vitro and in vivo the expression of genes encoding components and regulators of the postsynaptic machinery along with marker genes such as lacZ and GFP. In particular, we studied tTA-dependent regulation and utilized Cre in combination with reversible silencing by intron engineering of dominant negative alleles. We further present a &quot;knockin&quot; approach for on-site artificial regulation of chromosomal genes.

Polymerization of the amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide into protease-resistant fibrils is a significant step in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. It has not been possible to obtain detailed structural information about this process with conventional techniques because the peptide has limited solubility and does not form crystals. In this work, we present experimental results leading to a molecular level model for fibril formation. Systematically selected Abeta-fragments containing the Abeta16-20 sequence, previously shown essential for Abeta-Abeta binding, were incubated in a physiological buffer. Electron microscopy revealed that the shortest fibril-forming sequence was Abeta14-23. Substitutions in this decapeptide impaired fibril formation and deletion of the decapeptide from Abeta1-42 inhibited fibril formation completely. All studied peptides that formed fibrils also formed stable dimers and/or tetramers. Molecular modeling of Abeta14-23 oligomers in an antiparallel beta-sheet conformation displayed favorable hydrophobic interactions stabilized by salt bridges between all charged residues. We propose that this decapeptide sequence forms the core of Abeta-fibrils, with the hydrophobic C terminus folding over this core. The identification of this fundamental sequence and the implied molecular model could facilitate the design of potential inhibitors of amyloidogenesis.


Although A- and J-type prostaglandins (PG's) arrest the cell cycle at the G1 phase in vitro and suppress tumor growth in vivo, their effects on neuronal cells have not so far been clarified. Here, we found promotion of neurite outgrowth as a novel biological function of PGJ's. In PC12h cells, PGJ's (PGJ2, Delta12-PGJ2 and 15-deoxy-Delta12,14-PGJ2) promoted neurite outgrowth in the presence of nerve growth factor (NGF), whereas they themselves did not show such a promotion. The potency of promoting neurite outgrowth was PGJ2 &lt; Delta12-PGJ2 &lt; 15-deoxy-Delta12,14-PGJ2. However, troglitazone, an activator of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptorgamma (PPARgamma), and other PG's including PGA1, PGA2 and PGD2 did not promote neurite outgrowth. These results suggest that PGJ's promote neurite outgrowth independently of PPARgamma activation.
The NMDA receptor complex is thought to be altered in kindling, an animal model for complex partial epilepsy. This receptor complex has several modulatory sites including those for glutamate, glycine and polyamines with activation resulting in altered cation channel opening. Two NMDA receptor effectors, ifenprodil and arcaine, were evaluated for effects on the acquisition of electrical kindling of the amygdala. Rats were administered 0, 3.2, 10, 32 and 100 microg of ifenprodil or 0, 32 or 100 microg of arcaine, intracerebroventricularly, 10 min before a daily kindling stimulus. Ifenprodil, at low doses, enhanced kindling acquisition, while the highest dose, 100 microg, inhibited kindling. Arcaine increased the number of trials required to reach fully generalized (stage 5) seizures at the 100 microg dose. Since these agents had mixed actions on kindling development, it is unclear whether these or similar NMDA effectors would be useful in the modulation of complex partial seizures.
To localize neurotrophin binding sites within the rat dentate gyrus, the distribution of low-affinity p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR) immunoreactivity (IR) was examined by using antiserum raised against the cytoplasmic domain of the receptor. Semiquantitative electron microscopic examination of p75NTR-labeled sections showed that most p75NTR-labeled profiles were axons and axon terminals (72% from a total of 3,975); p75NTR-IR was observed throughout the extent of these structures and was not limited to the plasmalemmal surface. Axons and axon terminals containing p75NTR-IR were distributed in approximately equal proportions across the hilus, infragranular zone, and the inner, middle, and outer molecular layers; significantly fewer p75NTR-labeled profiles were observed in the granule cell layer. Axon terminals containing p75NTR-IR, which made synapses (296 of 552), formed equal proportions of symmetric and asymmetric synapses, primarily with the shafts and spines of dendrites. The remainder of the p75NTR-labeled terminals apposed unlabeled somata and dendrites without forming synapses in the single sections analyzed. In addition, p75NTR-IR was contained within some astrocytes (17.5% of 3,975) and dendritic shafts (3%) and spines (5%). Within dendritic spines, p75NTR-IR was most often associated with the plasmalemmal surface near postsynaptic densities; in dendritic shafts, p75NTR labeling was associated with microfilaments distant from the plasmalemma. Most p75NTR-labeled dendritic profiles were located in the molecular layer, and some originated from granule cells. Moreover, in some granule cell somata (&lt;1% of 3,975), p75NTR-IR was associated with endosomes. The primary localization of p75NTR-IR to presynaptic structures in the dentate gyrus, presumably arising from medial septal/diagonal band neurons, agrees with previous reports. However, p75NTR-IR within some astrocytes, somata, and dendritic structures suggests that this receptor may also be involved in controlling local neurotrophin levels and possibly modulating the viability of local hippocampal cell populations.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a bioactive phospholipid with properties of an extracellular growth factor for many cell lines, including those derived from neuroblastomas. However, the relevance of LPA signaling to the normal, developing nervous system is unknown, in part reflecting the previous unavailability of cloned receptor genes. Recent studies of the first such gene, encoding the G protein-coupled receptor LPA1/VZG-1 (lysophospholipid receptor A1/ventricular zone gene-1), revealed a major locus of expression in oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells (SCs) during development, suggesting an influence of LPA on these myelinating cells. Here we report that LPA (&gt;/=10 nM) is a potent survival factor for cultured neonatal SCs, with survival activity equaling the maximal effect of neuregulin, the major peptide SC survival factor. LPA activates a pharmacologically defined signaling pathway in SCs, involving Gi and phosphoinositide 3-kinase. Moreover, LPA's effect depends on Akt, a downstream kinase that can mediate phosphoinositide 3-kinase-dependent survival, as demonstrated by both Western blot and transfection analyses. Overexpression of functional epitope-tagged LPA1/VZG-1 protein decreases SC apoptosis in response to serum withdrawal. These data demonstrate a role for extracellular LPA and its receptor LPA1/VZG-1 in SC survival and, more broadly, implicate G protein-coupled receptor-mediated lysophospholipid signaling as a significant mechanism in neural development.
We investigated the effects of estrogen replacement therapy on water maze non-spatial and spatial navigation in mice. Three groups of mice were ovariectomized and two of these groups being implanted with s.c. pellets that produce blood levels of estrogen close to those found in estrous (estrogen low, 75-100 pg/ml blood) or proestrous (estrogen high, 300-400 pg/ml). The behavioral assessment was initiated 7 days after pellet implantation. Non-spatial navigation to a clearly visible platform was stimulated by low and high levels of estrogen. However, spatial navigation to a hidden platform was improved by low estrogen levels. We found that estrogen improves two different types of memory processes that depend on striatal (non-spatial navigation) and hippocampal (spatial) memory systems.
The present study focuses on influences of long-term experience on auditory processing, providing the first evidence for pre-attentively superior auditory processing in musicians. This was revealed by the brain's automatic change-detection response, which is reflected electrically as the mismatch negativity (MMN) and generated by the operation of sensoric (echoic) memory, the earliest cognitive memory system. Major chords and single tones were presented to both professional violinists and non-musicians under ignore and attend conditions. Slightly impure chords, presented among perfect major chords elicited a distinct MMN in professional musicians, but not in non-musicians. This demonstrates that compared to non-musicians, musicians are superior in pre-attentively extracting more information out of musically relevant stimuli. Since effects of long-term experience on pre-attentive auditory processing have so far been reported for language-specific phonemes only, results indicate that sensory memory mechanisms can be modulated by training on a more general level.
Galanin expression is co-regulated in peripheral neurons with that of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) under a variety of conditions. For example, the expression of both increase after explantation of adult rat superior cervical ganglia (SCG). Because VIP participates in a positive feedback loop regulating its own expression, we examined whether VIP also increases galanin expression. Galanin mRNA and peptide are nearly undetectable in the SCG in vivo, but increase dramatically after 24-48 h in organ culture. Addition of VIP or forskolin to the culture medium reduced galanin mRNA expression by 75% and 77%, respectively, and reduced galanin peptide expression by 76% and 82%, respectively, compared with ganglia cultured in control medium. In contrast, isoproterenol stimulation did not significantly alter levels of galanin mRNA or peptide, consistent with previous observations that isoproterenol exerts its effect on SCG non-neuronal cells, but not on neurons. The results indicate that galanin and VIP are differentially regulated in sympathetic neurons by cAMP- elevating agents.
Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) is a rare disorder of unknown cause, characterized by the proliferation of histiocytic cells in various tissues and organs. The role of the otolaryngologist is important in the early and accurate evaluation, staging and diagnosis of LCH, because it may mimic more common diseases such as otitis externa and acute mastoiditis. We discuss a case report of bilateral mastoid involvement in a child with a history of otalgia unresponsive to medical therapy.
Evidence from epidemiological, clinical and experimental studies favour the hypothesis that inflammatory events are part of the neuropathology in Alzheimer's disease. Proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1 (IL-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) have been found in activated microglia in the vicinity of amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease brain. In the present study, the levels of soluble IL-1 receptor type II (sIL-1R type II), IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra), IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha were analyzed in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from Alzheimer's disease patients and control subjects. The levels of sIL-1R type II were significantly higher in CSF from Alzheimer's disease patients than in CSF samples from control subjects (38.5+/-8 pg/ml (mean+/-S.E.M.) vs. 7.9+/-4 pg/ml, p&lt;0.05). Measurements of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNF-alpha showed no significant difference between the two groups, and the levels of IL-1beta and IL-1ra in the present material were too low to permit detection. The increased levels of sIL-1R type II may reflect a compensatory mechanism to balance an increased release of IL-1 receptor agonists in the Alzheimer's disease brain.
We investigated the effect of arachidonic acid (AA) on the release of [3H]acetylcholine ([3H]ACh) from the rat hippocampus. AA (3-30 microM) increased the basal tritium outflow and the field-electrically evoked release of [3H]ACh from hippocampal slices in a concentration-dependent manner. AA (30 microM) produced a 69+/-7% facilitation of the evoked and a 36+/-3% facilitation of basal tritium outflow. The effect of AA (30 microM) on the evoked tritium release was prevented by bovine serum albumin (BSA, 1%), which quenches AA, and was unaffected by the cyclooxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin (100 microM), and the lipooxygenase inhibitor, nordihydroguaiaretic acid (50 microM). Phospholipase A2 (PLA2, 2 U/ml), an enzyme that releases AA from the sn-2 position of phospholipids, mimicked the facilitatory effect of AA on the evoked tritium release (86+/-14% facilitation), an effect prevented by BSA (1%). The PLA2 activator, melittin (1 microM), enhanced the evoked tritium release by 98+/-11%, an effect prevented by the PLA2 inhibitor, arachidonyl trifluromethylketone (AACOCF3, 20 microM), and by BSA (1%). AA (30 microM), but not arachidic acid (30 microM), also facilitated (72+/-9%) the veratridine (10 microM)-evoked [3H]ACh release from superfused hippocampal synaptosomes, whereas PLA2 (2 U/ml) and melittin (1 microM) caused a lower facilitation (46+/-1% and 38+/-5%, respectively). The present results show that both exogenously added and endogenously produced AA increase the evoked release of [3H]ACh from rat hippocampal nerve terminals. Since muscarinic activation triggers AA production and we now observed that AA enhances ACh release, it is proposed that AA may act as a facilitatory retrograde messenger in hippocampal cholinergic muscarinic transmission as it has been proposed to act in glutamatergic transmission.
The dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and its serotonergic terminal regions have been suggested to be part of the neural substrate by which exposure to uncontrollable stressors produces poor escape responding and enhanced conditioned fear expression. Such stressor exposure is thought to selectively activate DRN serotonergic neurons in such a way as to render them transiently sensitized to further input. As a result of this sensitized state, behavioral testing procedures are thought to cause excess serotonergic activity in brain regions that control these behaviors. The present studies were conducted to investigate activity in the DRN following exposure to escapable and yoked, inescapable tailshock. Neural activity was characterized using immunohistochemistry to detect the immediate early gene product Fos in serotonin-immunoreactive cells in the DRN. Inescapable tailshock led to greater serotonergic neural activity than did escapable tailshock, supporting the hypothesis that uncontrollable stressors preferentially activate serotonergic neurons in the DRN.
The present study seeked to determine whether the neurodegenerative and cognitive alterations in aged apolipoprotein E-deficient mice are differentially reversed by transgenic overexpression of human apolipoprotein-E3 vs. apolipoprotein-E4 in the background of deficient endogenous apolipoprotein E. These studies showed dendritic alterations in pyramidal neurons of apolipoprotein-E4 transgenic mice, similar to the ones observed in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice. However, these mice had a preserved density of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals. In contrast, mice overexpressing apolipoprotein-E3 showed no synapto-dendritic alterations. Analysis of behavioral performance in the Morris water maze showed that while apolipoprotein E-deficient mice performed poorly, overexpression of apolipoprotein-E3 and, to a lower extent apolipoprotein-E4, resulted in an improved performance. This study supports the contention that, compared with apolipoprotein-E4, apolipoprotein-E3 might have a greater neurotrophic in vivo effect in aged mice.
The neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) is expressed in various parts of the developing and adult rat brain, including the cerebellum. In situ hybridization was employed to localize the precise site of mRNA expression for PACAP and PACAP receptor I (PRI). During prenatal cerebellar development, PACAP mRNA was present in developing Purkinje cells and some deep cerebellar nuclei, whilst PRI mRNA was expressed by adjacent cells in the Purkinje cell layer (PCL). There was a shift in PRI mRNA expression to the external germinal cell layer around birth. PACAP decreased the number of neurons positive for the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) in cultures from embryonic cerebellum, but did not affect overall cell survival. In conclusion, our results show the pattern of PACAP mRNA expression in embryonic cerebellum and suggest a physiological role for PACAP on GABAergic cerebellar neurons.
Previously, we observed specific alterations of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and Y1 receptor mRNA expression in discrete regions of the Flinders Sensitive Line rats (FSL), an animal model of depression. In order to clarify the correlation between mRNA expression and protein content, radioimmunoassay and receptor autoradiography were currently performed. In the FSL rats, NPY-like immunoreactivity (NPY-LI) was decreased in the hippocampal CA region, while Y1 binding sites were increased; NPY-LI was increased in the arcuate nucleus. Fluoxetine treatment elevated NPY-LI in the arcuate and anterior cingulate cortex and increased Y1 binding sites in the medial amygdala and occipital cortex in both strains. No differences were found regarding the Y2 binding sites. The results demonstrate a good correlation between NPY peptide and mRNA expression, and sustain the possible involvement of NPY and Y1 receptors in depression.
Male rats show four to six penile erection episodes when put for 80 min in the presence of an inaccessible receptive female. These non-contact penile erections were reduced dose-dependently by d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)2-Orn8-vasotocin, a potent and selective oxytocin receptor antagonist, when given into the lateral ventricles (0.1, 0.5 and 1 microg), but not when given into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (0.1 and 1 microg). In contrast, non-contact erections were reduced by N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, a competitive inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, given into the lateral ventricles (50, 100 and 200 microg), or into the paraventricular nucleus (10 and 20 microg). The present results show that central oxytocin is involved in the expression of penile erection induced not only by drugs but also by sexual physiological stimuli.
Estrogen and estrogen receptors (ER) are involved in the expression of steroid-dependent male sexual behavior and negative feedback regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. The purpose of the present experiment was to determine whether there are pubertal changes in ER expression in brain that are correlated with pubertal changes in responsiveness to steroid negative feedback and behavioral activation. We found equivalent numbers of ER-immunoreactive (ER-ir) cells in castrated prepubertal and adult male hamsters in nuclei that comprise the neural circuit that mediate male sexual behavior. Therefore, increases in the number of cells in these nuclei that express ER are not correlated with the increased behavioral responsiveness to steroid hormone shown by hamsters after puberty. The number of ER-ir cells in the ventral medial hypothalamus was less in adults compared with juveniles. This pubertal decrease in ER expression is correlated with the decreased responsiveness to steroid negative feedback in the adult.
The orbital part of prefrontal cortex appears to be crucially involved in the motivational control of goal-directed behaviour. Patients with lesions of orbitofrontal cortex show impairments in making decisions about the expected outcome of actions. Monkeys with orbitofrontal lesions respond abnormally to changes in reward expectations and show altered reward preferences. As rewards constitute basic goals of behaviour, we investigated here how neurons in the orbitofrontal cortex of monkeys process information about liquid and food rewards in a typical frontal task, spatial delayed responding. The activity of orbitofrontal neurons increases in response to reward-predicting signals, during the expectation of rewards, and after the receipt of rewards. Neurons discriminate between different rewards, mainly irrespective of the spatial and visual features of reward-predicting stimuli and behavioural reactions. Most reward discriminations reflect the animals' relative preference among the available rewards, as expressed by their choice behaviour, rather than physical reward properties. Thus, neurons in the orbitofrontal cortex appear to process the motivational value of rewarding outcomes of voluntary action.


Extraocular muscle is modulated by unique genetic and epigenetic factors to produce an atypical phenotype. As a prelude to regulation studies, we characterized the development of cation homeostasis in the predominately fast-twitch extraocular muscles. By atomic absorption spectroscopy, total muscle calcium content declined from birth to postnatal day 27 and, thereafter, stabilized at a low level in limb but increased dramatically in extraocular muscle (to 40x limb values). By ELISA, the slow isoform of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase predominated in neonatal eye muscle, but subsequently was largely replaced by the fast isoform. This replacement in eye muscle was completed later than in limb. Residual, slow Ca2+-ATPase likely resides in an unusual slow tonic fiber type characteristic of eye muscle. Maturation of the definitive extraocular muscle Ca2+-ATPase pattern paralleled myofiber Ca2+ and sarcoplasmic reticulum content. These data show that, like myosin heavy chain expression patterns, the development of cation homeostatic mechanisms in extraocular muscle parallels landmarks in the maturation of vision and eye movement control systems. Findings suggest that cation homeostasis in extraocular muscle may be susceptible to perturbations of the developing visual sensory system, as we have previously shown for myosin.
The author draws attention to the importance of the development of neurosciences for psychiatry in particular for studies of biological aspects of mental disorders. She presents a review of methods which contribute to research of biological markers. Sufficiently sensitive and specific biological markers will contribute to the elucidation of the etiopathogenesis, objective diagnostics and prediction of the effectiveness of treatment. Emphatic enforcement of new findings into clinical practice will contribute to a more favourable position of psychiatry within the framework of medicine and society.
Psychogenic pseudoseizures typically are thought to reflect emotional disturbances. Studies have suggested that patients with psychogenic pseudoseizures may also have impaired neuropsychological function. We examined intellectual and neuropsychological performance in a large sample of patients with well-documented psychogenic pseudoseizures. Patients with pseudoseizures only (Pure group) and patients with both pseudoseizures and epilepsy (Mixed group) were included. For the total sample, the WAIS-R IQ scores were quite variable. Full Scale and Performance IQ ranged from deficient to very superior. The Full Scale IQ was in the low average or borderline range in 41.5% of patients. A striking finding was the high incidence of impaired performance on the Halstead-Reitan Neuropsychological Battery in both the Pure and Mixed groups. Considering the neuropsychological variables for which published cut-off scores are available, more than 50% of the total sample (as well as the Pure and Mixed groups) scored in the impaired range on more than half the measures. The Halstead Impairment Index, which reflects the overall level of neuropsychological performance, was in the impaired range (0.5-1.0) in 63% of the sample. Given the high incidence of accidents and physical trauma reported by our patients, we postulate that head trauma might be responsible for neuropsychological impairment in an appreciable number of the patients in this sample.
A functional polymorphism in the upstream regulatory region of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) has been recently reported to be associated with mood disorders. In the present study we investigated the possible influence of 5-HTTLPR on the symptomatology of mood disorders. Two hundred and thirty inpatients affected by mood disorders (160 bipolar and 70 major depressive disorder) were assessed by the Operational Criteria checklist for psychotic illness (OPCRIT) and were also typed for the 5-HTTLPR variants using PCR techniques. Mania, Depression, Delusion and Disorganization were the four symptomatologic factors used as phenotype definition. 5-HTTLPR variants were not associated with these symptomatologic factors, and consideration of possible stratification effects, such as sex, age of onset and polarity, did not reveal any association either. The serotonin transporter gene does not, therefore, appear to be associated with the symptomatology of mood disorders.
We use immunohistochemistry to show the existence of verotoxin receptor in small sensory neurons in DRG of human, rabbit, rat and mouse. In capillary in nervous system, the verotoxin receptor exists in human and rabbit, but the receptor could not be demonstrated in rat and mouse, by this method. The receptors in sensory neuron of rat and in capillary in rabbit brain are determined as galactosylglobotriaosylceramide (GalGb3) and globotriaosylceramide (Gb3,), respectively. Although verotoxin was reported to bind to glycolipid receptors that possess the terminal disaccharide Galalpha1-4Galbeta (galactobiose), the binding to toxin to galabiosylceramide was half of that of GalGb3 which has galactobiose internally.
In a recognition memory experiment we recorded event-related brain potentials (ERPs) following the presentation of faces. We compared correctly classified repetitions of faces (hits) with new faces classified as repeated (false alarms). Stimulus-related averaging yielded significantly more negative ERPs to false alarms between 750 and 900 ms after onset of stimulus presentation. With response-related averaging we found significantly more negative ERPs to false alarms within the last 100 ms before movement onset. The differential activity was distributed over central and frontal regions and was still present in the period after the response. We interpret the phenomenon as an electrophysiological manifestation of false recognition as described by Schacter et al. (Schacter, D.L., Norman, K.A. and Koutstaal, W., The cognitive neuroscience of constructive memory, Annu. Rev. Psychol., 49 (1998) 289-318). False recognition could be the result of a preliminary decision based on illusionary familiarity and be associated with post-retrieval processing.
The physiological activity of many proteins can be regulated by S-nitrosylation or reaction of nitric oxide (NO)-related species with cysteine residues to produce S-nitrosoproteins (S-nitrosothiols). However, S-nitrosothiols, such as S-nitrosocysteine (SNOC) and S-nitrosohomocysteine (SNHC), can also be neurotoxic by generating NO which reacts with endogenous O2- to form peroxynitrite. Additionally, thiols such as cysteine and homocysteine can be neurotoxic by acting as N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) agonists. Paradoxically, we show here that millimolar thiol can protect from acute exposure to micromolar SNHC that is normally neurotoxic. This finding can be best explained by the fact that although S-nitrosothiols undergo homolytic cleavage to produce NO and subsequent neurotoxicity, adding thiol stabilizes S-nitrosothiols, effectively preventing this cleavage. Thus, the equilibrium between thiol and nitrosothiol determines outcome in studies of neuronal degeneration.
NMDA receptor mediated excitotoxicity contributes substantially to aminoglycoside antibiotic-induced cochlear damage. Since vestibular as well as cochlear hair cells have glutamatergic synapses, aminoglycoside-induced vestibulotoxicity may also have an excitotoxic component. This hypothesis was tested by examining the effects of the uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine on streptomycin-induced vestibulotoxicity. Streptomycin-treated rats exhibited almost complete destruction of sensory hair cells in the crista ampullaris, vestibular impairment in the drop test, and hyperkinesia. Concurrent treatment with dizocilpine not only rescued a substantial population of sensory hair cells in the cristae, but prevented the attendant hyperkinesis and vestibular impairments. These results indicate that excitotoxic mechanisms contribute to aminoglycoside-induced vestibulotoxicity and that NMDA antagonists may be useful in attenuating aminoglycoside ototoxicity.


In birds, sensory innervation of skin is restricted to dermis, with few axons penetrating into the epidermis. This pattern of innervation is maintained in vitro, where sensory neurites avoid explants of epidermis but grow readily on dermis. We have used this coculture paradigm to investigate the mechanisms that impede innervation of avian epidermis. The lack of epidermal innervation in birds has been attributed to diffusible chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) secreted by the epidermis, although direct experimental evidence is weak. We found that elimination of CSPG function with either chondroitinase or neutralizing antibodies did not promote growth of DRG neurites onto epidermis in vitro, indicating that CSPGs alone are not responsible for preventing epidermal innervation. Moreover, the failure of sensory neurites to invade epidermis is not due exclusively to soluble chemorepulsive factors, since sensory neurites also avoid dead epidermis. This inhibition can be overridden, however, by coating epidermis with the growth-promoting molecule laminin, but only if the tissue is killed first. Epidermal innervation of laminin-coated epidermis is even more robust when CSPGs are also eliminated. Thus, the absence of growth-promoting or permissive molecules, such as laminin, may contribute to the failure of sensory neurites to invade avian epidermis. Together these results show that the inhibitory character of avian epidermis is complex. Cell- or matrix-associated CSPGs clearly contribute to the inhibition, but are not solely responsible.
The mechanism by which pluripotent progenitors give rise to distinct classes of mature neurons in vertebrates is not well understood. To address this issue we undertook a genetic screen for mutations which affect the commitment and differentiation of catecholaminergic (CA) [dopaminergic (DA), noradrenergic (NA), and adrenergic] neurons in the zebrafish, Danio rerio. The identified mutations constitute five complementation groups. motionless and foggy affect the number and differentiation state of hypothalamic DA, telencephalic DA, retinal DA, locus coeruleus (LC) NA, and sympathetic NA neurons. The too few mutation leads to a specific reduction in the number of hypothalamic DA neurons. no soul lacks arch-associated NA cells and has defects in pharyngeal arches, and soulless lacks both arch-associated and LC cell groups. Our analyses suggest that the genes defined by these mutations regulate different steps in the differentiation of multipotent CA progenitors. They further reveal an underlying universal mechanism for the control of CA cell fates, which involve combinatorial usage of regulatory genes.
Genetically driven alterations in the complement of retinal photopigments are fundamental steps in the evolution of vision. We sought to determine how a newly added photopigment might impact vision by studying a transgenic mouse that expresses a human cone photopigment. Electroretinogram (ERG) measurements indicate that the added pigment works well, significantly changing spectral sensitivity without deleteriously affecting the operation of the native cone pigments. Visual capacities of the transgenic mice were established in behavioral tests. The new pigment was found to provide a significant expansion of the spectral range over which mice can perceive light, thus underlining the immediate utility of acquiring a new photopigment. The transgenic mouse also has the receptor basis for a novel color vision capacity, but tests show that potential was not realized. This failure likely reflects limitations in the organizational arrangement of the mouse retina.
Using urethane-anesthetized rats, 18 simultaneously recorded septohippocampal cell pairs (36 individual cells), each classified as theta-related according to the criteria of, were studied during four spontaneously occurring hippocampal field conditions: (1) large amplitude irregular activity (LIA) only; (2) the transition from LIA to theta; (3) theta only; and (4) the transition from theta to LIA. The main objective was to study the temporal relationships and degree of neural synchrony between the discharges of the cell pairs, using both time-averaged and time-dependent joint peristimulus time histogram correlation techniques, during the four conditions, to determine their contribution to the control of oscillation and synchrony (theta) in the hippocampus. The study demonstrated that the transition from the LIA state to the theta field state in the hippocampus required a temporal sequence of changes in theta-related cellular activity occurring on average 500 msec preceding the transition: (1) the medial septum inhibits hippocampal theta-OFF cells; (2) medial septal tonic theta-ON cells provide tonic depolarizing inputs to initiate membrane potential oscillations (MPOs) in hippocampal phasic theta-ON cells, whereas medial septal phasic theta-ON cells synchronize the MPOs of hippocampal phasic theta-ON cells and the discharges of hippocampal tonic theta-ON cells. Much of the time preceding the LIA to theta transition is accounted for by recruitment of these theta-related cell populations. Conversely, &quot;turning off&quot; the theta state occurs abruptly and involves the medial septal disinhibition of hippocampal theta-OFF cells.
Glutamate plays an important role in mediating the positive feedback effects of ovarian steroids on gonadotropin secretion, and the preoptic region of the hypothalamus is a likely site of action of glutamate. The anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) of the preoptic region is an essential part of neural pathways mediating hormonal feedback on gonadotropin secretion, and it appears to provide direct inputs to gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH)-containing neurons. Immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization were used in this study to define the distribution and hormonal regulation of glutamate receptor subtypes in the AVPV of juvenile female rats. Neurons that express the NMDAR1 receptor subtype are abundant in the AVPV, as are cells that express AMPA receptor subtypes (GluR1, GluR2, and GluR3 but not GluR4), and the AVPV appears to contain a dense plexus of NMDAR1-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals. However, AVPV neurons do not seem to express detectable levels of kainate receptor (GluR5, GluR6, and GluR7) or metabotropic receptor (mGluR1-6) subtypes. Treatment of ovariectomized juvenile rats with estradiol induced expression of GluR1 mRNA but did not alter levels of GluR2 or GluR3 mRNA. Treatment of estrogen-primed ovariectomized juvenile rats with progesterone caused an initial increase in GluR1 mRNA expression, followed by a small decrease 24 hr after treatment. In contrast, estrogen appears to suppress levels of NMDAR1 mRNA in the AVPV, which remained unchanged after progesterone treatment. Thus, one mechanism whereby ovarian steroids may provide positive feedback to GnRH neurons is by altering the sensitivity of AVPV neurons to glutamatergic activation.
In this paper we show that the discharges of sympathetic neurons innervating an identified peripheral target are driven by multiple oscillators that undergo dynamic synchronization when an entraining force, central respiratory drive (CRD), is increased. Activity was recorded from postganglionic sympathetic neurons (PGNs) innervating the caudal ventral artery of the rat tail: (1) at the population level from the ventral collector nerve (VCN); and (2) from pairs of single PGNs recorded simultaneously using a focal recording technique. Autospectral analysis of VCN activity revealed a more prominent rhythmical component in the presence of CRD than in its absence, suggesting that (1) multiple oscillators drive the discharges of PGNs and (2) these oscillators can be entrained and therefore synchronized by CRD. This interpretation was supported by analysis of the firing behavior of PGN pairs. Autocorrelation and cross-correlation analysis showed that pairs were not synchronized in the absence of CRD but showed significant synchronization when CRD was enhanced. Time-evolving spectral analysis and raster plots demonstrated that the temporal stability of PGN-to-PGN and CRD-to-PGN interactions at a given level of CRD were also dynamic in nature, with stable constant phase relationships predominating as CRD was increased. This is the first reported example of dynamic synchronization in populations of single postganglionic sympathetic neurons, and we suggest that, as in sensory processing and motor control, temporal pattern coding may also be an important feature of neuronal discharges in sympathetic pathways.
Multiple Site Optical Recording of Transmembrane Voltage (MSORTV) has been used to measure, continuously and simultaneously, the spontaneous electrical activity from all of the neurons in individual ganglia or up to five interconnected ganglia of the submucous plexus of the guinea pig small intestine. These are the first optical recordings of electrical activity with single-cell resolution from a mammalian nervous system. They are used to investigate the effects of acute and chronic application of nicotine on the firing patterns of this neural network containing important cholinergic components. After washout of acutely applied nicotine, the firing rates of selected neurons were dramatically elevated. These results suggest that nAChRs that reversibly desensitize after exposure to nicotine may be responsible for the enhancement of activity that is observed after a brief application of this agonist. In addition, immunostaining with monoclonal antibodies was used to localize alpha3/alpha5, alpha7, and beta2 nAChR subunits, and the results demonstrate the prevalence of alpha3/alpha5. It is this alpha3-containing nAChR subtype that probably accounts for most of the excess activity elicited by nicotine application.
The cortical organization of language in bilinguals remains disputed. We studied 24 right-handed fluent bilinguals: 15 exposed to both Mandarin and English before the age of 6 years; and nine exposed to Mandarin in early childhood but English only after the age of 12 years. Blood oxygen level-dependent contrast functional magnetic resonance imaging was performed while subjects performed cued word generation in each language. Fixation was the control task. In both languages, activations were present in the prefrontal, temporal, and parietal regions, and the supplementary motor area. Activations in the prefrontal region were compared by (1) locating peak activations and (2) counting the number of voxels that exceeded a statistical threshold. Although there were differences in the magnitude of activation between the pair of languages, no subject showed significant differences in peak-location or hemispheric asymmetry of activations in the prefrontal language areas. Early and late bilinguals showed a similar pattern of overlapping activations. There are no significant differences in the cortical areas activated for both Mandarin and English at the single word level, irrespective of age of acquisition of either language.
Patterned spontaneous electrical activity has been demonstrated in a number of developing neural circuits and has been proposed to play a role in refining connectivity once axons reach their targets. Using an isolated spinal cord preparation, we have found that chick lumbosacral motor axons exhibit highly regular bursts of activity from embryonic day 4 (E4) (stage 24-25), shortly after they exit the spinal cord and while still en route toward their target muscles. Similar bursts could be evoked by stimulating descending pathways at cervical or thoracic levels. Unlike older embryonic cord circuits, the major excitatory transmitter driving activity was not glutamate but acetylcholine, acting primarily though nicotinic non-alpha7 receptors. The circuit driving bursting was surprisingly robust and plastic, because bursting was only transiently blocked by cholinergic antagonists, and following recovery, was now driven by GABAergic inputs. Permanent blockade of spontaneous activity was only achieved by a combination of cholinergic antagonists and bicuculline, a GABAA antagonist. The early occurrence of patterned motor activity suggests that it could be playing a role in either peripheral pathfinding or spinal cord circuit formation and maturation. Finally, the characteristic differences in burst parameters already evident between different motoneuron pools at E4 would require that the combination of transcription factors responsible for specifying pool identity to have acted even earlier.
The AMPA receptor, ubiquitous in brain, is termed &quot;ionotropic&quot; because it gates an ion channel directly. We found that an AMPA receptor can also modulate a G-protein to gate an ion channel indirectly. Glutamate applied to a retinal ganglion cell briefly suppresses the inward current through a cGMP-gated channel. AMPA and kainate also suppress the current, an effect that is blocked both by their general antagonist CNQX and also by the relatively specific AMPA receptor antagonist GYKI-52466. Neither NMDA nor agonists of metabotropic glutamate receptors are effective. The AMPA-induced suppression of the cGMP-gated current is blocked when the patch pipette includes GDP-beta-S, whereas the suppression is irreversible when the pipette contains GTP-gamma-S. This suggests a G-protein mediator, and, consistent with this, pertussis toxin blocks the current suppression. Nitric oxide (NO) donors induce the current suppressed by AMPA, and phosphodiesterase inhibitors prevent the suppression. Apparently, the AMPA receptor can exhibit a &quot;metabotropic&quot; activity that allows it to antagonize excitation evoked by NO.
Bipolar cells are retinal interneurons that receive synaptic input from photoreceptors. Glutamate, the photoreceptor transmitter, hyperpolarizes On bipolar cells by closing nonselective cation channels, an effect mediated by the metabotropic receptor mGluR6. Previous studies of mGluR6 transduction have suggested that the receptor couples to a phosphodiesterase (PDE) that preferentially hydrolyzes cGMP, and that cGMP directly gates the nonselective cation channel. This hypothesis was tested by dialyzing On bipolar cells with nonhydrolyzable analogs of cGMP. Whole-cell recordings were obtained from On bipolar cells in slices of larval tiger salamander retina. Surprisingly, On bipolar cells dialyzed with 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cyclic GMP (8-pCPT-cGMP), or 8-bromo-cyclic GMP (8-Br-cGMP) responded normally to glutamate or L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (L-APB). Response amplitudes and kinetics were not significantly altered compared with cells dialyzed with cGMP alone. Comparable results were obtained with the PDE inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methyl-xanthine (IBMX) or with 8-pCPT-cGMP and IBMX together, indicating that PDE is not required for mGluR6 signal transduction. Addition of the G-protein subunit G(o)alpha to the pipette solution suppressed the cation current and occluded the glutamate response, whereas dialysis with G(i)alpha or with transducin Gbetagamma had no significant effect on either the cation current or the response. Dialysis of an antibody directed against G(o)alpha also reduced the glutamate response, indicating a functional role for endogenous G(o)alpha. These results indicate that mGluR6 may signal through G(o), rather than a transducin-like G-protein.
Hippocampal slices have long been used to investigate properties of synaptic transmission and plasticity. Here, for the first time, synapses in slices have been compared quantitatively with synapses occurring in perfusion-fixed hippocampus, which is presumed to represent the natural in vivo state. Relative to perfusion-fixed hippocampus, a remarkable 40-50% increase in spine number occurs in adult hippocampal slices, and a 90% increase occurs in slices from postnatal day 21 rats. Serial EM shows that all of the dendritic spines have normal synapses with presynaptic and postsynaptic elements; however, not all spine types are affected uniformly. Stubby and mushroom spines increase in the adult slices, and thin, mushroom, and branched spines increase in the immature slices. More axonal boutons with multiple synapses occur in the slices, suggesting that the new synapses form on preexisting axonal boutons. The increase in spine and synapse number is evident within a couple of hours after preparing the slices. Once the initial spine induction has occurred, no further change occurs for up to 13 hr in vitro, the longest time investigated. Thus, the spine increase is occurring during a period when there is little or no synaptic activity during the first hour, and the subsequent stabilization in spine synapse numbers is occurring after synaptic activity returns in the slice. These findings suggest that spines form in response to the loss of synaptic activity when slices are removed from the rest of the brain and during the subsequent 1 hr recovery period.
In mouse thalamocortical slices in vitro, the potassium channel blocker 4-AP and GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline together induced spontaneous prolonged depolarizations in layer VI neurons from postnatal day 2 (P2), in ventroposterior nucleus neurons (VP) from P7, and in reticular nucleus neurons (RTN) from P8. Dual whole-cell recordings revealed that prolonged bursts were synchronized in layer VI, VP, and RTN. Bursts were present in cortex isolated from thalamus, but not in thalamus isolated from cortex, indicating that bursts originated in cortex and propagated to thalamus. Prolonged bursts were synchronized in layer VI when vertical cuts extended from pia mater through layers IV or V, but were no longer synchronized when cuts extended through layer VI and white matter. In voltage-clamp recordings before P10, burst conductance of all three neuronal populations was dominated by the NMDA receptor-mediated conductance, and therefore synapses were &quot;silent&quot;. In cortex and RTN, after P10, bursts were associated with strong AMPA/kainate receptor-mediated conductances, and synapses had become &quot;functional&quot;; silent synapses persisted in a large proportion of VP cells after P10. Before P9, the NMDA receptor antagonist APV or the non-NMDA receptor antagonist CNQX blocked the prolonged bursts. After P9, CNQX continued to block the prolonged bursts, but APV merely shortened their duration. Thus, NMDA receptor-based silent synapses are essential for paroxysmal corticothalamic activity during early postnatal development, and connections between layer VI neurons are sufficient for horizontal cortical synchronization.
The metals iron (Fe) and manganese (Mn) are essential for normal functioning of the brain. This review focuses on recent developments in the literature pertaining to Fe and Mn transport. These metals are treated together because they appear to share several transport mechanisms. In addition, several neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's Disease, Parkinson's Disease, and Huntington's Disease are all associated with Fe mismanagement in the brain, particularly in the striatum and basal ganglia. Similarly, Mn accumulation in brain also appears to target the same brain regions. Therefore, stringent regulation of the concentration of these metals in the brain is essential. The homeostatic mechanisms for these metals must be understood in order to design neurotoxicity prevention strategies.
These studies examined the extent to which protein kinase C (PKC) and cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) regulate the neuronal differentiation of the raphe-derived neuronal cell line, RN33B. A differentiation-specific 2.25-fold increase in soluble PKA activity was observed. Neither membrane-associated-PKA, -PKC, or soluble PKC activities changed concomitant with differentiation. The PKC activity was derived from PKC alpha, gamma, epsilon, and theta isoenzymes. Activation of PKC inhibited the immunocytochemical expression of low and medium molecular weight neurofilament proteins, an effect due at least in part to decreased steady-state levels of protein. PKC activation also decreased glutamate immunoreactivity and increased cell number, protein synthesis, and bromodeoxyuridine uptake by 2.4-fold, 25%, and 32%, respectively. Coupled with the decrease in mature neuronal antigen expression, these data suggest that PKC activation inhibits neuronal differentiation by inducing proliferation. Inhibition of PKC markedly upregulated glutamate immunoreactivity. PKA activation potentiated the glutamatergic phenotype of RN33B cells, but inhibition of PKA was without effect on the expression of all neuronal antigens examined. Thus, both PKC and PKA regulate the differentiation of RN33B cells, although neither is absolutely necessary for expression of the differentiated neuronal phenotype. These results suggest the existence of parallel pathways regulating raphe neuronal differentiation.
Astrocytes provide protection and trophic support to neurons, but like neurons are vulnerable to oxidative stress. Decreased function of astrocytes resulting from oxidative stress could contribute to neurodegeneration. Our goal is to understand the intracellular events associated with oxidative stress in astrocytes. Because nitric oxide (NO) has been implicated as a contributor to oxidative stress in the brain, we examined in this study whether NO contributed to oxidative stress in astrocytes. Stimulation of NO decreases superoxide levels, preserves mitochondrial membrane potential, and decreases mitochondrial swelling in astrocytes treated with peroxide. Chelation of NO is associated with increased cell death, mitochondrial swelling, and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, in response to peroxide treatment. Peroxide treatment increased intracellular calcium and the peroxide-induced changes in intracellular calcium were not altered in response to NO. Iron-loading increases peroxide-induced oxidative stress in astrocytes, but induction of NO limited the iron effect, suggesting an interaction between iron and NO. These data suggest endogenously produced NO protects astrocytes from oxidative stress, perhaps by preserving mitochondrial function.
Multipotent progenitor cells have been identified within periventricular generative zones of the developing and adult brain. To determine whether the environmental responsiveness of these cells changes during development, progenitor cells were cultured from embryonic, postnatal, and adult rat brain in the presence of either basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) or epidermal growth factor (EGF). Embryonic cells cultured as intact progenitor neurospheres proliferated more robustly in response to bFGF than to EGF, whereas proliferation of postnatal and adult progenitor cells was enhanced more by EGF than bFGF. Progenitor cells generated in the presence of either bFGF or EGF had the capacity to generate neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes at all developmental stages. Most embryonic and neonatal bFGF-generated cells differentiated predominantly into neurons, whereas late stage embryonic and neonatal EGF-generated progenitors largely remained in an undifferentiated state. However, later postnatal and adult progenitor species, irrespective of whether they were generated in the presence of bFGF or EGF, gave rise preferentially to astrocytes. Treatment with bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)2 or BMP7 enhanced astroglial differentiation and suppressed oligodendroglial differentiation of both EGF- and bFGF-generated progenitor species, suggesting that the effects of the BMPs are not dependent on EGF receptor activation. Thus, while central nervous system (CNS) progenitor cells retain multipotent capacity and responsiveness to the BMPs throughout development, they exhibit significant changes in other cellular response properties, perhaps reflecting differences in the requirements for specific generative versus regenerative events.
1. Segments of isolated guinea-pig intestine, 12 mm long, were distended slowly by intraluminal fluid infusion or by mechanical stretch as either a tube or flat sheet. In all cases, at a constant threshold length, a sudden, large amplitude contraction of the circular muscle occurred orally, corresponding to the initiation of peristalsis. 2. Circumferential stretch of flat sheet preparations evoked graded contractions of the longitudinal muscle (the 'preparatory phase'), which were maintained during circular muscle contraction. This suggests that the lengthening reported during the emptying phase of peristalsis is due to mechanical interactions. 3. The threshold for peristalsis was lower with more rapid stretches and was also lower in long preparations (25 mm) compared with short preparations (5-10 mm), indicating that ascending excitatory pathways play a significant role in triggering peristalsis. 4. Stretching a preparation beyond the threshold for peristalsis evoked contractions of increasing amplitude; thus peristalsis is graded above its threshold. However, during suprathreshold stretch maintained at a constant length, contractions of the circular muscle quickly declined in amplitude and frequency. 5. Circular muscle cells had a resting membrane potential approximately 6 mV more negative than the threshold for action potentials. During slow circumferential stretch, subthreshold graded excitatory motor input to the circular muscle occurred, prior to the initiation of peristalsis. However, peristalsis was initiated by a discrete large excitatory junction potential (12 +/- 2 mV) which evoked bursts of smooth muscle action potentials and which probably arose from synchronized firing of ascending excitatory neuronal pathways.
1. GABAA receptor-mediated synaptic innervation of oxytocin neurones in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) was analysed in adult female rats going through their first reproductive cycle by recording the spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) at six stages of female reproduction. 2. During pregnancy we observed a reduction in the interval between monoquantal sIPSCs. The synaptic current amplitude, current decay and neurosteroid sensitivity of postsynaptic GABAA receptors observed at this stage were not distinguishable from those measured in virgin stage SON. 3. Upon parturition an increase in monoquantal synaptic current decay occurred, whereas potentiation by the progesterone metabolite allopregnanolone (3alpha-OH-DHP) was suppressed. 4. Throughout a substantial part of the lactation period the decay of synaptic currents remained attenuated, whilst the potentiation by 3alpha-OH-DHP remained suppressed. 5. Several weeks after the end of lactation sIPSC intervals, their current decay velocity as well as the potentiation by 3alpha-OH-DHP were restored to pre-pregnancy levels, which is indicative of the cyclical nature of synaptic plasticity in the adult SON. 6. Competitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis showed that virgin animals expressed alpha1 and alpha2 GABAA receptor subunit mRNA at a relative ratio of 2 : 1 compared with beta-actin. After pregnancy both alpha1 and alpha2 subunit mRNA levels were transiently increased, although at a relative ratio of 1 : 4, in line with the hypothesis that alpha2 plays a large role in postsynaptic receptor functioning. During post-lactation both alpha subunits were downregulated. 7. We propose that synaptic remodelling in the SON during pregnancy includes changes in the putative number of GABA release sites per neurone. At parturition, and during the two consecutive weeks of lactation, a subtype of postsynaptic GABAA receptors was observed, distinct from the one being expressed before and during pregnancy. Synaptic current densities, calculated in order to compare the impact of synaptic inhibition, showed that, in particular, the differences in 3alpha-OH-DHP potentiation of these two distinct GABAA receptor subtypes produce robust shifts in the impact of synaptic inhibition of oxytocin neurones at the different stages of female reproduction.
1. Whole-cell patch electrode recordings of glycinergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) were obtained in neurons of the rat anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN). Mean mIPSC peak amplitude was found to vary considerably between AVCN neurons (range, -19.1 to -317.9 pA; mean +/- s.d., -159.1 +/- 100.7 pA; 14 cells). 2. Immunolabelling of glycinergic receptor clusters in AVCN neurons was performed using antibodies against the glycine receptor clustering protein gephyrin. Measurements of the area of gephyrin immunoreactive clusters were obtained using confocal fluorescence microscopy. These measurements showed a large variability in cluster area, not only in the same cell (mean coefficient of variation, c.v., 0.66 +/- 0.18; 16 cells), but also in mean cluster area between cells (range, 0.21-0.84 microm2; 16 cells). 3. A possible relationship between mIPSC amplitude and receptor cluster area was investigated in a further series of experiments, in which mIPSCs recordings and immunolabelling of glycine receptor clusters were obtained for the same cells. In these experiments, AVCN neurons were identified using intracellular labelling with neurobiotin. Successful results using a combination of whole-cell recordings, neurobiotin identification and immunolabelling were obtained for a total of 10 AVCN neurons. Analysis of the results revealed a positive, statistically significant correlation between mean receptor cluster size and mean mIPSC amplitude (P &lt; 0.05, 10 cells, Spearman's correlation test). 4. These results provide direct experimental evidence supporting a hypothesis of central glycinergic transmission in which synaptic strength may be regulated by changes in the size of the postsynaptic receptor region.
The visual system of the fly's compound eye undergoes a number of cyclical day/night changes that have a circadian basis. Such responses are seen in the synaptic terminals of the photoreceptors and in their large monopolar-cell interneurons in the first optic neuropile, or lamina. These changes include, in the photoreceptor terminals, rhythms in the numbers of synapses and the vertical migration of screening pigment; and, in the monopolar cells L1 and L2, a rhythm in the transients of the electroretinogram and in the cyclical swelling of L1 and L2 lamina axons, as well as of the epithelial glia that surround these. Some of these changes are seen in both the housefly and the fruit fly, but the time-course of such changes differs between the two species. Many of the changes are influenced by the injection of various transmitter candidates, in a direction that can be reconciled with the possibility of normal endogenous release of two substances, 5HT from the neurites of 5HT-immunoreactive neurons, and pigment dispersing factor peptide from the neurites of PDH cells. Consistent with this interpretation, the immunoreactive varicosities of PDH cells exhibit size changes attributable to their cyclical release of peptide, or to its cyclical synthesis and/or transport from the PDH cell somata. Thus, neurotransmitter substances not only have rapid electrophysiological actions in the optic lobe, but also longer-lasting, presumably indirect, neuromodulatory actions, which are manifest as structural changes among the lamina's neurons and synapses. These actions involve an interplay between aminergic and peptidergic systems, but the exact role and especially the site of action of each has still to be elucidated.
Because sensory systems often provide ambiguous information, neural processes must exist to resolve these ambiguities. It is likely that similar neural processes are used by different sensory systems. For example, many tasks require neural processing to distinguish linear acceleration from gravity, but Einstein's equivalence principle states that all linear accelerometers must measure both linear acceleration and gravity. Here we investigate whether the brain uses internal models, defined as neural systems that mimic physical principles, to help estimate linear acceleration and gravity. Internal models may be used in motor contro, sensorimotor integration and sensory processing, but direct experimental evidence for such models is limited. To determine how humans process ambiguous gravity and linear acceleration cues, subjects were tilted after being rotated at a constant velocity about an Earth-vertical axis. We show that the eye movements evoked by this post-rotational tilt include a response component that compensates for the estimated linear acceleration even when no actual linear acceleration occurs. These measured responses are consistent with our internal model predictions that the nervous system can develop a non-zero estimate of linear acceleration even when no true linear acceleration is present.
In the present study, the effects of the thiol oxidising agent diamide upon the properties of rat brain beta1-adrenergic and human platelet serotonin2A receptor recognition sites have been investigated using [3H](-)CGP-12177 (in the presence of ICI-118551) and [3H]LSD as ligands. (-)Isoprenaline inhibited [3H](-)CGP-12177 binding with nH values of 0.87, 0.67, and 0.56 for added Mg2+ concentrations of 0, 2.5, and 25 mM, respectively. Pretreatment with diamide increased the nH to above unity for the inhibition of the binding by (-)isoprenaline, without a concomitant effect on the inhibition of the binding by (-)propranolol. In contrast, diamide reduced the affinity of human platelet serotonin2A-receptors for antagonists, but did not consistently induce nH values above unity for the inhibition of antagonist binding by serotonin. These results suggest that cooperative interactions reported for cardiac muscarinic receptors may also occur for beta1-adrenergic receptors in the rat brain.
Receptor tyrosine kinase RYK is a mammalian homologue of Drosophila Lio, which is involved in learning and memory and in axon guidance. We cloned a rat ryk gene and characterized its expression pattern in the central nervous system. Northern blot analysis of the whole brain revealed that the RYK mRNA was abundant during the period from 13 to 18 embryonic days (E13-18) and it decreased by E20. In the postnatal brain, the RYK signal was higher in postnatal one week (P1W) cerebrum and in P2W cerebellum than in later stages. In situ hybridization revealed that RYK was expressed throughout the central nervous system, mainly in the ventricular zone on E11 and E13. On E18 and E20, the remarkable level of RYK mRNA was detected in the ventricular zone as well as in the cortical plate of the forebrain. These two regions overlapped the immunoreactive areas of nestin and MAP2, a neural stem cell marker and a mature neural marker, respectively. Moreover, the double-labeling analysis showed that the same cells expressed both RYK and nestin in the ventricular zone. In the postnatal brain, RYK was predominantly expressed in neurons of various regions. These observations suggest that RYK plays a contributory role as a multifunctional molecule in the differentiation and maturation of neuronal cells in the central nervous system.
Maturation of GABAA/benzodiazepine receptors is associated with changes in their subunit composition. We have investigated whether these changes are accompanied by a developmental modification in the kinetic properties of miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs) and sensitivity to midazolam, a benzodiazepine agonist. In the presence of TTX (10 microM) and excitatory amino acid antagonists, AP5 (50 microM) and CNQX (50 microM), we whole-cell recorded mIPSCs in CA3 cells of hippocampal slices of adult and young (4-8 days) rats. mIPSCs were mediated by GABAA receptors as they were suppressed by bicuculline (10 microM). In both the adult and young rats, mIPSCs were similar in amplitude and kinetic properties. However, the mIPSCs frequency markedly increased with age from 4+/-3 Hz in the young rats to 20+/-9 Hz in the adult rats. In both age groups, midazolam (0.01 microM(-10) microM) and pentobarbital (30 microM) did not affect the amplitude, frequency and rise time of the mIPSCs but they increased to a similar extent their decay time constant. The current responses to isoguvacine, a GABAA agonist, were potentiated by 0.1 microM midazolam in both age groups. It is concluded that in immature and adult rats, synaptic GABAA receptors of CA3 were not different in their kinetic properties and sensitivity to midazolam.
The consequences of neonatal cholinergic lesions were examined in male and female rats. Rats were injected intraventricularly with 600 ng of 192 IgG-saporin at 7 days of age and examined behaviorally and histologically at 21, 45 and 90 days of age. 192 IgG-saporin profoundly reduced low affinity neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR)-immunoreactive (IR) and, to a lesser extent, choline acetyltransferase-IR cells in the basal forebrain. Presumptive sympathetic ingrowths (p75NTR- and dopamine beta-hydroxylase-IR) into the hippocampus were first apparent at 45 days of age and were not significantly greater at 90 days. Behaviorally, 192 IgG-saporin increased the time females, but not males, spent on the open arms of the elevated plus maze. Lesioned rats had longer platform location latencies in the Morris water maze only at the first hidden platform training session and did not differ on the rate of learning the platform location or on the no-platform probe trial. Generally, the effects of neonatal cholinergic lesions were not sex dependent and are unlikely to model Rett syndrome, a disorder characterized by forebrain cholinergic deficit which is seen almost exclusively in females.
The gray, short-tailed opossum, Monodelphis domestica, is born in a very immature state after a brief (14-day) gestation. As a result, the species provides a unique opportunity to examine very early periods of mammalian development. The present study provides the first detailed morphometric analysis of the development of the olfactory mucosa and the nasal cavity in Monodelphis. The extent of the sensory mucosa increases dramatically across development, covering a growing nasal cavity and increasingly elaborate turbinates. Both nasal cavity convolution (a measure of turbinate complexity) and mucosal surface area show extensive growth between birth and adulthood. These measurements are greatest in the central portion of the mucosa (in the caudal portion of the nose) at all ages examined. A developmental BrdU study reveals a robust decrease in cellular proliferation with age; proliferation decreases to near adult-like patterns by postnatal day (P) 40. Results from these studies show that there is dramatic structural and cellular postnatal growth in the opossum peripheral olfactory organ.
Cell surface adhesion molecules are thought to play a necessary role in axon guidance and fasciculation in the developing nervous system. We have studied a potential adhesion molecule using the zn-5 monoclonal antibody, which recognizes the surfaces of zebrafish spinal motoneurons. We show that zn-5 recognizes zebrafish DM-GRASP. DM-GRASP is a cell adhesion molecule of the immunoglobulin superfamily that mediates homophilic adhesion and neurite outgrowth in vitro. It is necessary for correct axon routing and fasciculation in the Drosophila visual system. In zebrafish, primary motoneurons pioneer the peripheral motor nerve pathways, and the axons of secondary motoneurons follow the routes established by the primary motoneuron axons. We show that, of the two classes of zebrafish spinal motoneurons, only the later growing secondary motoneurons express DM-GRASP. The secondary motoneurons restrict DM-GRASP protein to their cell bodies and fasciculated segments of their axons. Expression of DM-GRASP is transient: The protein is present during the period of axonal growth and disappears after axons have reached their muscle targets. Thus, homophilic adhesion mediated by DM-GRASP may play a role in fasciculation of secondary motoneuron axons but not in pathfinding by the pioneer axons of the primary motoneurons or in guidance of secondary motoneuron axons to their targets.
Tenascin-C is a glycoprotein of the extracellular matrix that acts in vitro as both a permissive and a nonpermissive substrate for neurite growth. We analyzed, by immunocytochemistry, the distribution of tenascin-C along neural growth pathways in the developing mouse cochlea. In the spiral lamina, tenascin-C coexists in a region where nerve bundles arborize. In the organ of Corti, tenascin-C lines the neural pathways along pillar and Deiters' cells before and during the time of nerve fiber ingrowth. By embryonic day 16, tenascin-C is abundant on the pillar side of the inner hair cell but does not accumulate on the modiolar side until about birth, a time after the arrival of afferent fibers. The synaptic zones beneath outer hair cells are strongly labeled during the time when early events in afferent synaptogenesis are progressing but not during the time of efferent synaptogenesis. At the age when most neural growth ceases, tenascin-C immunoreactivity disappears. Faint tenascin-C immunolabeling of normal hair cells, strong tenascin immunolabeling in pathological hair cells of Bronx waltzer (bv/bv) mice, and staining for beta-galactosidase, whose gene replaces tenascin in a &quot;knockout&quot; mouse, indicate that hair cells supply at least part of the tenascin-C. The changing composition of the extracellular matrix in the synaptic region during afferent and efferent synaptogenesis is consistent with a role for tenascin in synaptogenesis. The presence of tenascin-C along the growth routes of nerve fibers, particularly toward the outer hair cells, raises the possibility that growth cone interactions with tenascin-C helps to guide nerve fibers in the cochlea.
The ectostriatum is a major visual component of the avian telencephalon. The core region of the ectostriatum (Ec) receives visual input from the optic tectum through thalamic nuclei. In the present study, the efferent projections of the ectostriatum were investigated by using the anterograde tracers Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin and biotinylated dextran amine. Projection patterns resulting from these tracers were confirmed by the retrograde tracer cholera toxin subunit B. When anterograde tracers were injected in Ec, primary projections were seen traveling dorsolaterally to the belt region of the ectostriatum (Ep) and the neostriatal area immediately surrounding Ep (Ep2). Neurons in Ep sent projections primarily to the overlying Ep2. The efferents of Ep2 traveled dorsolaterally to terminate in three telencephalic regions, from anterior to posterior: (1) neostriatum frontale, pars lateralis (NFL), (2) area temporo-parieto-occipitalis (TPO), and (3) neostriatum intermedium, pars lateralis (NIL). A part of the archistriatum intermedium and the lateral part of the neostriatum caudale also received somewhat minor projections. In addition, some neurons in Ec were also the source of direct, but minor, projections to the NFL, TPO, NIL, and archistriatum intermedium. The topographical relationship among the primary (Ec), secondary (Ep and Ep2), and tertiary (NFL, TPO, NIL) areas indicate that the neural populations for visual processing are organized along the rostral-caudal axis. Thus, the anterior Ec sent efferents to the anterior Ep, which in turn sent projections to anterior Ep2. Neurons in the anterior Ep2 sent projections to NFL and the anterior TPO. Similarly, the intermediate and posterior Ec sent projections to corresponding parts of Ep, whose efferents projected to intermediate and posterior Ep2, respectively. The intermediate Ep2 gave rise to major projections to TPO, whereas posterior Ep2 neurons sent efferents primarily to NIL. The organization of this neural circuit is compared with those of other sensory circuits in the avian telencephalon, as well as the laminar arrangement of the mammalian isocortex.
We assessed the long-term efficacy of vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) in 64 refractory epilepsy patients. After implantation, intermittent stimulation was delivered and seizure frequency and severity were counted. Average treatment time was 20 months. Nineteen of 47 patients with partial seizures, five of nine patients with idiopathic generalized seizures, and five of eight patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome had &gt;50% seizure reduction. Side effects were mild. VNS is a safe and effective treatment for refractory epilepsy.


We present an assay for viral proteases that relies on the proteolytic cleavage of substrate leading to the dissociation of the yeast transcription factor GAL4. A consensus substrate for the cytomegalovirus protease is fused between the DNA binding and transactivating domains of GAL4. Proteolysis inactivates the transcription factor which drives a luciferase reporter system. The assay is performed in mammalian cells, has a robust signal-to-noise ratio, and assesses proteolysis in a physiologic context. A unique feature of the assay is its ability to detect inhibitors of viral replication that act on viral targets other than the protease.
Activation of the neuropeptide Y (NPY) neuronal system in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARH) during lactation in the rat is likely due to the neural impulses arising from the suckling stimulus. However, the afferent neuronal input to the ARH that is activated during lactation and is responsible for activation of NPY neurons is currently unknown. Previously, using cFos as a marker for neuronal activation, we identified several brain areas in the lactating animals that were activated by the suckling stimulus. Thus, the objective of the present study was to determine if these activated areas observed in the lactating animals project directly into the ARH. The retrograde tracer, fluorogold (FG), was injected into the ARH on day 4 postpartum. Chronically suckled rats were then deprived of their eight-pup litters on day 9 postpartum, and 48 h later, the pups were returned to the females to reinitiate the suckling stimulus for 90 min to induce cFos expression. The animals were then perfused and the brains were subjected to double-label immunohistochemistry to visualize both FG- and cFos-positive cells. Substantial FG/cFos double-labeled cells were found in forebrain regions, including the medial preoptic area, periventricular preoptic area, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and the medial amygdala, and in brainstem regions including the lateral parabrachial nucleus, peripeduncular area and ventrolateral medulla. The results of the present study demonstrate that specific areas in the brain are activated during lactation and send direct projections to the ARH. Thus, these areas are potentially important candidates for mediating the activation of the NPY neuronal system in the ARH during lactation.
The effects of a low or high concentration of glucose in the perfusion medium on synaptic activity and plasticity were studied in hippocampal slices from rats. Low-glucose medium depressed the field excitatory post-synaptic potentials (fEPSP) significantly, whereas high-glucose medium had little effect on the fEPSP. Tetanization of the afferent fibres elicited significant potentiation (LTP) of synaptic activity irrespective of the glucose concentration in the medium. This may indicate that LTP induction does not depend on optimal neural transmission. Paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) experiments showed that the medium glucose concentration did not significantly influence potentiation of the second response.
Most of the information on the structure and function of the tight junction (TJ) has been obtained in MDCK cells. Accordingly, we have sequenced ZO-1 in this cell type, because this protein is involved in the response of the TJ to changes in Ca2+, phosphorylation, and the cytoskeleton. ZO-1 of MDCK cells comprises 6805 bp with a predicted open reading frame of 1769 amino acids. This sequence is 92 and 87% homologous to human and mouse ZO-1, respectively. Two nuclear sorting signals located at the PDZ1 and GK domains and 17 SH3 putative binding sites at the proline-rich domain were detected. We found two new splicing regions at the proline-rich region: beta had not been reported in human and mouse counterparts, and gamma, which was previously sequenced in human and mouse ZO-1, is now identified as a splicing region. The expression of different beta and gamma isoforms varies according to the tissue tested. With the information provided by the sequence, Southern blot, and PCR experiments we can predict a single genomic copy of MDCK-ZO-1 that is at least 13.16 kb long. MDCK-ZO-1 mRNA is 7.4 kb long. Its expression is regulated by calcium, while the expression of MDCK-ZO-1 protein is not.
Vasoconstrictor and vasodilator responses of isolated rat intrapulmonary arteries to the pyrimidine nucleotides UTP and UDP were evaluated and compared with vascular responses to ATP and its analogues. UTP and UDP (1-500 microM) were equipotent in inducing concentration-dependent vasoconstriction, unaffected by the P2 receptor antagonists suramin (100 microM) and Reactive blue 2 (50 microM); ATP (10-500 microM) produced weaker vasoconstriction. UTP and UDP lacked vasodilator activity, while ATP and its analogue 2-methylthio ATP evoked endothelium-dependent vasodilatation. These results indicate that UTP and UDP evoke vasoconstriction of rat intrapulmonary arteries whereas ATP is predominantly a vasodilator at the same arteries. Furthermore, the pharmacological profile of the native UTP/UDP receptor differs from that of the known P2Y2, P2Y4 and P2Y6 recombinant receptors for pyrimidine nucleotides.
Hypothalamic GnRH (GnRH-I) is known and named for its role in regulating reproductive function in vertebrates by controlling release of gonadotropins from the pituitary. However, another form of GnRH of unknown function (pGlu-His-Trp-Ser-His-Gly-Trp-Tyr-Pro-Gly; GnRH-II) is expressed in the mesencephalon of all vertebrate classes except jawless fish. Here we show with immunocytochemical staining that the GnRH-II peptide is localized to the mouse midbrain as in other vertebrates, as well as in cells surrounding the ventricles and in cells adjacent to the hippocampus. Staining of adjacent sections using GnRH-I antibody revealed that the distribution of GnRH-I does not overlap with that of GnRH-II.
Biotransformation enzymes have been found in the olfactory epithelium of vertebrates. We now show that in Drosophila melanogaster, a UDP-glycosyltransferase (UGT), as well as a short chain dehydrogenase/reductase and a cytochrome P450 are expressed specifically or preferentially in the olfactory organs, the antennae. The evolutionarily conserved expression of biotransformation enzymes in olfactory organs suggests that they play an important role in olfaction. In addition, we describe five Drosophila UGTs belonging to two families. All five UGTs contain a putative transmembrane domain at their C terminus as is the case for vertebrate UGTs where it is required for enzymatic activity. The primary sequence of the C terminus, including part of the transmembrane domain, differs between the two families but is highly conserved not only within each Drosophila family, but also between the members of one of the Drosophila families and vertebrate UGTs. The partial overlap of the conserved primary sequence with the transmembrane domain suggests that this part of the protein is involved in specific interactions occurring at the membrane surface. The presence of different C termini in the two Drosophila families suggests that they interact with different targets, one of which is conserved between Drosophila and vertebrates.
Several recent studies have shown that Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I (CaMKI) is phosphorylated and activated by a protein kinase (CaMKK) that is itself subject to regulation by Ca2+/calmodulin. In the present study, we demonstrate that this enzyme cascade is regulated by cAMP-mediated activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). In vitro, CaMKK is phosphorylated by PKA and this is associated with inhibition of enzyme activity. The major site of phosphorylation is threonine 108, although additional sites are phosphorylated with lower efficiency. In vitro, CaMKK is also phosphorylated by CaMKI at the same sites as PKA, suggesting that this regulatory phosphorylation might play a role as a negative-feedback mechanism. In intact PC12 cells, activation of PKA with forskolin resulted in a rapid inhibition of both CaMKK and CaMKI activity. In hippocampal slices CaMKK was phosphorylated under basal conditions, and activation of PKA led to an increase in phosphorylation. Two-dimensional phosphopeptide mapping indicated that activation of PKA led to increased phosphorylation of multiple sites including threonine 108. These results indicate that in vitro and in intact cells the CaMKK/CaMKI cascade is subject to inhibition by PKA-mediated phosphorylation of CaMKK. The phosphorylation and inhibition of CaMKK by PKA is likely to be involved in modulating the balance between cAMP- and Ca2+-dependent signal transduction pathways.
The role of the nucleus reticularis pontis caudalis (NRPC) and the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis (NRG) in control of vertical and oblique head orienting movements was investigated in alert cats by lesion of these nuclei with kainic acid. Cats were trained to orient the head vertically or obliquely to various targets. Following unilateral lesion of these nuclei, vertical orienting could be performed correctly with a slight decrease in velocity, while oblique orienting tended to exhibit zigzag course because of severe impairment of horizontal orienting. The horizontal and vertical components became coordinated in the course of experiments due to a significant decrease in vertical component velocity, resulting in smooth oblique trajectories. Results suggest that horizontal and vertical components of head orienting are controlled separately, but impairment of horizontal component causes adaptive change of vertical component velocity in oblique orienting.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded while subjects monitored a visually presented sequence of stimuli that provided information about both a temporal pattern (rhythm) and a spatial pattern, and responded to rhythmical or spatial deviants. A third task, which required the monitoring of the same sequence for screen flickers served as a perceptual baseline condition and controlled for response preparation effects. The monitoring of temporal and spatial sequential information elicited negative slow potentials (SPs) over distinct topographical areas. Thus, attention to the temporal and to the spatial domain of one and the same stimulus sequence are reflected by distinct ERP components, providing evidence for distinct cortical sources.
Somatic DNA recombination is essential for production of functional antigen receptor genes of T and B lymphocytes, but it is thought to be unique to the immune system. Recent studies have now shown that recombination-related genes are also necessary for normal neuronal development.
Protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) plays an important role in a variety of cellular processes, including muscle contraction, cell-cycle progression, and neurotransmission. The localization and substrate specificity of PP1 are determined by a class of proteins known as targeting subunits. In the present study, the interaction between PP1 and spinophilin, a neuronal protein that targets PP1 to dendritic spines, has been characterized. Deletion analysis revealed that a high-affinity binding domain is located within residues 417-494 of spinophilin. This domain contains a pentapeptide motif (R/K-R/K-V/I-X-F) between amino acids 447 and 451 (R-K-I-H-F) that is conserved in other PP1 regulatory subunits. Mutation of phenylalanine-451 (F451A) or deletion of the conserved motif abolished the ability of spinophilin to bind PP1, as observed by coprecipitation, overlay, and competition binding assays. In addition, deletion of regions 417-442 or 474-494, either singly or in combination, impaired the ability of spinophilin to coprecipitate PP1. A comparison of the binding and inhibitory properties of spinophilin peptides suggested that distinct subdomains of spinophilin are responsible for binding and modulating PP1 activity. Mutational analysis of the modulatory subdomain revealed that spinophilin interacts with PP1 via a mechanism unlike those used by the cytosolic inhibitors DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr 32 000) and inhibitor-1. Finally, characterization of the interactions between spinophilin and PP1 has facilitated the design of peptide antagonists capable of disrupting spinophilin-PP1 interactions. These studies support the notion that spinophilin functions in vivo as a neuronal PP1 targeting subunit by directing the enzyme to postsynaptic densities and regulating its activity toward physiological substrates.
Acute administration of p-chloroamphetamine (pCA) significantly increased (+90%) preprotachykinin (PPT) mRNA levels in the rat striatum. Administration of the serotonin2A/2C receptor antagonist, ritanserin, blocked the pCA-induced increase in PPT mRNA levels. alpha-Methyl-p-tyrosine pretreatment (alpha-MT, to reduce dopamine transmission) inhibited the pCA-induced increase in PPT mRNA levels. These results indicate that the pCA-induced increase in striatal PPT mRNA expression is mediated by serotonin2A/2C receptors but also requires dopamine tone.
Cholinergic receptor agonists nicotine (nicotinic), carbachol (nicotinic/muscarinic) and pilocarpine (muscarinic) were administered into the hippocampus and mRNA levels of neurotrophins and their receptors determined using in situ hybridisation. Drug doses were carefully chosen to avoid the potentially confounding effects of seizure and cell death. Nicotine caused a long-lasting increase in nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA in all subfields of the hippocampus. The increase was evident from 24 h up to 72 h after drug administration. This increase was dependent on excitatory amino acid neurotransmission as it was blocked by administration of an AMPA or NMDA receptor antagonist. In contrast, carbachol and pilocarpine produced a transient increase in NGF mRNA levels present 4-8 h after drug administration. Pilocarpine caused a transient increase in hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels, with carbachol and nicotine showing the same trend. Nicotine and carbachol caused transient decreases in NT-3 mRNA levels in dentate gyrus and CA2 with pilocarpine showing a similar trend. Increases in mRNA encoding full-length trkB were seen 8 h after nicotine, with nicotine also causing elevations in a mRNA encoding a truncated isoform (trkB.T2). TrkC mRNA was not altered by any of the conditions used. The study suggests that muscarinic and nicotinic receptor activation in the hippocampus causes transient changes in all of the neurotrophins, but that NGF levels are selectively up-regulated by nicotinic receptor stimulation. The reciprocal interaction between NGF and ascending cholinergic systems may be a component of the cognitive enhancing effects of nicotine.
Differential expression and localization of c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) in the human brain may reflect transduction of a variety of extracellular stimuli to selective cellular responses. Of the three JNKs, JNK1 and 2 are widely distributed in tissues and JNK3 is predominantly restricted to brain where it is expressed in neurons. Although there is considerable molecular conservation among all three JNKs, we distinguished expression of each by in situ hybridization, immunoblot analysis with a panel of antibodies, and stress-activation using c-Jun as substrate. In the human central nervous system (CNS), there are at least 10 isoforms: JNK3alpha1 and JNK1alpha1 were the major JNK isoforms expressed; JNK2 was not detected. On immunoblots of brain homogenates, antibody selectivity identified JNK3alpha1 as a 45-kDa protein, JNK1alpha1, a slightly lower band at 44 kDa, and a 50-kDa band of unknown specificity. Recombinant human JNK3alpha1, transfected either into CHO, COS-1, or Neuro2A (N2A) cells, was strongly expressed as a 45-kDa protein in each. Transfected JNK3alpha1, and endogenous JNK1, each immunoprecipitated from N2A cells, phosphorylated recombinant forms of human c-Jun. Kinase activity of each JNK was modestly stimulated in N2A cells by anisomycin but not by ceramide, UV irradiation, or heat shock. Endogenous JNK activation, especially at a low level, may reflect a chronic and cumulative stress process that contributes to hyperphosphorylation of cytoskeletal proteins such as those found in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and ultimately, induction of apoptosis.
While the hypothalamus is fundamental for sleep and circadian regulation, the molecular mechanism involved are poorly understood. We have used a differential gene expression technique to identify hypothalamic genes which have altered expression in rat sleep periods. Complex cDNA probes from rat hypothalami removed at Zeitgeber times 4 and 15 were hybridised to rat brain cDNA library girds. From 30 differentially expressed clones, six were further analysed and two were confirmed to exhibit increased expression at Zeitgeber time 4. A Northern blot hybridization of brain, heart, kidney, lung, testis and skin mRNA showed that both clones were brain specific. Therefore, we have identified two novel brain specific diurnally expressed hypothalamic genes. Both genes may have roles in sleep or circadian regulation.
The nociceptin derivative [Phe1phi(CH2-NH)Gly2]-nociceptin-(1-13)-NH2 (Phe(phi)noc) has been reported to act either as a simple antagonist or as a full agonist at the opioid receptor-like (ORL1) receptor. In the present study, we identified the expression of the ORL1 receptor in murine N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells and used this neuronal system to investigate the pharmacological activity of Phe(phi)noc. Like nociceptin, Phe(phi)noc stimulated the binding of [35S]GTPgammaS (EC50 = 120 nM) and inhibited forskolin-stimulated [3H]cAMP formation (EC50 = 3.3 nM). However, Phe(phi)noc elicited maximal effects lower than those induced by nociceptin, and when combined with nociceptin potently antagonized the responses to the natural agonist (Ki = 0.9 nM). These data indicate that Phe(phi)noc acts as a partial agonist at the ORL1 receptor endogenously expressed in N1E-115 cells.
P2X receptors have been suggested to play a role in the transduction of sensory signals such as pain and sound. In the present study, polyclonal antibodies against P2X1 to P2X6 receptors were used to localize P2X receptors in circumvallate and fungiform papillae of rats. Nerve fibres innervating the taste buds stained intensely with P2X3 receptor antibodies. P2X3 receptor-positive nerves were observed in the intra- and subgemmal regions. The nerve fibres were also stained with P2X2 receptor antibodies, but the intensity was much lower. The distribution of P2X2 receptor immunoreactivity overlaps with that of P2X3. These results suggest that ATP might be a neurotransmitter in taste reception cells in the taste buds, where it transducts the taste signals to the afferent taste nerves by activating P2X receptors at the synapses. This is the first experiment indicating such a role for ATP, although supplementary functional studies are required.
We provide electrophysiological evidence supporting the hypothesis that part and whole face processing involve distinct functional mechanisms. We used a congruency judgment task and studied part-to-whole and part-to-part priming effects. Neither part-to-whole nor part-to-part conditions elicited early congruency effects on face-specific ERP components, suggesting that activation of the internal representations should occur later on. However, these components showed differential responsiveness to whole faces and isolated eyes. In addition, although late ERP components were affected when the eye targets were not associated with the prime in both conditions, their temporal and topographical features depended on the latter. These differential effects suggest the existence of distributed neural networks in the inferior temporal cortex where part and whole facial representations may be stored.
Activation of protein kinase C is known to favor the alpha-secretase processing of the Alzheimer's disease (AD) amyloid precursor protein (APP), resulting in the generation of non-amyloidogenic soluble APP (sAPP). Consequently, the relative secretion of amyloidogenic Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42(3) is reduced. This is particularly relevant since fibroblasts and other cells expressing APP and presenilin AD mutations secrete increased amounts of total Abeta and/or increased ratios of Abeta1-42(3)/Abeta1-40. Interestingly, PKC defects have been found in AD brain alpha and beta isoforms) and in fibroblasts (alpha isoform) from AD patients. Here, we use a novel PKC activator (benzolactam, BL) with improved selectivity for the alpha, beta and gamma isoforms to enhance sAPP secretion in fibroblasts from AD patients and in PC12 cells. Incubation (2 h) of AD fibroblasts with BL (1 and 10 microM) resulted in significant increases of sAPP secretion over basal levels. sAPP secretion in BL-treated AD cells was also slightly higher compared to control BL-treated fibroblasts, which only showed significant increases of sAPP secretion after treatment with 10 microM BL. Staurosporine (a PKC inhibitor) eliminated the effects of BL in both control and AD fibroblasts. BL and a related compound (LQ12) also caused an approximately 3-fold sAPP secretion in PC12 cells. The use of a novel and possibly non-tumorigenic PKC activator may prove useful to favor non-amyloidogenic APP processing and is, therefore, of potential therapeutic value.
The missense point mutation found in the tau gene, which was segregated in a family with frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17), has proved to be the causal molecule for widely spread dementia diseases. Here we examined the effects of the tau mutation using confocal analysis. When wild-type tau cDNA was introduced into cells, extensive cell processes and well-developed thick bundles of microtubules were induced. On the other hand, when altered tau cDNA with the mutation (valine337-methionine) was introduced, cell lost processes and microtubule networks resulted in more round cell shape but showed intact mitochondria or endoplasmic reticulum. We conclude that the tau mutation primarily affects the microtubules and resultantly causes the loss of cellular organization and function due to microtubule disruption.
The nucleus rotundus is a large thalamic nucleus in birds and plays a critical role in many visual discrimination tasks. In order to test the hypothesis that there are functionally distinct subdivisions in the nucleus rotundus, effects of selective lesions of the nucleus were studied in pigeons. The birds were trained to discriminate between different types of stationary objects and between different directions of moving objects. Multiple regression analyses revealed that lesions in the anterior, but not posterior, division caused deficits in discrimination of small stationary stimuli. Lesions in neither the anterior nor posterior divisions predicted effects in discrimination of moving stimuli. These results are consistent with a prediction led from the hypothesis that the nucleus is composed of functional subdivisions.
We used multiple-labelling immunofluorescence, intracellular dye injection, electrophysiological recording and confocal microscopy to examine the expression of immunoreactivity to protein kinase C (PKC) and protein kinase A (PKA) in sympathetic ganglia of guinea-pigs. PKCalpha and PKCgamma were widespread in vasoconstrictor and pilomotor neurons. High levels of PKA RIIalpha and RIIbeta were restricted to neurons that lacked significant expression of PKC, including somatostatin-containing neurons projecting to the gut, and non-noradrenergic vasodilator neurons. In coeliac ganglia, most neurons with PKC contained neuropeptide Y and displayed phasic patterns of action potential firing, often with a long after-hyperpolarization. Tonically firing neurons lacked both neuropeptide Y and PKC. These results show remarkably pathway-specific expression of protein kinases in functionally identified populations of sympathetic neurons.
While preliminary studies associated oleamide with sleep regulation, we now characterize the involvement of oleamide in sleep using a number of techniques. Peripheral administration of oleamide to rats dose dependently suppressed motor activity in the open field, with an ED50 of 17+/-1.5mg/kg for the decrease in distance traveled. Moreover, endogenous oleamide concentrations increased 3- to 4-fold in the cerebrospinal fluid of rats sleep-deprived for 6 h or longer. Oleamide also decreased sleep latency to 44-64% of control values without altering other sleep parameters. Unlike many putative endogenous sleep-inducing agents, oleamide potently induces behavioral and electroencephalographic manifestations of sleep. Moreover, its endogenous concentrations and temporal associations are consistent with previous reports of its enhancement of serotonergic and GABAergic neurotransmission, which may be involved in sleep induction.
Neurons can be preconditioned against ischemic damage by a brief sublethal period of ischemia, applied several days before the second insult. Here we report on changes in the distribution and the levels of protein kinase Cgamma (PKCgamma) in nonconditioned and preconditioned rat hippocampal CA1 and neocortex regions after a 9 min ischemic episode induced by two-vessel occlusion ischemia. At the end of the second ischemia we found significantly lower levels of PKCgamma in the CA1 region but not neocortex of preconditioned brains than in non-conditioned brains. Protein kinase Cgamma levels in both CA1 and neocortex decrease simultaneously in the cytosolic fractions. We conclude that PKCgamma is translocated to cell membranes during ischemia and is rapidly removed or degraded during the second otherwise lethal ischemic insult in preconditioned brains. The data suggest that ischemic preconditioning enhances downregulation of cell signaling mediated by PKCgamma and may thereby provide neuroprotection.
The effects of acute exposure to ethanol on calcium regulation in primary cultures of rat fetal hypothalamic cells was studied with the use of the calcium indicator fura-2 and digital imaging techniques. We found that ethanol caused cytoplasmic calcium to increase in a dose-dependent and reversible manner, and these increases could be observed at pharmacologically relevant doses (34 mM). At 170 mM ethanol 65% of 1059 cells examined responded to ethanol with an increase in cytoplasmic calcium. Removing bath calcium eliminated the ethanol-induced calcium response in most cells (76% of 427 cells). In most cells exposure to thapsigargin (20 nM) had no significant effect on the ethanol-induced calcium increase (87% of 67 cells examined). The ethanol-induced calcium increase was reduced by 79+/-5% (n=110 cells) by the P/Q-type calcium channel blocker omega-agatoxin-TK (20 nM), by 51+/-10% (n=115 cells) by the N-type calcium channel blocker omega-conotoxin-GVIA (100 nM), and by 26+/-3% (n=90 cells) by the T-type calcium channel blocker flunarizine (1 microM). The L-type calcium channel blocker nifedipine (1 microM) had complex actions, sometimes inhibiting and sometimes increasing the calcium response. These results demonstrate that ethanol can directly modulate cytoplasmic calcium levels in hypothalamic cells mostly by a pathway that involves extracellular calcium and voltage-dependent calcium channels, and that this response may participate in the biological effects of acute ethanol exposure.
The recently discovered family of RGS (regulators of G protein signaling) proteins acts as GTPase activating proteins which bind to alpha subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins. We previously showed that a brain-specific RGS, RGS8 speeds up the activation and deactivation kinetics of the G protein-coupled inward rectifier K+ channel (GIRK) upon receptor stimulation (Saitoh, O., Kubo, Y., Miyatani, Y., Asano, T., and Nakata, H. (1997) Nature 390, 525-529). Here we report the isolation of a full-length rat cDNA of another brain-specific RGS, RGS7. In situ hybridization study revealed that RGS7 mRNA is predominantly expressed in Golgi cells within granule cell layer of cerebellar cortex. We observed that RGS7 recombinant protein binds preferentially to Galphao, Galphai3, and Galphaz. When co-expressed with GIRK1/2 in Xenopus oocytes, RGS7 and RGS8 differentially accelerate G protein-mediated modulation of GIRK. RGS7 clearly accelerated activation of GIRK current similarly with RGS8 but the acceleration effect of deactivation was significantly weaker than that of RGS8. These acceleration properties of RGS proteins may play important roles in the rapid regulation of neuronal excitability and the cellular responses to short-lived stimulations.
We recorded event-related brain potentials (ERPs) to two different infrequent deviant tones presented successively within the repetitive sequence of a standard tone. A separate mismatch negativity (MMN) component was elicited by each of the two deviants when the interval separating their onsets was 300 ms. However, only a single MMN component was elicited when the temporal separation between the onsets of the two deviants was 150 ms. Previous studies obtained similar results using two temporally separated deviations carried by a single sound. Taken together, these results support the notion of a general temporal integration mechanism in the formation of auditory events with ca. 200 ms long window.
Axonal trajectories in the C2-C3 segments of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis neurons projecting to the lower cervical cord (C-RSNs) and excited monosynaptically from cortico- and tectofugal fibers were studied by mapping thresholds of antidromic excitation and intra-axonal staining in cats. The C-RSNs descended in various sites of the spinal funiculi, and the projection area of individual cells varied with the funicular location of the stem axon. C-RSNs descending in the ventrolateral funiculus (inRSNs) projected mainly to lamina VIII-IX, those descending in the lateral funiculus (IRSNs) mainly to laminae VI-VIII, and those descending in the contralateral funiculus (coRSNs) chiefly to laminae VIII-IX on that side. It is suggested that inRSNs and coRSNs mediate disynaptic effects from cortico- and tectofugal fibers to dorsal neck motoneurons bilaterally.
p27/kip-1 is a 'universal inhibitor' which inhibits cyclin complexes with cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), preventing cell cycle from the G1-S progression. It is expressed in normal oligodendrocytes and in differentiated glial tumors, decreasing with anaplasia and malignancy. In non-astrocytic and non-oligodendrocytic tumors of the nervous system, such as meningiomas, schwannomas, medulloblastomas, neuroblastomas and malignant lymphomas, p27/kip-1 is inconstantly and sometimes poorly expressed. This can be due to the lacking of p27 expression in the normal counterpart of tumor cells. In some tumors, p27/kip-1 expression can be attributed to a differentiation process, as in the pale islands of desmoplastic medulloblastoma and in neuroblastomas. A correlation of p27/kip-1 expression with histology was not found, with the exception of apoptosis in medulloblastomas. p27/kip-1 is in feed-back with cyclins and CDKs for the control of cell proliferation and its expression may occur where requested by the interplay with cyclins and other inhibitors.
Advances in the neurosciences have revealed the staggering complexity of even &quot;simple&quot; nervous systems. This is reflected in their function, their evolutionary history, their structure, and the coding schemes they use to represent information. These four viewpoints need all play a role in any future science of &quot;brain complexity.&quot;
The Making Connections, Making Choices program is a multidisciplinary, neuroscience-focused project aimed at middle-school students and teachers primarily throughout Washington State and also across the country. The three components--the Summer Institute (for teacher training), the Brain Power Van (to visit schools and provide neuroscience education), and the speakers' bureau (to train clinicians and researchers to provide effective class-room and public talks and to schedule engagements)--work together to foster enriching, interactive science education experiences for students and teachers. The program has been funded by the National Center for Research Resources at the National Institutes of Health since 1991. Each year the aspect of it described in this article reaches 30-35 schools, with a total of more than 1,000 students and 80 teachers, plus another 30-40 teachers each summer. The program seeks to (1) enhance middle-school students' science knowledge, (2) help science teachers improve their science knowledge and teaching, (3) increase understanding and appreciation of biomedical research, (4) increase understanding of why animals are used in research, and (5) promote students' interest in science careers, especially the interest of students from groups underrepresented in science. Periodic evaluations showed that students exposed to the program scored higher on tests of neuroscience knowledge and had more interest in health science careers than did control groups of non-exposed students. The authors argue an important aspect of the program is that it has a broad focus and is multidisciplinary.
Significantly increased up-regulation of HLA DR (major histocompatibility complex class II antigen) was seen using immunohistochemistry in postmortem brain tissue from demented patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) (73 cases, 61 females/12 males, mean age 84 +/- 9 years) compared to controls (22 cases, 10 females/12 males, mean age 78 +/- 9 years). The counts of HLA DR-expressing activated microglia were significantly higher in female AD patients compared to males, significantly higher in AD patients with the age at death greater than 75 years compared to those dying younger and higher, although not statistically significantly, in AD patients with the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) epsilon4 allele compared to those patients not carrying this allele. In contrast to the situation in AD patients, in the control cases the HLA DR expression was higher in males compared to females. Furthermore, in the very old non-demented patients (age at death &gt; 80 years), a decrease in the up-regulation of HLA DR expression was observed. A significant correlation between activated microglia and neurofibrillary tangles was seen in female AD patients compared to males, in AD cases without ApoE epsilon4 allele compared to those with this allele, in sporadic cases compared to familial and in cases with senile rather than presenile onset of the disease. Our results indicate that there is an age- and/or sex-related variability in up-regulation of HLA DR expression of microglia and that the linkage between this up-regulation and AD lesions is significantly influenced by the ApoE epsilon4 allele, gender of subjects, age at onset and familiality of the disease.
Cerebral activation will increase cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral glucose uptake (CMRglc) more than it increases cerebral uptake of oxygen (CMR(O2)). To study this phenomenon, we present an application of the Kety-Schmidt technique that enables repetitive simultaneous determination of CBF, CMR(O2), CMRglc and CMRlac on awake, non-stressed animals. After constant intravenous infusion with 133Xenon, tracer infusion is terminated, and systemic arterial blood and cerebral venous blood are continuously withdrawn for 9 min. In this paper, we evaluate if the assumptions applied with the Kety-Schmidt technique are fulfilled with our application of the method. When measured twice in the same animal, the intra-individual variation for CBF, CMR(O2), and CMRglc were 10% (SD: 25%), 8% (SD: 25%), and 9% (SD: 28%), respectively. In the awake rat the values obtained for CBF, CMR(O2) and CMRglc were 106 mL [100 g](-1) min(-1), 374 micromole [100 g](-1) min(-1) and 66 micromole [100 g](-1) min(-1), respectively. The glucose taken up by the brain during wakefulness was fully accounted for by oxidation and cerebral lactate efflux. Anaesthesia with pentobarbital induced a uniform reduction of cerebral blood flow and metabolism by approximately 40%. During halothane anaesthesia CBF and CMRglc increased by approximately 50%, while CMR(O2) was unchanged.
It is commonly held that women are more at risk of developing tardive dyskinesia (TD). However, recent evidence suggests that this may only be the case in samples of older patients, men being more at risk in the younger age groups. Abnormal movements were measured with the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) in a sample of 706 chronic psychotic patients aged not older than 65 years (median age 36 years). Female gender was associated with a lower risk of TD (OR, 0.5; 95% CI, 0.3-0.7). The effect of gender was independent of other risk factors such as older age, severity of negative symptoms and exposure to antipsychotic medication in the previous 2 years. There was no evidence that the effect of these risk factors differed between the sexes. In samples of relatively young patients with chronic psychotic illness, who typically represent the majority of patients in community programmes for the severely mentally ill, men are more at risk of TD than women.
A total of 26 schizophrenic and other long-term mentally ill patients receiving cognitive therapy sessions twice a week in the context of a comprehensive in-patient treatment programme were assessed every 5 weeks with regard to therapeutic alliance. The therapists rated the alliance according to the Psychotherapy Status Report and the patients rated it according to the Patient Collaboration Scale. The results showed either good or fair and stable therapeutic alliance for the majority of the patients throughout the treatment period. Few correlations were found between patient characteristics and initial alliance. The therapists' ratings showed a positive relationship between initial alliance and a favourable outcome of treatment at discharge.
Changes in cortico-spinal excitability related to time and event preparation were investigated by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex during the foreperiod of a movement-precuing task. Subjects performed a four alternative choice reaction time (RT) task involving a button-press with the index or middle finger (FI) of the left or right hand. Advance information about the to-be-signaled response was provided by a precue, which preceded the response signal by a 1 s foreperiod. The precue either indicated the hand (right or left) or FI (index or middle) with which the response would be executed or was uninformative. TMS was delivered to the left or right cortical hand area at one of five possible times during the foreperiod: -1000, -500, -333, -166 or 0 ms prior to the response signal. Surface EMG activity from a prime mover involved in flexion of the response FIs (Flexor digitorum superficialis) was used to measure the magnitude of the motor evoked potential (MEP) elicited by TMS. Cortico-spinal excitability--as assessed by the magnitude of the MEP evoked in the target muscle contralateral to the stimulated hemisphere--progressively decreased during the foreperiod. The identity of the precued responses, however, had no effect on MEP magnitude. These results suggest that preparation to respond at a particular time inhibited excitability of the cortico-spinal tract, while advance preparation to perform specific responses affected more central structures only.
MR imaging using contrast material derived from the diffusion of tissue water was tested for its ability to provide a nondestructive histologic analysis of tumor morphology. An apparent diffusion tensor MR image of a glioma engrafted within a rat spinal cord was generated in which fiber orientation in three dimensions was displayed in color. This imaging method clearly separated tumor from host white and gray matter and corresponded well with conventional histologic microscopy.

We have reported that physostigmine, a reversible cholinesterase inhibitor, enhances verbal memory in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). To elucidate the mechanism of cognition enhancement, plasma hormones were measured during high-dose acute and low-dose chronic steady-state intravenous infusions of physostigmine in nine subjects with AD. High-dose hormone responses were measured during and for 24 h after the infusion of physostigmine 1-1.5 mg over 45-60 min. Chronic responses were measured during continuous intravenous infusions of physostigmine at doses (0.5-25 mg/day) that escalated over 2 weeks, and then during 1 week infusion of the dose that optimized cognition (2-12 mg/day) or placebo administered in a randomized, double-blind, cross-over design. A replicable improvement in verbal memory was found in five subjects. High-dose physostigmine infusion that produced noxious side effects resulted in significant elevation above baseline in plasma levels of adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) (p = 0.0001), cortisol (p = 0.0001), and beta-endorphin (p = 0.0001). Chronic physostigmine administration, in the absence of adverse effects, produced no significant elevation in ACTH (p = 0.08), cortisol (p = 0.70), or beta-endorphin (p = 0.82). These results indicate that high-dose physostigmine activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, likely representing a &quot;stress response.&quot; In contrast, cognition-enhancing doses do not produce a peripheral corticosteroid response. Thus, physostigmine-induced memory improvement is independent of the activation of the HPA axis.
The authors tested the hypothesis that smoking exerts a protective effect on Alzheimer's disease or dementia in a population-based cohort of 668 people aged 75-101 years (Sweden). Smoking was negatively associated with prevalent Alzheimer's disease (adjusted odds ratio = 0.6, 95% confidence interval 0.4-1.1) and dementia (adjusted odds ratio = 0.6, 95% confidence interval 0.4-1.0). Over 3-year follow-up (1989-1992), the hazard ratios of incident Alzheimer's disease and dementia due to smoking were 1.1 (95% confidence interval 0.5-2.4) and 1.4 (95% confidence interval 0.8-2.7). Mortality over 5-year follow-up was greater among smokers in demented (hazard ratio = 3.4) than nondemented (hazard ratio = 0.8) subjects. Smoking does not seem protective against Alzheimer's disease or dementia, and the cross-sectional association might be due to differential mortality.
We have recently shown that the intrinsic rate response to an increase in right atrial pressure is augmented when cardiac muscarinic receptors are activated. This present study examines the cardiac pacemaker response to vagal stimulation at different values of right atrial pressure in isolated rat right atrium and in the rabbit heart in situ. In the rat atrium, when pressure was raised in steps from 2 to 10 mmHg, there was a progressive reduction in the response to vagal stimulation [40.5 +/- 7.2% reduction (mean +/- SE) at 8 mmHg, P &lt; 0.01], which was independent of the level of vagal bradycardia, that persisted in the presence of the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol. In barbiturate-anesthetized rabbits with cervical vagi cut and beta-adrenergic blockade, raising right atrial pressure approximately 2.5 mmHg by blood volume expansion reduced the bradycardia elicited by electrical stimulation of the peripheral end of the right vagus nerve (9.1 +/- 1.1% reduction, P &lt; 0.0001). These results demonstrate that vagal bradycardia is modulated by the level of right atrial pressure and suggest that normally right atrial pressure may interact with cardiac vagal activity in the control of heart rate.

Over a period of time, the author arrived at a few tentative postulates concerning empathy and related processes based on some of his experiences and observations. The central theme of these postulates is, firstly, that interpersonal interaction is an interaction of the personal-space fields. Secondly, empathy, therapeutic benefit, and the professional stress are all related to the same process of interpersonal interaction. This interaction takes place as an enmeshment of personal spaces of the interacting individuals, and involves transfer of a wide range of information in the affective, cognitive, and other areas. This is because the personal spaces have fieldlike qualities analogous to what Kurt Lewin described. Thus, such phenomena as empathy, therapeutic benefit, professional stress are all consequences of the same process. It is possible to substantiate these postulates by diverse evidences in the published literature. The natural consequences of such an interpersonal interaction are empathic understanding, transfer of mood states (like hope, distress or expectancy), affective states (like anxiety, sadness, anger or hostility), ideas, images and even attitudes and values, etc. This phenomenon of transfer can explain such processes as therapeutic benefit in individual and group settings, professional stress, shared delusions, and even experimenter bias. Whether one becomes aware of such transferred information or not depends upon the intent and sensitivity of the participants.
The endothelium of the lung is sensitive to the toxic effects of oxygen, and early evidence of toxicity is characterized by protein leak and extravasation of red blood cells. The overproduction of oxygen free radicals plays a critical role in the pathophysiology of a hyperoxic lung injury. Recently, heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1), the rate-limiting enzyme in the metabolism of heme, has been found to have a protective role in oxidant injury. Our laboratory and others have identified HO-1 as a hyperoxia-inducible protein. In this study, we characterized HO-1 expression and evaluated its regulation in human pulmonary endothelial cells. Hyperoxia results in a relatively small increase in HO-1 expression; however, this induction is potentiated by heme and dramatically potentiated in the presence of free iron. This is probably more reflective of the in vivo situation in which there is extravasation of heme and iron products. We also found that HO-1 expression depended on chelatable iron. The iron chelator desferrioxamine not only inhibited the iron- dependent potentiation of HO-1 in response to hyperoxia but also inhibited both hyperoxia and basal expression. On the basis of inhibitor studies and nuclear run-on assays, we demonstrated that this induction is transcriptionally dependent. We also evaluated 4.5 kb of the human HO-1 promoter region and demonstrated that this region has promoter activity to the stimulus heme; however, there was no evidence of promoter activity to either iron or hyperoxia. This diversity of promoter activity to heme, heavy metals, and hyperoxia is unique to the human HO-1 gene.
The low-affinity neurotrophin receptor (p75) binds all members of the neurotrophin family. In the rat, during the first week postpartum, dense p75-immunoreactivity (IR) is present throughout all components of the trigeminal brainstem complex (TBC), largely associated with primary sensory afferents. Within subnucleus caudalis (SpC) of the TBC, intense p75-IR is present in all laminae at birth. During the second and third postnatal weeks, p75-IR in SpC gradually fades within the deeper laminae, becoming generally restricted in the adult to laminae I and II. Similar declines in p75-IR intensity occur in the subnucleus oralis (SpO); in the SpO in the adult, p75-IR is confined to the dorsalmost portion of SpO. In subnucleus interpolaris, an emerging, vibrissa-related pattern of p75-IR is detectable on PD0 (first 24 hr postpartum), which becomes fully differentiated during PD4-PD7. However, this pattern gradually disappears during the third postnatal week. Ventrally in the nucleus principalis (PrV), a pattern of p75-IR that mirrors the topographical arrangement of the vibrissae is detectable by PD0-PD1, is fully differentiated by the end of the first postnatal week, and persists into adulthood. Perinatal unilateral sectioning of the infraorbital nerve on PD0-PD1, but not as late as PD4, disrupts p75-IR patterning in the adult PrV. Although p75 appears to be associated with primary afferent pattern formation, to determine whether it is essential, we examined mutant mice unable to form functional p75. In the TBC of these knockout mice, examined as adults, patterns of cytochrome oxidase staining (which parallel those of p75-IR) appeared to be normal. In summary, during early development, p75 is widely expressed in the TBC during periods of active synaptogenesis and pattern formation, whereas in the adult, its expression is restricted to association with populations of primary sensory afferents. However, the absence of functional p75 in genetically altered mice does not appear to prevent primary afferent pattern formation.
Compared with our understanding of the electrophysiological correlates of sleep and wakefulness, the search for correlates at the molecular level is still in its infancy. However, the evidence obtained so far supports the hypothesis that reliable molecular correlates do exist. As will be summarized in this review, levels of receptor binding, second messengers and protein phosphorylation differ between sleep and wakefulness. Moreover, compelling data obtained in different animal species suggest that the transition between sleep and wakefulness is accompanied by significant changes in gene expression. Many immediate early genes, transcription factors, plasticity-related genes and mitochondrial genes are expressed at higher levels in wakefulness than in sleep, while a few still unknown genes are up-regulated during sleep. The ongoing systematic screening of gene expression across behavioural states should prove crucial in elucidating the regulatory mechanisms of sleep homeostasis and the functions of sleep.
All mutations known to cause familial Alzheimer's disease (AD) act by increasing the levels of soluble beta-amyloid peptide (A beta), especially the longer form, A beta42. However, in vivo elevation of soluble A beta in sporadic AD has so far not been shown. In the present study, we used enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays specific for A beta42 and A beta40 to investigate cerebrospinal fluid from sporadic AD at different stages of disease severity, to clarify the roles of A beta42 and A beta40 during disease progression. We also evaluated three other groups--one group of patients with mild cognitive impairment who were at risk of developing dementia, a cognitively intact, nondemented reference group diagnosed with depression, and a perfectly healthy control group. We found that A beta42 is strongly elevated in early and mid stages of AD, and thereafter it declines with disease progression. On the contrary, A beta40 levels were decreased in early and mid stages of AD. The group of cognitively impaired patients and the depression reference group had significantly higher levels of A beta42 than the healthy control group, implying that A beta42 is increased not only in AD, but in other central nervous system conditions as well. Our data also point out the importance of having thoroughly examined control material. The initial increase and subsequent decrease of A beta42 adds a new biochemical tool to follow the progression of AD and might be important in the monitoring of therapeutics.
Deficits in phonological skills appear to be at the heart of reading disability; however, the nature of this impairment is not yet known. The hypothesis that dyslexic subjects are impaired in auditory frequency discrimination was tested by using an attention-independent auditory brain potential, termed mismatch negativity (MMN) while subjects performed a visual distractor task. In separate blocks, MMN responses to graded changes in tone frequency or tone duration were recorded in 10 dyslexic and matched control subjects. MMN potentials to changes in tone frequency but not to changes in tone duration were abnormal in dyslexic subjects. This physiological deficit was corroborated by a similarly specific impairment in discriminating tone frequency, but not tone duration, which was assessed separately. Furthermore, the pitch discrimination and MMN deficit was correlated with the degree of impairment in phonological skills, as reflected in reading errors of regular words and nonwords. It is possible that in dyslexia a persistent sensory deficit in monitoring the frequency of incoming sound may impair the feedback control necessary for the normal development of phonological skills.
Congenital myasthenic syndrome comprises a heterogeneous group of inherited disorders of neuromuscular transmission. Acetylcholine receptor (AChR) deficiency is the most common form of congenital myasthenic syndrome and in most cases results from mutations within the coding region of the AChR epsilon subunit. However, studies in mice have established that synapse-specific expression of AChR is dependent on a sequence contained within the AChR-subunit promoter regions, termed an N-box. We describe a consanguineous family in which 2 of 7 siblings had clinical and electromyographic features consistent with AChR deficiency. Muscle biopsy demonstrated low AChR numbers, establishing the disorder as postsynaptic. Single-strand conformational polymorphism analysis identified an abnormal conformer in the AChR epsilon-subunit gene promoter of the patients. DNA sequence and restriction endonuclease analysis shows that the disorder cosegregates with recessive inheritance of a single point mutation, a transition (C--&gt;T) in the N-box of the epsilon-subunit promoter. Analysis of an intercostal biopsy from 1 of the patients showed a dramatic reduction in epsilon-subunit mRNA levels compared with disease and normal controls. This is the first evidence in humans that an N-box mutation can lead to disruption of epsilon-subunit transcription, resulting in the loss of adult AChR synthesis and the clinical phenotype of AChR-deficiency congenital myasthenic syndrome.

In the 1990s, it is difficult to open a newspaper or watch television and not find someone claiming that magnets promote healing. Rarely do these claims stem from double-blind, peer-reviewed studies, making it difficult to separate the wheat from the chaff. The current fads resemble those at the end of the last century, when many were falsely touting the benefits of direct electrical and weak magnetic stimulation. Yet in the midst of this popular interest in magnetic therapy, a new neuroscience field has developed that uses powerful magnetic fields to alter brain activity--transcranial magnetic stimulation. This review examines the basic principles underlying transcranial magnetic stimulation, and describes how it differs from electrical stimulation or other uses of magnets. Initial studies in this field are critically summarized, particularly as they pertain to the pathophysiology and treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders. Transcranial magnetic stimulation is a promising new research and, perhaps, therapeutic tool, but more work remains before it can be fully integrated in psychiatry's diagnostic and therapeutic armamentarium.


Twelve young rabbits (3-6 months; Oryctolagus cuniculus) were classically conditioned in a trace jaw movement paradigm (300 ms tone, 450 ms trace, 200 ms intraoral water) after implantation of electrodes into area CA1 of dorsal hippocampus. Rabbits were divided into two groups and administered either 0.5 mg/kg scopolamine hydrobromide (HBr) or 0.5 mg/kg scopolamine methylbromide (MBr) subcutaneously before daily training sessions. Rabbits given HBr took significantly more trials to reach a behavioral criterion of eight conditioned responses in any nine consecutive trials than rabbits given MBr (P = 0.03). Conditioned, but not unconditioned, rhythmic jaw movement responses of the HBr group were of a lower frequency (Hz) than those of MBr rabbits (P = 0.02). The magnitude of hippocampal conditioning-related responses across the first 3 days of training was significantly smaller for HBr rabbits than for MBr rabbits (P = 0.02). These effects of central cholinergic blockade are similar to those reported for undrugged aging rabbits trained in the same paradigm (Seager MA, Borgnis RL, Berry SD. Neurobiol. Aging 1997;18(6):631 639).
The effects of 1 or 2 weeks of social isolation immediately after weaning on social activity in adulthood were investigated in rats. In addition, it was studied whether these effects were influenced by social experiences of the cagemate when rehoused after the isolation period. Isolation during weeks 4 and 5 of age caused a reduction of social activity as compared to non-isolated controls. Previous social experiences of the cagemate (isolated or non-isolated) did not affect this decreased social activity. Isolation during week 4 of age resulted in similar effects, but the reduced social activity was not present when the rats were rehoused with non-isolated rats. Isolation during week 5 of age did not influence social activity patterns in adulthood. These findings support the idea of a sensitive period in infancy for subsequent social behavior in rats. It is suggested that especially deprivation of acquiring play behavior underlies the social disturbances in adulthood.
Neuronal activities were recorded in areas TEO and TE of the inferotemporal cortex in four hemispheres of two monkeys during the performance of a visual pattern discrimination task. Tolerances of responses to patterns against changing stimulus size and orientation, and deleting patterns halves were investigated and compared between TEO and TE neurons. Of 311 neurons tested, 80 (26%) responded to one or more patterns out of four standard patterns. Of these 80 neurons, 50 (63%) were recorded in area TEO and 30 (38%) in area TE. Neurons responsive to patterns were recorded in both areas TEO and TE, however degrees of tolerance of responses were different between TEO and TE neurons. Tolerances of TEO neurons were moderate and degrees of tolerance varied from neuron to neuron. Responses to particular patterns were dependent on stimulus size, stimulus orientation, and/or completeness of patterns. By contrast, tolerances of TE neurons were generally strong. Responses to particular patterns were not affected by changing stimulus size, changing stimulus orientation nor deleting patterns halves. These results suggest that area TEO rather than area TE is involved in detecting and processing particular visual shapes.
Cocaine was microinfused bilaterally (50 microg/0.5 microl/side) into the medial preoptic area (MPOA) or nucleus accumbens (NA), 2 regions within the rat brain neural circuit known to mediate maternal behavior (MB). Additionally, 2 sites not involved in this neural circuit, the dorsal striatum and dorsal medial hippocampus, were used as control sites. Microinfusion of cocaine into the MPOA or NA impaired MB, whereas infusion into the control sites did not. MB impairment was not temporally coincident with the increased locomotor activity, also documented after cocaine infusion into the MPOA or NA, arguing strongly that impaired MB is a direct, specific effect of cocaine in these areas, not a derivative of increased motor activity. This is the first demonstration that cocaine action on single central nervous system (CNS) sites can impair MB to the same extent as systemic injections. Thus, cocaine's simultaneous effect on multiple CNS sites is not required for MB impairment.
A broad definition of sensory gating refers to the ability of the brain to modulate its sensitivity to incoming sensory stimuli. This definition allows the concept of gating to include both the capacities to minimize or stop responding to incoming irrelevant stimuli (gating out) and to respond when a novel stimulus is presented or a change occurs in ongoing stimuli (gating in). In order to further characterize the function of sensory gating, we examined the attenuation (decreased responding) and augmentation (increased responding) of the P50 EP amplitudes in 22 normal volunteers. Three EP paradigms, each including a number of conditions, designed to examine both EP habituation (inhibition) and dishabituation (excitation) were administered to each subject. In conditions designed to examine habituation (identical pairs of clicks or trains of repetitive identical clicks), the P50 behaved, as expected, with decrease of the amplitude with repetition. In conditions designed to examine dishabituation the amplitude of the P50, EP did not decrease as much (and frequently increased) with stimulus change. The results suggest that the P50 EP is sensitive to the effects of stimulus repetition and stimulus change and can be used to study the different aspects of sensory gating.

An improved method for making fast quantitative determinations of membrane potential with voltage-sensitive dyes is presented. This method incorporates a high-speed, random-access, laser-scanning scheme (Bullen et al., 1997. Biophys. J. 73:477-491) with simultaneous detection at two emission wavelengths. The basis of this ratiometric approach is the voltage-dependent shift in the emission spectrum of the voltage-sensitive dye di-8-butyl-amino-naphthyl-ethylene-pyridinium-propyl-sulfonate (di-8-ANEPPS). Optical measurements are made at two emission wavelengths, using secondary dichroic beamsplitting and dual photodetectors (&lt;570 nm and &gt;570 nm). Calibration of the ratiometric measurements between signals at these wavelengths was achieved using simultaneous optical and patch-clamp measurements from adjacent points. Data demonstrating the linearity, precision, and accuracy of this technique are presented. Records obtained with this method exhibited a voltage resolution of approximately 5 mV, without any need for temporal or spatial averaging. Ratiometric recordings of action potentials from isolated hippocampal neurons are used to illustrate the usefulness of this approach. This method is unique in that it is the first to allow quantitative determination of dynamic membrane potential changes in a manner optimized for both high spatiotemporal resolution (2 micrometers and &lt;0.5 ms) and voltage discrimination.
In the brain, hundreds of intracellular processes are known to depend on calcium influx; hence any substantial fluctuation in external calcium ([Ca2+]o) is likely to engender important functional effects. Employing the known scales and parameters of mammalian neural tissue, we introduce and justify a computational approach to the hypothesis that large changes in local [Ca2+]o will be part of normal neural activity. Using this model, we show that the geometry of the extracellular space in combination with the rapid movement of calcium through ionic channels can cause large external calcium fluctuations, up to 100% depletion in many cases. The exact magnitude of a calcium fluctuation will depend on 1) the size of the consumption zone, 2) the local diffusion coefficient of calcium, and 3) the geometrical arrangement of the consuming elements. Once we have shown that using biologically relevant parameters leads to calcium changes, we focus on the signaling capacity of such concentration fluctuations. Given the sensitivity of neurotransmitter release to [Ca2+]o, the exact position and timing of neural activity will delimit the terminals that are able to release neurotransmitter. Our results indicate that mammalian neural tissue is engineered to generate significant changes in external calcium concentrations during normal activity. This design suggests that such changes play a role in neural information processing.

Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have been implicated as important factors in gliomas since they may both facilitate invasion into the surrounding brain and participate in neovascularization. We have tested the hypothesis that deregulated expression of gelatinase-A or B, or an activator of gelatinase-A, MT1-MMP, may contribute directly to human gliomas by quantifying the expression of these MMPs in 46 brain tumour specimens and seven control tissues. Quantitative RT-PCR and gelatin zymography showed that gelatinase-A in glioma specimens was higher than in normal tissue; these were significantly elevated in low grade gliomas and remained elevated in GBMs. Gelatinase-B transcript and activity levels were also higher than in normal brain and more strongly correlated with tumour grade. We did not see a close relationship between the levels of expression of MT1-MMP mRNA and amounts of activated gelatinase-A. In situ hybridization localized gelatinase-A and MT1-MMP transcripts to normal neuronal and glia, malignant glioma cells and blood vessels. In contrast, gelatinase-B showed a more restricted pattern of expression; it was strongly expressed in blood vessels at proliferating margins, as well as tumour cells in some cases. These data suggest that gelatinase-A, -B and MT1-MMP are important in the pathophysiology of human gliomas. The primary role of gelatinase-B may lie in remodelling associated with neovascularization, whereas gelatinase-A and MT1-MMP may be involved in both glial invasion and angiogenesis.
The objective of this paper was to determine the time course and extent of platinum uptake into human malignant glioma tissue. An intraoperative, intravenous infusion of carboplatin was given to nine patients (seven glioblastoma and two anaplastic glioma) undergoing tumour excision. Carboplatin dosage was calculated individually to achieve a target systemic free carboplatin exposure. Tumour and peritumoural tissue was harvested at timed intervals following carboplatin administration. Plasma and tumour platinum concentrations were measured by graphite furnace flameless atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Histological examination was also performed on a piece of each tissue sample. The mean carboplatin dose administered was 783, SEM 56 mg (range 485-903). Plasma pharmacokinetics showed a typical elimination curve. The mean peak plasma platinum concentration was 44, SEM 5 micrograms/ml (range 27-74). The mean total elemental plasma platinum area under the curve (AUC) was 9.0, SEM 1.4 mg/ml/min. Platinum was detected in 61 tumour samples, the mean peak concentration being 13 SEM 2 micrograms/g (range 5-21). Platinum was also detected in peritumoural brain and necrotic tumour. No correlation was apparent between the degree of necrosis in each tumour specimen and tumour platinum concentration. Platinum concentrations achieved in tumour were similar to levels that would be cytotoxic for glioma cells in vitro. The results of this study have implications for future studies using capillary permeability modifying agents as adjuncts to brain tumour chemotherapy.
1. This study describes the pharmacological comparison of the muscarinic partial agonists sabcomeline, xanomeline and milameline at human cloned muscarinic receptor subtypes (hM1-5). 2. Radioligand binding studies at the hM1-5 muscarinic receptor subtypes were compared with functional studies using microphysiometry using carbachol as the standard full agonist. 3. In binding assays none of the compounds studied displayed preferential affinity for the M1,3,4 or M5 subtypes although carbachol was less potent at hM1 than hM3,4,5. 4. In functional studies, all of the compounds studied displayed similar levels of efficacy across the muscarinic receptors with the exception of M3, where there was a large apparent receptor reserve and the compounds behaved essentially as full agonists. 5. Sabcomeline was the most potent agonist in functional studies but also showed the lowest efficacy. In terms of potency, xanomeline showed some selectivity for M1 over M2 receptors and milameline showed some selectivity for M2 over M1 receptors. 6. These results show the value of microphysiometry in being able to compare receptor pharmacology across subtypes irrespective of the signal transduction pathway. 7. None of the partial agonists showed functional selectivity for M1 receptors, or indeed any muscarinic receptor, in the present study.
Diabetes mellitus can affect both the peripheral and the central nervous system. However, central deficits are documented less well than peripheral deficits. We therefore compared the course of development of neurophysiological changes in the central and peripheral nervous systems in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. Sciatic nerve conduction velocities and auditory and visual evoked potentials were measured prior to diabetes induction, and then monthly after diabetes induction for 6 months. In addition, the effect of insulin treatment was examined. Treatment was initiated after a diabetes duration of 6 months and was continued for 3 months. During treatment, evoked potentials and nerve conduction were measured monthly. In a third experiment, conduction velocities in ascending and descending pathways of the spinal cord were examined after 3 and 6 months of diabetes. Impairments of sciatic nerve conduction velocities developed fully during the first 2-3 months of diabetes. In contrast, increased latencies of auditory and visual evoked potentials developed only after 3-4 months of diabetes, and progressed gradually thereafter. Insulin treatment, initiated 6 months after induction of diabetes, improved both nerve conduction velocities and evoked potential latencies. Conduction velocities in the spinal cord tended to be reduced after 3 months of diabetes and were significantly reduced after 6 months of diabetes. The present study demonstrates that in streptozotocin-diabetic rats the course of development of peripheral and central neurophysiological changes differs. Peripheral impairments develop within weeks after diabetes induction, whereas central impairments take months to develop. Insulin can reverse both peripheral and central neurophysiological alterations.
Diabetic neuropathies include both focal neuropathies and diffuse polyneuropathy. Polyneuropathy, the most common of the diabetic neuropathies excluding focal entrapment, has not yet been explained by a single disease mechanism despite intensive investigation. A number of abnormalities appear to cascade into a 'vicious cycle' of progressive microvascular disease associated with motor, sensory and autonomic fiber loss. These abnormalities include excessive polyol (sugar alcohol) flux through the aldose reductase pathway, functional and structural alterations of nerve microvessels, nerve and ganglia hypoxia, oxidative stress, nonspecific glycosylation of axon and microvessel proteins, and impairment in the elaboration of trophic factors critical for peripheral nerves and their ganglia. While an initiating role for nerve ischemia in the development of polyneuropathy has been proposed, the evidence for it can be questioned. The role of sensory and autonomic ganglia in the development of polyneuropathy has had relatively less attention despite the possibility that they may be vulnerable to a variety of insults, particularly neurotrophin deficiency. Superimposed on the deficits of polyneuropathy is the failure of diabetic nerves to regenerate as effectively as nondiabetics. Polyneuropathy has not yet yielded to specific forms of treatment but a variety of new trials addressing plausible hypotheses have been initiated. This review will summarize some of the clinical, pathological and experimental work applied toward understanding human diabetic neuropathy and will emphasize ideas on pathogenesis.

In 1992 and 1997, respectively, the histological slides of Alois Alzheimer's original cases were rediscovered in Munich. This material, which has survived two world wars, was not originally kept at the Institute of Neuropathology of the University of Munich where it was found. Parviz Mehraein, head of the institute, saved anonymous neuropathological material given away by the Psychiatric Clinic of the University of Munich and the Max-Planck-Institute of Psychiatry. Yet it was not until Kohshiro Fujisawa [corrected] of the Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Neuroscience wrote a letter that the search leading to the rediscovery of Alzheimer's cases was initiated. Henry deF. Webster [corrected] of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland, had mediated his contact to Munich. Histological and molecular genetic findings obtained on the tissue sections have been reported previously (Neurogenetics 1997, 1:73-80; 1998, 1:223-228). The present article summarizes the unusual history of this rediscovery and at the same time illustrates the great value of international exchange in science.
Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) has been used to study brain biochemistry in superfused brain slice preparations for over a decade. However, unlike techniques that monitor electrical activity, ion fluxes, or the release of radio-labeled compounds in single brain slices, MRS studies have required samples composed of several slices and inherently poor anatomical specificity in order to achieve adequate signal-to-noise levels, spectral resolution, or, in the case of 1H MRS, a high degree of artifact-free water signal suppression. We report that gradient-enhanced 1H MRS techniques combined with a simple slice positioning and perfusion technique yield high-quality spectra from single 400 microns rat forebrain or neocortical-hippocampal slices within 15 min of data acquisition time. Spectra of comparable quality were obtained from samples with three neocortical or three hippocampal slices within the same time frame. The assessment of anaerobic energy metabolism in single slices by 1H MRS is also demonstrated. In addition to greater anatomical resolution in studies on brain slice biochemistry, single slice MRS also presents the possibility of correlating, within the same slice, 1H MRS-detectable metabolite levels with other physiological measurements commonly performed on single brain slices.
In situ hybridization (ISH) is a widely used technique in neuroscience since it allows a relatively straightforward determination of gene expression in the brain, in respect to distribution as well as in respect to quantification. It is based upon the hybridization of a nucleic acid probe with the mRNA under investigation and does not require the creation of specific antibodies as in immunohistochemistry. However, a major drawback of ISH is the fact that all standard protocols available include time consuming optimization steps of several critical parameters such as tissue fixation, hybridization conditions and washing procedures. Therefore, the aim of our investigation was a rational design of oligonucleotide probes which were adapted to our standard ISH protocol and which could therefore be used without changing any parameter. This approach also worked well for the detection of rare gene products such as neuropeptide receptor mRNAs. To adapt the probes to our standard procedure, sequence, calculated melting temperature, length and secondary structures of the oligonucleotides were considered according to certain constraints as outlined in the following.
Co-localization of chemical messengers in the same neuron is linked to neurochemical plasticity and has been studied extensively [B. Meister, M.J. Villar, S. Ceccatelli, T. Hkfelt, Localization of chemical messengers in magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei: an immunohistochemical study using experimental manipulation, Neuroscience 37 (1990) 603-633; B. Meister, R. Corts, M.J. Villar, M. Schalling, T. Hkfelt, Peptides and transmitter enzymes in hypothalamic magnocellular neurons after administration of hyperosmotic stimuli: comparison between messenger RNA and peptide/protein levels, Cell Tissue Res. 260 (1990) 279-297]. Obese Zucker rats display an example of such a phenomenon expressing an enzyme of catecholamine synthesis-tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-in magnocellular neurons (MCN) of supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of hypothalamus [S. Fetissov, F. Marsais, S. Nicoladis, A. Calas, Expression of tyrosine hydroxylase in magnocellular hypothalamic neurons of obese (fa/fa) and lean heterozygous (Fa/fa) Zucker rats, Mol. Brain Res. 50 (1997) 314-318]. To understand the biological role of TH in MCN of obese Zucker rat, we studied TH expression in relation to the vasopressinergic and oxytocinergic neurons. We present a protocol of double labelling including immunohistochemical for TH and in situ hybridization for OT and VP mRNA. The described protocol can be applied for detection of co-localized expressions of a broad range of chemical brain messengers and proteins.
The history, characters, composition and topography of corpora amylacea (CA) in man and the analogous polyglucosan bodies (PGB) in other species are documented, noting particularly the wide variation in the numbers found with age and in neurological disease. Their origins from both neurons and glia and their probable migrations and ultimate fate are discussed. Their presence is also noted in other organs, particularly in the heart. The occurrence in isolated cases of occasional 'massive' usually focal accumulations of similar polyglucosan bodies in association with certain chronic neurological diseases is noted and the specific conditions Adult Polyglucosan body disease and type IV glycogenosis where they are found throughout the nervous system in great excess is discussed. The distinctive differences of CA from the PGB of Lafora body disease and Bielschowsky body disease are emphasised. When considering their functional roles, a parallel is briefly drawn on the one hand between normal CA and the bodies in the polyglucosan disorders and on the other with the lysosomal system and its associated storage diseases. It is suggested that these two systems are complementary ways by which large, metabolically active cells such as neurons, astrocytes, cardiac myocytes and probably many other cell types, dispose of the products of stressful metabolic events throughout life and the continuing underlying process of aging and degradation of long lived cellular proteins. Each debris disposal system must be regulated in its own way and must inevitably, a priori, be heir to metabolic defects that give rise in each to its own set of metabolic disorders.
The present studies investigate the hypothesis that the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine (LC-NE) system plays a role in the neural substrates underlying individual differences in behavioral reactivity to stress. Individuals were selected from a random sample of Sprague-Dawley rats and categorized as a high responder (HR), middle responder (MR), or low responder (LR) based on the initial locomotor response to a novel open field. Rats with behavioral scores at least 1 SD away from the mean for the subject sample were categorized as HR or LR rats. Middle responder rats exhibited locomotor scores representative of the mean locomotor activity of the population sample. Locomotor activity scores measured 6 days after the initial determination were similar to scores obtained in the original screening, suggesting that the locomotor response to novelty is a stable individual trait. Additionally, locomotor activity during the dark phase of the diurnal cycle was not different among the groups, suggesting that differences in locomotor activity in response to a novel open field are an index of behavioral reactivity to the stressful situation rather than an indicator of global differences in motoric activity. In vivo microdialysis was used to measure extracellular levels of hippocampal NE in the hippocampus. During baseline conditions, the efflux of hippocampal NE was similar among HR, MR, and LR rats. In response to tail-pinch stress, hippocampal NE release was elevated in all groups. This response was significantly greater in HR compared to LR rats. Across all groups, locomotor response in the novel open field was significantly correlated with the magnitude of NE release in response to subsequent application of tail-pinch stress. In contrast, administration of 1.5 mg/kg, i.p., amphetamine resulted in a similar elevation of extracellular NE level among HR, LR, and MR rats. These data suggest that activation of the LC-NE system may be involved in determining the behavioral response of individuals to environmental stress.
The aim of this paper is to begin a dialogue regarding the use of the Model of Human Occupation (MOHO) (Kielhofner, 1995). Three questions formed the basis for discussion: 1. Is the MOHO consistent with the values and beliefs of occupational therapy?; 2. Does the MOHO support the intervention process in occupational therapy? and; 3. Is the MOHO consistent and applicable to the current regulations and societal values in Sweden? The authors propose that the MOHO must be further developed in order to support assessment and intervention in occupational therapy. Specifically, they find the MOHO lacking with regard the influence of the environment on human behaviour, appreciation of the dialectic process between the human and the environment, and of the importance of the subsystem volition in the intervention process.
Encoding of new experiences is likely to induce activity-dependent modifications in the brain. Studies in organisms far apart on the phylogenetic scale have shown that similar, sometimes identical, signal transduction pathways subserve plasticity in neuronal systems, and they may play pivotal roles in the formation of long-term memories. It has become evident that phosphorylation/dephosphorylation reactions are critical for the initiation of cellular mechanisms that embody, retain and modify information in neural circuits. Although physiological investigations on synaptic plasticity have had a major impact, we have concentrated our review on behavioural studies that provide direct or indirect evidence for a role of kinases in mechanisms underlying memory formation. From these, it appears that the learning event induces activation of a variety of kinases with specific time courses. For instance, the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II seems to participate in an early phase of memory formation. Apparently, activation of both protein tyrosine kinases and mitogen-activated protein kinases is required for much longer and may thus have a particular function during transformation from short-term into long-term memory. Quite different time courses appear for protein kinase C (PKC) and protein kinase A (PKA), which may function at two different time points, shortly after training and again much later. This suggests that PKC and PKA might play a role at early and late stages of memory formation. However, we have considered some examples showing that these signalling pathways do not function in isolation but rather interact in an intricate intracellular network. This is indicative of a more complex contribution of each kinase to the fine tuning of encoding and information processing. To decipher this complexity, pharmacological, biochemical and genetic investigations are more than ever necessary to unravel the role of each kinase in the syntax of learning and memory formation.
Evidence from systems as diverse as mollusks, insects and mammals has revealed that adenylyl cyclase, cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) cascade, cAMP-dependent protein kinases and their substrates are required for the cellular events underlying the short-term and long-term forms of memory. In Aplysia and Drosophila models, the coincident activation of independent paths converge to produce a synergistic activation of Ca2+/calmodulin-stimulable adenylyl cyclase, thereby enhancing the cAMP level that appears as the primary mediator of downstream events that strengthen enduring memory. In mammals, in which long-term memories require hippocampal function, our understanding of the role of adenylyl cyclases is still fragmentary. Of the differently regulated isoforms present in the hippocampus, the susceptibility of type 1 and type 8 to stimulation by the complex Ca2+/calmodulin and their expression in the hippocampus suggest a role for these two isoforms as a molecular coincidence device for hippocampus-related memory function. Here, we review the key features of Ca2+/calmodulin stimulable adenylyl cyclases, as well as the involvement of cAMP-regulated signaling pathway in the processes of learning and memory.
1. The source and physiological significance of dopamine (DA) sulphate, which exists in plasma at much higher concentrations than free DA, have long been a puzzle. The present article reviews how the convergence of modern molecular and traditional clinical approaches is shedding new light on the origins and meaning of DA sulphate. 2. The sulphotransferase isoenzyme responsible for production of DA sulphate in humans (SULT1A3) has been cloned and shown to be expressed in large quantities in the gastro-intestinal tract, but not in liver. No orthologue of SULT1A3 has yet been identified in other species, consistent with the greater importance of sulphate conjugation of DA in humans than in most animals. 3. Diet has a major impact on plasma DA sulphate, with dramatic increases after ingestion of meals and foods rich in biogenic amines; however, substantial amounts of DA sulphate remaining after prolonged fasting indicate the presence of a mainly endogenous source. The lack of influence of acute or chronic changes in sympathetic outflow or of sympathoneural degeneration on plasma DA sulphate indicates that DA sulphate does not derive from sympathetic nerve. Relatively low rates of production from intravenously infused DA indicate that very little DA sulphate (&lt; 2%) derives from metabolism of circulating DA, such as in red cells or platelets. 4. Consistent increments in DA sulphate from arterial to the outflowing venous plasma draining mesenteric organs, without increments across other organs or tissues (e.g., heart, lungs, liver), indicate that the gastrointestinal tract is a major source of more than 75% of DA sulphate produced in the body. The gastro-intestinal tract is also the site of a novel DA autocrine/paracrine system that produces nearly 50% of the DA in the body. Therefore, production of DA sulphate appears to reflect an enzymatic 'gut-blood' barrier for detoxifying dietary biogenic amines and delimiting autocrine/paracrine effects of endogenous DA generated in a novel 'third catecholamine system'.
1. Dopamine (DA) is a protective agent in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract in both rats and humans. Therefore, we have studied the site of DA production in rat and human GI tract using a variety of techniques, including immunocytochemistry (ICC), in situ hybridization histochemistry, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, HPLC, western blotting and immunoelectron microscopy. 2. We found very high concentrations of DA that persisted after chemical sympathectomy (CS) in the gastric juice, the stomach mucosa and in the pancreas. Both the stomach mucosa and the pancreas also had tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity, most of which remained after CS. Double-labelling ICC showed that acid-producing parietal cells and the exocrine pancreas must also be capable of producing DA. 3. We isolated rat stomach parietal cells by cell fractionation and found that both DA and TH activity are present in isolated (denervated) parietal cells. These cells also have other features of aminergic cells: they are immuno- (and mRNA) positive for the DA plasma membrane transporter and vesicular monoamine transporter(s). In both gastric and duodenal mucosa, we demonstrated the presence of significant amounts of the D5 receptor that could serve as a target for locally produced DA. 4. Because DA, its biosynthetic enzymes and its transporters are also found in parietal cells in the human stomach, a mucosal protective system involving DA could be important clinically.


An earlier paper in this series of three has detailed the background development and organization of a pilot complementary therapy service. The setting was a neuroscience ward with existing staff carrying out the treatments. Outcome measures including physiological indices and patient feedback were reported on in Part II (Dryden et al. 1999). This paper will now focus on both the records of the practitioner's reflections and the recurring themes of their monthly clinical supervision sessions. Subgroups of four patients with Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) are discussed in detail, as they received the most number of treatments between them.
This report describes a person who confabulated following an anterior communicating artery aneurysm. His confabulation was limited to one very circumscribed area of his life and remained stable for twelve weeks, eventually improving with rehabilitation. It is argued that a content-specific confabulation of this nature challenges current theories of confabulation, and an integrative explanation is given based on previous findings by Burgess and Shallice (1996b) of the mechanisms of autobiographical recollection in healthy people.
This study was conducted in order to determine the effects of body position on integrated electromyographic (IEMG) activity of anterior temporal and suprahyoid muscles. The study was performed on 15 patients with myogenic cranio-cervical-mandibular dysfunction (CMD) and 15 healthy subjects. IEMG recordings at rest and during swallowing of saliva and maximal voluntary clenching were performed by placing surface electrodes on the anterior temporal and suprahyoid muscles in the following body positions: standing, seated, supine, and lateral decubitus position. Insignificant changes in IEMG activity of both muscles were observed upon variations in the body position. Insignificant differences in IEMG activity were observed between patients with myogenic CMD and healthy subjects. A pattern of higher IEMG at rest and during swallowing of saliva was observed in the suprahyoid muscles than in the anterior temporal muscles, whereas during maximal clenching activity, an opposite pattern was observed. Results of the present study seem to suggest that for the anterior temporal and suprahyoid muscles there is no specific body position that could be relevant to initiate and/or to perpetuate a craniomandibular dysfunction.

The organization and regulation of synaptic connections in the mammalian nervous system entail complicated and co-ordinated molecular and cellular processes. The unveiling of various protein-protein interactions and their functional consequences at synapses have led to a greater understanding of the process of synapse formation and the modulation of synaptic transmission. Recent studies indicate that the major excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the brain, the glutamate receptors, are associated with many different molecules that are involved in the formation of elaborate synaptic cytoskeletal networks and signal transduction cascades. These complex protein networks may play critical roles in the regulation of neurotransmitter receptor function and the efficacy of synaptic transmission.
The circuitry mediating the integration of reward perception and adaptive behavioral responses has been further refined. Recent developments indicate that the nucleus accumbens has a primary role in motivational circuitry, whereas afferents to the nucleus accumbens, in part, subserve distinct functions. Dopaminergic afferents serve to signal changes in rewarding stimuli, whereas glutamatergic input from the amygdala serves to cue behavior to conditioned reward, and afferents from the prefrontal cortex integrate information from short-term memory into behavioral responses.
Significant progress has been made in our understanding of the neural substrates of emotion and its disorders. Neuroimaging methods have been used to characterize the circuitry underlying disorders of emotion. Particular emphasis has been placed on the prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate, parietal cortex, and the amygdala as critical components of the circuitry that may be dysfunctional in both depression and anxiety.
In current conceptualizations of visual attention, selection takes place through integrated competition between recurrently connected visual processing networks. Selection, which facilitates the emergence of a 'winner' from among many potential targets, can be associated with particular spatial locations or object properties, and it can be modulated by both stimulus-driven and goal-driven factors. Recent neurobiological data support this account, revealing the activation of striate and extrastriate brain regions during conditions of competition. In addition, parietal and temporal cortices play a role in selection, biasing the ultimate outcome of the competition.
Recent findings have further characterized the neural and psychological bases of long-term memory failure in Alzheimer's disease. Convergent volumetric neuroimaging studies indicate that loss of episodic memory is specifically related to early-stage limbic-diencephalic pathology, and that non-mnemonic impairment is specifically related to later-stage temporal-neocortical pathology. Recent studies of Alzheimer's disease have also reported informative cognitive dissociations in semantic memory and implicit memory.
Perseverative actions are often the result of inhibitory problems; however, inhibitory problems do not always lead to perseverative actions. Some problems of inhibition have been attributed to immaturity of, or severe damage to, the prefrontal cortex. Research in this area has generally failed both to take into account species differences in prefrontal function that lead to different perseverative errors and to distinguish between perseverative errors that arise from a failure to inhibit salient emotions or motivational drives and errors that arise from an inability to engage in conceptual change. Recent studies on humans, chimpanzees, rhesus macaques, Japanese macaques, cotton-top tamarins and marmosets support this notion.

The effects of prenatal stress on the ability of the 5 alpha-reduced progesterone metabolite and neurosteroid 5 alpha-pregnan-3 alpha-ol-20-one (3 alpha,5 alpha-THP) to prevent seizures was examined. On gestational Day 18, pregnant rats were exposed to 20 min of restraint stress (prenatal stress condition) or no such stress (control condition). The adult, gonadectomized offspring exposed to the prenatal stress or control condition were administered 0.0, 4.0, or 8.0 mg/kg 3 alpha,5 alpha-THP 1 hr prior to testing for kainic-acid-induced (32 mg/kg SC) ictal activity. The rats exposed to prenatal stress tended to have more partial seizures and significantly more tonic clonic seizures that were of longer duration than the no prenatal stress rats. Four mg/kg 3 alpha,5 alpha-THP was sufficient to significantly reduce seizure duration of no prenatal stress females, compared to the 0.0 mg/kg dosage of 3 alpha,5 alpha-THP. Seizure duration was reduced in no prenatal stress females by a dose of 4 mg/kg 3 alpha,5 alpha-THP, whereas a dose of 8 mg/kg was required to obtain comparable seizure reduction in prenatally stressed females and males in both groups. There was attrition following kainic-acid testing; of the 18 animals in each group originally, 9 prenatally stressed males, 6 prenatally stressed females, 6 nonprenatally stressed males and 5 nonprenatally stressed females were able to be tested in the water maze and perfused. One week after seizures, there were no differences in the water maze performance of the remaining animals. There were fewer cresyl violet-stained neurons in the CA3 region of the hippocampus of prenatally stressed rats compared to the nonprenatally stressed rats. Basal plasma corticosterone was greater in prenatally stressed animals, but this was due to increases in females rather than males. Plasma 3 alpha,5 alpha-THP was not significantly different in prenatally stressed males and females compared to their no prenatal stress counterparts. These data suggest that the sensitivity to, or responsiveness of, 3 alpha,5 alpha-THP to prevent seizures is decreased after prenatal stress, particularly in females.
Play fighting in its most elaborate form involves nonagonistic wrestling between pairmates, where one partner grabs, holds, bites, or otherwise contacts the other. Such play occurs in the absence of the functional consequences associated with serious fighting (e.g., resource acquisition or protection). Typically, the biting, nosing, or grooming contact during play fighting is directed at specific body targets. House mice have been classified as a species that lacks such play, even though play fighting is present in closely related species such as the rat. In this study, six litters of C57 mice were observed daily from the week before weaning until the week after weaning (15-30 days postnatally). Thirty-min videotaped records were collected daily for each litter. Consistent with other studies, over 85% of all play involved locomotor play, and most of the social play involved noncontact locomotion (86%). However, a rudimentary pattern of the &quot;attack and defense&quot; typical of play fighting was found to occur, albeit at a low frequency (2% of all play). Most playful attacks involved snout contact with the partner's rump, but evidence is provided that suggests that this rump contact may be transitory, with the nape area being the primary target for play. Most of the playful attacks elicited playful defense (97%), which in all cases involved the defender evading such contact by leaping or running away, or by dodging laterally away from the attacker. Therefore, there appears to be directed playful attacks in this species, with defense limited to evasion. Defensive tactics leading to wrestling were never observed. That is, play fighting in mice involves only a small subset of what other species, such as rats, exhibit. Nonetheless, the basic components of attack and defense are present in mice.
Elevated corticosterone levels to stress have been found in adult rats exposed prenatally to alcohol, but little is known about the effects of prenatal alcohol exposure on the cortisol response in humans. To date, one study has found that crack/cocaine was related to depressed newborn cortisol levels following a heel prick. In the present study saliva samples were obtained before and after a blood draw from 83 inner-city African American 13-month-old infants exposed prenatally to alcohol, cocaine, and other illicit drugs. Post-blood draw cortisol levels did not differ from basal levels in many of the infants, confirming recent studies indicating adaptation of the adrenocortical response to this type of stress at this age. Maternal depression and emergence of teeth were positively related to cortisol levels. Alcohol exposure was related to elevated basal levels, cocaine to lower basal levels. As predicted from animal findings, heavy alcohol exposure was related to elevated poststress cortisol levels.
Aberrant neurofilament phosphorylation occurs in many neurodegenerative diseases, and in this study, two animal models of type 1 diabetes--the spontaneously diabetic BB rat and the streptozocin-induced diabetic rat--have been used to determine whether such a phenomenon is involved in the etiology of the symmetrical sensory polyneuropathy commonly associated with diabetes. There was a two- to threefold (P &lt; 0.05) elevation of neurofilament phosphorylation in lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of diabetic rats that was localized to perikarya of medium to large neurons using immunocytochemistry. Additionally, diabetes enhanced neurofilament M phosphorylation by 2.5-fold (P &lt; 0.001) in sural nerve of BB rats. Neurofilaments are substrates of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family, which includes c-jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) or stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK1) and extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) 1 and 2. Diabetes induced a significant three- to fourfold (P &lt; 0.05) increase in phosphorylation of a 54-kDa isoform of JNK in DRG and sural nerve, and this correlated with elevated c-Jun and neurofilament phosphorylation. In diabetes, ERK phosphorylation was also increased in the DRG, but not in sural nerve. Immunocytochemistry showed that JNK was present in sensory neuron perikarya and axons. Motoneuron perikarya and peroneal nerve of diabetic rats showed no evidence of increased neurofilament phosphorylation and failed to exhibit phosphorylation of JNK. It is hypothesized that in sensory neurons of diabetic rats, aberrant phosphorylation of neurofilament may contribute to the distal sensory axonopathy observed in diabetes.
Pleural effusion may occur in patients suffering from physical trauma or systemic disorders such as infection, inflammation, or cancer. In order to investigate proteins in a pleural exudate from a patient with severe pneumonia, we used a strategy that combined preparative two-dimensional liquid-phase electrophoresis (2-D LPE), matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) and Western blotting. Preparative 2-D LPE is based on the same principles as analytical 2-D gel electrophoresis, except that the proteins remain in liquid phase during the entire procedure. In the first dimension, liquid-phase isoelectric focusing allows for the enrichment of proteins in liquid fractions. In the Rotofor cell, large volumes (up to 55 mL) and protein amounts (up to 1-2 g) can be loaded. Several low abundance proteins, cystatin C, haptoglobin, transthyretin, beta2-microglobulin, and transferrin, were detected after liquid-phase isoelectric focusing, through Western blotting analysis, in a pleural exudate (by definition, &gt;25 g/L total protein). Direct MALDI-TOF-MS analysis of proteins in a Rotofor fraction is demonstrated as well. MALDI-TOF-MS analysis of a tryptic digest of a continuous elution sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) fraction confirmed the presence of cystatin C. By applying 2-D LPE, MALDI-TOF-MS, and Western blotting to the analysis of this pleural exudate, we were able to confirm the identity of proteins of potential diagnostic value. Our findings serve to illustrate the usefulness of this combination of methods in the analysis of pathological fluids.
In mammals, reproduction is thought to be controlled by a single neuropeptide, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH-I), which regulates the synthesis and secretion of gonadotropins from the pituitary gland. However, another form of this decapeptide (GnRH-II), of unknown function, also exists in the brain of many vertebrate species, including humans; it is encoded by a different gene and its amino acid sequence is 70% identical to that of GnRH-I. Here we report the cloning of a GnRH-II cDNA from the rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta), and show for the first time by in situ hybridization that GnRH-II mRNA is expressed in the primate midbrain, hippocampus and discrete nuclei of the hypothalamus, including the supraoptic, paraventricular, suprachiasmatic and arcuate. Because the regional distribution pattern of cells containing GnRH-II mRNA is largely dissimilar to that of cells containing GnRH-I mRNA, it is likely that these two cell populations receive distinct neuroendocrine inputs and thus regulate GnRH synthesis and release differently.
By postnatal day 10 (PND-10), males express more androgen receptor (AR) messenger RNA (mRNA) than females in the principal portion of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTpr) and medial preoptic area (MPO), but not in the ventromedial hypothalamus. The development of these region-specific sex differences in AR mRNA expression may be critical for the organization of male-typical neural circuitry and may represent the onset of sex differences in the sensitivity of the rat brain to the actions of androgens. In this study, we used a 35S-labeled riboprobe and in situ hybridization to address whether postnatal testosterone exposure is important for the up-regulation of AR mRNA content in the developing rat forebrain. In the BSTpr and the MPO of PND-10 rats, males gonadectomized on PND-0 or PND-5 had lower levels of AR mRNA compared with intact or sham-operated control males. Daily replacement of testosterone to animals gonadectomized on PND-0 maintained AR mRNA content in the BSTpr and the MPO at levels equal to those in intact males. In contrast, there was no effect of gonadectomy or testosterone replacement on AR mRNA expression in the ventromedial hypothalamus. Thus, the postnatal hormonal environment may permit the development of region-specific sex differences in AR mRNA. Significant alterations in AR mRNA expression in the BSTpr and MPO in PND-10 male rats were induced by gonadectomy as late as PND-8. Males gonadectomized on PND-8 had levels of AR mRNA significantly lower than those in intact males, but significantly higher than those in intact females. Further, when animals were gonadectomized on PND-0 and given testosterone on PND-8 and PND-9, levels of AR mRNA were also intermediate between those found in intact males and intact females. The exact time course for transcriptional regulation of AR mRNA in the developing rat brain is unknown. However, others have shown significant regulation of AR mRNA within hours of hormone treatment, so that 2 days of hormone withdrawal or replacement are probably sufficient to achieve new steady state levels of message. Moreover, sexually dimorphic neuronal loss has been documented to peak in hypothalamic cell groups during the first postnatal week. Thus, it is likely that changes in the number of AR mRNA-expressing cells as well as the amount of AR mRNA expression per cell are responsible for the development of male-typical AR mRNA content.
Although desensitization of most guanine nucleotide-binding (G) protein receptors is triggered by phosphorylation of the receptor, desensitization of the LH/CG receptor (-R) in porcine follicular ovarian membranes appears to be independent of LH/CG-R phosphorylation. We therefore evaluated whether desensitization of the LH/CG-R reflected a direct inhibition of adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity by either the alpha-subunit of Gi or betagamma-subunits derived from any of the membrane G proteins activated in response to LH/CG-R activation or whether desensitization reflected a competition between Gs and a G protein that activated phospholipase C for binding sites on the LH/CG-R. The results showed that follicular membrane AC activity was not inhibited upon activation of the LH/CG-R despite evidence that the ACs in follicular membranes, when maximally activated by forskolin, could be inhibited when membrane G proteins were activated by guanyl-5'-yl imidodiphosphate, and that pertussis toxin pretreatment of membranes raised forskolin-stimulated AC activity, consistent with a tonic inhibition of follicular membrane AC activity. Similarly, agonist-stimulated desensitization of LH/CG-R-stimulated AC activity was not inhibited by pertussis toxin. Therefore, desensitization is not the result of inhibition of AC mediated by an inhibitory Gi subunit. Follicular membrane AC was also not inhibited by Gbetagamma subunits freed with activation of Gs Gq/11, or G13, based on the inabilities of exogenous Gbetagamma to promote desensitization and of a protein that sequesters Gbetagamma to inhibit desensitization. Desensitization was also not inhibited by a Gq/11 C-terminal peptide or antiserum directed toward the C-terminus of Gq/11, nor was it reversed with the addition of Gbetagamma to membranes exhibiting desensitized LH/CG-R, suggesting that desensitization is independent of coupling of the LH/CG-R to Gq/11. These results indicate that agonist-dependent desensitization of LH/CG-R-stimulated AC activity is mediated by a unique mechanism.
CRF exerts a key neuroregulatory control on the function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. These effects are thought to be mediated primarily through activation of Gs-coupled plasma membrane receptors. In the present study, we investigated the effects of activation of CRF receptors by sauvagine on signaling pathways that converge on phosphorylation of the transcription factor calcium/cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB). Studies were undertaken using CHO cell lines transfected with either rat CRF-1 or CRF-2alpha receptors. Signaling pathways were investigated using immunocytochemical, Western blot, and imaging techniques. Treatment with sauvagine increased phosphorylation of p42/p44, but not of p38 or stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK)/JUN N-terminal kinase (JNK) mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases correlating with increased p42/p44 MAP kinase activity. Mobilization of intracellular Ca2+ stores was observed in cells treated with high concentrations (100 nM, 1 microM) of sauvagine. A time- and dose-dependent increase in phosphorylation of the transcription factor CREB was observed in cultures treated with sauvagine. Phosphorylation of CREB occurred at lower concentrations of sauvagine than those required to mobilize intracellular calcium stores, and phosphorylation was not blocked by the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase inhibitor PD98059 at a concentration (1 microM) that fully inhibited phosphorylation of MAP kinase. Cotreatment of cultures with the protein kinase A inhibitor H89 (10 microM) blocked fully the stimulatory actions of sauvagine (0.1 nM, 1 nM) on phosphorylation of CREB, but not those on phosphorylation of MAP kinase. Phosphorylation of MAP kinase was partially blocked by the phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitor LY294002 (5 microM) and by the phosphoinositide-phospholipase C inhibitor U73122 (10 microM). These data demonstrate that cAMP-, Ca2+-, and MAP kinase-dependent signaling pathways are activated by stimulation of CRF-1 and CRF-2alpha receptors. However, in these cells, only protein kinase A-dependent pathways contribute significantly to enhanced phosphorylation of CREB. These represent the first reported observations of CRF receptor-mediated phosphorylation of the transcription factor CREB and activation of MAP kinase signal transduction pathways.
Little is known about bradycardia and cardiac asystole which occur during partial epileptic seizures, especially whether they relate to ictal involvement of well-defined cortical areas. Several reports based on simultaneous electrocardiographic and intracranial depth electroencephalographic monitoring have shown that either the fronto-orbital cortex or the amygdalohippocampal complex could be responsible for such cardiac variations. We performed stereo-EEG recordings in a patient with refractory localization-related epilepsy associated with a hypothalamic hamartoma. We found that other cortical areas, such as the frontocentral region and the temporal neocortex, can contribute to the genesis of ictal bradyarrhythmia. Second, the lesion per se, although located within the hypothalamus, is not involved with this phenomenon.
Most biological homologues involve comparison of single characters in two or more taxa. It is possible, however, to recognize homologous characters between two or more taxa that involve the transformation of one character into many characters or many characters into one character. This type of homology is recognized as field homology and it has been widely used in comparative neuroanatomy. The emergence of the cladistic analysis of embryonic stages in the development of neural characters, however, strongly suggests that field homology is a meaningless concept. When it appears necessary to recognize field homologues, it is because comparisons are being made at an inappropriate level within a given biological hierarchy. Furthermore, recognition of field homologues restricts evolutionary mechanisms to a single mechanism of parcellation as defined by Ebbesson.
Bergquist and Klln as well as Puelles and collaborators have presented models of the developing vertebrate brain, the basic units of which are formed by intersection of transversely oriented neuromeres and longitudinally arranged zones. These units represent initially discrete, developmentally independent compartments, but during later development some (many?) are invaded by sizable numbers of neuroblasts generated in adjacent units. No consensus exists with regard to the number and arrangement of the units involved in the formation of the telencephalon and hypothalamus.
Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made from pyramidal neurons in the rat lateral amygdala (LA). Synaptic currents were evoked by stimulating in either the external capsule (ec), internal capsule (ic) or basolateral nucleus (BLA). Stimulation of either the ic, ec or BLA evoked a glutamatergic excitatory synaptic current (EPSC) which was mediated by both non-NMDA and NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartic acid) receptors. The ratio of the amplitude of the NMDA receptor-mediated component measured at +40 mV to the amplitude of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) component measured at -60 mV was similar regardless of whether EPSCs were evoked in the ec, ic or BLA. At resting membrane potentials, excitatory synaptic potentials evoked from either the ec or putative thalamic inputs were unaffected by application of the NMDA receptor antagonist APV. Spontaneous glutamatergic currents had two components to their decay phase. The slow component was selectively blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist D-APV, indicating that AMPA and NMDA receptors are colocalized in spiny neurons. We conclude that pyramidal cells of the LA receive convergent inputs from the cortex, thalamus and basal nuclei. At all inputs, both AMPA/kainate and NMDA-type receptors are active and colocalized in the postsynaptic density.
Expression of mRNAs for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), neurturin (NTN) and their receptors was studied in adult rat brain using in situ hybridization after 40 kindling-evoked, rapidly recurring seizures or 10 min of global forebrain ischaemia. Following seizures, GDNF and NTN mRNAs were elevated in dentate granule cells, and c-Ret mRNA in hilar neurons and non-pyramidal cells in CA1 and CA3 regions. GFRalpha-1 mRNA levels showed more widespread increases in the dentate granule cell layer and hilus, CA1 and CA3 pyramidal layers, basolateral amygdala and parietal cortex. The expression of GFRalpha-2 mRNA increased in the piriform cortex and decreased in the CA1 region and basolateral amygdala. Forebrain ischaemia induced elevated expression of GDNF mRNA in dentate granule cells, GFRalpha-1 mRNA in the dentate granule cell layer, hilus and CA3 pyramidal layer, and GFRalpha-2 mRNA in the parietal cortex. The gene expression patterns observed here suggest that GDNF and NTN may act as target-derived factors, but also in an autocrine or paracrine manner. GFRalpha-1 can be coexpressed with GFRalpha-2 and c-Ret mRNAs in the same hippocampal or thalamic neurons, but other neurons contain GFRalpha-1 alone or together with c-Ret mRNA. The gene expression changes for the ligands, and the receptor components are region-, cell- and insult-specific, and occur independently of each other, mainly within 24 h after seizures or ischaemia. This dynamic regulation of GDNF and NTN circuits primarily at the receptor level may be important for the effectiveness of neuroprotective responses but could also trigger plastic changes, e.g. those underlying the development of epileptic syndromes.
Cultured spinal cord motoneurons from day 15 rat embryos (E15) represent a useful model to study Ca2+ channel diversities and their regulation by neurotrophins. Besides the previously identified L-, N- and P-type channels, E15 rat motoneurons also express high densities of R-type channels. We have previously shown that the P-type channel is nearly absent in 60% of these cells, while the R-type contributes to approximately 35% of the total current. Here, we show that chronic preincubation of cultured rat motoneurons with high concentrations (20-100 ng/mL) of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) caused a selective up-regulation of the P- and R-type current density available after blocking N- and L-type channels, with no changes to cell membrane capacitance. N- and L-type channels were either not affected or slightly down-modulated by the neurotrophin. The onset of BDNF up-regulation of P/R-type currents had a half-time of 12 h and reached maximal values of approximately 80%. High concentrations of nerve growth factor (NGF; 50-100 ng/mL) had no effect on P/R currents, while BDNF action was prevented by the kinase inhibitor K252a and by the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin. These results suggest that chronic applications of BDNF selectively up-regulates the Ca2+ channel types which are most likely to be involved in the control of neurotransmitter release in mammalian neuromuscular junctions. The signal transduction mechanism is probably mediated by TrkB receptors and involves the synthesis of newly functionally active P- and R-type channels. Our data furnish a rationale for a number of recent observations in other laboratories, in which prolonged applications of neurotrophins were shown to potentiate the presynaptic response in developing synapses.
We have investigated the pharmacology of the functionally selective muscarinic M1 receptor partial agonist, sabcomeline [SB-202026 (R-(Z)-(+)-alpha-(methoxyamino)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2] octane-3-acetonitrile)], in rat cortex and heart using radioligand binding and functional studies. The Quinuclidinyl benzilate/Oxotremorine-M acetate ratio from radioligand binding studies suggested that sabcomeline and xanomeline [3(3-hexyloxy-1,25-thiadiazol-4-yl)-1,2,5,6-tetrahydro-1-met hylpyridine] are muscarinic receptor partial agonists in cortical and heart membranes. In [35S]GTPgammaS binding studies in rat cortex, carbachol stimulated binding via muscarinic M2/M4 receptors which could be blocked by sabcomeline with a pA2 of 7.2. In rat heart membranes, carbachol also stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding studies through muscarinic M2 receptors. Sabcomeline caused a small stimulation of basal [35S]GTPgammaS binding in both rat and heart tissues. Sabcomeline did not stimulate phosphoinositide hydrolysis in rat cortical slices, but did block the muscarinic M1 receptor-mediated response caused by carbachol with apparent pKb of 6.9. Xanomeline and milameline also had no effect on phosphoinositide hydrolysis up to 100 microM. In adenylyl cyclase studies in rat atria, sabcomeline inhibited forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity to a similar extent to that of carbachol, xanomeline and milameline. The present study, using the techniques of radioligand binding, supports previous publications which have claimed that sabcomeline is a muscarinic receptor partial agonist. As expected, this study shows that the functional actions of this compound at muscarinic receptor subtypes and in different tissues will depend on receptor reserve.


In this study, we investigated blood-flow-related magnetic-resonance (MR) signal changes and the time course underlying short-term motor learning of the dominant right hand in ten piano players (PPs) and 23 non-musicians (NMs), using a complex finger-tapping task. The activation patterns were analyzed for selected regions of interest (ROIs) within the two examined groups and were related to the subjects' performance. A functional learning profile, based on the regional blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) signal changes, was assessed in both groups. All subjects achieved significant increases in tapping frequency during the training session of 35 min in the scanner. PPs, however, performed significantly better than NMs and showed increasing activation in the contralateral primary motor cortex throughout motor learning in the scanner. At the same time, involvement of secondary motor areas, such as bilateral supplementary motor area, premotor, and cerebellar areas, diminished relative to the NMs throughout the training session. Extended activation of primary and secondary motor areas in the initial training stage (7-14 min) and rapid attenuation were the main functional patterns underlying short-term learning in the NM group; attenuation was particularly marked in the primary motor cortices as compared with the PPs. When tapping of the rehearsed sequence was performed with the left hand, transfer effects of motor learning were evident in both groups. Involvement of all relevant motor components was smaller than after initial training with the right hand. Ipsilateral premotor and primary motor contributions, however, showed slight increases of activation, indicating that dominant cortices influence complex sequence learning of the non-dominant hand. In summary, the involvement of primary and secondary motor cortices in motor learning is dependent on experience. Interhemispheric transfer effects are present.
This paper reports the effect of limb movement speed on dorsal spinocerebellar tract (DSCT) activity recorded while the cat hindlimb was passively moved through two types of foot trajectories (figure eight and step cycle) at different speeds. While nearly all the DSCT neurons sampled (151/159; 94.5%) were significantly modulated by the direction of foot movement in these trajectories, they were only modestly influenced by movement speed. We quantified the speed effect and also accounted for intrinsic cell variability by computing a variability index (VI) between pairs of responses to trajectories made either at the same or at different speeds. The distribution of same-speed VIs across cells indicated a mean variability of about 10% over a trajectory cycle, whereas the two-speed distributions indicated a mean change of about 25% for a two- to fourfold change in movement speed. We also examined the relative contribution of movement speed to the activity of each DSCT cell by means of a multivariate regression model that also included as predictors the position, movement direction, and interactions between movement and position. We found that 28 of 103 (27.2%) neurons were not sensitive to movement speed. The rest were modulated in varying degrees by changes in speed, and the speed modulation depended on limb position for most of them (54/75). Overall, DSCT speed sensitivity resembles the 0.3-power relationship used to describe the velocity sensitivity of muscle spindles for large muscle stretches. We examined this by recording muscle spindle activity during these passive foot trajectories and found that their speed sensitivity was within the range observed for the DSCT and explained by the 0.3-power law. In total, movement speed accounted for about 15% of the variance in DSCT activity across cells, while the directional component of movement accounted for about 45%. The results suggest a separate processing of sensory information about the two components of movement velocity: namely, its direction and magnitude.
The present study investigated the processing of durations on the order of seconds with slow cortical potential changes. The question is whether trial-to-trial fluctuations in temporal productions or judgments correspond to variations in the amplitude of surface Laplacians computed over particular scalp regions. Topographical analyses were done using the source derivation method. Subjects performed three successive tasks: (1) time production, in which they produced a 2.5-s interval separated by two brief trigger presses; (2) time discrimination, in which they detected small differences in intervals delimited by two brief clicks in comparison with a memorized standard interval: and (3) intensity discrimination (control task, devoid of time judgments), in which they detected small differences between the intensity of clicks, in comparison with standard clicks initially memorized. In order to focus on subjective differences, in the two discrimination tasks most comparison stimuli were identical to the standard, without the subjects being aware of it. At FCz, reflecting activity from the mesial frontocentral cortex that mainly includes the supplementary motor area (SMA), larger negativities were found during the longer target intervals, whether these were produced (task 1) or judged so (task 2). Those performance-dependent trends were restricted to the target intervals of the temporal tasks; they appeared neither during the 2 s preceding the target, nor during the control task. The data therefore suggest that the SMA subserves important functions in timing both sensory and motor tasks. We propose that the SMA either provides the &quot;pulse accumulation&quot; process commonly postulated in models of time processing or that it receives output from this process through striatal efferent pathways.
Mammalian neurones of the central nervous system (CNS) are terminally differentiated, and there is little endogenous capacity of the CNS to repair itself. Peripheral tissue injury, disease or infection results in a stereotypical inflammatory response to protect the host from pathogens and to promote tissue repair. However, collateral or 'bystander' damage is characteristic of any inflammatory response. Thus, it is apparent that the CNS has evolved mechanisms to regulate tightly the acute inflammatory response, and in particular to restrict the recruitment of neutrophils, in an attempt to protect itself from the potentially damaging consequences of inflammation in the brain. However, neutrophils are not always excluded from the brain. Indeed, they are found in large numbers in the brain parenchyma following traumatic lesions, stroke lesions, and in rodents, during the 'window of susceptibility'. Therapy targeted at blocking excitotoxic cell death has not successfully transferred from rodent models of stroke to human stroke patients. Restricting leukocyte entry to the brain, thereby inhibiting the inflammatory response, may prove to be a more practical therapeutic approach. The evidence presented in this review suggests that antagonising the effects of CXC chemokines may represent one route to achieve this goal.
Mechanisms underlying the specificity and efficiency of enzymes, which modify peptide messengers, especially with the variable requirements of synthesis in the neuronal secretory pathway, are poorly understood. Here, we examine the process of peptide alpha-amidation in individually identifiable Lymnaea neurons that synthesize multiple proproteins, yielding complex mixtures of structurally diverse peptide substrates. The alpha-amidation of these peptide substrates is efficiently controlled by a multifunctional Lymnaea peptidyl glycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (LPAM), which contains four different copies of the rate-limiting Lymnaea peptidyl glycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (LPHM) and a single Lymnaea peptidyl alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase. Endogenously, this zymogen is converted to yield a mixture of monofunctional isoenzymes. In vitro, each LPHM displays a unique combination of substrate affinity and reaction velocity, depending on the penultimate residue of the substrate. This suggests that the different isoenzymes are generated in order to efficiently amidate the many peptide substrates that are present in molluscan neurons. The cellular expression of the LPAM gene is restricted to neurons that synthesize amidated peptides, which underscores the critical importance of regulation of peptide alpha-amidation.
The state of intracellular Ca2+ in aging and in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a key but highly controversial issue and direct measurement of the Ca2+ fluctuations in the living human brain has not been possible thus far. We therefore further considered this issue from a theoretical perspective. Ca2+ signaling mediates many life processes including: fertilization, gene expression, cell division, growth and differentiation, muscle contraction, neurotransmission and memory formation. It is common observation that these Ca2+-mediated activities in human life are highest in young adulthood but diminish during aging, indicating that Ca2+ signaling potency (or intracellular Ca2+ levels) must be decreased in aging and AD. A potential explanation for this phenomenon could be that the Ca2+-mediated processes are also energy-dependent processes, because they all utilize the free energy reserve of the body for &quot;useful&quot; work, and it is known that Ca2+ gradient formation and Ca2+ movement across cell membrane are driven by energy-dependent systems. This intimate relationship between energy and Ca2+ signaling implies that the potency of Ca2+ signaling would be affected by changes of energy levels, which would necessarily decline in aging. These may underlie the deficit of Ca2+ signaling in the presymptomatic stage of AD. These considerations also support our view that Abeta and tau accumulation in AD is the result of inactivation of calcium-dependent enzymes, rather than overactivation of beta/(-secretases and some tau kinases. This is because most enzyme activities should be diminished, rather than overactivated, during aging. Furthermore, since energy/Ca2+ deficit is a natural event in aging, it follows that the accumulation of Abeta and tau would be initiated &quot;spontaneously&quot; as a result of &quot;natural&quot; aging, not necessarily by a &quot;pathological&quot; factor. Based on the analyses, we propose that intracellular Ca2+ deficit is most likely the primary and common cause (among the many contributing, secondary or individualized factors) for the plaque and tangle accumulation underlying sporadic AD. And we predict that this contention, though in contrast to many competing models, will be confirmed by the proposed experimentation in the future.

This report describes the distribution of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)-like immunoreactivity in the brain and the contiguous localization of CRF- and thyrotropin-stimulating hormone (TSH)-like immunoreactivity in the pituitary of hatchery-reared, juvenile chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha). Results show that CRF-immunoreactive cell bodies exist in the parvocellular and magnocellular nuclei of the preoptic area and in a ventral hypothalamic region corresponding to the nucleus lateralis tuberis. CRF-immunoreactive fibers are observed along the rostral edge of the hypothalamus, in the pituitary stalk, and in the pituitary gland. Within the pituitary, CRF-immunoreactive fibers, with terminal-like boutons, were distinguishable in the neurohypophysis, pars distalis (PD), and pars intermedia (PI). In the PD, the CRF-immunoreactive fibers terminate in regions that contain TSH-positive pituitary cells. From this study, we conclude that CRF-immunoreactive fibers travel through, and terminate in, the neurohypophysis. CRF-immunoreactive fibers were also observed to terminate within the basement membrane and within the PD and PI of the adenohypophysis. Furthermore, the contiguous localization of CRF-immunoreactive fibers and TSH-immunoreactive pituitary cells suggests that CRF may mediate release of TSH.
Targeting viral vectors to appropriate cell types so that normal cells are not adversely affected is an important goal for gene therapy. Previously, we described a novel approach to viral gene therapy using a conditional, replication-competent herpes simplex virus (HSV), where replication and associated cytotoxicity are limited to a specific cell-type by the regulated expression of an essential immediate-early viral gene product. In this report we analyze the hepatoma-specific replication, cytotoxicity and anti-tumor effect of recombinant HSV G92A, regulated by the albumin enhancer/promoter. G92A efficiently replicated in vitro in two human hepatoma cell lines expressing albumin, but not in four human non-hepatoma, albumin-non-expressing tumor cell lines, while all cell lines were equally susceptible to a tissue nonspecific HSV recombinant, hrR3. In vivo, G92A replicated well in subcutaneous xenografts of human hepatoma cells (Hep3B) in athymic mice, but not in non-hepatoma subcutaneous tumors (PC3 and HeLa), whereas, hrR3 replicated well in both tumor types. Intratumoral inoculation of G92A inhibited the growth of established subcutaneous hepatoma tumors in nude mice, but not prostate tumors. Replication-competent viral vectors controlled by cell-specific transcriptional regulatory sequences provide a new therapeutic strategy for tumor therapy.
Most normal human diploid cells have no detectable telomerase; however, expression of the catalytic subunit of telomerase is sufficient to induce telomerase activity and, in many cases, will bypass normal senescence. We and others have previously demonstrated in vitro assembly of active telomerase by combining the purified RNA component with the reverse transcriptase catalytic component synthesized in rabbit reticulocyte extract. Here we show that assembly of active telomerase from in vitro-synthesized components requires the contribution of proteins present in reticulocyte extracts. We have identified the molecular chaperones p23 and Hsp90 as proteins that bind to the catalytic subunit of telomerase. Blockade of this interaction inhibits assembly of active telomerase in vitro. Also, a significant fraction of active telomerase from cell extracts is associated with p23 and Hsp90. Consistent with in vitro results, inhibition of Hsp90 function in cells blocks assembly of active telomerase. To our knowledge, p23 and Hsp90 are the first telomerase-associated proteins demonstrated to contribute to telomerase activity.
Binaural evoked responses were recorded with glass micropipettes from the central nucleus of the rat's inferior colliculus (ICC) before and after transection of the commissure of Probst (CP) with a microsurgical knife. The peak-to-peak amplitude of the averaged evoked response was measured for binaural clicks with interaural time differences (ITDs) between -1.0 and +30.0 ms (positive values reflecting ipsilateral-leading-contralateral click pairs). Before transection, the amplitude of the evoked response decreased as the ITD was shifted in favor of larger ipsilateral lead times. After transection of the CP, acoustic stimulation of the ipsilateral ear was much less effective in reducing evoked response amplitude. Responses to both short (+/-1.0 ms) and long (1.0-30.0 ms) ITD intervals were affected. After recordings were made, both anterograde and retrograde tract tracing methods were used to verify that the CP was completely transected and that all crossed projections from the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL) to ICC were destroyed. The surgery completely eliminated the retrograde transport of fluorogold from the ICC to the opposite DNLL and blocked the anterograde transport of biotinylated dextran to contralateral DNLL and ICC. The physiological consequences of CP transection are attributed to the complete destruction of decussating, inhibitory (GABAergic) efferent projections from the DNLL.
Gaucher disease, an inherited glycolipid storage disorder, is caused by a deficiency of the catabolic enzyme glucocerebrosidase (EC 3.2.1.45). The gene for human glucocerebrosidase is located on chromosome 1q21 and has a highly homologous pseudogene situated 16 kb downstream. We report two novel polymorphic sequences in the glucocerebrosidase gene region: the first consists of a variable number of dinucleotide (CT) repeats located 3.2 kb upstream from the glucocerebrosidase gene, and the second is a tetranucleotide (AAAT) repeat found between the glucocerebrosidase gene and its pseudogene, 9.8 kb downstream from the functional gene. These polymorphic sequences, along with a previously reported PvuII polymorphism in intron 6 of the glucocerebrosidase gene, were analyzed in patients with Gaucher disease (n=106) and in two normal control populations, one of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry (n=72) and the second comprising non-Jewish individuals (n=46). In these samples, strong linkage disequilibrium was found between mutations N370S, c.84-85insG, and R463C and specific haplotypes; no significant linkage disequilibrium was found when examining haplotypes of patients with the L444P mutation. Studies of these polymorphic sites in several instances also led to the recognition of genotyping errors and the identification of unusual recombinant alleles. These new polymorphic sites provide additional tools for mutational screening and founder effect studies of Gaucher disease.
A case is reported of electrocardiographic QT prolongation that was presumbty familial in origin. Torsades de points developed in association with the use ofdothinepin, despite the pmscription of a low dose of this drug.
Pharmacological intervention is the commonest mode of managing patients with schizophrenia. Both clinicians and patients are concerned that antipsyohotic drugs are costly and contribute to poor drug compliance in India. This study compared the equivalent doses of antipsychotic drugs and their costs across brands. Results show that antipsychotic drugs are affordable and are comparable to drug treatment costs of other physical illnesses. However, coprescription of drugs add to the burden. Numerous brands and a 2-2-1/2 fold difference in cost raises many concerns including that of drug bioavailability. Hence, the authors recommend consensus and formulation of guidelines for the pharmacological management of schizophrenia.


Olfactory dysfunction is a common symptom of Parkinson's disease (PD). It may manifest in the early stages of the disease and infrequently may even antedate the onset of motor symptoms. The cause of olfactory dysfunction in PD remains unknown. Pathological changes characteristic of PD (i.e., Lewy bodies) have been demonstrated in the olfactory bulb which contains a large population of dopaminergic neurons involved in olfactory information processing. Since dopaminergic drugs do not affect olfactory threshold in PD patients, it has been suggested that olfactory dysfunction in these patients is not dependent on dopamine deficiency. I present two fully medicated Parkinsonian patients with long standing history of olfactory dysfunction in whom recovery of smell occurred during therapeutic transcranial application of AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) in the picotesla flux density. In both patients improvement of smell during administration of EMFs occurred in conjunction with recurrent episodes of yawning. The temporal association between recovery of smell and yawning behavior is remarkable since yawning is mediated by activation of a subpopulation of striatal and limbic postsynaptic dopamine D2 receptors induced by increased synaptic dopamine release. A high density of dopamine D2 receptors is present in the olfactory bulb and tract. Degeneration of olfactory dopaminergic neurons may lead to upregulation (i.e., supersensitivity) of postsynaptic dopamine D2 receptors. Presumably, small amounts of dopamine released into the synapses of the olfactory bulb during magnetic stimulation may cause activation of these supersensitive receptors resulting in enhanced sense of smell. Interestingly, in both patients enhancement of smell perception occurred only during administration of EMFs of 7 Hz frequency implying that the release of dopamine and activation of dopamine D2 receptors in the olfactory bulb was partly frequency dependent. In fact, weak magnetic fields have been found to cause interaction with biological systems only within narrow frequency ranges (i.e., frequency windows) and the existence of such frequency ranges has been explained on the basis of the cyclotron resonance model.
Background activity as well as three kinds of bilateral epileptiform discharges, recorded from the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of freely behaving rats treated with intravenous kainic acid (KA), were analysed by the directed transfer function (DTF) method within multivariate autoregressive modeling of the EEG. This method reveals statistical influence (flow of activity) between brain regions at different frequencies. There was no significant influence between rhythms in different brain regions in the background EEG. Early after KA administration, low frequency rhythms (&lt; 10Hz) in the frontal cortex began to lead slow rhythms in other areas and high frequency rhythms (20-60 Hz), possibly gamma oscillations, intensified in the hippocampus. In spike-wave discharges, frontal cortex led both low and high frequency rhythms. Initially during generalised non-convulsive discharges, slow rhythms originated from frontal cortex and high frequency rhythms from hippocampus while later, slow rhythms as well, often arose from hippocampus. During the convulsive discharge, the flow of activity of dominant slow rhythms repeatedly changed between hippocampus and neocortex, with more frequent dominance of the hippocampus, while hippocampus continued to lead high frequency rhythms. We conclude that KA-induced epileptiform discharges are cortical and hippocampal events, specifically that the frontal cortex is early to express low frequency rhythms and the hippocampus, high frequency rhythms. More generally, the findings suggest that epileptiform discharges result from interacting rhythms of different frequencies that arise from different structures, and that gamma oscillations possibly contribute to widespread synchronisation during some forms of epileptogenesis.
Interhemispheric relay time (IHRT) was investigated using a 16-electrode montage in 10 normal subjects during a simple visual reaction time task (Poffenberger paradigm). The P1 latency was the dependent measure. Response-locked components were separated from the stimulus-locked components based on the reaction times using a Woldorff-like filter. The issues of theoretical interest were the following: (1) does the responding hand modulate IHRT estimates as a function of electrode site, or stimulated field?; (2) what are the respective advantages of various pairs of symmetrical across-midline electrode sites for tracking IHRT?; and (3) what are the respective advantages of symmetrical vs. asymmetrical across-midline electrode site-pair configurations for tracking IHRT? There were significant lags attributable to IHRT in both evoked potential P1 latencies and in reaction times--but these were uncorrelated. The responding hand was not found to significantly modulate IHRT estimates derived from the P1 peak latency of response-corrected ERPs. Anterior sites yielded more precocious components and briefer estimates of IHRT which were closer to those observed in reaction time estimates. However, posterior leads yielded more reliable estimates. Various analyses suggested that IHRT can be tracked, very vaguely, with asymmetric configurations as well as symmetric ones, each for different reasons.

By his experimental and theoretical work on the physiology and pathophysiology of the higher nervous activity I.P. Pavlov significantly influenced the development of Neuroscience. During the 1950 Pavlovian Conference in Moscow, Stalin and the Communist Party tried to dogmatize his and his pupils' fundamental theories. But the Pavlovian ideas were developed by his pupils in open discussions with representatives of other schools in a very creative way, opening the doors for a systemic approach to understanding the integrative functional systems of brain and behavior. Pavlov emphasized the high plasticity of the central nervous system, investigated the complex functional systems within the brain and between the organism and its environment, and designed models for pathological deviations of the higher nervous activity. During his last years, he freed himself from the strong deterministic view and characterized the organism and its environment as a self-organizing system.


Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) frequently involves the central nervous system (CNS) and, in fact, epileptic manifestations may be one of the earliest symptoms of SLE. These early occurrences of epilepsy, however, can easily be misdiagnosed as indication of pure epileptic syndrome when the SLE diagnosis is still largely incomplete. We present a young girl who developed myoclonic photosensitive seizures at the onset of the illness, erroneously diagnosed as manifestation of a &quot;pure&quot; epileptic syndrome. Shortly after the onset of an anticonvulsant therapy (lamotrigine), there was a remarkable impairment of the general clinical condition: at that time a diagnosis of SLE was made and a specific treatment began. However, the seizures persisted and evolved toward status epilepticus which needed pentobarbitone therapy in an intensive care unit (ICU). After recovery, the girl gradually got better and during the 23 months of follow-up she received only corticosteroid therapy and did not experience seizures nor SLE relapses.


Temporal, spectral, and combined temporal-spectral resolution of hearing was assessed by recording masked hearing thresholds. The masker was an octave band noise. Spectral resolution was assessed by introducing a spectral gap of half an octave bandwidth in the masker. A 50-msec gap assessed temporal resolution. The spectral and temporal gaps were used separately or simultaneously. Normal-hearing and hearing-impaired subjects participated. For each masking condition, the subjects were tested at masker levels 50, 60, 70, and 80 dB SPL and at test-tone frequencies 0.5, 1, 2, and 4 kHz. Normal-hearing subjects showed reduced masking with spectral and temporal gaps. The combination of spectral and temporal gap reduced masking further. The release of masking was dependent upon the masker level. Hearing-impaired subjects showed less release of masking than normal-hearing subjects. The degree of hearing impairment was inversely related to release of masking. Reliability of the test procedure was assessed.
The evidence for release of vasoactive substances from endothelial cells in response to shear stress caused by the viscous drag of passing fluids is reviewed and, in particular, its physiological significance both in short-term regulation of blood vessel tone and in long-term regulation of cell growth, differentiation, proliferation, and cell death in pathophysiological conditions is discussed. A new concept of purinergic mechanosensory transduction, particularly in relation to nociception, is introduced. It is proposed that distension of tubes (including ureter, vagina, salivary and bile ducts, gut) and sacs (including urinary and gall bladders, and lung) leads to release of ATP from the lining epithelium, which then acts on P2X2/3 receptors on subepithelial sensory nerves to convey information to the CNS.
Agrin, an extracellular matrix protein involved in neuromuscular junction formation, directs clustering of postsynaptic molecules, including acetylcholine receptors (AChRs). This activity resides entirely in the C-terminal portion of the protein, which consists of three laminin-like globular domains (G-domains: G1, G2 and G3) and four EGF-like repeats. Additionally, alternate mRNA splicing yields G-domain variants G2(0,4) with 0- or 4-amino-acid inserts, and G3(0, 8,11,19) with 0-, 8-, 11- or 19-amino-acid inserts. In order to better understand the contributions of individual domains and alternate splicing to agrin activity, single G-domains and covalently linked pairs of G-domains were expressed as soluble proteins and their AChR clustering activity measured on cultured C2 myotubes. These analyses reveal the following: (1) While only G3(8) exhibits detectable activity by itself, all G-domains studied (G1, G2(0), G2(4), G3(0) and G3(8)) enhance G3(8) activity when physically linked to G3(8). This effect is most pronounced when G2(4) is linked to G3(8) and is independent of the order of the G-domains. (2) The deletion of EGF-like repeats enhances activity. (3) Increasing the physical separation between linked G1 and G3(8) domains produces a significant increase in activity; similar alterations to linked G2 and G3(8) domains are without effect. (4) Clusters induced by two concatenated G3(8) domains are significantly smaller than all other agrin forms studied. These data suggest that agrin G-domains are the functional units which interact independently of their specific organization to yield AChR clustering. G-domain synergism resulting in biological output could be due to physical interactions between G-domains or, alternatively, independent interactions of G-domains with cell surface receptors which require spatially localized coactivation for optimal signal transduction.
The authors used mRNA differential display to identify genes whose expression levels are altered in the adult rat hippocampus 24 hours after global ischemia. At this time after challenge, the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor, SEF-2, and the 26S proteasome complex subunit, p112, were identified as genes whose expression levels are decreased and increased, respectively, in the hippocampus. To determine the spatial and temporal patterns of expression change for each gene, the authors antisense in situ hybridization to paired brain sections of sham-operated and global ischemia-challenged rats at 6, 12, and 24 hours after reperfusion SEF-2 expression was not significantly altered from that of sham-operated controls in any hippocampal subfield at or before 12 hours after challenge. At 24 hours after ischemia, however, SEF-2 expression levels were significantly diminished in the vulnerable CA1 subfield, but not in the less vulnerable CA3 or dentate granule cell subfields. The proteasome p112 subunit gene displayed no change in expression levels at 6 hours after insult; however, an elevated expression was observed at 12 hours after challenge in the dentate granule cell subfield. By 24 hours after challenge, p112 expression was significantly elevated in both the CA1 and dentate granule cell subfields. These results demonstrate that a member of the basic helix-loop-helix family of transcription factors, SEF-2, and the major subunit of the 26S proteasome complex, p112, display altered gene expression in the hippocampus after transient cerebral ischemia.
Human amniotic epithelial cells express makers of glial and neural stem cells. These cells also synthesize and release acetylcholine and catecholamines. This study of amniotic fluid demonstrated that acetylcholine and catecholamines can be readily identified in the fluid. Norepinephrine was the major catecholamine present, although dopamine and DOPAC could also be detected. The physiologic role of these amniotic fluid neurotransmitters in fetal-placental interactions and nervous system development is currently under investigation.
Arthrogryposis multiplex congenita (AMC) is characterized by fixed joint contractures and other deformities, sometimes resulting in fetal death. The cause is unknown in most cases, but some women with fetuses affected by severe AMC have serum antibodies that inhibit fetal acetylcholine receptor (AChR) function, and antibodies to fetal antigens might play a pathogenic role in other congenital disorders. To investigate this possibility, we have established a model by injecting pregnant mice with plasma from four anti-AChR antibody-positive women whose fetuses had severe AMC. We found that human antibodies can be transferred efficiently to the mouse fetus during the last few days of fetal life. Many of the fetuses of dams injected with AMC maternal plasmas or Ig were stillborn and showed fixed joints and other deformities. Moreover, similar changes were found in mice after injection of a serum from one anti-AChR antibody-negative mother who had had four AMC fetuses. Thus, we have confirmed the role of maternal antibodies in cases of AMC associated with maternal anti-AChR, and we have demonstrated the existence of pathogenic maternal factors in one other case. Importantly, this approach can be used to look at the effects of other maternal human antibodies on development of the fetus.

The parasitoid wasp Ampulex compressa hunts cockroaches Periplaneta americana, stinging them first in the thorax and then in the head, the sting penetrating towards the subesophageal ganglion. After being stung the cockroach grooms almost continuously for approximately 30 min, performing all the normal components of grooming behavior. This excessive grooming is only seen after the head sting and cannot be attributed to stress, to contamination of the body surface or to systemic or peripheral effects. This suggests that the venom is activating a neural network for grooming. We suggest that the venom induces prolonged grooming by stimulating dopamine receptors in the cockroach, for the following reasons. (1) Reserpine, which causes massive release of monoamines, induces excessive grooming. (2) Dopamine injected into the hemocoel also induces excessive grooming and is significantly more effective than octopamine or serotonin. In addition, the dopamine agonist SKF 82958 induces excessive grooming when injected directly into the subesophageal ganglion. (3) Injection of the dopamine antagonist flupenthixol greatly reduces venom-induced grooming. (4) Dopamine, or a dopamine-like substance, is present in the venom.
Most larval external muscles in Manduca sexta degenerate at pupation, with the exception of the accessory planta retractor muscles (APRMs) in proleg-bearing abdominal segment 3 and their homologs in non-proleg-bearing abdominal segment 2. In pupae, these APRMs exhibit a rhythmic 'pupal motor pattern' in which all four muscles contract synchronously at approximately 4 s intervals for long bouts, without externally visible movements. On the basis of indirect evidence, it was proposed previously that APRM contractions during the pupal motor pattern circulate hemolymph in the developing wings and legs. This hypothesis was tested in the present study by making simultaneous electromyographic recordings of APRM activity and contact thermographic recordings of hemolymph flow in pupal wings. APRM contractions and hemolymph flow were strictly correlated during the pupal motor pattern. The proposed circulatory mechanism was further supported by the findings that unilateral ablation of APRMs or mechanical uncoupling of the wings from the abdomen essentially abolished wing hemolymph flow on the manipulated side of the body. Rhythmic contractions of intersegmental muscles, which sometimes accompany the pupal motor pattern, had a negligible effect on hemolymph flow. The conversion of larval proleg and body wall muscles to a circulatory function in pupae represents a particularly dramatic example of functional respecification during metamorphosis.


A description is given of a food intoxication in 1895 at Ellezelles, a village in Belgium. As a result 3 persons died within a few days and others became seriously ill. A thorough investigation by E. van Ermengem led to the discovery of Clostridium botulinum and botulinum toxin. About 75 years later a subtype of the toxin proved to be highly effective in the treatment of dystonias and is now widely used.
A recurring epitope in the human acetylcholine receptor (AChR) alpha subunit (alpha146-160) is presented to specific T cells from myasthenia gravis patients by HLA-DRB3*0101-&quot;DR52a&quot;-or by DR4. Here we first map residues critical for DR52a in this epitope by serial Ala substitution. For two somewhat similar T cells, this confirms the recently deduced importance of hydrophobic &quot;anchor&quot; residues at peptide p1 and p9; also of Asp at p4, which complements this allele's distinctive Arg74 in DRbeta. Surprisingly, despite the 9 sequence differences in DRbeta between DR52a and DR3, merely reducing the bulk of the peptide's p1 anchor residue (Trp149--&gt;Phe) allowed maximal cross-presentation to both T cells by DR3 (which has Val86 instead of Gly). The shared K71G73R74N77 motif in the alpha helices of DR52a and DR3 thus outweighs the five differences in the floor of the peptide-binding groove. A second issue is that T cells selected in vitro with synthetic AChR peptides rarely respond to longer Ag preparations, whereas those raised with recombinant subunits consistently recognize epitopes processed naturally even from whole AChR. Here we compared one T cell of each kind, which both respond to many overlapping alpha140-160 region peptides (in proliferation assays). Even though both use Vbeta2 to recognize peptides bound to the same HLA-DR52a in the same register, the peptide-selected line nevertheless proved to depend on a recurring synthetic artifact-a widely underestimated problem. Unlike these contaminant-responsive T cells, those that are truly specific for natural AChR epitopes appear less heterogeneous and therefore more suitable targets for selective immunotherapy.
The human polyomavirus JCV lytically infects oligodendrocytes of immunosuppressed individuals leading to the fatal demyelinating disease termed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). Dementia, hemiparesis, and hemianopsia are the predominant presenting signs of PML. Asymptomatic JCV infection is common worldwide with approximately 80% of adults testing positive for JCV antibodies. In addition to the brain, JCV has been shown to infect tonsil, lymphoid, bone marrow, and kidney tissues. Viral variants, classified according to the nucleotide sequences of their regulatory regions, are being mapped in human tissues and cell types to help trace the pathway of JCV from a site of initial infection to target oligodendrocytes. In most literature, a dichotomy of the JCV regulatory region structure exists by tissue. B lymphocytes, however, have demonstrated the capacity to harbor JCV of diverse regulatory regions, which helps position their interaction with virus amid every stage of infection and implicates a lymphocytic role in latency.
Although insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) can act as a neurotrophic factor for peripheral neurons in vitro and in vivo following injury, the role IGF-I plays during normal development and functioning of the peripheral nervous system is unclear. Here, we report that transgenic mice with reduced levels (two genotypes: heterozygous Igf1+/- or homozygous insertional mutant Igf1m/m) or totally lacking IGF-I (homozygous Igf1-/-) show a decrease in motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities in vivo. In addition, A-fiber responses in isolated peroneal nerves from Igf1+/- and Igf1-/- mice are impaired. The nerve function impairment is most profound in Igf1-/- mice. Histopathology of the peroneal nerves in Igf1-/- mice demonstrates a shift to smaller axonal diameters but maintains the same total number of myelinated fibers as Igf1+/+ mice. Comparisons of myelin thickness with axonal diameter indicate that there is no significant reduction in peripheral nerve myelination in IGF-I-deficient mice. In addition, in Igf1m/m mice with very low serum levels of IGF-I, replacement therapy with exogenous recombinant hIGF-I restores both motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities. These findings demonstrate not only that IGF-I serves an important role in the growth and development of the peripheral nervous system, but also that systemic IGF-I treatment can enhance nerve function in IGF-I-deficient adult mice.
Degeneration of hair cells and spiral ganglion neurons due to acoustic trauma and various ototoxins is a major cause of hearing loss. Although our previous study demonstrates that specific neurotrophins protect spiral ganglion neurons from ototoxic insult, they do not protect hair cells. In the present experiments, we used postnatal rat cochlear explant cultures to identify molecules that protect hair cells from ototoxic damage. Of 51 compounds examined, only concanavalin A (Con A) significantly protected hair cells from gentamicin. A dose-dependent study of Con A showed that maximal protection occurred at 100 nM. The protective effects of Con A on hair cells were confirmed with confocal microscopy and paraffin sectioning of the cultures. Several experiments were performed to examine the mechanism of protection by Con A. Incubation of Con A with gentamicin did not form a complex and coaddition of Con A and gentamicin to Escherichia coli cultures did not interfere with the antibiotic activity of gentamicin. However, Lyso-Tracker staining and gentamicin immunocytochemistry provided evidence that preincubation with Con A blocked gentamicin uptake into hair cells. Considered together, these findings may help elucidate the ototoxic mechanism of aminoglycoside antibiotics, and suggest that Con A may be of therapeutic value in prevention of aminoglycoside-induced hearing loss.
In this study, we have further delineated the domains of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor NR1 subunit that contribute to the glycine co-agonist binding site. Taking an iterative approach, we have constructed truncation mutants of the NR1 subunit, transiently expressed them in HEK-293 cells, and determined the binding of the glycine site antagonist [3H]L-689,560. Amino acids 380-811 were sufficient to form a glycine binding site with affinities for [3H]L-689,560 and glycine that were not significantly different from wild-type NR1. More extensive deletions, from either the amino- or the carboxy-terminal end, resulted in loss of ligand binding. Additional constructs were made starting from amino acids 380-843 of NR1, replacing the transmembrane (TMI-TMIII) domain with intervening linker sequences while retaining the TMIV domain so as to anchor the polypeptide to the membrane. Although robust amounts of polypeptides were synthesised by transfected cells, only low levels of [3H]L-689,560 binding sites could be detected. This suggests that only a small proportion of the synthesised polypeptide folds in the appropriate manner so as to form a ligand binding site. These data indicate that although it is possible to reduce the glycine binding site to minimal so-called S1 and S2 domains, efficient folding of the polypeptide so as to form a ligand binding site may require sequences within the TMI-TMIII domain.
Recent findings indicate that estrogen is neuroprotective, a cellular effect that may contribute to its clinical benefits in delaying the development of Alzheimer's disease. In this report, we identify a novel neuronal action of estrogen that may contribute to its neuroprotective mechanism(s). Specifically, we report that estrogen significantly increases the expression of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-xL in cultured hippocampal neurons. This effect presumably reflects classic estrogen transcriptional regulation, as we identified a putative estrogen response element in the bcl-x gene. Estrogen-induced enhancement of Bcl-xL is associated with a reduction in measures of beta-amyloid-induced apoptosis, including inhibition of both caspase-mediated proteolysis and neurotoxicity. A similar relationship between estrogen, Bcl-xL expression, and resistance to degeneration was also observed in human hippocampus. We report neuronal colocalization of estrogen receptor and Bcl-xL immunoreactivities that is most prominent in hippocampal subfield CA3, a region that shows relatively little immunoreactivity to paired helical filament-1, a marker of Alzheimer's disease neurodegeneration. These data suggest a novel mechanism of estrogen neuroprotection that may be relevant to estrogen's suggested ability to modulate neuronal viability across the life span, from neural sexual differentiation and development through age-related neurodegenerative conditions.
Single injections of cocaine, amphetamine, or methamphetamine increased RGS2 mRNA levels in rat striatum by two- to fourfold. The D1 dopamine receptor-selective antagonist SCH-23390 had no effect by itself but strongly attenuated RGS2 mRNA induction by amphetamine. In contrast, the D2 receptor-selective antagonist raclopride induced RGS2 mRNA when administered alone and greatly enhanced stimulation by amphetamine. To examine the effects of repeated amphetamine on RGS2 expression, rats were treated with escalating doses of amphetamine (1.0-7.5 mg/kg) for 4 days, followed by 8 days of multiple daily injections (7.5 mg/kg/2 h x four injections). Twenty hours after the last injection the animals were challenged with amphetamine (7.5 mg/kg) or vehicle and killed 1 h later. In drug-naive animals, acute amphetamine induced the expression of RGS2, 3, and 5 and the immediate early genes c-fos and zif/268. RGS4 mRNA levels were not affected. Prior repeated treatment with amphetamine strongly suppressed induction of immediate early genes and RGS5 to a challenge dose of amphetamine. In sharp contrast, prior exposure to amphetamine did not reduce the induction of RGS2 and RGS3 mRNAs to a challenge dose of amphetamine, indicating that control of these genes is resistant to amphetamine-induced tolerance. These data establish a role for dopamine receptors in the regulation of RGS2 expression and suggest that RGS2 and 3 might mediate some aspects of amphetamine-induced tolerance.
The differential behavioral and neurochemical effects of exogenous L-DOPA in animals with intact versus dopamine (DA)-denervated striata raise questions regarding the role of DA terminals in the regulation of dopaminergic neurotransmission after administration of exogenous L-DOPA. In vivo microdialysis was used to monitor the effect of exogenous L-DOPA on extracellular DA in intact and DA-denervated striata of awake rats. In intact striatum, a small increase in extracellular DA was observed after administration of L-DOPA (50 mg/kg i.p.) but in DA-denervated striatum a much larger increase in extracellular DA was elicited. Additional experiments assessed the role of high-affinity DA uptake and impulse-dependent neurotransmitter release in the effect of exogenous L-DOPA on extracellular DA in striatum. Pretreatment with GBR-12909 (20 mg/kg i.p.), a selective DA uptake inhibitor, enhanced the ability of L-DOPA to increase extracellular DA in intact striatum. However, in DA-denervated striatum, inhibition of DA uptake did not alter the extracellular DA response to L-DOPA. Impulse-dependent neurotransmitter release was blocked by the infusion of tetrodotoxin (TTX; 1 microM), an inhibitor of fast sodium channels, through the dialysis probe. Application of TTX significantly attenuated the L-DOPA-induced increase in extracellular DA observed in striatum of intact rats pretreated with GBR-12909. In a similar manner, TTX infusion significantly attenuated the increase in extracellular DA typically observed in striatum of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats after the administration of L-DOPA. The present results indicate that DA terminals, via high-affinity uptake, play a crucial role in the clearance of extracellular DA formed from exogenous L-DOPA in intact striatum. This regulatory mechanism is absent in the DA-denervated striatum. In addition, this study has shown that DA synthesized from exogenous L-DOPA primarily is released by an impulse-dependent mechanism in both intact and DA-denervated striatum. The latter result suggests an important role for a nondopaminergic neuronal element in striatum that serves as the primary source of extracellular DA formed from exogenous L-DOPA.
Previous studies have indicated that stimulation of neuronal inhibitory receptors, such as the serotonin1A receptor (5-HT1A-R), could cause attenuation of the activity of both N-type Ca2+ channels and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptors, thus resulting in protection of neurons against excitotoxicity. The purpose of this study was to investigate if the 5-HT1A-R is also coupled to an alternative pathway that culminates in suppression of apoptosis even in cells that are deficient in Ca2+ channels. Using a hippocampal neuron-derived cell line (HN2-5) that is Ca2+ channel-deficient, we demonstrate here that an alternative pathway is responsible for 5-HT1A-R-mediated protection of these cells from anoxia-triggered apoptosis, assessed by deoxynucleotidyl-transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL). The 5-HT1A-R agonist-evoked protection was eliminated in the presence of pertussis toxin and also required phosphorylation-mediated activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), as evidenced by the elimination of the agonist-elicited rescue of neuronal cells by the MAPK kinase inhibitor PD98059 but not by the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI-3K) inhibitor wortmannin. Furthermore, agonist stimulation of the 5-HT1A-R caused a 60% inhibition of anoxia-stimulated caspase 3-like activity in the HN2-5 cells, and this inhibition was abrogated by PD98059 but not by wortmannin. Although agonist stimulation of the 5-HT1A-R caused an activation of PI-3Kgamma in HN2-5 cells, our results showed that this PI-3Kgamma activity was not linked to the 5-HT1A-R-promoted regulation of caspase activity and suppression of apoptosis. Thus, in the neuronal HN2-5 cells, agonist binding to the 5-HT1A-R results in MAPK-mediated inhibition of a caspase 3-like enzyme and a 60-70% suppression of anoxia-induced apoptosis through a Ca2+ channel-independent pathway.
On exposure to glutamate, cultured rat cerebellar granule cells undergo a delayed Ca2+ deregulation (DCD), which precedes and predicts cell death. We have previously shown that mitochondria control the sensitivity of the neurons to DCD. Mitochondrial depolarization by rotenone/oligomycin before glutamate addition is strongly neuroprotective, and the indication is therefore that mitochondrial Ca2+ loading leads to a delayed loss of bioenergetic function culminating in DCD and cell death. In this report it is shown that superoxide (O2.-) generation in intact cells, monitored by oxidation of hydroethidine to ethidium, was enhanced by glutamate only when mitochondria were polarized. Production of superoxide was higher in the subset of cells undergoing DCD. In the presence of rotenone and oligomycin, addition of glutamate did not result in increased superoxide generation. Menadione-generated superoxide enhances the DCD of cells exposed to glutamate; in contrast, glutamate-induced DCD was potently inhibited by the presence of the cell-permeant antioxidant manganese(III) tetrakis(4-benzoic acid) porphyrin. An inverse correlation is observed between the cytoplasmic free Ca2+ maintained in individual cells in the presence of glutamate and the ability of these cells to restore basal Ca2+ when NMDA receptors are inhibited and mitochondrial Ca2+ is released. It is concluded that mitochondrial Ca2+ accumulation and reactive oxygen species each contribute to DCD, probably related to damage to a process controlling Ca2+ efflux from the cell.
O1 hybridoma cells, which secrete an IgM antigalactocerebroside, were implanted into the spinal cord of cyclosporine-treated juvenile or adult rats, and the animals were sacrificed approximately 2-3 wk later. About half the recipient animals developed myelin lesions. In some, sharply circumscribed foci of demyelination formed within the dorsal columns. Cellular reaction consisted of macrophages containing refractile globules in the parenchyma and within enlarged perivascular spaces as well as thickened endothelial cells. &quot;Shadow plaques&quot; also developed, i.e. regions in which axons were surrounded by thin myelin sheaths, compatible with remyelination. In addition, we found damaged axons, some of which were swollen with organelles, comparable to the enlarged axon profiles seen at sites of constriction or interruption. Compromise of the blood-brain barrier at sites of hybridoma growth was demonstrated by extravasation of Evans blue dye. Discontinuation of cyclosporine was followed by an anti-hybridoma, complement-fixing antibody response within 2-3 d. This model of focal CNS demyelination and remyelination, with evidence of some axon damage, is mediated by a defined IgM antiglycolipid monoclonal antibody secreted within the spinal cord parenchyma. The lesions, which are similar to those of multiple sclerosis, probably result from the interaction between the intrathecally secreted IgM antibody and complement entering from the circulation at foci of compromised blood-brain barrier plus activation of endogenous or hematogenous macrophages via their complement receptors.
Myelination provides extrinsic trophic signals that influence normal maturation and long-term survival of axons. The extent of axonal involvement in diseases affecting myelin or myelin forming cells has traditionally been underestimated. There are, however, many examples of axon damage as a consequence of dysmyelinating or demyelinating disorders. More than a century ago, Charcot described the pathology of multiple sclerosis (MS) in terms of demyelination and relative sparing of axons. Recent reports demonstrate a strong correlation between inflammatory demyelination in MS lesions and axonal transection, indicating axonal loss at disease onset. Disruption of axons is also observed in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis and in Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus disease, two animal models of inflammatory demyelinating CNS disease. A number of dysmyelinating mouse mutants with axonal pathology have provided insights regarding cellular and molecular mechanisms of axon degeneration. For example, the myelin-associated glycoprotein and proteolipid protein have been shown to be essential for mediating myelin-derived trophic signals to axons. Patients with the inherited peripheral neuropathy Charcot-Marie Tooth disease type 1 develop symptomatic progressive axonal loss due to abnormal Schwann cell expression of peripheral myelin protein 22. The data summarized in this review indicate that axonal damage is an integral part of myelin disease, and that loss of axons contributes to the irreversible functional impairment observed in affected individuals. Early neuroprotection should be considered as an additional therapeutic option for these patients.
Remyelination is an extremely efficient process in the adult rodent central nervous system yet the source of new oligodendroglia that appear following primary demyelination is still subject to much debate. Using a reliable marker for oligodendroglial progenitor cells in vivo, the NG2 chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan, we have evaluated the response of endogenous NG2(+) cells in the adult rat brain stem and cerebellum to inflammatory demyelinating lesions in an experimentally induced animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS), antibody augmented experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (ADEAE). We have manipulated T-cell mediated EAE in Lewis rats by injecting in addition, either anti-myelin/oligodendroglial glycoprotein (MOG) antibodies to induce inflammatory demyelination, or non-specific mouse immunoglobulins to induce an inflammatory response without demyelination. We have examined the relationship of NG2(+) progenitor cells to microglia (OX-42(+)), astrocytes (GFAP(+)) and mature oligodendroglia (CNP(+)), in the normal and demyelinated CNS. In the normal CNS NG2-expressing cells are closely intermingled with other glia but represent a distinct cell population. A prominent inflammatory response, identified by the presence of large perivascular and periventricular accumulations of reactive OX42(+) macrophages/microglia, occurred in animals with ADEAE at 7-9 days post injection (DPI), coinciding with severe clinical symptoms. In animals injected with anti-MOG antibodies inflammation was followed by the appearance of large areas of demyelination at 11-14 DPI, at which point the animals had recovered clinically. The response of NG2(+) cells was different depending on whether the inflammation was accompanied by demyelination. In the presence of inflammation, NG2(+) cells responded by an increase in immunoreactivity and an alteration in their morphology, exhibiting enlarged cell bodies and an increased number of intensely stained processes. In areas of demyelination NG2(+) cells had fewer intensely stained processes reminiscent of progenitor cells seen during development. Quantitative analysis revealed a 3-fold increase in the number of NG2(+) cells in demyelinated lesions at 11 DPI, whereas no change was observed in areas of inflammation in the absence of demyelination. Mitotic figures were only seen in NG2(+) cells in areas of demyelination. NG2(+) cell numbers appeared to return to control levels following remyelination. These results suggest that endogenous oligodendroglial progenitors divide and/or migrate, in response to signals triggered by demyelinating rather than inflammatory events, to generate a large progenitor population sufficient to promote the rapid and successful remyelination observed in this model.
Plasma membranes are complex arrays of protein and lipid subdomains. Detergent-insoluble, glycosphingolipid/cholesterol-enriched micro-domains (DIGCEMs) have been implicated in protein sorting and/or as sites for signaling cascades in the plasma membrane. We previously identified the presence of DIGCEMs in oligodendrocytes in culture and purified myelin and characterized a novel DIGCEM-associated tetraspan protein, MVP17/rMAL (Kim et al. (1995) Journal of Neuroscience Research 42, 413-422). We have now analyzed the association of known myelin proteins with DIGCEMs in order to provide a better understanding of their roles during myelin biogenesis. We used four well-established criteria to identify myelin DIGCEM-associated proteins: insolubility in a non-ionic detergent Triton X-100 at low temperature (4 degrees C), flotation of the insoluble complexes to low density fractions in sucrose gradients, and TX-100 solubilization at 37 degrees C, or at 4 degrees C following treatment with the cholesterol-binding detergent saponin. We demonstrate that these proteins fall into four distinct groups. Although all tested proteins could be floated to a low-density fraction, proteolipid protein (PLP), myelin basic protein (MBP) and myelin associated glycoprotein (MAG) were solubilized by the detergent extraction, and connexin32 (Cx32) and oligodendrocyte-specific protein (OSP) met only some of the criteria for DIGCEMs. Only the non-compact myelin proteins 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNP) and myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) satisfied all four criteria for DIGCEM-associated proteins. Significantly, only approximately 40% of CNP and MOG were selectively associated with DIGCEMs. This suggests that they may have both non-active &quot;soluble&quot;, and functionally active DIGCEM-associated, forms in the membrane, consistent with current views that DIGCEMs provide platforms for bringing together and activating components of the signal transduction apparatus. We therefore propose that CNP and MOG may have unique roles among the major myelin proteins in signaling pathways mediated by lipid-protein microdomains formed in myelin.
The roles that the myelin galactolipids galactocerebroside (GalC) and sulfatide play in cellular differentiation, myelin formation and maintenance have been investigated for nearly 3 decades. During that time the primary approach has been to perturb lipid activity using antibodies and chemical agents in artificial systems. Recently, the isolation of the gene that encodes UDP-galactose:ceramide galactosyltransferase (CGT), the enzyme that catalyzes an essential step in the synthetic pathway of GalC and sulfatide, has enabled the generation of mice that lack myelin galactolipids. These mice display a severe tremor, hindlimb paralysis and electrophysiological defects. In addition, the CGT null mutants exhibit: 1) impaired oligodendrocyte differentiation, 2) myelin sheaths that are thin, incompletely compacted and unstable, and 3) structural abnormalities in the nodal and paranodal regions including disrupted axo-glial junctions. Collectively, these findings suggest that GalC and sulfatide are essential in myelin formation and maintenance, possibly by mediating intra- and intercellular interactions.
The early controversies over myelinated nerve fibers focused on whether nerves are hollow or not, whether the fatty &quot;marrow&quot; (myelin) is inside the nerve fiber or around it, whether myelin is secreted by the axon or formed by another cell, whether nerve fibers are discrete or part of a syncytial network, whether nodes of Ranvier are present in central myelin or only in peripheral myelin. Since Geren's seminal discovery that peripheral myelin is formed by the Schwann cell plasma membrane wrapped around the axon, the focus has shifted. Myelin is clearly a living cell appendage, and the myelin sheath is dependent upon intercellular interactions not only during its formation, but throughout its lifetime and during pathological processes affecting either the axon or the myelin-forming cell. The myelinated fiber is a functional unit, an exquisite symbiosis, whose ability to perform optimally, in some cases whose very survival, depends on the effects the respective cells exert on one another. How are these interactions mediated? Which structures and functions depend on such interaction and which are independent of it? How do cells of the size and shape of myelin-forming cells cope with their metabolic demands and support their most distal components? What are the mechanisms and mutual consequences of demyelination or axonopathy? Relevant studies have burgeoned with the development of molecular biological and genetic engineering methods, and with improvements in microscopy, in vitro culture and specific immunostaining methods. This introductory essay provides an overview of the structural background and continuing controversies relevant to the articles that follow, which represent a sampling of current work and present new information on the molecular structure, function and pathology of myelin and axoglial interactions.
During the dark phase of the diurnal cycle, and during recovery from restraint stress, Brown Norway (BN) rats secrete less corticosterone than Fischer 344 (F344) rats. These strains also display different levels of corticosteroid receptors in the hippocampus, and of plasma transcortin. Because corticosteroid receptors, plasma transcortin and corticosterone secretion are mutually regulated, we examined brain and pituitary mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression and some of the parameters modulated by these receptors (i.e. body and thymus weight, fluid intake, plasma transcortin) in BN and F344 rat strains, by comparing the effects of either hormone deprivation by long-term (21 days) adrenalectomy (ADX), or chronic elevation of corticosterone given in drinking fluid to ADX rats. In BN rats, body weight gain and fluid intake were insensitive to corticosterone deprivation, suggesting that MR-related mechanisms are constitutively active in this strain. Body weight (b.w.) gain, plasma transcortin and thymus weight were reduced to a greater extent by chronic corticosterone in BN rats than in F344 rats, possibly as a consequence of higher free, active fraction of plasma corticosterone due to lower plasma transcortin concentrations and/or a greater efficiency of GR-related mechanisms in BN rats. F344 rats displayed twofold higher brain and pituitary MR levels than BN rats, whereas tissue-and strain-specific regulations were observed for GR levels. The differences in MR levels observed between BN and F344 strains cannot completely explain the differences in corticosterone actions, suggesting that strain differences in response to ADX or corticosterone treatment result from variable receptor efficiencies.
Here, we show that amyloid-beta (Abeta) is capable to prime and activate the respiratory burst of human macrophages. Previously, the N-terminus of Abeta(1-42) has been shown to contain a cell binding domain that is implicated in eliciting neuropathogenic microglia in vitro. To evaluate the role of this domain in the Abeta(1-42)-induced respiratory burst activity, the effect of Abeta subfragments on the Abeta(1-42)-induced superoxide release were studied. On the basis of the antagonistic properties of Abeta(1-16), it is concluded that the N-terminal region of Abeta is critical for the cellular binding and consequent activation of the respiratory burst of human phagocytes.
The spontaneous development of autoimmune disease in MRL-lpr mice induces behavioral and endocrine changes that resemble effects of chronic stressors. To further examine the correspondence between autoimmune disease and chronic stress, we asked whether the brains of autoimmune mice show a shift in the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) to vasopressin (AVP) ratio. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry with 35S-labelled mouse riboprobes, the levels of mRNA transcripts encoding CRF and AVP were compared between autoimmune MRL-lpr and control MRL +/+ brains. CRF transcript levels were lower in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and in the central nucleus of the amygdala in MRL-lpr mice. AVP transcript levels were higher in the paraventricular and the supraoptic nuclei in MRL-lpr mice compared to controls. CRF mRNA levels were inversely related to performance in stress-sensitive tasks and to measures of autoimmunity. As found previously for behavioral performance, immunosuppressive treatment with cyclophosphamide abolished the group difference in neuropeptide gene expression. These results indicate that an autoimmune disease process is necessary for the shift in the brain CRF:AVP ratio. Furthermore, they support the parallel between chronic stress and chronic autoimmunity/inflammation, and suggest common central mechanisms relevant to endocrine function and behavior.
To elucidate the mechanisms of relapses of the clinical signs in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the cytokine profile of chronic relapsing EAE (CR-EAE) in rats was determined by competitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR). By immunization with guinea pig spinal cord homogenate and treatment with low-dose cyclosporin A (CsA), rats developed two attacks of EAE with remission in between. Cytokine analysis revealed that the level of TNF-alpha mRNA increased at the first and second attacks with transient disappearance at the remission phase. In contrast, the level of IFN-gamma mRNA was suppressed at the first attack by CsA and peaked at the second attack. Intraventricular administration of IFN-gamma prior to onset of disease signs induced more relapses, or a severe lethal form. In addition, the intraventricular injection of TNF-alpha caused the persistence of the clinical signs. These findings suggest that TNF-alpha contributes to the first and second attacks of CR-EAE, while IFN-gamma is not required for the first attack but is closely related to the relapse of the disease. With regard to anti-inflammatory cytokines, the levels of both TGF-beta1 and IL-10 mRNA at the second attack were higher than those at the first attack. Taken together, differential involvement of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma is closely associated with the clinical features of CR-EAE.
To characterize the nature of the alpha chain of TCR associated with the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), spinal cord T cells isolated from individual rats with preclinical and clinical EAE were investigated by CDR3 spectratyping and subsequently, the amino acid sequences of the CDR3 region of oligoclonally expanded TCR determined. In contrast to the beta chain repertoire in which Vbeta8.2 with the shortest CDR3 is the predominant population throughout the course, multiple oligoclonal expansion was observed at all time points examined. Characteristically, Valpha1 and Valpha2 expansion was observed at preclinical and early stages, whereas that of Valpha8, Valpha13 and Valpha23 was detected at early and peak stages. Sequence analysis of the CDR3 region revealed that the former group possessed an asparagine repeat in the middle portion, whereas the latter group had the KLTF motif in the C terminal region of CDR3. These findings suggest that Valpha usage by EAE-associated T cells is stage-dependent and that EAE is induced by polyclonally activated T cells which switch TCR alpha chain, but not beta chain, phenotype as the disease progresses.
This study seeks to determine if tolerance to autoreactive antibody can be achieved by exposing gut-associated lymphocytic tissue (GALT) to the protein. The method involved immunizing rats with AchR after feeding anti-AchR purified from myasthenic plasma or non-specific, pooled human immunoglobulins. Both feedings improved the neuromuscular block of EAMG, the commercial preparation requiring a tenfold increase in protein concentration. Despite its protective effect, antibody feeding was associated with late levels of serum anti-AchR considerably above those in immunized controls. The hypothesis presented is that the tolerance results from enhanced anti-idiotype production.

As knowledge of pathophysiology grows, so does the refinement of diagnoses. Sometimes increased knowledge permits consolidation and unification. Unfortunately, at our present level of understanding, it usually demands proliferation of diagnostic categories. As tedious as this diagnostic splintering may seem, such is the price currently exacted of both the investigator and the clinician who seek to optimise management. Increased diagnostic refinement often requires inquiry into matters outside the bounds of one's specialty. Most often we turn to the radiologist or to the laboratory to narrow the differential diagnosis generated from the history and neurological examination. As we have shown, a useful intermediate step is extension of the physical examination to organs such as the skin, which are not the traditional preserve of the neurologist. That any text could confer the sophistication required for expert dermatological diagnosis is an unrealistic expectation. However, we hope that this review will encourage careful examination of the skin, hair, and nails by the neurological practitioner, with consideration of referral to a dermatologist when greater expertise is required.
We compared the short-term magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evolution of new multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions enhancing after single dose (SD) (0.1 mmol/kg) or triple dose (TD) (0.3 mmol/kg) gadolinium-DTPA (Gd) to explore possible differences in the pathological substrates of acute MS lesions. Brain MRI scans were obtained at baseline and every 4 weeks for a 3-month period in 18 relapsing-remitting MS patients. At each time point, using two separate sessions, we obtained dual echo and T1-weighted scans before and after SD and TD of Gd. New enhancing lesions detected at month 1 and 2 were entered into the analysis. The presence of corresponding hypointense lesions on unenhanced T1-weighted scans and hyperintense lesions on T2/proton density (PD)-weighted images was assessed on the same scan and on the scans performed 1 month before and 1 month after the new lesion development. Persistence of enhancement was evaluated on the SD and TD scans obtained 1 month after new lesion appearance. One-hundred and sixty lesions were studied. Of these, 97 lesions were enhancing after both SD and TD (group A) and 63 lesions only after TD (group B). Thirty (31%) of the lesions enhancing after both SD and TD and ten (16%) of the lesions enhancing only after TD had corresponding T1-weighted lesions (P = 0.03). Of these lesions, 87% in group A and 40% in group B (P = 0.003) were not hypointense on the previous scans. No differences were found in the frequencies of corresponding T2/PD-weighted abnormalities (92% in Group A vs. 87% in Group B lesions). Of these hyperintense areas, 62% in group A and 56% in group B were not present on the previous scans. On follow-up scans, 52% of the lesions enhancing after SD and TD and 70% of the lesions enhancing only after TD did not show enhancement after the injection of both the doses of Gd (P = 0.02). The frequencies of corresponding T2/PD and T1-weighted abnormalities were higher in Group A than in Group B lesions, but the differences were not statistically significant. Our findings suggest that the pathological process is less severe in MS lesions enhancing only after TD injection than in those enhancing after the SD.
Rapid extracellular alkalinizations accompany normal neuronal activity and have been implicated in the modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Particularly large alkaline transients also occur at the onset of spreading depression (SD). To test whether these endogenous pH shifts can modulate SD, the alkaline shift was amplified using benzolamide, a poorly permeant inhibitor of interstitial carbonic anhydrase. SD was evoked by microinjection of 1.2 M KCl into the CA1 stratum radiatum of rat hippocampal slices and recorded by a proximal double-barreled pH microelectrode and a distal potential electrode. In Ringer solution of pH 7.1 containing picrotoxin (but not at a bath pH of 7.4), addition of 10 microM benzolamide increased the SD alkaline shift from 0.20 +/- 0.07 to 0.38 +/- 0.17 unit pH (means +/- SE). This was correlated with a significant shortening of the latency and an increase in the conduction velocity by 26 +/- 16%. In the presence of the NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV), benzolamide still amplified the alkaline transient, however, its effect on the SD latency and propagation velocity was abolished. The intrinsic modulation of SD by its alkaline transient may play an important role under focal ischemic conditions by removing the proton block of NMDA receptors where interstitial acidosis would otherwise limit NMDA receptor activity.
Previous reports from this laboratory have shown that a high percentage of neurons in the caudal hypothalamus are stimulated by hypoxia both in vivo and in vitro. This stimulation is in the form of an increase in firing frequency and significant membrane depolarization. The goal of the present study was to determine if this hypoxia-induced excitation is influenced by development. In addition, we sought to determine the mechanism by which hypoxia stimulates caudal hypothalamic neurons. Caudal hypothalamic neurons from neonatal (4-16 days) or juvenile (20-40 days) rats were patch-clamped, and the whole cell voltage and current responses to moderate (10% O2) or severe (0% O2) hypoxia were recorded in the brain slice preparation. Analysis of tissue oxygen levels demonstrated no significant difference in the levels of tissue oxygen in brain slices between the different age groups. A significantly larger input resistance, time constant and half-time to spike height was observed for neonatal neurons compared with juvenile neurons. Both moderate and severe hypoxia elicited a net inward current in a significantly larger percentage of caudal hypothalamic neurons from rats aged 20-40 days (juvenile) as compared with rats aged 4-16 days (neonatal). In contrast, there was no difference in the magnitude of the inward current response to moderate or severe hypoxia between the two age groups. Those cells that were stimulated by hypoxia demonstrated a significant decrease in input resistance during hypoxic stimulation that was not observed in those cells unaffected by hypoxia. A subset of neurons were tested independent of age for the ability to maintain the inward current response to hypoxia during synaptic blockade (11.4 mM Mg2+/0. 2 mM Ca2+). Most of the neurons tested (88.9%) maintained a hypoxic excitation during synaptic blockade, and this inward current response was unaffected by addition of 2 mM cobalt chloride to the bathing medium. In contrast, perfusion with the Na+ channel blocker, tetrodotoxin (1-2 microM) or Na+ replacement with N-methyl-D-glucamine (NMDG) significantly reduced the inward current response to hypoxia. Furthermore, the input resistance decrease observed during hypoxia was attenuated significantly during perfusion with NMDG. These results indicate the excitation elicited by hypoxia in hypothalamic neurons is age dependent. In addition, the inward current response of caudal hypothalamic neurons is not dependent on synaptic input but results from a sodium-dependent conductance.
Application of single synapse recording methods indicates that the amplitude of postsynaptic responses of single CNS synapses can vary greatly among repeated stimuli. To determine whether this observation could be attributed to synapses releasing a variable number of transmitter quanta, we assessed the prevalence of multiquantal transmitter release in primary cultures of cortical neurons with the action potential (AP)-dependent presynaptic turnover of the styryl dye FM1-43 (,; ). It was assumed that if a high proportion of vesicles within a terminal were loaded with FM1-43 the amount of dye released per stimulus would be proportional to the number of quanta released and/or the probability of release at a terminal. To rule out differences in the amount of release (between terminals) caused by release probability or incomplete loading of terminals, conditions were chosen to maximize both release probability and terminal loading. Three-dimensional reconstruction of terminals was employed to ensure that bouton fluorescence was accurately measured. Analysis of the relationship between the loading of terminals and release indicated that presumed larger terminals (&gt;FM1-43 uptake) release a greater amount of dye per stimulus than smaller terminals, suggesting multiquantal release. The distribution of release amounts across terminals was significantly skewed toward higher values, with 13-17% of synaptic terminals apparently releasing multiple quanta per AP. In conclusion, our data suggest that most synaptic terminals release a relatively constant amount of transmitter per stimulus; however, a subset of terminals releases amounts of FM1-43 that are greater than that expected from a unimodal release process.
The effects of neuromodulators present in the dorsal horn [tachykinins, neuropeptide Y (NPY), bombesin, and GABAB agonists] were studied on reflex responses evoked by cutaneous stimulation in the lamprey. Reflex responses were elicited in an isolated spinal cord preparation by electrical stimulation of the attached tail fin. To be able to separate modulator-induced effects at the sensory level from that at the motor or premotor level, the spinal cord was separated into three pools with Vaseline barriers. The caudal pool contained the tail fin. Neuromodulators were added to this pool to modulate sensory inputs evoked by tail fin stimulation. The middle pool contained high divalent cation or low calcium Ringer to block polysynaptic transmission and thus limit the input to the rostral pool to that from ascending axons that project through the middle pool. Ascending inputs and reflex responses were monitored by making intracellular recordings from motor neurons and extracellular recordings from ventral roots in the rostral pool. The tachykinin neuropeptide substance P, which has previously been shown to potentiate sensory input at the cellular and synaptic levels, facilitated tail fin-evoked synaptic inputs to neurons in the rostral pool and concentration dependently facilitated rostral ventral root activity. Substance P also facilitated the modulatory effects of tail fin stimulation on ongoing locomotor activity in the rostral pool. In contrast, NPY and the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen, both of which have presynaptic inhibitory effects on sensory afferents, reduced the strength of ascending inputs and rostral ventral root responses. We also examined the effects of the neuropeptide bombesin, which is present in sensory axons, at the cellular, synaptic, and reflex levels. As with substance P, bombesin increased tail fin stimulation-evoked inputs and ventral root responses in the rostral pool. These effects were associated with the increased excitability of slowly adapting mechanosensory neurons and the potentiation of glutamatergic synaptic inputs to spinobulbar neurons. These results show the possible behavioral relevance of neuropeptide-mediated modulation of sensory inputs at the cellular and synaptic levels. Given that the types and locations of neuropeptides in the dorsal spinal cord of the lamprey show strong homologies to that of higher vertebrates, these results are presumably relevant to other vertebrate systems.
The pharmacology of calcium channels involved in glutamatergic synaptic transmission from reticulospinal axons in the lamprey spinal cord was analyzed with specific agonists and antagonists of different high-voltage activated calcium channels. The N-type calcium channel blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTx) induced a large decrease of the amplitude of reticulospinal-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). The P/Q-type calcium channel blocker omega-agatoxin IVA (omega-Aga) also reduced the amplitude of the reticulospinal EPSPs, but to a lesser extent than omega-CgTx. The dihydropyridine agonist Bay K and antagonist nimodipine had no effect on the amplitude of the reticulospinal EPSP. Combined application of omega-CgTx and omega-Aga strongly decreased the amplitude the EPSPs but was never able to completely block them, indicating that calcium channels insensitive to these toxins (R-type) are also involved in synaptic transmission from reticulospinal axons. We have previously shown that the group III metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4) mediates presynaptic inhibition at the reticulospinal synapse. To test if this presynaptic effect is mediated through inhibition of calcium influx, the effect of L-AP4 on reticulospinal transmission was tested before and after blockade of N-type channels, which contribute predominantly to transmitter release at this synapse. Blocking the N-type channels with omega-CgTx did not prevent inhibition of reticulospinal synaptic transmission by L-AP4. In addition, L-AP4 had no affect on the calcium current recorded in the somata of reticulospinal neurons or on the calcium component of action potentials in reticulospinal axons. These results show that synaptic transmission from reticulospinal axons in the lamprey is mediated by calcium influx through N-, P/Q- and R-type channels, with N-type channels playing the major role. Furthermore, presynaptic inhibition of reticulospinal transmission by L-AP4 appears not to be mediated through inhibition of presynaptic calcium channels.
Results from studies of oculomotor tracking in one dimension have indicated that saccades are driven primarily by errors in position, whereas smooth pursuit movements are driven primarily by errors in velocity. To test whether this result generalizes to two-dimensional tracking, we asked subjects to track a target that moved initially in a straight line then changed direction. We found that the general premise does indeed hold true; however, the study of oculomotor tracking in two dimensions provides additional insight. The first saccade was directed slightly in advance of target location at saccade onset. Thus its direction was related primarily to angular positional error. The direction of the smooth pursuit movement after the saccade was related linearly to the direction of target motion with an average slope of 0.8. Furthermore the magnitude and direction of smooth pursuit velocity did not change abruptly; consequently the direction of smooth pursuit appeared to rotate smoothly over time.
We report that substitution of sodium with lithium (Li+) in the extracellular solution causes subtype-specific changes in the inward and outward currents of glutamate receptors (GluRs), without a shift in reversal potential. Li+ produces an increase of inward and outward currents of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptors and decreases in the currents of kainate (KA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. The greatest effect of Li+ was observed with GluR3. A concentration-response curve for GluR3 reveals that the potentiation caused by Li+ is greatest at saturating agonist concentrations. GluR1, which shows no potentiation by Li+ at 100 microM KA, shows a small but significant potentiation at saturating KA and glutamate concentrations. The effects of Li+ on outward current, where Li+ is not the primary charge carrier, and the lack of reversal potential shift argue for a mechanism of potentiation not associated with Li+ permeation. This potentiation of current is specific for Li+ because rubidium, although causing an increase of inward current, shifted the reversal potential and did not increase outward current. The effects of Li+ are different for KA, a weak desensitizing agonist, and glutamate, a strong desensitizing agonist, suggesting that Li+ might interact with a mechanism of desensitization. By using cyclothiazide (CTZ) to reduce desensitization of GluR3, we find that for low concentrations of KA and glutamate potentiation of the response by a combination of CTZ and Li+ is no greater than by CTZ or Li+ alone. However, at high concentrations of agonist, the potentiation of the response by a combination of CTZ and Li+ is significantly greater than by CTZ or Li+ alone. This potentiation was additive for glutamate but not for KA. At high agonist concentration in the presence of CTZ, the intrinsically lower desensitization produced with KA-evoked responses may preclude Li+ from potentiating the current to the same degree as it can potentiate glutamate-evoked responses. The additive effects of CTZ and Li+ were unique to the flop variant of GluR3.
Our previous work on Drosophila synapses has suggested that two vesicle populations possessing different recycling pathways, a fast pathway emanating from the active zone and a slower pathway emanating from sites away from the active zone, exist in the terminal. The difference in recycling time between these two pathways has allowed us to create a synapse that possesses the small, active zone subpopulation without the larger, nonactive zone population. Synapses were depleted using the temperature-sensitive endocytosis mutant, shibire, which reversibly blocks vesicle recycling at the restrictive temperature. In the depleted state, both the excitatory junction potential (EJP) and spontaneous release are abolished. After shibire-induced depletion, the active zone population begins to reform within 30 s at the permissive temperature, whereas the nonactive zone population does not begin to reform until approximately 10-15 min later. Evoked release recovered at approximately the same time as the active zone population. During the time when the active zone population existed in the terminal without the nonactive zone population, enough transmitter release was available to sustain a normal evoked response for many minutes at frequencies above those produced during normal activity (flight) by this motor neuron. When only the active zone population existed in the terminal, the frequency of spontaneous release was greatly attenuated and possessed abnormal release characteristics. Spontaneous release recovered its predepletion frequency and release characteristics only after the nonactive zone population was reformed.
Activation of neurons in the inferior mesenteric ganglion (IMG) was assessed using c-fos, JunB, and c-Jun expression in the guinea pig IMG and colonic myenteric plexus during mechanosensory stimulation and acute colitis in normal and capsaicin-treated animals. Intracolonic saline or 2% acetic acid was administered, and mechanosensory stimulation was performed by passage of a small (0.5 cm) balloon either 4 or 24 hr later. Lower doses of capsaicin or vehicle were used to activate primary afferent fibers during balloon passage. c-Jun did not respond to any of the stimuli in the study. c-fos and JunB were absent from the IMG and myenteric plexus of untreated and saline-treated animals. Acetic acid induced acute colitis by 4 hr, which persisted for 24 hr, but c-fos was found only in enteric glia in the myenteric plexus and was absent from the IMG. Balloon passage induced c-fos and JunB in only a small subset of IMG neurons and no myenteric neurons. However, balloon passage induced c-fos and JunB in IMG neurons (notably those containing somatostatin) and the myenteric plexus of acetic acid-treated animals. After capsaicin treatment, c-fos and JunB induction by balloon passage was inhibited in the IMG, but there was enhanced c-fos expression in the myenteric plexus. c-fos and JunB induction by balloon stimulation was also mimicked by acute activation of capsaicin-sensitive nerves. These data suggest that colitis enhances reflex activity of the IMG by a mechanism that involves activation of both primary afferent fibers and the myenteric plexus.
We investigated how the brain switches between the preparation of a movement where a stimulus is the target of the movement, and a movement where a stimulus serves as a landmark for an instructed movement elsewhere. Monkeys were trained on a pro-/anti-saccade paradigm in which they either had to generate a pro-saccade toward a visual stimulus or an anti-saccade away from the stimulus to its mirror position, depending on the color of an initial fixation point. Neural activity was recorded in the superior colliculus (SC), a structure that is known to be involved in the generation of fast saccades, to determine whether it was also involved in the generation of anti-saccades. On anti-saccade trials, fixation during the instruction period was associated with an increased activity of collicular fixation-related neurons and a decreased activity of saccade-related neurons. Stimulus-related and saccade-related activity was reduced on anti-saccade trials. Our results demonstrate that the anti-saccade task involves (and may require) the attenuation of preparatory and stimulus-related activity in the SC to avoid unwanted pro-saccades. Because the attenuated pre-saccade activity that we found in the SC may be insufficient by itself to elicit correct anti-saccades, additional movement signals from other brain areas are presumably required.
The olivocerebellar system is known to generate periodic synchronous discharges that result in synchronous (to within 1 msec) climbing fiber activation of Purkinje cells (complex spikes) organized in parasagittally oriented strips. These results have been obtained primarily in anesthetized animals, and so the question remains whether the olivocerebellar system generates such patterns in the awake animal. To this end, multiple electrode recordings of crus 2a complex spike activity were obtained in awake rats conditioned to execute tongue movements in response to a tone. After removal of all movement- and tone-related activity, the remaining data were examined to characterize spontaneous complex spike activity in the alert animal. Spontaneous complex spikes occurred at an average firing rate of 1 Hz and a clear approximately 10 Hz rhythmicity. Analysis of the autocorrelograms using a rhythm index indicated that the large majority of Purkinje cells displayed rhythmicity, similar to that in the anesthetized preparation. In addition, the patterns of synchronous complex spike activity were also similar to those observed in the anesthetized preparation (i.e., simultaneous activity was found predominantly among Purkinje cells located within the same parasagittally oriented strip of cortex). The results provide unequivocal evidence that the olivocerebellar system is capable of generating periodic patterns of synchronous activity in the awake animal. These findings support the extrapolation of previous results obtained in the anesthetized preparation to the waking state and are consistent with the timing hypothesis concerning the role of the olivocerebellar system in motor coordination.
Earlier studies of neurons in the anterior region of the superior temporal polysensory area (STPa) have demonstrated selectivity for visual motion using stimuli contaminated by nonmotion cues, including texture, luminance, and form. The present experiments investigated the motion selectivity of neurons in STPa in the absence of form cues using random dot optic flow displays. The responses of neurons were tested with translation, rotation, radial, and spiral optic flow displays designed to mimic the types of motion that occur during locomotion. Over half of the neurons tested responded significantly to at least one of these displays. On a cell by cell basis, 60% of the neurons tested responded selectively to rotation, radial, and spiral motion, whereas 20% responded selectively to translation motion. The majority of neurons responded maximally to single-component optic flow displays but was also significantly activated by the spiral displays that contained their preferred component. Moreover, there was a bias in the selectivity of the neurons for radial expansion motion. These results suggest that neurons within STPa are contributing to the analysis of optic flow. Furthermore, the preponderance of cells selective for radial expansion provides evidence that this area may be specifically involved in the processing of forward locomotion and/or looming stimuli. Finally, these results provide carefully controlled physiological evidence for an extension and specialization of the motion-processing pathway into the anterior temporal lobe.
We examined the cellular and subcellular distribution of the cloned kappa opioid receptor (KOR1) and its trafficking to the presynaptic plasma membrane in vasopressin magnocellular neurosecretory neurons. We used immunohistochemistry to show that KOR1 immunoreactivity (IR) colocalized with vasopressin-containing cell bodies, axons, and axon terminals within the posterior pituitary. Ultrastructural analysis revealed that a major fraction of KOR1-IR was associated with the membrane of peptide-containing large secretory vesicles. KOR1-IR was rarely associated with the plasma membrane in unstimulated nerve terminals within the posterior pituitary. A physiological stimulus (salt-loading) that elicits vasopressin release also caused KOR1-IR to translocate from these vesicles to the plasma membrane. After stimulation, there was a significant decrease in KOR1-IR associated with peptide-containing vesicles and a significant increase in KOR1-IR associated with the plasma membrane. This stimulus-dependent translocation of receptors to the presynaptic plasma membrane provides a novel mechanism for regulation of transmitter release.
Recently, there has been evidence for considerable plasticity in primary sensory areas of adult cortex. In this study, we asked to what extent topographical maps in human extrastriate areas reorganize after damage to a portion of primary visual (striate) cortex, V1. Functional magnetic resonance imaging signals were measured in a subject (G.Y.) with a large calcarine lesion that includes most of primary visual cortex but spares the foveal representation. When foveal stimulation was present, intact cortex in the lesioned occipital lobe exhibited conventional retinotopic organization. Several visual areas could be identified (V1, V2, V3, V3 accessory, and V4 ventral). However, when stimuli were restricted to the blind portion of the visual field, responses were found primarily in dorsal extrastriate areas. Furthermore, cortex that had formerly shown normal topography now represented only the visual field around the lower vertical meridian. Several possible sources for this reorganized activity are considered, including transcallosal connections, direct subcortical projections to extrastriate cortex, and residual inputs from V1 near the margin of the lesion. A scheme is described to explain how the reorganized signals could occur based on changes in the local neural connections.
The spontaneous discharge patterns of developing retinal ganglion cells are thought to play a crucial role in the refinement of early retinofugal projections. To investigate the contributions of intrinsic membrane properties to the spontaneous activity of developing ganglion cells, we assessed the effects of blocking large and small calcium-activated potassium conductances on the temporal pattern of such discharges by means of patch-clamp recordings from the intact retina of developing ferrets. Application of apamin and charybdotoxin (CTX), which selectively block the small and large calcium-activated potassium channels, respectively, resulted in significant changes in spontaneous firings. In cells recorded from the oldest animals [postnatal day 30 (P30)-P45], which manifested relatively sustained discharge patterns, application of either blocker induced bursting activity. With CTX the bursts were highly periodic, short in duration, and of high frequency. In contrast, with apamin the interburst intervals were longer, less regular, and lower in overall spike frequency. These differences between the effects of the two blockers on spontaneous activity were documented by spectral analysis of discharge patterns. Filling cells from which recordings were made with Lucifer yellow revealed that these effects were obtained in all three morphological classes of cells: alpha, beta, and gamma. These findings provide the first evidence that apamin- and CTX-sensitive K+ conductances can have differential effects on the spontaneous discharge patterns of retinal ganglion cells. Remarkably, the bursts of activity obtained after apamin application in more mature neurons appeared very similar to the spontaneous bursting patterns observed in developing neurons. These findings suggest that the maturation of calcium-activated potassium channels, particularly the apamin-sensitive conductance, may contribute to the changes in spontaneous firings exhibited by retinal ganglion cells during the course of normal development.
The neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL) are progressive neurodegenerative disorders with onset from infancy to adulthood that are manifested by blindness, seizures, and dementia. In NCL, lysosomes accumulate autofluorescent proteolipid in the brain and other tissues. The mnd/mnd mutant mouse was first characterized as exhibiting adult-onset upper and lower motor neuron degeneration, but closer examination revealed early, widespread pathology similar to that seen in NCL. We used the autofluorescent properties of accumulated storage material to map which CNS neuronal populations in the mnd/mnd mouse show NCL-like pathological changes. Pronounced, early accumulation of autofluorescent lipopigment was found in subpopulations of GABAergic neurons, including interneurons in the cortex and hippocampus. Staining for phenotypic markers normally present in these neurons revealed progressive loss of staining in the cortex and hippocampus of mnd/mnd mice, with pronounced hypertrophy of remaining detectable interneurons. In contrast, even in aged mutant mice, many hippocampal interneurons retained staining for glutamic acid decarboxylase. Treatment with insulin-like growth factor-1 partially restored interneuronal number and reduced hypertrophy in some subregions. These results provide the first evidence for the involvement of interneurons in a mouse model of NCL. Moreover, our findings suggest that at least some populations of these neurons persist in a growth factor-responsive state.
Activation of the Ca2+- and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and its conversion into a persistently activated form by autophosphorylation are thought to be crucial events underlying the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) by increases in postsynaptic Ca2+. Because increases in Ca2+ can also activate protein phosphatases that oppose persistent CaMKII activation, LTP induction may also require activation of signaling pathways that suppress protein phosphatase activation. Because the adenylyl cyclase (AC)-protein kinase A signaling pathway may provide a mechanism for suppressing protein phosphatase activation, we investigated the effects of AC activators on activity-dependent changes in synaptic strength and on levels of autophosphorylated alphaCaMKII (Thr286). In the CA1 region of hippocampal slices, briefly elevating extracellular Ca2+ induced an activity-dependent, transient potentiation of synaptic transmission that could be converted into a persistent potentiation by the addition of phosphatase inhibitors or AC activators. To examine activity-dependent changes in alphaCaMKII autophosphorylation, we replaced electrical presynaptic fiber stimulation with an increase in extracellular K+ to achieve a more global synaptic activation during perfusion of high Ca2+ solutions. In the presence of the AC activator forskolin or the protein phosphatase inhibitor calyculin A, this treatment induced a LTP-like synaptic potentiation and a persistent increase in autophosphorylated alphaCaMKII levels. In the absence of forskolin or calyculin A, it had no lasting effect on synaptic strength and induced a persistent decrease in autophosphorylated alphaCaMKII levels. Our results suggest that AC activation facilitates LTP induction by suppressing protein phosphatases and enabling a persistent increase in the levels of autophosphorylated CaMKII.
Recent studies have emphasized that nonequilibrium conditions of postsynaptic GABAA receptor (GABAAR) activation is a key factor in shaping the time course of IPSCs (Puia et al., 1994; Jones and Westbrook, 1995). Such nonequilibrium, resulting from extremely fast agonist time course, may affect the interaction between pharmacological agents and postsynaptic GABAARs. In the present study we found that chlorpromazine (CPZ), a widely used antipsychotic drug known to interfere with several ligand and voltage-gated channels, reduces the amplitude and accelerates the decay of miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs). A good qualitative reproduction of the effects of CPZ on mIPSCs was obtained when mIPSCs were mimicked by responses to ultrafast GABA applications to excised patches. Our experimental data and model simulations indicate that CPZ affects mIPSCs by decreasing the binding (kon) and by increasing the unbinding (koff) rates of GABAARs. Because of reduction of kon by CPZ, the binding reaction becomes rate-limiting, and agonist exposure of GABAARs during mIPSC is too short to activate the receptors to the same extent as in control conditions. The increase in unbinding rate is implicated as the mechanism underlying the acceleration of mIPSC decaying phase. The effect of CPZ on GABAAR binding rate, resulting in slower onset of GABA-evoked currents, provides a tool to estimate the speed of synaptic clearance of GABA. Moreover, the onset kinetics of recorded responses allowed the estimate the peak synaptic GABA concentration.
A displacement-sensitive heterodyne laser interferometer is described which is suitable to measure the sound-evoked motion of various structures in the intact, living cochlea. Data are included to demonstrate the interferometer's low noise-floor ( &lt; 1 pm Hz (-0.5)), wide bandwidth (from d.c. to 63 kHz) and linear dynamic range ( &gt; 300 microm). The interferometer's optical sensitivity is sufficient to detect the motion of the basilar membrane and various components of the organ of Corti without the use of artificial reflectors: the reflectivity needed to achieve a 10 pm Hz(-0.5) noise-floor is approximately 0.0001%, and the optical sectioning depth is approximately 23 microm. These features make the interferometer ideally suited to measure acoustic vibrations in the living inner ear, but there may also be applications in other fields of neuroscience.
The zebrafish is a popular model for developmental studies due to its accessibility by cellular, molecular and genetic approaches. As a complement to these other methods, we have devised an exposed hindbrain/spinal cord preparation in the curarized zebrafish embryo and larva that permits intracellular labeling and patch clamp recording from individually identified sensory neurons, motoneurons and interneurons in vivo. Regular bursts of synaptic potentials and action potentials were observed under whole-cell current clamp in embryonic motoneurons and in some identified interneurons. Larval neurons showed prolonged depolarizations with synaptically driven bursts of action potentials. Frequent spontaneous synaptic potentials were observed and synaptic currents were effectively space clamped. It is thus feasible to study in vivo the properties of identifiable neurons of the developing locomotor network in the zebrafish, including their synaptic activity, firing patterns and interconnections.
Synthesizing the neurologic mechanisms of psychoneuroimmunology (PNI) into a schematic model serves as a basis to enhance understanding of the complex interactions within the PNI framework. The examination of current research in physiology, neurotransmission, hormonal mechanisms, immunologic function and stress allows for the creation of a neurological model to depict hypothetical interactions of these systems. This model of neurological mechanisms in PNI can serve as the basis for integrating PNI in nursing practice. It is hoped that the model will serve as a bridge to understanding the neuroscience component of PNI and stimulate further research.
The death of a patient is seen by many nurses as the end of their interaction with the patient and family. However, the option of organ donation may extend that interaction and present another opportunity to serve as an advocate for the family, as well as for patients whom the nurse has never met. Patients who have been declared brain dead or from whom life support is going to be withdrawn following a neurological injury are potential organ donors. Although these patients and their families are frequently under the care of neuroscience nurses, all nurses need a thorough understanding of their responsibilities regarding identification and referral of potential organ donors to the designated Organ Procurement Organization (OPO). In addition, it is essential for nurses to understand the clinical presentation and determination of brain death in order to provide patient care and family education. Understanding how consent for organ donation should be obtained from families and how the organ recovery process works enables the nurse to collaborate with OPO staff and support the family in their decision regarding organ donation.
Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-kinase) enzymes are key signalling molecules in the PC12 and neuronal cell survival pathway and are also involved in the regulation of retrograde axonal transport of nerve growth factor (NGF), with sympathetic neurons more sensitive to the effects of wortmannin/LY294002 than sensory neurons (Bartlett et al. [1997]; Brain Res. 761:257-262; Reynolds et al. [1998] Brain Res. 798:67-74). In this article, we characterized the mRNA expression of PI3-kinase isoforms in mouse sympathetic superior cervical ganglia (SCG) and sensory trigeminal ganglia (TGG) and examined the subcellular locations of immunoreactivity of the PI3-kinase isoforms in mouse cultured SCG and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Both the SCG and the TGG express mRNA for the p110alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and vps34p PI3-kinase isoforms, but the TGG and not the SCG express mRNA for the p170 PI3-kinase isoform. In cultured SCG and DRG neurons, p110alpha, beta, and gamma immunoreactivity is in the SCG and DRG growth cones, and predominantly in puncta throughout the growth cone varicosity. However, in the cell bodies immunoreactivity varied, p110alpha is localized predominantly at the plasma membrane, while p110beta and gamma is localized in the perinuclear region of the cells. In addition, unlike other cell types, wortmannin has little effect on actin filament polymerization in either mouse cultured SCG or DRG neurons.
Potential roles of trophins in the normal and injured spinal cord are largely undefined. However, a number of recent studies suggest that adult spinal cord expresses neurotrophin receptors and responds to the neurotrophins, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin 3 (NT3), particularly after injury. The data indicate that trophins may enhance regrowth after damage and may represent a new therapeutic approach to injury. Neurotrophins are reportedly present in the spinal cord, but the cellular localization is unknown. This information is critical to begin delineating mechanisms of actions. To approach this problem, we examined whether spinal cord glia express BDNF and NT3 in vivo and have begun to define cellular distribution. Specific antibodies directed against the neurotrophins were utilized to visualize neurotrophin protein. Initial studies indicated that small cells in the white matter of adult rat spinal cord express BDNF and NT3. Large neurotrophin-positive neurons were also identified in the ventral cord. To identify the neurotrophin-positive cells, co-localization studies were performed utilizing neurotrophin polyclonal antisera together with monoclonal antibodies directed against the astrocyte marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). In the white matter of adult spinal cord, GFAP-positive and GFAP-negative cells expressed BDNF and NT3. Our study suggests that astrocyte and non-astrocyte cells provide trophic support to the adult spinal cord.

The utility of three-dimensional anisotropy contrast (3DAC) magnetic resonance (MR) axonography, a method sensitive to neuronal fibers and their directionality, was investigated in the clinical setting using a 3-tesla MR imaging system based on a General Electric Signa platform. The study focused on healthy volunteers and patients with common structural central nervous system disorders, namely chronic infarction, brainstem cavernous hemangioma, supratentorial meningioma, and astrocytoma. Three orthogonal anisotropic diffusion-weighted images were first obtained. Three primary colors were each assigned to a diffusion-weighted image, respectively, and the images were subsequently combined into a single-color image in full-color spectrum (3DAC MR axonography image). Fiber-tract definition in the cerebral peduncle of the midbrain of healthy volunteers showed intersubject variation, with two general patterns recognized: dispersed (60% of cases) and compact (40% of cases). Pathological alterations in the fiber tracts were readily identified in cases involving wallerian degeneration of the pyramidal tract, as illustrated in the cases of chronic infarction. Displacement of major tracts, such as the medial lemniscus or corticospinal tract, as well as fiber directionality, was also easily recognized in cases of mass lesions. As an imaging method uniquely capable of providing information regarding axonal connectivity, 3DAC MR axonography appears to have promising potential for routine clinical application.

Melanocortins, peptides related to alpha-melanocortin-stimulating hormone (alpha MSH) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), are known to improve axonal regeneration following peripheral nerve injury and stimulate neurite outgrowth from central nervous system (CNS) neurons both in vitro and in vivo. The neurite outgrowth promoting capacity of alpha MSH has prompted us to investigate the effects of intrathecal application of alpha MSH on functional and electrophysiological recovery in a well-characterized model of spinal cord contusion injury. Different doses of alpha MSH were applied via osmotic minipumps into the cisterna magna for 10 days, thereby delivering the peptide directly into the CNS. Functional recovery was monitored during 8 postoperative weeks by means of the Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan locomotor rating scale, and the thoracolumbar height test. At the end of the study, electrophysiological analysis of rubrospinal motor evoked potentials as performed. Our data showed that application of 3.75 micrograms/kg/h alpha MSH resulted in a marked functional recovery, accompanied by a decrease in the latency of the rMEP. This study demonstrates that intrathecal application of alpha MSH results in functional recovery after spinal cord contusion injury. These findings may initiate new treatment strategies and/or the use of melanocortins in human spinal cord injury.
Several studies have suggested a possible association of human herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6) with multiple sclerosis (MS), a demyelinating disease with a variable course and progression. To determine whether HHV-6 could be detected in the sera of CSF of patients with different subtypes of MS, we performed nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on samples obtained from MS patients as well as samples from normal adults or individuals with other neurological diseases. Ninety-six serum samples from 24 patients with MS, including 13 individuals with relapsing remitting MS, one individual with primary progressive MS, seven individuals with secondary progressive MS and three individuals with an unspecified type were analyzed. Multiple serum samples were examined from individuals over varying periods of time and included samples obtained during exacerbations, remissions, and at different stages of progressive disease. HHV-6 DNA was detected only in one out of 15 serum samples that were collected over a number of years from one individual with secondary progressive MS. No HHV-6 DNA was detected in CSF from six patients with MS or 14 patients with other neurologic disease. These results indicate that the presence of HHV-6 DNA in the serum or CSF of patients with MS is not a common phenomenon, at least within the limits of the sensitivity of our assay.


Receptor subtype nonselective metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonists have been shown to regulate the release of dopamine. The eight mGluR subtypes have been pharmacologically categorized into three groups, and the present study used in vivo microdialysis to examine the capacity of mGluR subgroup-selective drugs to modulate the extracellular levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens. By administering the drugs in the dialysis buffer, it was found that the group 3 mGluR agonist L-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate produced a dose-dependent reduction in extracellular dopamine, whereas the group 1 agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine was ineffective. The group 2 agonist (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-2-(2, 3-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine produced a reduction that was biphasic with respect to dose. The group 2/3 antagonist alpha-methyl-4-phosphnophenylglycine elicited a dose-dependent increase in extracellular dopamine that was antagonized by coperfusion with either the L-type calcium channel blocker diltiazem or the group 3 agonist L-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate. These data demonstrate that group 3 and to a lesser extent group 2 mGluR may presynaptically regulate dopamine release or reuptake. Moreover, there exists significant in vivo glutamatergic tone on group 2/3 mGluRs to suppress extracellular dopamine levels.
Evidence suggests the existence of genetic differences in cocaine sensitization in male rats. The present study was undertaken to investigate cocaine sensitization in female rats of genetically distinct inbred (Fischer 344 and Lewis) and outbred (Sprague-Dawley) strains. All female rats were bilaterally ovariectomized and randomly assigned to one of four experimental groups: 1) estradiol benzoate group, 2) progesterone group, 3) estradiol benzoate-plus-progesterone group, and 4) ovariectomized group. Additional controls included sham-operated female rats, female rats that received a single oil injection, and female rats that received repeated oil injections. To determine gender-related differences in the acute and chronic effects of cocaine, data obtained from female rats were compared with those from strain- and weight-matched male rats. Estradiol benzoate-plus-progesterone female rats showed greater locomotor effect in response to an acute dose of cocaine and had more robust sensitization in response to repeated cocaine than did male rats. The bilateral removal of ovaries abolished cocaine sensitization. In all strains of rats studied, progesterone alone did not alter the ovariectomy-induced attenuation of cocaine behavior, but estrogen alone restored cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization. There were significant strain effects on the degree of gonadal hormonal-induced modulation of cocaine sensitization in female rats. Female Lewis rats were extremely sensitive to repeated-cocaine effects, whereas the Fischer 344 female rats showed only marginal effects. The Sprague-Dawley rats ranked intermediate in their behavioral sensitivity. The present study strongly supports the hypothesis that female rats are more sensitive to both acute and chronic behavioral effects of cocaine than are male rats and that the effects are strain dependent. It also shows that estrogen plays an important role in the increased sensitivity of female rats to cocaine sensitization. Together, these data indicate significant interactions between ovarian steroid hormones and genetic factors in cocaine-induced behavioral effects.
1. The firing of single sympathetic neurones was recorded via tungsten microelectrodes in cutaneous fascicles of the peroneal nerve in awake humans. Studies were made of 17 vasoconstrictor neurones during cold-induced cutaneous vasoconstriction and eight sudomotor neurones during heat-induced sweating. Oligounitary recordings were obtained from 8 cutaneous vasconstrictor and 10 sudomotor sites. Skin blood flow was measured by laser Doppler flowmetry, and sweating by changes in skin electrical resistance within the innervation territory on the dorsum of the foot. 2. Perispike time histograms revealed respiratory modulation in 11 (65 %) vasoconstrictor and 4 (50 %) sudomotor neurones. After correcting for estimated conduction delays, the firing probability was higher in inspiration for both classes of neurone. Measured from the oligounitary recordings, the respiratory modulation indices were 67. 7 +/- 3.9 % for vasoconstrictor and 73.5 +/- 5.7 % for sudomotor neurones (means +/- s.e.m.). As previously found for sudomotor neurones, cardiac rhythmicity was expressed by 7 (41 %) vasoconstrictor neurones, 5 of which showed no significant coupling to respiration. Measured from the oligounitary records, the cardiac modulation of cutaneous vasoconstrictor activity was 58.6 +/- 4.9 %, compared with 74.4 +/- 6.4 % for sudomotor activity. 3. Both vasoconstrictor and sudomotor neurones displayed low average firing rates (0.53 and 0.62 Hz, respectively). The percentage of cardiac intervals in which units fired was 38 % and 35 %, respectively. Moreover, when considering only those cardiac intervals when a unit fired, vasoconstrictor and sudomotor neurones generated a single spike 66 % and 67 % of the time. Rarely were more than four spikes generated by a single neurone. 4. We conclude that human cutaneous vasoconstrictor and sudomotor neurones share several properties: both classes contain subpopulations that are modulated by respiration and/or the cardiac cycle. The data suggest that the intensity of a multi-unit burst of vasoconstrictor or sudomotor impulses is probably governed primarily by firing incidence and the recruitment of additional neurones, rather than by an increase in the number of spikes each unit contributes to a burst.
1. Single-unit recordings were made from 19 postganglionic muscle vasoconstrictor axons via tungsten microelectrodes in the peroneal nerve in seven healthy subjects with many multi-unit sympathetic discharges at rest ('high group', 75 +/- 5 multi-unit bursts per 100 heart beats, mean +/- s.e.m.). The results were compared with previous data from 14 units in subjects with 21 +/- 2 multi-unit bursts per 100 heart beats ('low group'). 2. In the 'high group' the units fired spontaneously in 35 +/- 4 % of all cardiac intervals. One unit only ever fired once per cardiac interval, 14 units (74 %) generated maximally two to three spikes, and four units (21 %) up to four to five spikes. Of those cardiac intervals in which a unit fired, a single spike occurred in 78 %, two spikes in 18 %, three spikes in 4 % and four spikes in less than 1 % of cardiac intervals. Measured as the inverse of all interspike intervals, the mean rate was 0.33 +/- 0.04 Hz and the mean intraburst frequency 22.2 +/- 1.6 Hz. Most results were similar to those in the 'low group', but in the 'low group' heart rate was higher (64.5 vs. 50.4 beats min-1) and mean firing frequency was higher (0.49 +/- 0.06 Hz). 3. During increases of multi-unit burst activity evoked by sustained inspiratory-capacity apnoea the firing probability of nine units in the 'high group' increased from 33 +/- 6 to 56 +/- 3 % of the cardiac intervals. Simultaneously, the incidence of single spikes decreased and the incidence of multiple spikes per cardiac interval increased, resulting in an increase of mean firing frequency from 0. 23 +/- 0.04 Hz at rest to 1.04 +/- 0.14 Hz during the apnoea. 4. We conclude that single muscle vasoconstrictor neurones usually fire only a solitary spike during sympathetic bursts both in subjects with a high and in subjects with a low number of bursts at rest. Presumably, differences in the numbers of bursts are due mainly to differences in firing probability and recruitment of sympathetic fibres. During acute increases of multi-unit activity, both increases in discharge frequency and recruitment of additional neurones contribute to the increased intensity of an individual sympathetic burst.
1. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were recorded from granule cells of the dentate gyrus in acute slices of 17- to 21-day-old rats (22-25 C) using tissue cuts and minimal extracellular stimulation to selectively activate a small number of synaptic contacts. 2. Adding millimolar Sr2+ to the external solution produced asynchronous EPSCs (aEPSCs) lasting for several hundred milliseconds after the stimulus. Minimally stimulated aEPSCs resembled miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs) recorded in the same cell but differed from them in ways expected from the greater range of dendritic filtering experienced by mEPSCs. aEPSCs had the same stimulus threshold as the synchronous EPSCs (sEPSCs) that followed the stimulus with a brief latency. aEPSCs following stimulation of distal inputs had a slower mean rise time than those following stimulation of proximal inputs. These results suggest that aEPSCs arose from the same synapses that generated sEPSCs. 3. Proximally elicited aEPSCs had a mean amplitude of 6.7 +/- 2.2 pA (+/- s.d., n = 23 cells) at -70 mV and an amplitude coefficient of variation of 0. 46 +/- 0.08. 4. The amplitude distributions of sEPSCs never exhibited distinct peaks. 5. Monte Carlo modelling of the shapes of aEPSC amplitude distributions indicated that our data were best explained by an intrasite model of quantal variance. 6. It is concluded that Sr2+-evoked aEPSCs are uniquantal events arising at synaptic terminals that were recently invaded by an action potential, and so provide direct information about the quantal amplitude and quantal variance at those terminals. The large quantal variance obscures quantization of the amplitudes of evoked sEPSCs at this class of excitatory synapse.
1. Mitochondrial regulation of the cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]c) in guinea-pig single colonic myocytes has been examined, using whole-cell recording, flash photolysis of caged InsP3 and microfluorimetry. 2. Depolarization increased [Ca2+]c and triggered contraction. Resting [Ca2+]c was virtually restored some 4 s after the end of depolarization, a time when the muscle had shortened to 50 % of its fully relaxed length. The muscle then slowly relaxed (t = 17 s). 3. The decline in the Ca2+ transient was monophasic but often undershot or overshot resting levels, depending on resting [Ca2+]c. The extent of the overshoot or undershoot increased with increasing peak [Ca2+]c. 4. Carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone (CCCP; 5 microM), which dissipates the mitochondrial proton electrochemical gradient and therefore prevents mitochondrial Ca2+ accumulation, slowed Ca2+ removal at high ( &gt; 300 nM) but not at lower [Ca2+]c and abolished [Ca2+]c overshoots. Oligomycin B (5 microM), which prevents mitchondrial ATP production, affected neither the rate of decline nor the magnitude of the overshoot. 5. During depolarization, the global rhod-2 signal (which represents the mitochondrial matrix Ca2+ concentration, [Ca2+]m) rose slowly in a CCCP-sensitive manner during and for about 3 s after depolarization had ended. [Ca2+]m then slowly decreased over tens of seconds. 6. Inhibition of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ uptake with thapsigargin (100 nM) reduced the undershoot and increased the overshoot. 7. Flash photolysis of caged InsP3 (20 microM) evoked reproducible increases in [Ca2+]c. CCCP (5 microM) reduced the magnitude of the [Ca2+]c transients evoked by flash photolysis of caged InsP3. Oligomycin B (5 microM) did not reduce the inhibition of the InsP3-induced Ca2+ transient by CCCP thus minimizing the possibility that CCCP lowered ATP levels by reversing the mitochondrial ATP synthase and so reducing SR Ca2+ refilling. 8. While CCCP reduced the magnitude of the InsP3-evoked Ca2+ signal, the internal Ca2+ store content, as assessed by the magnitude of ionomycin-evoked Ca2+ release, did not decrease significantly. 9. [Ca2+]c decline in smooth muscle, following depolarization, may involve mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake. Following InsP3-evoked Ca2+ release, mitochondrial uptake of Ca2+ may regulate the local [Ca2+]c near the InsP3 receptor so maintaining the sensitivity of the InsP3 receptor to release Ca2+ from the SR.
Transsexualism is considered to be the extreme end of the spectrum of gender identity disorders characterized by, among other things, a pursuit of sex reassignment surgery (SRS). The origins of transsexualism are still largely unclear. A first indication of anatomic brain differences between transsexuals and nontranssexuals has been found. Also, certain parental (rearing) factors seem to be associated with transsexualism. Some contradictory findings regarding etiology, psychopathology and success of SRS seem to be related to the fact that certain subtypes of transsexuals follow different developmental routes. The observations that psychotherapy is not helpful in altering a crystallized cross-gender identity and that certain transsexuals do not show severe psychopathology has led clinicians to adopt sex reassignment as a treatment option. In many countries, transsexuals are now treated according to the Standards of Care of the Harry Benjamin International Gender Dysphoria Association, a professional organization in the field of transsexualism. Research on postoperative functioning of transsexuals does not allow for unequivocal conclusions, but there is little doubt that sex reassignment substantially alleviates the suffering of transsexuals. However, SRS is no panacea. Psychotherapy may be needed to help transsexuals in adapting to the new situation or in dealing with issues that could not be addressed before treatment.

We have developed a centralized World Wide Web (WWW)-based environment that serves as a resource of software tools and expertise for biological electron microscopy. A major focus is molecular electron microscopy, but the site also includes information and links on structural biology at all levels of resolution. This site serves to help integrate or link structural biology techniques in accordance with user needs. The WWW site, called the Electron Microscopy (EM) Outreach Program (URL: http://emoutreach.sdsc.edu), provides scientists with computational and educational tools for their research and edification. In particular, we have set up a centralized resource containing course notes, references, and links to image analysis and three-dimensional reconstruction software for investigators wanting to learn about EM techniques either within or outside of their fields of expertise.


Cutaneous nociceptors are peripheral receptive endings of primary sensory neurons activated by noxious stimuli. Nociceptors detect and signal the presence of tissue-damaging stimuli or the existence of tissue damage. In this short review, we will focus on the molecular mechanism of maintenance, activation, inhibition and sensitization in cutaneous nociceptors. Neurotrophic factors are essential to the development of nociceptors during embryogenesis. Recent evidences have indicated that nociceptors in the adult are maintained by either nerve growth factor (NGF) or glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). A selective activator of nociceptors is capsaicin, natural product of capsicum peppers. Recently, the receptor for capsaicin (the vanilloid receptor 1: VR1) has been cloned, identified and characterized. VR1 seems to play an important role in the activation and sensitization of nociceptors. In contrast, peripheral endogenous cannabinoids such as anandamide are novel candidates for mediators that inhibit the excitation of nociceptors. Intracellular messengers and the mechanisms of signal transduction in nociceptors have also been studied. Our recent findings provide evidences demonstrate that an activation of both cAMP- and cGMP-second messenger systems is required to induce the sensitization of nociceptors. Such emerging evidences reviewed here would make a significant contribution to further understanding of the molecular mechanism of nociceptors.
Sign language has only recently become a topic of investigation in cognitive neuroscience and psycholinguistics. In this paper, we review research from these two fields; in particular, we compare spoken and signed language by looking at data concerning either cortical representations or early acquisition. As to cognitive neuroscience, we show that clinical neuropsychological data regarding sign language is partially inconsistent with imaging data. Indeed, whereas both clinical neuropsychology and imagery show the involvement of the left hemisphere in sign language processing, only the latter highlights the importance of the right hemisphere. We discuss several possible interpretations of these contrasting findings. As to psycholinguistics, we survey research on the earliest stages of the acquisition of spoken language, and consider these stages in the acquisition of sign language. We conjecture that under favorable circumstances, deaf children exploit sign input to gain entry into the language system with the same facility as hearing children do with spoken input. More data, however, are needed in order to gain a fuller understanding of the relation of different kinds of natural languages to both the underlying anatomical representations and their early acquisition.
We compared the ability and reproducibility of a fast fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (fast-FLAIR) sequence with and without a magnetization transfer (MT) pulse for detecting and measuring multiple sclerosis (MS)-related abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans from 20 patients. The Contrast-to-Noise ratios between lesions and normal-appearing white matter, lesion numbers, lesion volumes and the variability of such measurements were similar for the two sequences. This suggests that the addition of MT to FLAIR sequences as currently implemented on standard MRI scanners does not improve the detection of MS lesions.
In this longitudinal study, we evaluated the sensitivities of dual-echo, conventional spin-echo (CSE), and rapid-acquisition relaxation-enhanced (RARE) scans for detecting the appearance of new lesions in multiple sclerosis (MS). Dual echo, CSE, and RARE scans were obtained on four occasions each separated by 28 days from five patients with relapsing-remitting MS using a 1.5-Tesla machine. A total of 44 new lesions were detected by the two sequences. Thirty-five lesions were seen on both sequences, three only on CSE and six only on FSE. This study indicates that CSE may be substituted by RARE when monitoring short-term disease activity in MS.
Oxidative stress supposedly plays a role in the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy. We have studied whether a variation in the streptozotocin (STZ) dose or diabetes duration affects the outcome of measurements of oxidative damage in relation to nerve conduction. In experiment 1, we induced diabetes in rats using 40 or 60 mg/kg STZ intravenously and assessed sciatic nerve conduction velocity. After 18 weeks, we measured plasma malondialdehyde (MDA) and red blood cell (RBC) and nerve glutathione levels. We observed a dose-dependent effect of STZ on body weight, and to a lesser extent on nerve conduction, but not on RBC or nerve glutathione and plasma MDA. In experiment 2, we administered a fixed dose of STZ (40 mg/kg) and measured antioxidants and MDA in RBCs, plasma, and sciatic nerve after 2, 4, 8, and 18 weeks in diabetic and control rats. RBC glutathione decreased in diabetic animals initially, but did not differ from control values after week 4. Plasma total glutathione increased until week 8. The ratio of total to oxidized glutathione in the sciatic nerve from diabetic animals paralleled the decrease observed in RBCs, and subsequently increased compared with controls. Nerve catalase increased in diabetic animals. Endoneurial MDA remained unchanged, whereas plasma MDA increased and RBC superoxide dismutase (SOD) decreased in the diabetic group. We conclude that differences in antioxidant levels between STZ-diabetic and control rats depend on the duration of hyperglycemia. Furthermore, dose-related effects of STZ on nerve conduction are not reflected in endoneurial lipid peroxidation or glutathione.
In order to investigate the relationship between pleasant emotional experience and facial expression (i.e., laughter), mood before and after watching comic film clips, self-rated pleasant emotional experience for each film clip and electromyographic activities of facial muscles involved in laughter while watching film clips were measured for 25 patients with schizophrenia and 20 normal controls. Patients with schizophrenia who showed a significant correlation between self-rated emotional experience and major zygomatic activity were equivalent to normal controls in self-rated emotional experience and in mood after film clips; they had a significant increase in mood scores related with pleasure. Although these patients were thought to have sufficient pleasant emotional experience, they showed significantly low major zygomatic activity as compared to normal controls. It is suggested that these patients have a disturbance in the process of emotional expression rather than emotional experience.
Mutations in the hook gene alter intracellular trafficking of internalized ligands in Drosophila. To dissect this defect in more detail, we developed a new approach to visualize the pathway taken by the Bride of Sevenless (Boss) ligand after its internalization into R7 cells. A chimeric protein consisting of HRP fused to Boss (HRP-Boss) was expressed in R8 cells. This chimera was fully functional: it rescued the boss mutant phenotype, and its trafficking was indistinguishable from that of the wild-type Boss protein. The HRP activity of the chimera was used to follow HRP-Boss trafficking on the ultrastructural level through early and late endosomes in R7 cells. In both wild-type and hook mutant eye disks, HRP-Boss was internalized into R7 cells. In wild-type tissue, Boss accumulated in mature multivesicular bodies (MVBs) within R7 cells; such accumulation was not observed in hook eye disks, however. Quantitative electron microscopy revealed a loss of mature MVBs in hook mutant tissue compared with wild type, whereas more than twice as many multilammelar late endosomes were detected. Our genetic analysis indicates that Hook is required late in endocytic trafficking to negatively regulate delivery from mature MVBs to multilammelar late endosomes and lysosomes.
Semaphorins are a large family of secreted and transmembrane glycoproteins. Sema III, a member of the Class III semaphorins is a potent chemorepulsive signal for subsets of sensory axons and steers them away from tissue regions with high levels of expression. Previous studies in mutant mice lacking sema III gene showed various neural and nonneural abnormalities. In this study, we focused on the developing trigeminal pathway of sema III knockout mice. We show that the peripheral and central trigeminal projections are impaired during initial pathway formation when they develop into distinct nerves or tracts. These axons defasciculate and compromise the normal bundling of nerves and restricted alignment of the central tract. In contrast to trigeminal projections, thalamocortical projections to the barrel cortex appear normal. Furthermore, sema III receptor, neuropilin, is expressed during a short period of development when the tract is laid down, but not in the developing thalamocortical pathway. Peripherally, trigeminal axons express neuropilin for longer duration than their central counterparts. In spite of projection errors, whisker follicle innervation appears normal and whisker-related patterns form in the trigeminal nuclei and upstream thalamic and cortical centers. Our observations suggest that sema III plays a limited role during restriction of developing trigeminal axons to proper pathways and tracts. Other molecular and cellular mechanisms must act in concert with semaphorins in ensuring target recognition, topographic order of projections, and patterning of neural connections.
Neural correlates of the often-powerful emotional responses to music are poorly understood. Here we used positron emission tomography to examine cerebral blood flow (CBF) changes related to affective responses to music. Ten volunteers were scanned while listening to six versions of a novel musical passage varying systematically in degree of dissonance. Reciprocal CBF covariations were observed in several distinct paralimbic and neocortical regions as a function of dissonance and of perceived pleasantness/unpleasantness. The findings suggest that music may recruit neural mechanisms similar to those previously associated with pleasant/unpleasant emotional states, but different from those underlying other components of music perception, and other emotions such as fear.
Sensory experience is crucial in the refinement of synaptic connections in the brain during development. It has been suggested that some forms of experience-dependent synaptic plasticity in vivo are associated with changes in the complement of postsynaptic glutamate receptors, although direct evidence has been lacking. Here we show that visual experience triggers the rapid synaptic insertion of new NMDA receptors in visual cortex. The new receptors have a higher proportion of NR2A subunits and, as a consequence, different functional properties. This effect of experience requires NMDA receptor activation and protein synthesis. Thus, rapid regulation of postsynaptic glutamate receptors is one mechanism for developmental plasticity in the brain. Changes in NMDA receptor expression provide a mechanism by which brief sensory experience can regulate the properties of NMDA receptor-dependent plasticity in visual cortex.
The effect of guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein) modifiers on the binding of the adenosine A2A receptor agonist 2-[4-(2-p-carboxyethyl[3H])phenyl-amino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine ([3H]CGS 21680) and of the adenosine A1 receptor agonist [3H]R-phenylisopropyladenosine ([3H]R-PIA) to rat cortical and striatal membranes was studied. Guanosine 5'-(beta,gamma-imido)triphosphate (1-300 microM), which uncouples all G proteins, more effectively inhibited [3H]CGS 21680 (30 nM) binding in the cortex than [3H]R-PIA (2 nM) binding to cortical or striatal membranes or [3H]CGS 21680 (30 nM) binding in the striatum. N-Ethylmaleimide (1-300 microM) or pertussis toxin (1-100 microg/ml), which uncouple G(i)/G(o) protein-coupled receptors, more effectively inhibited [3H]R-PIA binding to cortical or striatal membranes and [3H]CGS 21680 binding in the cortex than [3H]CGS 21680 binding in the striatum. Cholera toxin (2.5-250 microg/ml), which uncouples G(S) protein-coupled receptors, more effectively inhibited [3H]CGS 21680 binding in the striatum than [3H]CGS 21680 binding in the cortex and less effectively inhibited [3H]R-PIA binding to cortical or striatal membranes. Treatment of solubilised cortical membranes with pertussis toxin (50 microg/ml) decreased [3H]CGS 21680 (30-100 nM) binding which almost fully recovered after reconstitution with G(i)/G(o) proteins. The K(i) for displacement of [2-3H]-(4{2-[7-amino-2-(2-furyl)(1,2,4)triazolo(2,3-a)(1,3,5)triazin+ ++-5-ylamino]ethyl}phenol) ([3H]ZM 241385, 1nM) by CGS 21680 was 110 nM (95%CI: 98-122 nM) in non-treated, 230 (167-292) nM in pertussis toxin (25 microg/ml)-treated and 222 (150-295) nM in cholera toxin (50 microg/ml)-treated cortical membranes; in contrast, the K(i) for displacement of [3H]-5-amino-7-(2-phenylethyl)-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo(4,3-e)-1,2,4-triazol o(1,5-c)pyrimidine ([3H]SCH 58261, 1 nM) by CGS 21680 was 74 (57-91) nM in non-treated, 71 (44-100) nM in pertussis toxin-treated and 147 (100-193) nM in cholera toxin-treated cortical membranes. Finally, CGS 21680 displaced monophasically the binding of the A1 antagonist, [3H]8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (2 nM), and the A1 agonist, [3H]R-PIA (2 nM), in 2 or 10 mM Mg(2+)-medium, either at 25 degrees C or 37 degrees C, in cortical or striatal membranes. These results indicate that CGS 21680 does not bind to A1 receptors and that limbic CGS 21680 binding sites differ from striatal-like A2A receptors since they couple to G(i)/G(o) proteins, as well as to G(s) proteins.
The expression of telomerase activity and the in situ localization of the human telomerase RNA component (hTR) in melanocytic skin lesions was evaluated in specimens from sixty-three patients. Specimens of melanocytic nevi, primary melanomas and subcutaneous metastases of melanoma were obtained from fifty-eight patients, whereas metastasized lymph nodes were obtained from five patients. Telomerase activity was determined in these specimens by using a Polymerase Chain Reaction-based assay (TRAP). High relative mean telomerase activity levels were detected in metastatic melanoma (subcutaneous metastases = 54.5, lymph node metastases = 56.5). Much lower levels were detected in primary melanomas, which increased with advancing levels of tumor cell penetration (Clark II = 0.02, Clark III = 1.1, and Clark IV = 1.9). Twenty-six formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded melanocytic lesions were sectioned and analyzed for telomerase RNA with a radioactive in situ hybridization assay. In situ hybridization studies with a probe to the template RNA component of telomerase confirmed that expression was almost exclusively confined to tumor cells and not infiltrating lymphocytes. These results indicate that levels of telomerase activity and telomerase RNA in melanocytic lesions correlate well with clinical stage and could potentially assist in the diagnosis of borderline lesions.
The distribution of responses of sensory neurons to ecological stimulation has been proposed to be designed to maximize information transmission, which according to a simple model would imply an exponential distribution of spike counts in a given time window. We have used recordings from inferior temporal cortex neurons responding to quasi-natural visual stimulation (presented using a video of everyday lab scenes and a large number of static images of faces and natural scenes) to assess the validity of this exponential model and to develop an alternative simple model of spike count distributions. We find that the exponential model has to be rejected in 84% of cases (at the p &lt; 0.01 level). A new model, which accounts for the firing rate distribution found in terms of slow and fast variability in the inputs that produce neuronal activation, is rejected statistically in only 16% of cases. Finally, we show that the neurons are moderately efficient at transmitting information but not optimally efficient.
NMDA receptors are glutamate-regulated ion channels that are of great importance for many physiological and pathophysiological conditions in the mammalian central nervous system. We have previously shown that, at low pH, glutamate decreases binding of the open-channel blocker [3H](+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten, 5,10-imine ([3H]MK-801) to NMDA receptors in the presence of 1 mM Mg2+ but not in Krebs buffer. Here, we investigated which cations that block the glutamate-induced decrease in Krebs buffer, using [3H]MK-801 binding assays in membrane preparations from the rat cerebral cortex. At pH 6.0, Na+, K+, and Ca2+ antagonized the glutamate-induced decrease with cross-over values, which is a measure of the antagonist potencies of the cations, of 81, 71, and 26 mM, respectively, in the absence of added glycine. Thus, in Krebs buffer only the concentration of Na+ (126 mM) is sufficiently high to block the glutamate-induced decrease observed at low pH. In the presence of 1 mM Mg2+ and 10 mM Ca2+ at pH 7.4, the cross-over values for Na+, K+, and Ca2+ were 264, 139, and 122 mM, respectively, in the absence of added glycine. This is the same rank order of potency as observed at pH 6.0, suggesting that the less H+-sensitive and the less Ca2+-sensitive, glutamate-induced decreases in [3H]MK-801 binding represent the same entity. The glycine site antagonists 7-chlorokynurenate (10 microM) and 7-chloro-4-hydroxy-3-(3-phenoxy)phenyl-2(H)-quinoline (L-701,324; 1 microM) antagonized the glutamate-induced decrease in [3H]MK-801 binding observed in presence of Mg2+ at pH 6.0, suggesting that glycine is required together with glutamate to induce the decrease observed at low pH. These results suggest that in addition to a previously described high-affinity binding site for H+ and Ca2+ there exist a low-affinity binding site for H+, Ca2+, Na+, and K+ on NMDA receptors. The latter site may under physiological conditions be blocked by Na+ or K+, depending on the extra/intracellular localization of the modulatory site. Both the high-affinity and low-affinity cation sites mediate antagonistic effects on the glutamate- and glycine-induced decrease of the affinity of the [3H]MK-801 binding site, which may correspond to similar changes in the affinity of the voltage-sensitive Mg2+-block site inside the NMDA receptor channel pore, which in turn may affect current and Ca2+ influx through activated NMDA receptor channels.
Mice that are genetically deficient in UDP-galactose: ceramide galactosyltransferase are unable to synthesize galactosylceramide. Consequently, sulfatide, which can be synthesized only by sulfation of galactosylceramide, is also totally absent in affected mouse brain. Alpha-hydroxy fatty acid-containing glucosylceramide partially replaces the missing galactosylceramide. A substantial proportion of sphingomyelin, which normally contains only non-hydroxy fatty acids, also contains alpha-hydroxy fatty acids. These findings indicate that alpha-hydroxy fatty acid-containing ceramide normally present only in galactosylceramide and sulfatide is diverted to other compounds because they cannot be synthesized into galactosylceramide due to the lack of the galactosyltransferase. We have examined brain gangliosides in order to determine if alpha-hydroxy fatty acid-containing glucosylceramide present in an abnormally high concentration is also incorporated into gangliosides. The brain ganglioside composition, however, is entirely normal in both the total amount and molecular distribution in these mice. One feasible explanation is that UDP-galactose: glucosylceramide galactosyltransferase does not recognize alpha-hydroxy fatty acid-containing glucosylceramide as acceptor. This analytical finding is consistent with the relative sparing of gray matter in the affected mice and provides an insight into sphingolipid metabolism in the mouse brain.
The present study documents the use of an iron oxide-based blood-pool contrast agent in functional magnetic resonance imaging to monitor activity-related changes in cerebral blood volume (CBV) resulting from peripheral sensory stimulation and the application of this technique to generate high-resolution functional maps. Rats, anesthetized with alpha-chloralose, were imaged during electrical stimulation (3 ms, 3 Hz, 3 V) of forelimb or hindlimb. Activation maps were generated by cross-correlation of the measured signal response and a square-wave function representative of the stimulus for each image pixel. Multislice imaging produced functional maps consistent with the known functional anatomy of rat primary somatosensory (S-I) cortex. Imaging with improved temporal resolution demonstrated rapid (&lt;6 s) CBV increases which were sustained and relatively stable (coefficient of variation = 0.17 +/- 0.02) for forelimb stimulation periods of up to 5 min. Enabled by this sustained response we generated high-resolution (approximately 100 micrometer in-plane) functional maps showing discrete forelimb and hindlimb activation. This technique offers many advantages over other methods for the study of brain activity in the rat and has resolution sufficient to be useful in reorganization studies.
The transcription factor CREB is involved in mediating many of the long-term effects of activity-dependent plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. Here, we show that activation of NMDA receptors and voltage-sensitive calcium channels leads to CREB-mediated transcription in cortical neurons via a mechanism regulated by CREB-binding protein (CBP). Recruitment of CBP to the promoter is not sufficient for transactivation, but calcium influx can induce CBP-mediated transcription via two distinct transactivation domains. CBP-mediated transcription is stimulus strength-dependent and can be induced by activation of CaM kinase II, CaM kinase IV, and protein kinase A, but not by activation of the Ras-MAP kinase pathway. These observations indicate that CBP can function as a calcium-sensitive transcriptional coactivator that may act as a regulatory switch for glutamate-induced CREB-mediated transcription.


The brains of two patients with Lesch-Nyhan syndrome (LNS) were studied. The concentration of dopamine was decreased in the caudate nucleus of LNS patients. Immunohistochemical methods revealed that the dopamine (DA) D1 and D2 receptor and methionine-enkephalin immunoreactivities (IRs) were increased in the putamen, and less significantly in the caudate nucleus. The D1 and D2 receptor IRs of the cingulate cortex, the tryptophan-hydroxylase IR in the dorsal nucleus of the midbrain, as well as the substance P and methionine-enkephalin IRs of the nociception-conducting structures, including the periaqueductal gray and spinal trigeminal nucleus, were not changed. Tyrosine-hydroxylase IR was not decreased in the substantia nigra of the LNS patients. Therefore, the cause of the decreased dopaminergic activity in LNS may not be involved in the production of tyrosine hydroxylase in the substantia nigra. Developmental abnormalities due to the DA defect at an early age might exist in the postsynaptic structure in the striatum.
We have examined the effects of a variety of classical and atypical neuroleptic drugs on mitochondrial NADH ubiquinone oxido-reductase (complex I) activity. Sagittal slices of mouse brain incubated in vitro with haloperidol (10 nM) showed time- and concentration-dependent inhibition of complex I. Similar concentrations of the pyridinium metabolite of haloperidol (HPP+) failed to inhibit complex I activity in this model; indeed, comparable inhibition was obtained only at a 10000-fold higher concentration of HPP+ (100 microM). Treatment of brain slices with haloperidol resulted in a loss of glutathione (GSH), while pretreatment of slices with GSH and alpha-lipoic acid abolished haloperidol-induced loss of complex I activity. Incubation of mitochondria from haloperidol treated brain slices with the thiol reductant, dithiothreitol, completely regenerated complex I activity demonstrating thiol oxidation as a feasible mechanism of inhibition. In a comparison of different neuroleptic drugs, haloperidol was the most potent inhibitor of complex I, followed by chlorpromazine, fluphenazine and risperidone while the atypical neuroleptic, clozapine (100 microM) did not inhibit complex I activity in mouse brain slices. The present studies support the view that classical neuroleptics such as haloperidol inhibit mitochondrial complex I through oxidative modification of the enzyme complex.
The metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist ACPD exerts an unusual inhibitory effect on a population of neurons of the song-control nucleus HVc of the zebra finch via activation of the GIRK channel. We report in the present study the pharmacology of this response. ACPD directly hyperpolarized the neurons by a mechanism independent of GABA(B) receptors. The group I mGluR agonist DHPG had no effect on membrane properties and the group I mGluR antagonist 4-CPG did not affect the ACPD-induced hyperpolarization. In contrast, the ACPD response was mimicked by the group II mGluR agonist LY314593 and the group II and III agonist L-CCG-I. The group II mGluR antagonist LY307452 fully antagonized the ACPD response and reduced the response induced by L-CCG-I. The group III mGluR agonist L-AP4 induced a small hyperpolarization, which was antagonized by the group III mGluR antagonist MAP-4. These data indicate that group II and group III mGluRs are present and functional in the postsynaptic membrane of these HVc neurons, and mediate the hyperpolarizing action of mGluR agonists. In contrast, group I mGluRs are absent from these neurons, nonfunctional, or coupled to different effector systems that do not influence membrane potential or input resistance.

Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded while subjects performed two different source memory retrieval tasks. Each task was preceded by a study phase in which subjects heard an equal number of words spoken in a male or a female voice. A cue preceding each word indicated whether the subjects should make an active/passive (action) or a pleasant/unpleasant (liking) judgment to the word. In one retrieval task (the voice condition), subjects made a three-way distinction between new (unstudied) words, and words that had been spoken by the male or the female voice at study. In the second retrieval task (the task condition), subjects distinguished between new words, and words to which they had made an action or a liking judgment. All test words were presented visually. In keeping with previous findings, the differences between the ERPs to correct memory judgments for old and new items were characterised by two temporally and topographically dissociable modulations, with right-frontal and left-parietal maxima respectively. These 'old/new effects' displayed different sensitivities to successful retrieval of either voice or task information, providing further evidence that they index functionally dissociable processes. The direct comparison of the ERPs to correct rejections in the voice and task retrieval conditions revealed reliable differences over frontal scalp, suggesting that, irrespective of whether retrieval is successful, neural processing differs according to the source retrieval demands of the task.
Redundant-targets effects (RTE) for visual search were investigated in 2 commissurotomy patients (L.B., N.G.). L.B., who showed no evidence of visual interhemispheric transfer, exhibited a paradoxical enhancement of the redundancy gain in the bilateral compared with the within-hemifield redundant-targets conditions, whereas N.G., who showed evidence of interhemispheric transfer of visual information, exhibited no enhancement of the bilateral redundancy gain. When only uncrossed responses were considered, both bilateral and within-field RTE were evident only when attentional demands were high. Bilateral redundant targets led to stronger gains, some indicative of coactivation, in the slower response hand. The authors suggest that the enhancement of the bilateral RTE comes about by neural coactivation, which is especially pronounced when the slower hemisphere elicits the response.
To clarify the involvement of prefrontal cortex in episodic memory, behavioral and event-related potential (ERP) measures of recognition were examined in patients with dorsolateral prefrontal lesions. In controls, recognition accuracy and the ERP old-new effect declined with increasing retention intervals. Although frontal patients showed a higher false-alarm rate to new words, their hit rate to old words and ERP old-new effect were intact, suggesting that recognition processes were not fundamentally altered by prefrontal damage. The opposite behavioral pattern was observed in patients with hippocampal lesions: a normal false-alarm rate and a precipitous decline in hit rate at long lags. The intact ERP effect and the change in response bias during recognition suggest that frontal patients exhibited a deficit in strategic processing or postretrieval monitoring, in contrast to the more purely mnemonic deficit shown by hippocampal patients.
We investigated the effects of a single administration of a cholinesterase inhibitor, tetrahydroaminoacridine (THA, 25 and 50 mg, orally), and an alpha 2-agonist, clonidine (0.5 and 2 micrograms/kg, orally), on neuropsychologic performance in two groups of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Clonidine enhanced a spatial working memory and verbal fluency, but had no effect on spatial span or word priming. THA enhanced word priming, but had no effect on other performance measures. Our data suggests that degeneration of the LC noradrenergic system and the cholinergic cells of the basal forebrain have different functional consequences during the progression of AD. Finally, a combined treatment with noradrenergic and cholinergic drugs might produce a qualitatively broader effect on cognitive functions than either of the treatments alone, and more effectively attenuate clinical dementia.
To investigate the neuronal substrates participating in attentional set-shifting for motor selection rules, a functional magnetic resonance imaging study was performed during hand-shape selection tasks. During the session, six right-handed subjects were required to make one of three hand-shapes using their right hands, in response to the hand-shape images on a video screen, following one of the three predefined rules of win, lose, and tie. The selection rules were consistently applied in three conditions (win, tie, and lose), and changed alternately in one condition (alternate win-lose). Thus the alternate win-lose condition requires the shift of rules for motor selection. This alternate condition compared with the win, tie, and lose conditions showed activation in the left middle frontal gyrus, the bilateral inferior frontal gyri, and the left posterior fusiform and lingual gyri. These activation patterns in the prefrontal cortex were similar to those observed during the performance of the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), which requires a typical set-shifting ability from one perceptual dimension to another (Berman et al., 1995. Neuropsychologia 33, 1027-1046; Nagahama et al., 1996. Brain 119, 1667-1675; Konishi et al., 1998. Nature Neuroscience 1, 80-84.). Our data may indicate that the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex including the middle and inferior frontal gyri are important in attentional set-shifting of both perceptual and non-perceptual characteristics. Another activation in the fusiform and lingual gyri may have reflected the increased attentional demand for visual processing in the light of a current rule for motor selection.
The sensory neuron stimulant drug capsaicin stimulates primary afferent nerve endings in the guinea-pig small intestine, which in turn activate myenteric cholinergic neurons by an unknown mechanism. The tachykinins substance P and neurokinin A are present in primary afferent neurons. This study was performed to assess the possible involvement of endogenous tachykinins acting via neurokinin-1, neurokinin-2 and neurokinin-3 receptors in the contractile effect of capsaicin in the isolated guinea-pig ileum and oesophagus by using the receptor-specific antagonists GR 82334 (3 microM) for neurokinin-1 receptors, MEN 10627 (3 microM; ileum) or MEN 11420 (1 microM; oesophagus) for neurokinin-2 receptors and SR 142801 (0.1 microM) for neurokinin-3 receptors. In the ileum, the peak contraction evoked by capsaicin (2 microM) was not reduced when tachykinin neurokinin-1, neurokinin-2 or neurokinin-3 receptors were blocked separately, whereas an inhibition of neurokinin-3 receptors diminished the area under the curve of the capsaicin response. A combined blockade of neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-3 receptors significantly depressed the effect of capsaicin; the amplitude of the contractile response was 53.3+/-3.7% of the maximal longitudinal spasm in control preparations, whereas in the presence of GR 82334 plus SR 142801 it reached only 27.6+/-5% (P&lt;0.001, Kruskal-Wallis test; n=9 and 10, respectively). Also, the area under the curve of the contractile response to capsaicin was more than 85% lower in the group of preparations treated with GR 82334 plus SR 142801 than in the control group (P&lt;0.001). Including a neurokinin-2 blocker in the combination did not produce any further inhibition. A concomitant tachyphylaxis to substance P (natural neurokinin-1 receptor stimulant) and the neurokinin-3 receptor agonist senktide (5 and 1 microM, respectively) also reduced the contractile effect of capsaicin. In the oesophagus, capsaicin (1 microM) induced biphasic contractions which were strongly inhibited by atropine (1 microM) or capsaicin pretreatment (1 microM for 10 min). Here again, a blockade of tachykinin neurokinin-1, neurokinin-2 or neurokinin-3 receptors separately failed to inhibit the response to capsaicin, whereas a combined blockade of any two tachykinin receptors caused a partial inhibition. The reduction of the contractile effect of capsaicin was strongest when all three tachykinin receptors were blocked. In seven control preparations, peaks for the first and second phases of contraction reached 35.3+/-3.7% and 20+/-3.2% of maximal longitudinal spasm; the corresponding values in the presence of a combination of GR 82334, MEN 11420 and SR 142801 were 7.5+/-0.8% and 9.1+/-2.2%, respectively (n=6, P&lt;0.001 and 0.05, respectively). Tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM) practically abolished the contractile effect of capsaicin in both tissues studied. It is concluded that an interplay of neuronal tachykinin neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-3 receptors (ileum) and neurokinin-1, neurokinin-2 and neurokinin-3 receptors (oesophagus) is involved in the contractile action of capsaicin, probably in mediating excitation of myenteric neurons by tachykinins released from primary afferents. In both tissues, there also seems to be a non-tachykininergic component of the capsaicin-induced contraction.
Neuronal growth factors play an important role in the development and maintenance of the nervous system. In the olfactory system, neurogenesis and synapse formation occur not only during development but throughout life and it would be expected that growth factors play a significant role in these ongoing processes. We have examined the expression of three neurotrophic factors, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, ciliary neurotrophic factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the normal rat olfactory system and following synaptic target ablation (olfactory bulbectomy). We found that brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity was confined to the horizontal basal cells of the olfactory neuroepithelium and was unaltered by bulbectomy. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity was present in the mature olfactory neurons and also their synaptic target cells in the olfactory bulb. Following bulbectomy, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity was abolished from the neuroepithelium. Ciliary neurotrophic factor was present throughout the olfactory neuronal lineage with strongest immunoreactivity in the horizontal basal cells and mature olfactory neurons as well as several cell types in the olfactory bulb. Postbulbectomy, there was loss of strong ciliary neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity in olfactory neurons, however, low levels persisted in the remaining neuronal population. Horizontal basal cell immunoreactivity persisted over three months. Our results would be consistent with glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor expression in mature olfactory neurons being dependent upon functional synaptic contact with the olfactory bulb. Alternatively, this factor may be acting as target-derived growth factor for olfactory neurons, a role in keeping with its function in spinal motoneurons and in the nigrostriatal system. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor is implicated in the trophic support of immature neurons. Ciliary neurotrophic factor is clearly important in this unique neuronal system but elucidation of its role awaits further investigation.
The cellular and subcellular expression of the monocarboxylate transporters MCT1, MCT2 and MCT4 [corresponding to MCT3 of Price N. T. et al. (1998) Biochem. J. 329, 321-328] were investigated in the pigment epithelium and outer retina of rats. Immunofluorescence and postembedding immunogold analyses revealed strong MCT1 labelling in the apical membrane of the pigment epithelial and no detectable signal in the basolateral membrane. In contrast, antibodies to the glucose transporter GLUT1 produced intense labelling in both membranes. Neither MCT1 nor GLUT1 was enriched in intracellular compartments. The monocarboxylate transporter MCT4 was very weakly expressed in the retinal pigment epithelium of adult animals, but occurred at higher concentrations at this site in 14-day-old rats. However, even at the latter stage, the immunolabelling of MCT4 was weak compared to that of MCT1. In the neural retina, the data were consistent with a predominant glial localization of MCT1. Specifically, immunogold particles signalling MCT1 occurred in Mller cell microvilli and in the velate processes between the photoreceptors. No labelling was obtained with antibodies to MCT2. Taken together with previous biochemical analyses, the present findings indicate that MCT1 is involved in the outward transport of lactate through the retinal pigment epithelial cells, and in the transfer of lactate between Mller cells and photoreceptors.
The glycine receptor is a ligand-gated anion channel protein, providing inhibitory drive within the nervous system. We report here the isolation and functional characterization of a novel alpha subunit (alphaZ1) of the glycine receptor from adult zebrafish (Danio rerio) brain. The predicted amino acid sequence is 86%, 81% and 77% identical to mammalian isoforms alpha1, alpha3 and alpha2, respectively. AlphaZ1 exhibits many of the molecular features of mammalian alpha1, but the sequence patterns in the M4 and C-terminal domains are more similar to alpha2/alpha3. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that alphaZ1 is more closely related to the mammalian alpha1 subunits, being positioned, however, on a distinct branch. The alphaZ1 messenger RNA is 9.5 kb, similar to that described previously for alpha1 messenger RNAs. When expressed in Xenopus oocytes or a human cell line (BOSC 23), alphaZ1 forms a homomeric receptor which is activated by glycine and antagonized by strychnine. This receptor demonstrates unexpectedly high sensitivity to taurine and can also be activated by GABA. These results are consistent with physiological findings in lamprey and goldfish, and they suggest that this teleost fish glycine receptor displays a lower selectivity to neurotransmitters than that reported for glycine mammalian receptors.
Inhibitory interneurons are important elements of the network underlying the gill and siphon withdrawal reflex in Aplysia, and a large component of this inhibition is cholinergic. In this study, we investigated one key identified cholinergic inhibitory interneuron of the network, neuron L16, and studied some properties of its synaptic transmission and its modulation. We found that a slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential evoked in sensory neurons by L16 has two components. An earlier inhibitory postsynaptic potential component is sensitive to curare (100 microM) and has a reversal potential near the Cl- equilibrium potential (-54.5 mV). A later inhibitory postsynaptic potential component is sensitive to tetraethylammonium (0.5-1 mM); it is decreased by membrane hyperpolarization and becomes undetectable near the K+ equilibrium potential (between -80 and -90 mV). Input to sensory neurons from L16 can be altered by two neuromodulators of the reflex, the small cardioactive peptide and serotonin. Small cardioactive peptide (10 microM) facilitates the connections between L16 and the sensory neurons, while serotonin (5-10 microM) inhibits them. Part of the effect of serotonin on the transmission between L16 and the sensory neurons is due to a postsynaptic mechanism, since responses to acetylcholine application in these cells are decreased by serotonin. These results indicate an additional site of synaptic plasticity in the withdrawal reflex network, the inhibitory cholinergic transmission, by two major neuromodulatory transmitters, small cardioactive peptide and serotonin.
Intracellular microelectrodes were used to record the effects of extended periods (1-30 min) of synaptic activation on AH neurons in the myenteric ganglia of the guinea-pig ileum. Low-frequency (1 Hz) stimulation gave rise to a slowly developing, sustained increase in excitability of the neurons associated with depolarization and increased input resistance. The increased excitability lasted for up to 3.5 h following the stimulus period. Successive stimulus trains (1-4 min) elicited successively greater increases in excitability. The neurons went through stages of excitation. Before stimulation, 500-ms depolarizing pulses evoked up to three action potentials (phasic response) and anode break action potentials were not observed. As excitability increased, more action potentials were evoked by depolarization (the responses became tonic), anode break action potentials were observed, prolonged after hyperpolarizing potentials that follow multiple action potentials were diminished and, with substantial depolarization of the neurons, invasion by antidromic action potentials was suppressed. It is concluded that a state of elevated excitability is induced in myenteric AH neurons by synaptic activation at low frequency and that changes in excitability can outlast stimulation by several hours.
Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome is an autoimmune disease that impairs neuromuscular transmission. Several studies suggest that neurotransmitter release is reduced by an immune response directed against the calcium channel complex of nerve terminals. The immunoglobulin G fractions from Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome patients immunoprecipitate solubilized neuronal N- and P/Q-type channels and in certain cases brain, skeletal and cardiac muscle L-type channels [El Far O. et al. (1995) J. Neurochem. 64, 1696-1702; Lennon V. A. and Lambert E. H. (1989) Mayo Clin. Proc. 64, 1498-1504; Sher E. et al. (1989) Lancet ii, 640-643; Suenaga A. et al. (1996) Muscle Nerve 19, 1166-1168]. These channel immunoprecipitation assays are considered as useful for the diagnosis of this syndrome. In this study, we demonstrate that two predominant neuronal voltage-dependent calcium channel beta subunits (beta3 and beta4, of mol. wt 58,000) are general targets of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome autoantibodies. Of 20 disease sera tested, 55% were able to immunoprecipitate 35S-labeled beta subunits. All five patients affected with small-cell lung carcinoma were positive for the beta-subunit immunoprecipitation assay. Interestingly, only a fraction of the beta-subunit-positive sera was also able to immunoprecipitate N- and P/Q-type channels, suggesting that several of the beta-subunit epitopes are masked in native channels. In accordance with this observation, we found that several beta-positive sera were able to prevent the interaction between calcium channel alpha1 and beta subunits in vitro. In cases where sera were able to immunoprecipitate beta subunits, N- and P/Q-type channels, the immunoprecipitation of both channel types was either partially or entirely mediated by beta-subunit antibodies. Our results suggest that assays based on the immunoprecipitation of beta subunits can be used as an additional test to assist in the diagnosis of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome.
Neurotrophin-3 is indispensable for the development of limb proprioceptive neurons and their end organs, muscle spindles. To determine whether the low-affinity p75 receptor potentiates the actions of neurotrophin-3, we examined the development of the proprioceptive system in p75 null mutant mice that had either normal or decreased tissue levels of neurotrophin-3. Postnatal mice lacking both copies of the p75 gene had fewer sensory neurons in dorsal root ganglia, but normal complements of muscle spindles in fast hindlimb muscles, although the slow soleus muscle showed a 50% loss of spindles. However, compound mutants lacking both copies of the p75 gene as well as one copy of the neurotrophin-3 gene displayed a dystonic/ataxic phenotype similar to that observed previously in neurotrophin-3 null mutants devoid of proprioception. The compound mutants also exhibited a commensurate loss of parvalbumin-expressing (proprioceptive) neurons in dorsal root ganglia. The degree of deficiency of spindles (and presumably proprioceptive neurons) in the compound mutants exceeded the sum of deficits in single mutants lacking either both copies of p75 genes or one copy of neurotrophin-3 gene, suggesting a synergistic interaction between the p75 receptor and neurotrophin-3. Neuronal deficits in the compound mutants were present prior to embryonic day 14, indicating an early role for the p75 receptor in sensory neuronogenesis. Collectively, these data indicate that the p75 receptor is not essential for the survival and differentiation of most limb proprioceptive neurons when neurotrophin-3 is expressed at normal levels. However, the p75 receptor may act in synergy with neurotrophin-3 to enhance the survival of proprioceptive neurons when tissue levels of neurotrophin-3 are a limiting factor.
A group of respiratory neurons in the rostral nucleus ambiguus complex is known to generate the inspiratory and expiratory drives which enable spontaneous respiration to be sustained. Since previous studies indicated that mutual synaptic inhibition is required to produce oscillations between inspiratory and expiratory neurons, it may implicate GABAergic synaptic transmission between each group of neurons. In this study we tried to determine whether most ambiguous respiratory neurons are influenced by GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition. Eighty-eight respiratory interneurons showing rhythmic activity in synchrony with the spontaneous respiration were recorded in urethane-chloralose anesthetized Wistar rats. Multibarrel iontophoretic application of GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline produced a remarkable facilitation in maximum burst discharge rate, whereas the agonist muscimol reversed this effect completely. Simultaneous application of GABA and bicuculline increased the discharge rate more than in any single application or in the simultaneous application of GABA and muscimol. These results were statistically significant. These findings suggest strongly that GABA(A) receptors in the ambiguous respiratory neurons may have an inhibitory role in the synaptic transmission for maintaining the respiratory oscillation in the nucleus ambiguus.
Neurotrophic factors are known to promote neuronal survival during development and after acute brain injury. Recent data suggest that some neuropeptides also exhibit neurotrophic activities, as shown for the pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide, which increases the survival of various neuronal populations in culture. Employing in situ hybridization techniques, we have studied the regulation of messenger RNA for pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide and its receptor type 1 after a moderate traumatic brain injury to rat brain cortex. We have further compared their messenger RNA expression to that of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and to the amount of cell death occurring in the brain at various times after the brain injury. Levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA increased rapidly within 2 h after trauma in cortex and hippocampus, and returned to control levels thereafter. The levels of messenger RNA for pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide also increased with time in the injured brains and reached maximal expression at 72 h, i.e. the end of the observation period. The alterations in pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide messenger RNA levels were particularly pronounced in the perifocal region and in the ipsilateral dentate gyrus of the brain injury. In contrast, the messenger RNA levels encoding pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide receptor type 1 first decreased after trauma and were then normalized in the dentate gyrus. There was a large increase in the number of cells labelled for DNA breaks at 12 h post-trauma, indicative of enhanced cell death. The number of labelled cells, however, decreased at later stages concomitant with an increase in the expression of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide messenger RNA. Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide rescued cortical neurons in cultures against ionomycin-induced cell death, supporting the concept of a neuroprotective effect for the peptide. These results demonstrate a differential regulation of messenger RNA for brain-derived neurotrophic factor and the pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide and its receptor after brain trauma. The data also suggest that pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide might have a beneficial effect in brain injury by counteracting neuronal cell death.
Activation of kappa-opioid receptors in the rostral ventral medulla has been reported to attenuate analgesia induced by activation of mu-opioid receptors in the periaqueductal gray matter. Previous studies have suggested that the cells associated with this effect might contain serotonin. In the present study, we investigated the relationship of the cloned kappa-opioid receptor to spinally projecting neurons immunoreactive for serotonin or GABA. This was done by employing two-color immunofluorescence in combination with retrograde tract-tracing using Fluoro-Gold. In the rostral ventral medulla, neurons triple-labeled for the cloned kappa-opioid receptor, serotonin and Fluoro-Gold were observed; neurons double-labeled for the cloned kappa-opioid receptor and serotonin, or single-labeled for the cloned kappa-opioid receptor or for serotonin were also observed. In addition, cloned kappa-opioid receptor immunoreactivity was expressed in some cell profiles immunoreactive for GABA. The expression of the cloned kappa-opioid receptor in the spinal cord dorsal horn was not associated with processes immunoreactive for serotonin. Our findings suggest that kappa-opioid receptors in the rostral ventral medulla are positioned to directly control the activity of at least some serotonergic neurons projecting to the dorsal spinal cord. Thus, it appears possible that the anti-analgesic action resulting from microinjection of kappa-opioid agonists into the rostral ventral medulla is mediated, at least in part, by these neurons.
The characteristics of the inwardly rectifying K+ current activated by a mu-type opioid agonist, D-Ala2,N-MePhe4,Gly5-ol-enkephalin (DAMGO), were examined in the acutely dissociated rat periaqueductal gray neurons using the nystatin-perforated and the conventional whole-cell recording modes under voltage-clamp conditions. DAMGO activated inward currents in a concentration- and voltage-dependent manner. The DAMGO-induced current was an inwardly rectifying K+ current (I(DAMGO)) which was sensitive to K+ channel blockers, quinine and Ba2+ but insensitive to Cs+ and tetraethylammonium. In the conventional whole-cell clamp mode, guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) trilithium salt (GDPbetas, 0.4 mM) inhibited the amplitude of I(DAMGO) to 28% of that of the initial current. After the intracellular perfusion with guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) tetralithium salt (GTPgammas, 0.4 mM) for 1 min, the first application of DAMGO irreversibly activated I(DAMGO). By the extracellular application of N-ethylmaleimide at a concentration of 50 microM for 2 min, I(DAMGO) was completely abolished. When a conventional whole-cell patch was made with a patch-pipette containing 1 microg/ml of pertussis toxin together with 1 mM of beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, I(DAMGO) gradually declined to about 41% of its initial amplitude. The extracellular application of second messenger modulators including protein kinase inhibitor (staurosporin), protein kinase A activators (forskolin, 3-isobutyl-l-methyl-xanthine and dibutyryladenosine 3'5'-cyclic monophosphate) and protein kinase C activators (phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate and 1-oleoyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycerol) had no effect on I(DAMGO). These results suggest that (i) DAMGO-activated inwardly rectifying K+ current is mediated by pertussis toxin-sensitive guanine nucleotide binding proteins (G-proteins); (ii) the types of G protein involved in I(DAMGO) are Gi and/or Go; and (iii) the G-proteins exert their roles in I(DAMGO) without any mediation of the second messenger systems.
The dorsal horn of the subnucleus caudalis of the spinal trigeminal nucleus is a relay of oro-facial pain transmission; increase in subnucleus caudalis neuronal activity in response to tissue injury affects the level of chemical mediators participating in nociceptive processing. We investigated, by means of immunocytochemistry, the expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) glutamate receptor subunits in this nucleus in a model of inflammation. Rats injected with formalin in the whisker pad were compared with saline-injected control rats. One and two days after formalin injection, the immunostaining of cell bodies and neuropil of the AMPA receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR2/3 was markedly decreased in the ipsilateral superficial laminae of the subnucleus caudalis compared to the contralateral side. Side differences were not evident in the saline-treated animals. The down-regulation of AMPA GluR1 and GluR2/3 was no longer detectable in the subnucleus caudalis three days after formalin injection. No side difference was detected in the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit NR2A/B immunoreactivity of the subnucleus caudalis at any time-point in the formalin-injected animals. The modulation of AMPA receptor may be related to the decrease of hyperalgesia evident 1 h after formalin injection, in spite of the increasing perioral inflammation evident later on and characteristic of the formalin model. The present findings point out a selective down-regulation of AMPA receptor subunits in the transduction of trigeminal pain. These data also support the involvement of glutamate receptor subunits in the processing of trigeminal inflammation induced by noxious chemical stimulation.
The expression of Fos-like immunoreactivity has been studied in spinal segments L5-S1 of decerebrated, unanaesthetized, but otherwise unstimulated rabbits. The aim of the study was to establish baseline levels of Fos in such preparations, and to examine how these might change after spinalization and opioid receptor blockade. In animals with an intact spinal cord, approximately 30 Fos-positive profiles per section were found in the superficial dorsal horns (i.e. laminae I and II) of each 40-microm section, while about 20 profiles per section were found immediately adjacent to the central canal (lamina X). Fos-like immunoreactive profiles were rare elsewhere in the gray matter. When the spinal cord was sectioned at L1 (after blockade with local anaesthetic), significantly more Fos-like immunoreactivity was found in superficial and central regions of the gray matter (approximately 90 profiles per section) in animals perfused 4 h after decerebration, but not when perfusion was performed 2 or 8 h after decerebration. The opioid antagonist naloxone (0.25 mg/kg/h) had little effect on expression of Fos-like immunoreactivity in spinalized preparations, but significantly increased the numbers of Fos-positive profiles in all but the ventral areas of the spinal gray matter in non-spinalized preparations. The present data show that spinal section induces a transient increase in expression of Fos in the superficial and central parts of the spinal gray matter. It appears that spinalization induces spontaneous activity in some neurons in these regions of the cord, presumably as a result of relief of descending inhibition. The effects of naloxone indicate that endogenous opioids exert tonic inhibition over Fos-expressing spinal neurons in non-spinalized rabbits.
Noxious mechanical and chemical stimuli were applied to the toes of the left hind limb of decerebrated, spinalized rabbits and their effects on a hind limb spinal withdrawal reflex and expression of Fos-like immunoreactivity in the spinal cord were measured. The animals were prepared so as to minimize nociceptive inputs arising from surgery. A single crush stimulus applied with a pair of haemostatic forceps caused long-lasting (c. 20 min) inhibition of reflexes evoked in medial gastrocnemius motoneurons by electrical stimulation of the skin at the heel. Naloxone (0.25 mg/kg i.v.) increased reflexes to more than 1000% of pre-drug controls and reversed crush-evoked inhibition. Mustard oil applied to the toes had no consistent effects on the heel-gastrocnemius reflex before or after naloxone. Both crush and mustard oil stimuli gave rise to unilateral increases in the number of Fos-immunopositive profiles in the superficial dorsal horn of spinal segments L7 and S1. There were significantly more Fos-immunoreactive elements in the central and lateral parts of lamina I of both segments in animals receiving the crush stimulus than there were in animals receiving the mustard oil stimulus. Immunochemical localization of enkephalins in rabbit spinal cord showed a dense network of fibres and terminals in laminae I and II, accompanied by infrequent but distinctly stained neuronal cell bodies. The same pattern, with increased numbers of visible cell bodies, was seen after treatment with colchicine. The present data show that tonic and stimulus-evoked opioidergic inhibition of the heel-gastrocnemius reflex of the rabbit are not epiphenomena of surgical preparation of the hindlimb. Opioid-mediated inhibition of the heel-gastrocnemius withdrawal reflex of the rabbit was evoked by noxious mechanical but not by chemical stimulation of the toes. Of these stimuli, the former gave rise to greater activation of neurons in central and lateral lamina I of segments L7 and S1, the region of termination of afferent fibres from the heel and the location of some enkephalin-positive neuronal cell bodies. Thus, noxious mechanical stimulation of the toes elicits inhibition of the heel-gastrocnemius withdrawal reflex, probably via activation of enkephalinergic neurons in the lateral half of lamina I in the L7 and S1 segments.
The in vitro brain stem-spinal cord preparation of neonatal (0- to five-day-old) rats was used to establish whether pathways descending from the brain stem are capable of modulating synaptic transmission from primary afferents to lumbar motoneurons within the first few days after birth. We stimulated the ventral funiculus of the spinal cord at the cervical (C1-C2) level. Single-pulse stimulations evoked both excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in ipsilateral lumbar (L2-L5) motoneurons which were recorded intracellularly. Twin-pulse stimulations evoked bursts of action potentials in ventral roots. The amplitude of the monosynaptic dorsal root-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential decreased when a conditioning stimulation was applied to the ventral funiculus 50-300 ms prior to the stimulation of the ipsilateral dorsal root. A decreased input resistance of the motoneurons during the early part (25-100 ms after the artifact) of the ventral funiculus-evoked postsynaptic potentials could account, at least partly, for the decreased amplitude of the dorsal root-evoked response. However, the duration of the inhibition of the dorsal root-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential was longer than that of the decrease in input resistance. Ventral funiculus stimulation evoked antidromic discharges in dorsal roots. Recordings of dorsal root potentials showed that these discharges were generated by the underlying afferent terminal depolarizations reaching firing threshold. The dorsal root discharge overlapped with most of the time-course of the ventral funiculus-evoked inhibition of the response to dorsal root stimulation, suggesting that part of this inhibition may be exerted at a presynaptic level. The number of antidromic action potentials evoked in dorsal roots by ventral funiculus stimulation increased significantly in saline solution with chloride concentration reduced to 50% of control. Bursts of action potentials disappeared when chloride was removed completely. Antidromic discharges were therefore due to chloride conductance. The number of action potentials evoked in ventral roots was increased in low-chloride saline solutions. Removing chloride from the bathing solution resulted in an unstable ventral root activity. Bath application of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline (5-10 microM), blocked the ventral funiculus-evoked antidromic discharges in the dorsal roots. The increase in chloride conductance which generated the depolarizations underlying the dorsal root discharges was therefore mediated by an activation of GABA(A) receptors. In contrast, bursts of action potentials in the ventral roots were increased in both amplitude and duration under bicuculline. Our data demonstrate that pathways running in the ventral funiculus of the spinal cord exert a control on interneurons mediating presynaptic inhibition at birth.
Neuropathic pain is thought to arise from ectopic discharges at the site of injury within the peripheral nervous system, and is manifest as a general increase in the level of neuronal excitability within primary afferent fibres and their synaptic contacts within the spinal cord. Voltage-activated Na+ channel blockers such as lamotrigine have been shown to be clinically effective in the treatment of neuropathic pain. Na+ channels are structurally diverse comprising a principal a subunit (of which there are variable isoforms) and two auxiliary subunits termed beta1 and beta2. Both beta subunits affect the rates of channel activation and inactivation, and can modify alpha subunit density within the plasma membrane. In addition, these subunits may interact with extracellular matrix molecules to affect growth and myelination of axons. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry we have shown that the expression of the beta1 and beta2 subunits within the dorsal horn of the spinal cord of neuropathic rats is differentially regulated by a chronic constrictive injury to the sciatic nerve. At days 12-15 post-neuropathy, beta1 messenger RNA levels had increased, whereas beta2 messenger RNA levels had decreased significantly within laminae I, II on the ipsilateral side of the cord relative to the contralateral side. Within laminae III-IV beta2 messenger RNA levels showed a small but significant decrease on the ipsilateral side relative to the contralateral side, whilst expression of beta1 messenger RNA remained unchanged. Thus, differential regulation of the individual beta subunit types may (through their distinct influences on Na+ channel function) contribute to altered excitability of central neurons after neuropathic injury.
Electrical stimulation of the spinal trigeminal pathway evokes a short-latency startle-like response in rats. To explore the relationship between acoustic and tactile systems mediating startle, we studied temporal summation between pairs of startle-evoking stimuli in awake rats by varying the interstimulus interval. The stimuli were: (i) two noise bursts; (ii) two unilateral electrical stimuli near the principal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve; (iii) electrical stimulation of the left and right trigeminal nucleus; or (iv) a noise burst and unilateral stimulation of the trigeminal nucleus. Following two noise bursts, the amplitude of startle increased as the interval increased from 0 to 4 ms, then declined smoothly as the interval increased to 15 ms. Unilateral stimulation of the trigeminal nucleus resulted in a sharper summation effect, with maximal summation at 2 ms, and refractory periods estimated at 0.4-0.8 ms. Bilateral stimulation of the trigeminal nucleus resulted in broader summation without a refractory period, and maximal summation when the stimuli on both sides of the trigeminal nucleus were presented simultaneously. The combination of acoustic and trigeminal stimulation was most effective in enhancing startle amplitudes, and summation peaked when the noise burst preceded the trigeminal stimulation by 5 ms. Similarly, electromyogram latencies measured in the hindlimb were 3-4 ms shorter for trigeminal stimulation than for the noise burst. Startle appears to be optimally activated by simultaneous acoustic and tactile stimuli, as occurs during head blows.
In this study, using an in vitro superfusion technique for the first time, we provide direct neurochemical evidence of the transmitter role of dopamine at the level of lateral olivocochlear efferent fibres of the guinea-pig cochlea. Our results revealed that nerve terminals are able to take up and release dopamine upon axonal stimulation. Since dopamine is thought to protect the afferent nerve fibres from damage due to acoustic trauma or ischaemia, enhancement of the release of dopamine, a potential therapeutic site of these injuries, was investigated. Positive modulation of dopamine release has been shown by a D1 dopamine receptor agonist, an antagonist and piribedil. Furthermore, negative feedback on the stimulation-evoked release of dopamine via D2 dopamine receptors has been excluded. Electrical stimulation of the cochlear tissue produced a significant and reproducible release of [3H]dopamine, which could be blocked by tetrodotoxin (1 microM) and cadmium (100 microM), proving that axonal activity releases dopamine and its dependence on Ca2+ influx verifies its neuronal origin. Nomifensine, a high-affinity dopamine uptake blocker, prevented the tissue from taking up [3H]dopamine from the bathing solution, also indicating the neural origin of dopamine released in response to stimulation. SKF-38393 (a selective D1 agonist) increased both the resting and electrically evoked release of dopamine. Piribedil (a D3/D2/D1 agonist), a drug under investigation, known to prevent acoustic trauma or ischaemia-induced hearing loss, had a similar and concentration-dependent increasing effect on both resting and evoked release of dopamine. The effect of both drugs on stimulation-evoked release could be prevented by SKF-83566 (a selective D1 antagonist). However, SKF-83566 alone enhanced the resting and axonal conduction-associated release of dopamine. D2 agonists and antagonists failed to modulate the release of dopamine, indicating the lack of negative feedback modulation of dopamine release. Our results suggest that the release of dopamine was subjected to modulation by a D1 receptor agonist and an antagonist. In addition, it is concluded that D2 receptors are not involved in the modulation of dopamine release. This observation may have clinical relevance in the prevention or therapy of particular types of hearing loss, because enhanced dopaminergic input into the primary auditory neuron may inhibit the (over)excitation of this neuron by glutamatergic input from inner hair cells.
Extracellular levels of dopamine within the amygdala were monitored using in vivo microdialysis during performance of an appetitive Pavlovian conditioning task in sensitized rats and unsensitized controls. Animals received exposure either to D-amphetamine or to vehicle for seven consecutive days (2 mg/kg/day, i.p.) in the home cage. Training began following a further seven injection-free days. Animals were exposed to two session types: during conditioning sessions, a stimulus (tone or light) immediately preceded sucrose pellet delivery. During control sessions, the alternative stimulus was also presented, but not in temporal proximity to an otherwise identical schedule of pellet delivery. There was a total of three alternating presentations of each session type during training. Sensitization enhanced Pavlovian conditioned approach behaviour to the stimulus predictive of imminent pellet delivery, and was without effect upon approach behaviours either to the food pellets themselves or to the control stimulus. Extracellular levels of dopamine within the amygdala were assessed during the fourth conditioning and control sessions. Mesoamygdaloid dopamine efflux increased significantly during the conditioning test session, but not during the control session, and this dopaminergic response was more marked in rats with prior repeated D-amphetamine experience. Hence, these results add to evidence suggesting a role for amygdaloid dopamine in appetitive Pavlovian conditioning, and in the facilitation of associative learning following prior experience of D-amphetamine.
Entry of calcium through N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptors in the caudate-putamen nucleus is essential for normal motor activity, but can produce cytotoxicity with continued stimulation and subsequent release of intracellular calcium. To determine potential functional sites for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation in this region, we examined the ultrastructural localization of the R1 subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR1) in rat brain. In addition, we comparatively examined the localization of NMDAR1 and sorcin, a 22,000 mol. wt calcium binding protein present in certain striatal neurons and involved in calcium-induced calcium release. NMDAR1-like immunoreactivity was seen at synaptic and non-synaptic sites on neuronal plasma membranes. Of 1514 NMDAR1-labeled profiles, 62% were dendrites and dendritic spines and the remainder were mainly unmyelinated axons and axon terminals. Sorcin-like immunoreactivity was present in 39% of the profiles that contained NMDAR1 labeling, most (533/595) of which were dendrites and dendritic spines. Of 1807 sorcin-labeled profiles, 42% were identified, however, as small processes including spine necks and unmyelinated axons or axon terminals. These profiles also occasionally contained NMDAR1 or showed synaptic or appositional contacts with other NMDAR1-immunoreactive neurons. The results of this study suggest that in the caudate-putamen nucleus, activation of NMDA receptors permits calcium influx at plasmalemmal sites mainly on dendrites where sorcin may play a role in calcium-induced calcium release. The presence of sorcin in some, but not all NMDA-containing neurons in the caudate-putamen nucleus has potential implications for the known differential vulnerability of certain striatal neurons to excitotoxins.
The aim of this study was to characterize the modulation of synaptic transmission in the glutamatergic corticostriatal pathway by cholinergic and adrenergic receptors. In coronal slices of mouse brain, negative-going field potentials were recorded in the dorsal striatum in response to stimulation of the overlying white matter, and their susceptibility to various pharmacological manipulations was studied. The responses were mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors, since they were augmented by aniracetam (0.5-1.5 mM), a positive modulator of AMPA-type glutamate receptors, and blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (&gt; or = 10 microM), a selective antagonist of AMPA receptors. Carbachol (10 microM), a muscarinic agonist, reduced the size of responses and abolished paired-pulse depression; these effects being consistent with previous studies indicating that muscarinic activation inhibits release of glutamate in the corticostriatal pathway. Muscarinic antagonists could block the effect of carbachol. Their rank order was: 10 microM scopolamine (a non-selective muscarinic antagonist) &gt; or = 1 microM 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methyl-piperidine (M3/M1 antagonist)&gt;1 microM pirenzepine (M1 antagonist)&gt;10 microM methoctramine (M2 antagonist). McN-A-343 (1-10 microM), an M1 muscarinic agonist, was ineffective in this preparation. In contrast, isoproterenol (10-30 microM), a beta-adrenergic agonist, slightly increased the synaptic responses, but it did not affect paired-pulse depression. None of alpha-adrenergic agents (30 nM-1.0 microM dexmedetomidine, an alpha2-adrenergic agonist, 0.3 microM atipamezole, an alpha2-adrenergic antagonist or 30 microM phenylephrine, an alpha1-adrenergic agonist) influenced the size of the responses; neither did these drugs alter paired-pulse depression. These results indicate that the activation of striatal M3-like muscarinic receptors and beta-adrenoceptors, but not M2-like muscarinic receptors and alpha-adrenoceptors, modulates directly corticostriatal glutamatergic neurotransmission.
The effects of temperature and scopolamine on dizocilpine maleate-induced neuronal necrosis in the rat cingulate/retrosplenial cortex, entorhinal/olfactory cortices and the dentate gyrus were studied. Mild, protracted hypothermia (48 h at a brain temperature of 34 degrees C), induced by a servo-controlled &quot;exposure technique&quot; in the awake female rat, significantly reduced dizocilpine maleate (5.0 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced neuronal death in the cingulate/retrosplenial and entorhinal/olfactory cortices seven days following drug administration. Scopolamine (0.25 mg/kg, i.p.), putatively neuroprotective [Olney J. W. et al. (1991) Science 254, 1515-1518], did not reduce injury in the cingulate/retrosplenial cortex of female rats following one injection, but did following two and three doses. Scopolamine had no significant effect in the other brain regions. A temperature elevation of only 1 degree C above baseline for 48 h in awake female rats increased dizocilpine maleate-induced damage. Finally, the sex differences in N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist toxicity were replicated and extended to other structures, and found not to be due to temperature differences. Our data show that dizocilpine maleate neurotoxicity is temperature sensitive. Scopolamine treatment needed to be prolonged in order to reduce injury, and even then was only efficacious in one of three brain regions. The results underscore the importance of using neuronal necrosis in several brain regions as the endpoint and for the use of prolonged therapeutic interventions. Furthermore, given the potential hypothermic action of other putative neuroprotective drugs, a mechanistic re-evaluation of N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist-induced injury is needed, with precise brain temperature measurement.
Unilateral neurotoxin lesion of rat caudate-putamen and globus pallidus resulted in delayed, transneuronal degeneration of GABAergic substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons. To explore whether the disinhibition of endogenous glutamate excitatory input played a role in the degeneration of substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons, animals with unilateral striatal-pallidal lesions received three daily intraperitoneal injections of either dizocilpine maleate (MK-801, 1 or 10 mg/kg), an N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor blocker, or 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(f)quinoxaline (NBQX, 30 mg/kg), an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptor blocker, that began 24 h after the striatal-pallidal neurotoxin lesion. Drug treatment affected neither the volume of the initial lesion nor the volume of striatal-pallidal glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity. Neuron number in the substantia nigra pars reticulata ipsilateral to the lesioned striatopallidum was reduced on average by 37% in untreated control rats, in low dose MK-801, and NBQX-treated rats (P&lt;0.0001). However, in animals treated with high doses of MK-801 there was no difference in the number of neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata ipsilateral or contralateral to the neurotoxin lesion. These data demonstrate that dose-related treatment with N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor blockers protects substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons, and suggests that glutamatergic mechanisms play a role in delayed transneuronal degeneration.
Dopamine binding sites of D1 and D2/D3 subtypes had been detected in the rat peripheral olfactory system and postulated to account for dopamine-dependent enhancement of olfactory memory and retro-inhibition of olfactory input within the olfactory bulb, respectively. We further assessed, in the present study, the mechanisms of these dopamine actions by using adenylyl cyclase activity assay and [35S]GTP radioautography in rat olfactory bulb and mucosa. The D1 agonist SKF 38393 increased adenylyl cyclase activity on membranes of the olfactory bulb, but not on those of the olfactory mucosa. Stimulation of adenylyl cyclase by SKF 38393 in the olfactory bulb was dose dependent, with a half-maximal effect (EC50) at 0.16 microM SKF 38393, reaching 40% over basal adenylyl cyclase activity, and was blocked by the D1 antagonist SCH 23390. The D2 agonists bromocriptine and quinpirole inhibited both basal and forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activities in the olfactory bulb and mucosa. These adenylyl cyclase inhibitions were dose dependent, with EC50 values of 0.1-0.3 microM for bromocriptine and 1-3 microM for quinpirole, equal to 25% of basal enzyme activity at concentrations of 1-10 microM, and were blocked by the D2 antagonist eticlopride. The D2 antagonist was devoid of any effect on basal and forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activities in the olfactory bulb and mucosa. Odorant-induced stimulation of adenylyl cyclase was blocked by D2 agonist in olfactory mucosa membranes, which suggests dopaminergic regulation of odor detection in the olfactory mucosa. By using microdissected fractions of the olfactory mucosa, D2 agonist-induced inhibition of adenylyl cyclase was shown to occur only in lamina propria, thus co-localizing with D2 binding sites. [35S]GTP radioautography on tissue sections revealed D2 agonist-induced G-protein activation in olfactory nerve and glomerular layers of the olfactory bulb, and in the chorion of the olfactory mucosa. Taken together, these data demonstrate functional coupling of the dopamine receptors with adenylyl cyclase in both the olfactory bulb and mucosa, and document novel aspects of dopamine's physiological involvement in olfaction and of D2-mediated signal transduction.
Although it has been shown that unilateral neonatal cortical ablation induces bilateral corticospinal projections, the explanation for the pathways responsible for this bilateral innervation remains controversial. We hypothesized that such reinnervation may be supplied from newly formed fibers sprouting at the level rostral to, or at, or caudal to the pyramidal decussation. In order to test our hypothesis, we examined the brain and spinal cord of young hamsters which had a unilateral ablation of the right motor cortex at six days postnatally, and then received an injection of an anterograde neuronal lectin tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin, into the hindlimb area of the left motor cortex at 21 days postnatally. For the identification of motoneurons in the lumbar spinal cord, some of these animals also received an injection of cholera toxin subunit B, a retrograde tracer, into the gastrocnemius muscle. A quantitative analysis in the left gray matter of the lumbar spinal cord indicated that the lectin labeling was two to eight times higher in cortically ablated animals than in intact animals. Immunohistochemical detection of the lectin revealed that innervation of the left spinal cord occurred close to targets at lower levels in the spinal cord. Two modes of reinnervation (types I and II) by the intact corticospinal tract were recognized. The type I fibers consisted of recrossing axon collaterals sprouted from the intact dorsal funiculus near their targets, while the type II fibers were recrossing parent axons which entered the intact, right gray matter several levels rostral to their targets, and then changed direction toward the targets. The recrossing at lower spinal levels yielded a large number of ipsilaterally labeled axons and their terminals in the gray matter of the denervated lumbar cord, with a distribution pattern similar to that seen on the intact side. The present results indicate that such ipsilateral innervation may play an important role in the sparing and recovery of function following neonatal hemicortical injury.
In order to identify some of the molecular mechanisms that occur after a central nervous system trauma, the immediate early gene encoded proteins c-Fos, c-Jun and Jun B were analysed by immunocytochemistry following unilateral entorhinal cortex lesion (controls, 30 min, 2, 5, 12 and 24 h, two, six, 10 and 14 days, four weeks and six months postlesion). In the dentate gyrus, c-Fos was induced in some supragranular neurons (30 min), massively expressed in granule cells ipsilaterally to the lesion (2 h), expressed in hilar neurons (5 h and two days) and was absent at all later stages. A basal expression of c-Jun was found in dentate granule cells of controls, which was strongly increased on the lesion side (2 h) and on the side contralateral to the lesion (12 h). c-Jun expression returned to control levels by 24 h. Jun B was induced in granule cells ipsilateral to the lesion within 2 h and was back to control levels by 5 h. In the lateral septal area, c-Fos and c-Jun were induced 30 min postlesion and decreased rapidly thereafter. In the cerebral cortex, a widespread induction of c-Fos and c-Jun occurred within 30 min after entorhinal cortex lesion and this up-regulation lasted until two days postlesion. These data indicate that electrolytic lesion of the entorhinal cortex leads to a rapid and widespread induction of c-Fos, c-Jun and Jun B. Within the denervated fascia dentata, some of these changes may be linked to the reorganization processes following the lesion. Alternatively, the alterations in immediate early gene expression reported here may be due to changes in synaptic activity or postlesional seizures which occur in this lesioning paradigm.
The messenger RNA expression of presenilin-1, an important gene responsible for early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease, was investigated in the embryonic rat brain with in situ hybridization histochemistry using an oligonucleotide probe specific to the messenger RNA. It was also compared with that of beta-amyloid precursor protein messenger RNA. Presenilin-1 and beta-amyloid precursor protein messenger RNA were abundantly expressed throughout the central nervous system in the embryonic day 13, 17 and 20 rat brain. Presenilin-1 messenger RNA was strongly expressed in both neuroepithelium and differentiating fields. In contrast, beta-amyloid precursor protein messenger RNA was preferentially expressed in differentiating fields, while low expression of beta-amyloid precursor protein messenger RNA was seen in neuroepithelium. Although the expression patterns of these two messenger RNAs were basically similar, there seemed to be a tendency that presenilin-1 messenger RNA was preferentially expressed in immature neurons, while beta-amyloid precursor protein messenger RNA was preferentially expressed in mature neurons, suggesting that presenilin-1 is expressed earlier than beta-amyloid precursor protein and that presenilin-1 is involved in beta-amyloid precursor protein processing. These data raise the possibility that presenilin-1 and beta-amyloid precursor protein co-operatively play pivotal roles in rat neurogenesis.
The amyloid beta precursor protein can exist as both a membrane-bound and a secreted protein, with the former having the potential to generate the amyloid beta peptide present in the neuritic plaques which are characteristic of Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we have used a clone of the AtT20 mouse pituitary cell line which expresses high levels of the amyloid beta precursor protein to characterize the glycosylation state of the secreted and membrane-bound forms of the protein and to examine the role of post-translational modifications in protein processing. Lectin blot analysis of immunoprecipitated amyloid beta precursor protein demonstrated that the soluble form of the protein contains significant amounts of sialic acid, with the lectin staining being reduced in the particulate cellular fractions. Treatment of the cells with mannosidase inhibitors to interfere with the formation of complex-type N-linked glycans resulted in a decrease in secreted amyloid beta precursor protein and an increase in the level of the cellular form of the protein. The increase in amyloid beta precursor protein levels in the cellular fraction was accompanied by an increase in perinuclear staining. Furthermore, cells overexpressing the alpha2,6(N)-sialyltransferase enzyme also demonstrated an increase in amyloid beta precursor protein secretion. These results suggest that the presence of terminal sialic acid residues on complex-type N-glycans may be required for the optimal transport of the amyloid beta precursor protein from the Golgi to the cell membrane with the subsequent cleavage to generate the secreted form of the protein.
Mutations in the beta-amyloid precursor protein are strongly associated with some cases of familial Alzheimer's disease. The normal physiological role of beta-amyloid precursor protein in the brain was evaluated in a cross-sectional analysis of mice deficient in beta-amyloid precursor protein. Compared with wild-type control mice the beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice developed age-dependent deficits in cognitive function and also had impairments in long-term potentiation. In addition, the brains of the beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice had marked reactive gliosis in many areas, especially in the cortex and hippocampus. A subpopulation of mice (n = 15) died prematurely (between three and 18 months of age). Analysis of another six mice from the same population that were showing weight loss and hypolocomotor activity exhibited a marked reactive gliosis as detected by immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein and a profound loss of immunoreactivities for the presynaptic terminal vesicle marker proteins synaptophysin and synapsin and the dendritic marker microtubule-associated protein-2 in many brain areas, but most predominantly in the cortex and hippocampus. These results suggest that normal beta-amyloid precursor protein may serve an essential role in the maintenance of synaptic function during ageing. A compromise of this function of the beta-amyloid precursor protein may contribute to the progression of the memory decline and the neurodegenerative changes seen in Alzheimer's disease.
Normal brain tissue is probably the most important tissue compartment in the brain involved in adverse radiation effects (AREs). The capabilities of computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and positron emission tomography in repeat examinations of a treatment outcome provide a baseline by which to monitor the AREs in vivo and to follow their sequential changes. This article relates the AREs seen after radiosurgery to the dose/volume and specific tissue effects established from 30 years of collected experience with radiosurgery at the Karolinska Hospital.

The effect of low level exposure to manganese (Mn) was examined in 297 subjects from southwest Quebec. Blood manganese (MnB) levels as well as other possibly relevant variables were obtained. We tested equipment and analysis procedures that we have developed to quantify aspects of motor function thought to be affected by exposure to toxins, in particular, rapid alternating movements, rapid and precise pointing movements, and tremor. (1) The eurythmokinesimeter measures timing and precision of contacts between a hand-held stylus and a pair of metal targets (proximal/distal). This roughly approximates the finger-to-nose test of the UPDRS. Characteristics quantifying speed, precision and regularity of the movements were calculated, as well as multiple contacts due to tremor and an index based on Fitts' Law eliminating the effect of the trade-off between speed and precision. (2) The diadochokinesimeter accurately measures rapid rotation of the forearms (pronation/supination). Characteristics quantifying the range, speed, period, shape and regularity of the oscillatory movements were calculated, as well as the smoothness of the movement on a fine scale and the coordination between the two hands. (3) Postural tremor of the arm and hand was measured using the accelerometry-based &quot;TREMOR&quot; system of Danish Product Development. We used the amplitude and frequency characteristics provided by the TREMOR system: intensity, center frequency, dispersion and harmonic index. Previous studies have shown that these tests are sufficiently sensitive to detect small differences in performance of different groups of subjects, with indications that some characteristics are also specific to particular conditions. In this study, significant though small effects related to age and gender were found in many of the characteristics. When effects of other variables are removed, low-level exposure to Mn was found to be associated with a decrease in ability to perform regular, rapid and precise pointing movements, a decrease in ability to attain high maximum rotation speeds in rapid alternating movements, and an increase in regularity of tremor oscillations. Moreover, the effects are age-related for levels of MnB 7.5, micrograms/L.
Collaboration is easily hampered by real or perceived differences in confidentiality that prevent two critical providers from communicating openly. However, increased communication can be a two-edged sword. Sensitive and confidential information can reach individuals who may not be directly involved in patient care.
Motor cortical activity relates to static motor parameters (isometric force, limb position) under static conditions but predominantly to dynamic parameters (change of force, limb velocity) under dynamic conditions. This dual relation conceptually unifies the role of motor cortex in the control of isometric force and movement.
Neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAMs), L1 and TAG-1, which are prominently expressed in the developing nervous system, have been shown to promote axonal growth and bundle formation of central neurons in vitro. In the cerebral neocortex of fetal rats, immunoreactions of L1 and TAG-1 were specifically localized on thalamic afferent axons and cortical efferent axons, respectively. L1-bearing thalamocortical axons preferentially extended in the subplate of the cortical anlage where neurocan, a brain-specific chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG), was prominently expressed. In contrast, cortical efferent axons immunoreactive for TAG-1 did not enter the subplate and run in the intermediate zone where neurocan expression was less abundant. In addition, TAG-1-bearing axons extensively invaded regions expressing another type of brain-specific CSPG, phosphacan. In the cell culture system, neurite outgrowth of TAG-1-transfected PC 12 D cells was remarkably inhibited on the neurocan substrate, while the outgrowth on phosphacan substrate was significantly promoted. Although both L1 and TAG-1 have been reported to bind both neurocan and phosphacan in vitro, interactions between NCAMs and CSPGs in vivo indicate more complicated patterns than previously thought. Thus, the present results suggest that various patterns of functional correlation between NCAMs and CSPGs play important roles in the pathway formation of the rat cerebral neocortex.

There is now mounting evidence supporting the hypothesis that pathological perceptual disorders described as secondary hyperalgesia and allodynia may be due to sensitization of spinal cord dorsal horn neurons. Protein kinase C (PKC) is thought to be one of the factors in the cascade of events leading from peripheral tissue damage to the sensitization of central neurons. In our experiments, we have used local microdialysis administration of the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) to activate PKC in the spinal cord dorsal horn in awake rats. In behavioral tests the responsiveness of the animals to von Frey filaments (1-1200 mN) and to heat stimuli applied to the hindpaws was tested. Thirty minutes after the TPA infusion the threshold for the paw withdrawal response was significantly decreased (from 160 to 6 mN) and the responses to suprathreshold stimuli were more robust. An increased mechanical sensitivity was no longer present when tested 1.5 and 5 h after the TPA application was terminated. When heat stimuli were tested, the TPA infusion resulted in a significantly prolonged time during which the animals held their hindpaws above the supporting surface after the heat stimulus (0.5 and 1.5 h after TPA), and in a decreased threshold for the heat stimulus (latency of withdrawal) 5 h after TPA. HPLC analysis of the perfusate obtained by microdialysis in vivo showed a significant increase in the extracellular levels of aspartate, glutamate, glycine and taurine, and a decrease of the glutamine level during TPA infusion. The levels of asparagine, serine, threonine and alanine did not change. Application of the inactive phorbol ester (alpha-TPA) did not evoke any change from the control values either in the AA concentrations or in the behavioral tests. Our results suggest that activation of PKC in the spinal cord evokes mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia and provides further evidence that PKC is involved in the process of the modulation of nociceptive information at the spinal cord level.
Thyroid disease is the endocrine dysfunction most frequently reported in association with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). The aim of this study was to assess thyroid autoimmunity and function in PD, and to verify the effect of long term l-dopa and/or dopamine therapy on thyroid function. We studied 101 consecutive PD outpatients and seventy age- and sex-matched neurological non-PD patients as controls. They were evaluated for free thyroid hormones, TSH and thyroid autoantibodies. No significant difference in the prevalence of thyroid autoimmunity and dysfunction was found between PD patients and neurological controls (10.8% in PD patients vs 10% in neurological controls). Further, treatment with l-dopa and/or dopaminergic drugs and the stage of Parkinson's disease did not affect thyroid function. In conclusion, the prevalence of thyroid autoimmunity in PD patients appeared similar to that as described in the general population, though thyroid dysfunction was observed in over than 10% of PD patients. Indeed, neurologists should be alerted to the possible complications arising from thyroid dysfunction in Parkinson's disease, but thyroid function tests should be performed only when justified on clinical grounds.
The purpose of these investigations was to determine from combined data the response to rectal diazepam (DZP) gel (Diastat [Athena Neurosciences, South San Francisco, CA]) in home treatment of children with episodes of acute repetitive seizures (ARS). A subset of patients aged 2-17 years were selected from two prospective placebo-controlled studies of children and adults. In both studies a prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled design was used. The treatment groups (68 DZP; 65 placebo) did not differ significantly in age, race, seizure type or etiology, or in the median number of ARS episodes per month before study entry. DZP-treated children demonstrated a significant reduction in median seizure frequency compared with the placebo group (0.00 vs 0.25 seizures per hour, P = 0.001). Significantly more DZP-treated children remained seizure free during the observation period (40 vs 20, P = 0.001). Somnolence was the only adverse effect present significantly more often in the DZP-treated children (25.0% vs 7.7%, P = 0.0095). There were no instances of serious respiratory depression. Rectal DZP was demonstrated to be an effective and safe treatment to abort an episode of ARS in a child and, additionally, lessened the likelihood of seizure recurrence within the next 12 hours.
Pc1s (continuous pulsations) within the geomagnetic field, whose durations are about 30 minutes but which can reoccur several times nightly, are observed during periods when global geomagnetic activity is very low (less than 10 nT). The hypothesis that these 0.2 to 5 Hz synchronized micropulsations or hydromagnetic emissions might stimulate physical chemical cascades within the brain that precipitate the sudden death in infants was tested by correlational analysis for a two-year period (1960-1961) for Ontario. Results were consistent with the hypothesis that the monthly incidences of these unexpected deaths, pcl micropulsations and geomagnetic activity less than 10 nT displayed a shared source of variance. Implications are discussed.
Mice submitted to chronic alcohol consumption (CAC; 11 months) or to systemic diazepam administration were trained in a spatial reversal learning task. Although CAC-treated mice were able to learn the initial acquisition at normal rates, they were impaired during the first reversal of the discrimination and subsequent reversal sessions. In contrast, diazepam administration induced no deficits for any behavioral measure. In conclusion, CAC, but not diazepam administration, induces an exaggerated sensitivity to proactive interference. The two treatments spared, however, the development of the learning set curve. These results are congruent with clinical data showing that nondeclarative or implicit forms of memory processes are spared in diazepam-treated subjects or in chronic alcoholics.
Selective breeding for high and low sensitivity to the hypothermic response induced by the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8- OH-DPAT has established two lines of rat (HDS and LDS, respectively) whose behavior differs in a model of depression and in the social interaction test of anxiety. The HDS line has a higher level of anxiety and, furthermore, does not display the usual anxiogenic response to intrahippocampal administration of 8-OH-DPAT. It was therefore hypothesized that this line of rat might be a useful model of high trait anxiety with a susceptibility to depression. We thus investigated whether chronic treatment with fluoxetine would result in an anxiolytic effect in the social interaction test in the LDS and HDS lines of rat. In both lines, acute fluoxetine (10 mg/kg) produced an anxiogenic effect in the social interaction test; when rats were tested 24 h after 14 days of fluoxetine treatment there were no anxiolytic effects in either line. In the social interaction test, chronic fluoxetine treatment did not change either the anxiogenic effect of 8-OH-DPAT (100 ng) injected bilaterally into the dorsal hippocampus in the LDS line or the lack of response in the HDS line. In the elevated plus-maze, chronic fluoxetine treatment resulted in a significant anxiogenic effect in the HDS line, but was without effect in the LDS line. Intrahippocampal 8-OH-DPAT was without effect in the plus-maze in either line. These results suggest that chronic treatment with fluoxetine did not modify the hippocampal 5-HT1A receptor in either line. The anxiogenic effects observed in the plus-maze in the HDS line after chronic fluoxetine might relate to line differences in 5-HT1A receptors in other brain regions.
The purpose of the workshop entitled Taste and Smell in the Elderly: Behavioral and Nutritional Consequences was 1) to review the current state of knowledge in the area of taste and smell, with emphasis on age-related changes, 2) to identify existing gaps in our knowledge, and 3) to develop future research strategies. There was general agreement that the majority of scientific studies have found impairments in taste and smell acuity in the elderly. These losses may result from normal aging, certain disease states especially Alzheimer's disease, medications, surgical interventions, and environmental exposure. However, there are gaps in our knowledge of the basic mechanisms by which aging and environmental factors may impair the chemical senses in the elderly. Further research is also required in a variety of areas including chemosensory test procedures, food intake, and nutrition to understand fully the impact of chemosensory dysfunction on older individuals.
A receptor for vasoactive-intestinal-peptide (VIP)-related peptides was functionally characterized in a cell line derived from Xenopus melanophores using a recently described microtiter-plate-based bioassay. Activation of the melanophore VIP receptor by VIP or the peptides pituitary-adenylate-cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP 38), PACAP 27, and helodermin stimulated intracellular 3'-5' cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) accumulation and pigment dispersion in the cells. Helodermin, with an EC50 (concentration of peptide inducing half-maximal melanosome dispersion) of 46.5 pM, was the most potent activator of pigment dispersion, followed by PACAP 38 &gt; VIP &gt; PACAP 27. A similar order of potencies was observed for the peptides to induce cAMP accumulation. The responses to VIP agonists were selectively inhibited by the VIP antagonists PACAP-(6-27) and (N-Ac-Tyr(1)-D-Phe2)-growth-hormone-releasing factor[GRF](1-29)-NH2. Taken together, the results suggest that the melanophores express a VIP receptor that shares certain characteristics of, but also differs significantly from, other previously identified VIP receptors.
Patients discharged from neurosciences units and their carers often express a range of needs. Patients' needs relate to the illness and its physical effects. Carers experience mainly psychosocial effects. Needs can be met through planning and co-operation between the statutory and voluntary sectors and the use of liaison nurses.
Damage to the central nervous system (CNS) elicits the activation of both astrocytes and microglia. This review is focused on the principal features that characterize the activation of microglia after CNS injury. It provides a critical discussion of concepts regarding microglial biology that include the relationship between microglia and macrophages, as well as the role of microglia as immunocompetent cells of the CNS. Mechanistic and functional aspects of microgliosis are discussed primarily in the context of microglial neuronal interactions. The controversial issue of whether reactive microgliosis is a beneficial or a harmful process is addressed, and a resolution of this dilemma is offered by suggesting different interpretations of the term 'activated microglia' depending on its usage during in vivo or in vitro experimentation.
1. Reactive oxygen species are known for their role in neurotoxicity. However, recent studies indicate that reactive oxygen species also play a role in cell function under physiological conditions. 2. Both superoxide and hydrogen peroxide alter the activity of various protein kinases and protein phosphatases, some of which are involved in hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Specifically, the activity of protein kinase C, extracellular-regulated kinase 2, and a protein tyrosine kinase(s) is increased in the presence of these reactive oxygen species, whereas the activity of protein phosphatases 2A and 2B, and a protein tyrosine phosphatase(s) is decreased. 3. Protein kinase C, extracellular-regulated kinase 2, and protein tyrosine kinases critically participate in the induction and/or early expression of long-term potentiation at glutamatergic synapses in hippocampus. Protein phosphatases 2A and 2B participate in the induction and/or early expression of long-term depression at these synapses. 4. Treatment of hippocampal slices with scavengers of either superoxide or hydrogen peroxide prevents the full expression of long-term potentiation. Long-term potentiation in hippocampus also is attenuated in transgenic mice that overexpress Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase. 5. The link between reactive oxygen species and long-term potentiation may be the activating effect on protein kinases. The inhibiting effect of reactive oxygen species on protein phosphatases may also contribute to long-term potentiation. 6. The authors hypothesize that reactive oxygen species play a critical role in hippocampal long-term potentiation by favoring the activation of a protein kinase over a protein phosphatase signaling cascade.
We report on a patient with schizoaffective disorder who developed unilateral akathisia. This is the first case report of a patient with neuroleptic-induced unilateral akathisia on whom an all-night polysomnogram was recorded. On the polysomnogram we observed right side periodic limb movements (PLM) with left side unilateral akathisia, and after her akathisia disappeared, the PLM also disappeared. Brain MRI findings and neurological findings were within normal limits. The pathogenetic lesion causing akathisia could not be elucidated.
The lower entrainable limit of the circadian behavioral rhythm was examined in rats exposed to sinusoidal light intensity cycles with maximum illuminance of 20 lux and the minimum of 0.01 lux. The period (T) of the light intensity cycle was initially kept at 23.5 h for 20 cycles, and then shortened to 23 h for 33 cycles. Thereafter the rats were released into constant darkness. Five out of 10 rats entrained their circadian rhythms to T = 23.5-h cycle, and they also entrained to the T = 23-h cycle. The phase angle of entrainment was almost unchanged when T was shortened from 23.5 h to 23 h. These results suggest that the T = 23-h cycle was close to the lower limit of entrainment.
Cholinergic neurons in the pons appear to play a major role in generating rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. In the present study, acetylcholine and glutamate release in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPT) during the sleep-waking cycle were investigated by in vivo microdialysis. Acetylcholine release during slow wave sleep (SWS) was significantly lower (P&lt;0.05) than during REM sleep and wakefulness. On the other hand, glutamate release during wakefulness was higher (P&lt;0.05) than during REM sleep and SWS. Furthermore, the application of N-methyl-D-aspartate (1 mM) induced a significant increase of nitric oxides (NOx) for 20 min (P&lt;0.05) and a decrease of norepinephrine for the first 15 min (P=0.01), indicating NOx regulation on norepinephrine release in PPT.


The role of dopaminergic mechanisms in opiate- and psychostimulant-induced long-term locomotor sensitization was investigated. To that aim, rats were behaviourally sensitized with morphine or amphetamine and 3 weeks after cessation of treatment challenged with various direct and indirect dopamine agonists. Both morphine- and amphetamine-pretreated rats displayed sensitization of the locomotor effects of amphetamine, cocaine, and the selective dopamine reuptake inhibitor GBR-12909. Sensitization of the locomotor stimulant effects of the dopamine D2/D3 receptor agonist quinpirole was observed in amphetamine- but not morphine-pretreated rats. In contrast, morphine-, but not amphetamine-pretreated rats appeared hyposensitive to the locomotor inhibitory effects of a low, presumably D2-autoreceptor selective, dose of quinpirole. Neither pretreatment induced sensitization to the dopamine D1/D2 agonist apomorphine or the dopamine D1 agonist SKF-82958. In fact, the locomotor stimulant effects of SKF-82958 appeared to be decreased in animals pre-exposed to amphetamine. These results suggest that functional changes in presynaptic dopamine release mechanisms represent common neuroadaptations involved in the long-term expression of morphine- and amphetamine-induced locomotor sensitization. Presynaptic dopamine D2 and postsynaptic D2 and/or D3 receptors are differentially involved in the expression of morphine- and amphetamine-induced locomotor sensitization. In a parallel study, we report that all of the drugs that elicited sensitized locomotor responses in morphine- or amphetamine-pretreated rats caused reinstatement of previously extinguished heroin- or cocaine-seeking behaviour, respectively. Taken together, these data suggest a marked relationship between drug-seeking behaviour and drug sensitization.

The symptomatology of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) involves sympathetic hyperarousal. Several of these sympathetic symptoms are mediated through end-organ beta2-adrenergic receptors (beta2AR). Increased sympathetic activity in PTSD could therefore be due to increased betaAR function. This study investigated betaAR function in 30 healthy controls and 20 drug-free PTSD patients. BetaAR binding studies were conducted using antagonist-saturation and agonist-displacement experiments. Measures of beta2AR coupling to Gs protein were derived from agonist-displacement experiments. PTSD patients had significantly higher beta2AR density particularly in the high-conformational state and higher beta2AR coupling than controls, as reflected in a higher percentage of receptors in the high conformational state and a higher ratio of the agonist dissociaton constant from the receptor in the low/high-conformational state. Increased betaAR function in PTSD is consistent with the symptomatology of this disorder. Increased betaAR density and coupling may be consistent with downregulation of betaAR density and uncoupling by antidepressants and may underlie their partial efficacy in PTSD. Dysregulation in Gs protein function is postulated and, agonist-mediated regulation of betaAR expression and/or betaAR kinase activity in PTSD should be investigated in future studies.


Neurobiology dominates efforts to understand depression. This psychiatric illness is thought to result from dysfunctions in monoaminergic systems affecting norepinephrine, serotonin and dopamine. Abnormalities are linked to functional deficit of monoamines at several effector sites. Findings include reduced cerebrospinal fluid and urinary concentrations of metabolites, decreased plasma concentrations of precursors, modifications of receptor density and clinical effectiveness of drugs which increase neurotransmission in depressed patients. The original hypothesis of affective disorder envisaged a single transmitter model, but neuroscientific developments highlight the complexity of the central nervous system. Considerable evidence supports the hypothesis of combined alterations of monoaminergic functions and other systems like neuropeptides and neuroendocrine functions.

Information transmission in the central nervous system relies on neurons working in relays. At chemical synapses information transmission is by means of neurotransmitters, whereas long-distance transmission is carried out by action potentials conducting along nerve fibers. Hence how to pick up and analyze information contained in the spike trains are important topics of several branches of sciences such as neuroscience, bioinformatics, etc. So far there is lack of ideal ways and means. This review briefly introduces the advantages and limitations of the principal coding theories and analyzing methods of information contained in spike trains, and the progress in this field.

The physiological role of the dopamine D3 receptor is still unclear. The absence of selective pharmacological tools that can discriminate D3 over D2 receptor subtype activity is a major drawback in the elucidation of D3-mediated functions. In order to study D3 receptor actions in rat brain, we have developed an antisense strategy, using oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) directed against the mRNA of the D3 receptor. Dopamine D2-like agents induce a cascade of events that affect numerous genes in the CNS. Transcription factors are among the most dramatically affected. Using the antisense strategy, we explored the involvement of the D3 receptor on the expression of two classes of transcription factors, the c-fos and NGFI-B. Intracerebroventricular injections of ODNs were made into the lateral ventricle (8 microg/hour, for 5 days). The effect of antisense administration on dopamine D1, D2, and D3 receptor binding was measured by means of receptor autoradiography, whereas transcription factor mRNA levels (c-fos and NGFI-B) were evaluated by in situ hybridization using specific complementary RNA probes. Dopamine D3 receptor levels were significantly decreased in the shell of nucleus accumbens of rats that received the D3 antisense ODN, whereas dopamine D1 and D2 receptor levels were not affected. Basal c-fos mRNA levels were concomitantly reduced in both cingulate and medial prefrontal cortices. Basal NGFI-B mRNA levels were also reduced in the cingulate cortex, shell of nucleus accumbens, and in the dorsomedial striatum, whereas the core of nucleus accumbens and the dorsolateral striatum were not affected after D3 antisense ODN treatments. Our results suggest that D3 receptors may tonically regulate transcription factor expression in rat forebrain. This supports the hypothesis of a constitutive activity of the D3 receptor in vivo.
The paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (PVT) is a midline thalamic nucleus that responds strongly to exposure to various stressors. Many of the projection targets of PVT neurons, including the medial prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and central/basolateral nuclei of the amygdala, are also activated by stress. We sought to determine if PVT neurons that respond to stress are those that project to one or more of these forebrain sites. Retrograde tract tracing combined with immunohistochemical detection of Fos protein-like immunoreactivity was used to assess the activation of target-specific populations of PVT projection neurons by mild footshock stress in the rat. Stress markedly increased Fos protein-like immunoreactivity in PVT neurons, but without regard to the projection target of the thalamic neurons. Thus, the percentage of PVT cells that were retrogradely labeled from either the prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, or amygdala, and that expressed Fos-like immunoreactivity did not differ substantially across the three forebrain sites. These data suggest that the PVT may have a role as a generalized relay for information relating to stress, and may serve an important role in the stress-induced activation of limbic forebrain areas.
New methods for identifying chromosomal regions containing genes that affect murine responses to alcohol and drugs have been used to identify many provisional quantitative trait loci (QTLs) since 1991. By 1998, 24 QTLs had been definitively mapped (P&lt;5x10(-5)) to specific murine chromosomes, which indicates the presence of a relevant gene or genes at each location. The syntenic (homologous) region of the human genome for these genes is often known. For many mapped QTLs, candidate genes with relevant neurobiological function lie within the mapped region. Data that implicate candidate genes for specific responses include studies of knockout animals. Current strategies for gene identification include the use of congenic strains containing QTL regions introduced from another strain. There is increasing emphasis on gene-gene and gene-environment interactions in such studies.
The EGR family of transcription regulatory factors, which is implicated in orchestrating the changes in gene expression that underlie neuronal plasticity, has attracted the attention of both molecular and systems neuroscientists. In this article, the advances made in both these fields of research are reviewed. Recent systems-based studies underscore the remarkable sensitivity and specificity of the induction of the expression of genes encoding EGR-family members in naturally occurring plasticity paradigms. However, they also challenge conventional views of the role of this family in plasticity. Recent molecular studies have identified the gonadotropin subunit, luteinizing hormone beta, as an EGR1-regulated gene in vivo and uncovered an essential role for EGR3 in muscle-spindle development. In addition, the discovery of novel proteins that are capable of suppressing EGR-mediated transcription cast doubt over the prevalent assumption that changes in EGR mRNA or protein levels provide an accurate measure of EGR-driven transcriptional activity.


Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) is a nuclear enzyme that is activated by DNA strand breaks to participate in DNA repair. Excessive activation of PARP, however, can deplete tissue stores of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD), the PARP substrate which, with the resultant depletion of ATP, leads to cell death. In many cases of CNS damage, for example vascular stroke, nitric oxide release is a key stimulus to DNA damage and PARP activation. In conditions as diverse as focal cerebral ischaemia, myocardial infarction and toxin-induced diabetes, PARP inhibitors and PARP gene deletion afford dramatic protection from tissue damage. Accordingly, PARP inhibitors could provide novel therapeutic approaches in a wide range of clinical disorders.
Components of the equine nervous system are described including classical anatomy and newer sensory innervation maps that are useful for localizing lesions to and within the nervous system. The key components in a neurological examination that help differentiate primary neurologic disease from musculoskeletal disorders are explained. Gait deficits associated with neurologic dysfunction are listed as well as diagnostic aids and an overview of differential diagnoses.
Palmer and his associates (Palmer, Ames &amp; Lindsey (1993). Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 19, 108-130; Palmer (1994). Vision Research, 34, 1703-1721) have confirmed that searches for simple feature targets are not limited by perceptual processing capacity and the effect of set size on performance can be accounted for by integration stage processes only. In this study I used a similar difference threshold method with target and distractor stimuli defined by the relative position of their elements (line drawings of bisected squares) and found clear capacity limitations. Feature search condition, however, with nearly comparable bisected square stimuli did replicate the results of Palmer and associates. This experiment demonstrates that a search for targets defined by relative position in the set of line drawing type of stimuli is fundamentally different from a search for more simple (feature) stimuli and may conform to a strict capacity limited model.
The speed of contour integration was investigated in a task that can be solved by grouping contour segments into elongated curves. Subjects had to detect a continuous curve, which could be intersected by one or two other curves. At locations where these curves came in close proximity, the assignment of contour segments to the different curves could be based on collinearity. Reaction times exhibited a strong dependence on (1) the presence of intersections among curves; and (2) the context provided by the stimulus set from which individual stimuli were selected. Reaction times were shortest when grouping of contour segments depended on information at a single location in the visual field. In this condition, responses to stimuli containing an intersection were faster than responses to stimuli that did not. When responses were determined by information at spatially separate locations, responses were delayed, and every intersection increased the reaction time considerably. This result contrasts with earlier investigations which have suggested that contour integration on the basis of collinearity is performed pre-attentively but is in accordance with studies on curve tracing. We propose that the assignment of contour segments to equally coherent curves, a process which may be called figure-figure segregation, is a function of object-based attention. Moreover, the protracted reaction times for some of the stimuli indicate that spread of attention within an object costs time. This implies that object recognition is not always as fast as is sometimes assumed.

Ca2+ released from presynaptic and postsynaptic intracellular stores plays important roles in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, including long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic strength. At Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in the hippocampus, presynaptic ryanodine receptor-gated stores appear to mobilize some of the Ca2+ necessary to induce LTD. Cyclic ADP-ribose (cADPR) has recently been proposed as an endogenous activator of ryanodine receptors in sea urchin eggs and several mammalian cell types. Here, we provide evidence that cADPR-mediated signaling pathways play a key role in inducing LTD. We show that biochemical production of cGMP increases cADPR concentration in hippocampal slices in vitro, and that blockade of cGMP-dependent protein kinase, cADPR receptors, or ryanodine-sensitive Ca2+ stores each prevent the induction of LTD at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses. A lack of effect of postsynaptic infusion of either cADPR antagonist indicates a probable presynaptic site of action.
The perceived speed of motion in one part of the visual field is influenced by the speed of motion in its surrounding fields. Little is known about the cellular mechanisms causing this phenomenon. Recordings from mammalian visual cortex revealed that speed preference of the cortical cells could be changed by displaying a contrast speed in the field surrounding the cell's classical receptive field. The neuron's selectivity shifted to prefer faster speed if the contextual surround motion was set at a relatively lower speed, and vice versa. These specific center-surround interactions may underlie the perceptual enhancement of speed contrast between adjacent fields.
Ethanol (0.5 g/kg i.p.) 15 min prior to sacrifice increased homovanillic acid (HVA) levels in the left medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of left-turning rats and in the right mPFC of right-turning rats. In the nucleus accumbens (NAS), ethanol decreased dopamine (DA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), and HVA levels in rats that exhibited low levels of locomotor activity but not in rats that exhibited high levels of locomotor activity. This laboratory has previously shown that rats exhibiting differences in turning and locomotor activity behavior display different preferences for ethanol. The present results suggest that ethanol-induced differences in mPFC and NAS DA activity may be related to individual differences in the susceptibility to abuse ethanol.
Spontaneous turning behavior and locomotor activity were evaluated for their ability to predict differences in the voluntary consumption of ethanol in male Long-Evans rats. Animals were assessed for their preferred direction of turning behavior and for high vs. low levels of spontaneous locomotor activity, as determined during nocturnal testing in a rotometer. Subsequently, preference for a 10% ethanol solution vs. water was determined in a 24-h two-bottle home-cage free-choice paradigm. Rats exhibiting a right-turning preference consumed more ethanol than rats showing a left-turning preference. While locomotor activity alone did not predict differences in drinking, turning and locomotor activity together predicted differences in ethanol consumption. Low-activity right-turning rats consumed more ethanol than all the other groups of rats. Previous studies from this laboratory have shown that individual differences in turning behavior are accompanied by different asymmetries in dopamine (DA) function in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Individual differences in locomotor activity are associated with differences in nucleus accumbens (NAS) DA function. The present data suggest that variations in mPFC DA asymmetry and NAS DA function may underlie differences in the voluntary consumption of ethanol.
Dopaminergic projections to the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) were unilaterally lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) to examine how dopamine (DA) asymmetry in the mPFC influences voluntary ethanol consumption. Differences in nucleus accumbens (NAS) DA neurotransmission have been related to individual differences in locomotor activity and in the rewarding efficacy of ethanol. Therefore, differences in locomotor activity were used to further characterize the effects of unilateral mPFC 6-OHDA lesions on ethanol consumption. Male Long Evans rats were assessed for high versus low levels of spontaneous locomotor activity. DA terminals in the left or right mPFC were unilaterally lesioned with 6-OHDA, resulting in an average DA depletion of 54% and 50%, respectively. After a minimum seven-day recovery period, preference for a 10% ethanol solution vs. water was determined in a 24-h 2-bottle home-cage free-choice paradigm. Left mPFC 6-OHDA lesions increased and right lesions decreased ethanol consumption. These differential effects of left and right lesions were primarily attributable to rats exhibiting low locomotor activity prior to surgery. The present data suggest that right greater than left cortical DA asymmetry in combination with low endogenous NAS DA (predicted by low locomotor activity levels) may increase the vulnerability to abuse ethanol.
The dopamine D3 receptor is a member of the G protein-coupled superfamily of receptors. However, its coupling with intracellular events is still not well understood. We have performed chimera constructions in which amino acid residues located in a region of the receptor involved in the coupling with second messengers (the C-terminal portion of the third intracellular loop) have been exchanged between dopamine D2 and D3 receptors. Chimera constructions did not modify substantially the pharmacological profiles, nor G protein coupling, as compared to their respective wild-type receptors. However, the D2 receptor chimera, containing the C-terminal portion of the third intracellular loop of the D3 receptor, has a lower potency to inhibit cyclic AMP production. The reciprocal construction generated a D3 receptor that is fully coupled to this second messenger pathway whereas, the native D3 receptor is uncoupled to this pathway in our transfected cells. These results suggest that the sequence selected is important for specific coupling characteristics shown by these two dopamine receptor homologues.
Nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-2 is transcriptionally activated in a wide variety of injurious conditions, including cerebral ischemia, and the resulting nitric oxide is implicated both in tissue damage and recovery. Studies in vitro suggest that the proximal region of the NOS-2 promoter is obligatory for gene activation by proinflammatory cytokines. However, following cerebral ischemia in a NOS-2 gene-deficient mouse in which this region and exons 1-4 have been deleted, we find temporal and spatial expression, identical to wild-type, from a previously unidentified promoter region. The resulting protein is predicted to lack the first 113 amino acids and is NOS-2-incompetent. Fortuitously, this gene-deficient mouse presents a unique opportunity to determine more about the mechanisms of NOS-2 gene regulation in vivo.
RGS proteins (regulators of G protein signaling) are potent accelerators of the intrinsic GTPase activity of G protein alpha subunits (GAPs), thus controlling the response kinetics of a variety of cell signaling processes. Most RGS domains that have been studied have relatively little GTPase activating specificity especially for G proteins within the Gi subfamily. Retinal RGS9 is unique in its ability to act synergistically with a downstream effector cGMP phosphodiesterase to stimulate the GTPase activity of the alpha subunit of transducin, Galphat. Here we report another unique property of RGS9: high specificity for Galphat. The core (RGS) domain of RGS9 (RGS9) stimulates Galphat GTPase activity by 10-fold and Galphai1 GTPase activity by only 2-fold at a concentration of 10 microM. Using chimeric Galphat/Galphai1 subunits we demonstrated that the alpha-helical domain of Galphat imparts this specificity. The functional effects of RGS9 were well correlated with its affinity for activated Galpha subunits as measured by a change in fluorescence of a mutant Galphat (Chi6b) selectively labeled at Cys-210. Kd values for RGS9 complexes with Galphat and Galphai1 calculated from the direct binding and competition experiments were 185 nM and 2 microM, respectively. The gamma subunit of phosphodiesterase increases the GAP activity of RGS9. We demonstrate that this is because of the ability of Pgamma to increase the affinity of RGS9 for Galphat. A distinct, nonoverlapping pattern of RGS and Pgamma interaction with Galphat suggests a unique mechanism of effector-mediated GAP function of the RGS9.
Human epidermal keratinocytes (HEKs) in primary culture (P2-P4) were used to study glucocorticoid (GC)-mediated transcription of the genes encoding the constitutively expressed interleukin-1 type 1 receptor (IL-1R1) and the inducible interleukin-1 type 2 receptor (IL-1R2). Utilizing Northern dot blot analysis and a quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction protocol for IL-1R1 and IL-1R2, dexamethasone and, in particular, the budesonide epimer R were shown to effectively and rapidly induce transcription from the IL-IR2 gene when compared with IL-1R1 or beta-actin RNA message levels in the same sample. Southern blot analysis of newly generated IL-1R2 reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction products using end-labeled IL-1R2 intron probes suggested that GC enhancement of IL-1R2 expression was regulated primarily at the level of de novo transcription. GC-induced IL-1R2 gene transcription displayed features characteristic of a classical immediate early gene response, including a signal transduction function, a relatively low basal abundance, a rapid, transient induction, cycloheximide superinduction, actinomycin D suppression, and a rapid decay of IL-1R2 RNA message. Parallel time course kinetic analysis of IL-1R2 RNA message levels with Western immunoblotting revealed tight coupling of de novo IL-IR2 gene transcription with translation of the IL-1R2 RNA message; a newly synthesized ( approximately 46-kDa) IL-1R2 protein was detected in the HEK growth medium as early as 1 h after budesonide epimer R treatment. These data indicate that different GC compounds can variably up-regulate the IL-1R2 response in HEKs through transcription-mediated mechanisms and, for the first time, suggest that a gene encoding a soluble cytokine receptor can respond like an immediate early gene.
Emerging data indicate that tumor necrosis factor (TNF) exerts a neuroprotective effect in response to brain injury. Here we examined the mechanism of TNF in preventing neuronal death in primary hippocampal neurons. TNF protected neurons against hypoxia- or nitric oxide-induced injury, with an increase in the anti-apoptotic proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-x as determined by Western blot and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis. Treatment of neurons with an antisense oligonucleotide to bcl-2 mRNA or that to bcl-x mRNA blocked the up-regulation of Bcl-2 or Bcl-x expression, respectively, and partially inhibited the neuroprotective effect induced by TNF. Moreover, adenovirus-mediated overexpression of Bcl-2 significantly inhibited hypoxia- or nitric oxide-induced neuronal death. To examine the possible involvement of a transcription factor, NFkappaB, in the regulation of Bcl-2 and Bcl-x expression in TNF-treated neurons, an adenoviral vector capable of expressing a mutated form of IkappaB was used to infect neurons prior to TNF treatment. Expression of the mutant NFkappaB completely inhibited NFkappaB DNA binding activity and inhibited both TNF-induced up-regulation of Bcl-2 and Bcl-x expression and neuroprotective effect. These findings indicate that induction of Bcl-2 and Bcl-x expression through NFkappaB activation is involved in the neuroprotective action of TNF against hypoxia- or nitric oxide-induced injury.
Neurodevelopmental damage can occur as a result of in utero exposure to alcohol. Oxidative stress processes are one of many proposed mechanisms thought to contribute to nervous system dysfunction characterized in fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). Therefore, this study examined neuroprotective effects of antioxidant supplementation during ethanol (EtOH) treatment (0, 200, 400, 800 or 1600 mg/dl) combined with concomitants of EtOH exposure: acute (2-h) ischemia (aISCH) and chronic (16-h) hypoglycemia (cHG). The antioxidants vitamin E and beta-carotene protected embryonic hippocampal cultures against 0-1600 mg/dl EtOH/aISCH/cHG treatments. In addition, neuronal viability, as measured by MTT ((3,4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide; 5 mg/ml)), was equal to untreated cultures when supplemented with vitamin E or beta-carotene at 0-800 mg/dl or 0-200 mg/dl EtOH/aISCH/cHG, respectively. These in vitro studies mirror potential in utero ethanol-exposed CNS conditions and may lead to therapeutic strategies targeted at attenuating neurodevelopmental FAS-related deficits.
Decreased expression of NT-3 mRNA in the sciatic nerve and leg muscles of streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic rats has been associated with the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy. The aim of this study was to determine whether STZ-induced diabetes also affects the expression of NT-3 mRNA in the central and peripheral projections of sensory nerves. Competitive reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (cRT-PCR) was used to quantify the levels of NT-3 mRNA in the dorsal root, sural nerve, sciatic nerve and foot skin of age-matched and 12-week STZ-diabetic rats. Diabetes increased by 52% (P &lt; 0.05) the expression of NT-3 mRNA in the dorsal root and sural nerve. It is proposed that diabetes-induced sensory nerve damage may elevate NT-3 mRNA production which may act as a source of neurotrophic support for sensory axons whose target-derived supply of NT-3 may be impaired.
Recent studies of the semaphorin family of axon guidance signals and their receptors have revealed a surprising versatility in the ways that they can be used solve problems in neural development, and provided new opportunities for understanding how guidance information is interpreted beneath the cell surface.
As part of our ongoing research program aimed at the identification of highly potent, selective, and systemically active agonists for group II metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors, we have prepared novel heterobicyclic amino acids (-)-2-oxa-4-aminobicyclo[3.1. 0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylate (LY379268, (-)-9) and (-)-2-thia-4-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylate (LY389795, (-)-10). Compounds (-)-9 and (-)-10 are structurally related to our previously described nanomolar potency group II mGlu receptor agonist, (+)-2-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-2,6-dicarboxylate monohydrate (LY354740 monohydrate, 5), with the C4-methylene unit of 5 being replaced with either an oxygen atom (as in (-)-9) or a sulfur atom (as in (-)-10). Compounds (-)-9 and (-)-10 potently and stereospecifically displaced specific binding of the mGlu2/3 receptor antagonist ([3H]LY341495) in rat cerebral cortical homogenates, displaying IC50 values of 15 +/- 4 and 8.4 +/- 0.8 nM, respectively, while having no effect up to 100 000 nM on radioligand binding to the glutamate recognition site on NMDA, AMPA, or kainate receptors. Compounds (-)-9 and (-)-10 also potently displaced [3H]LY341495 binding from membranes expressing recombinant human group II mGlu receptor subtypes: (-)-9, Ki = 14.1 +/- 1.4 nM at mGlu2 and 5.8 +/- 0.64 nM at mGlu3; (-)-10, Ki = 40.6 +/- 3.7 nM at mGlu2 and 4.7 +/- 1.2 nM at mGlu3. Evaluation of the functional effects of (-)-9 and (-)-10 on second-messenger responses in nonneuronal cells expressing human mGlu receptor subtypes demonstrated each to be a highly potent agonist for group II mGlu receptors: (-)-9, EC50 = 2.69 +/- 0.26 nM at mGlu2 and 4.58 +/- 0.04 nM at mGlu3; (-)-10, EC50 = 3.91 +/- 0.81 nM at mGlu2 and 7.63 +/- 2. 08 nM at mGlu3. In contrast, neither compound (up to 10 000 nM) displayed either agonist or antagonist activity in cells expressing recombinant human mGlu1a, mGlu5a, mGlu4a, or mGlu7a receptors. The agonist effects of (-)-9 and (-)-10 at group II mGlu receptors were not totally specific, however, as mGlu6 agonist activity was observed at high nanomolar concentrations for (-)-9 (EC50 = 401 +/- 46 nM) and at micromolar concentrations (EC50 = 2 430 +/- 600 nM) for (-)-10; furthermore, each activated mGlu8 receptors at micromolar concentrations (EC50 = 1 690 +/- 130 and 7 340 +/- 2 720 nM, respectively). Intraperitoneal administration of either (-)-9 or (-)-10 in the mouse resulted in a dose-related blockade of limbic seizure activity produced by the nonselective group I/group II mGluR agonist (1S,3R)-ACPD ((-)-9 ED50 = 19 mg/kg, (-)-10 ED50 = 14 mg/kg), indicating that these molecules effectively cross the blood-brain barrier following systemic administration and suppress group I mGluR-mediated limbic excitation. Thus, heterobicyclic amino acids (-)-9 and (-)-10 are novel pharmacological tools useful for exploring the functions of mGlu receptors in vitro and in vivo.
The brain weights of 21 postmortem autism cases (5 new and 16 previously published) were compared with normal brain weights from six autopsy studies. Of the 21 cases, 17 had normal brain weights and 1 was micrencephalic. Compared with the normal median (1,460 g), three autism cases were megalencephalic: two (1,810 g and 1,820 g) had been previously reported and one (1,880 g) was a new case. Brain weight is thus normal in most postmortem cases of autism. There are, however, rare cases of megalencephaly and possibly micrencephaly.

The neurofilament is the major cytoskeletal structure of myelinated axons. In this study, CSF levels of the light subunit of the neurofilament protein (NFL) were increased in patients with vascular dementia (VAD), AD, and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) compared with neurologically healthy individuals. Because NFL is localized mainly in myelinated axons, these results suggest that the degeneration of white matter in these disorders causes the increased CSF NFL levels.
We present the first three-dimensional map of the antennal lobe of Drosophila melanogaster, based on confocal microscopic analysis of glomeruli stained with the neuropil-specific monoclonal antibody nc82. The analysis of confocal stacks allowed us to identify glomeruli according to the criteria shape, size, position, and intensity of antibody labeling. Forty glomeruli were labeled by nc82, eight of which have not been described before. Three glomeruli previously shown exclusively by backfills were not discernible in nc82 stainings. We distinguish three classes of glomeruli: (1) &quot;landmark&quot; glomeruli that are constant in all four criteria mentioned above, (2) less well-demarcated glomeruli that deviate in a single criterion, and (3) poorly defined glomeruli that vary in more than one criterion. All class 2 and 3 glomeruli can be identified by comparison with landmark neighbors. To further aid identification, our model assigns glomeruli to five arrays, each of which is defined by a prominent landmark glomerulus. Six glomeruli consist of distinct, but contiguous structural units, termed &quot;compartments.&quot; Glomerular variability observed occasionally between males and females is in the same range as between individuals of the same sex, suggesting the lack of a significant sexual dimorphism in the glomerular pattern. We compare the new model with a previous map and address its potential for mapping activity and expression patterns. An important goal of this work was to create three-dimensional reference models of the antennal lobe, which are accessible on-line.
The neuroactive steroid hormone, estrogen, has been implicated in both the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Interactions between estrogen and neurotrophic systems may partially explain the beneficial effects of estrogen therapy. Previous studies have identified estrogen binding sites colocalized with neurotrophin-related proteins and mRNA within the rodent brain. Extending these studies to a model more relevant to human systems, we have mapped the distribution of estrogen receptor alpha (ER-alpha)-immunoreactive neurons in adult nonhuman primate brains. In addition, we used double-label immunohistochemistry to examine colocalization of ER-alpha with the low- and high-affinity neurotrophin receptors, p75 and trkA, and with the cholinergic marker choline acetyltransferase. Large numbers of ER-alpha-immunoreactive cells were detected in several amygdaloid and hypothalamic nuclei. ER-alpha-labeled cells were also found in the lateral septum, nucleus of the stria terminals, subfornical organ, and periaqueductal gray. Only rare, scattered ER-alpha-immunoreactive cells were noted in the cholinergic basal forebrain. In contrast to rodents, no cells exhibited ER-alpha and p75 or ER-alpha and trkA double-labeling. However, ER-labeled neurons in the amygdala, a region containing putative nerve growth factor-producing cells and exhibiting a role in memory, were densely and specifically invested with cholinergic terminals projecting from the basal forebrain. Estrogen-labeled neurons were also present in the lateral septal nucleus, a system that receives hippocampal inputs and projects to the neurotrophin-sensitive medial septum. Thus, interactions between neurotrophin-sensitive neurons and ER-bearing neurons exist in the primate brain, providing a potential paracrine basis for estrogen-state modulation of vulnerability to Alzheimer's disease.
Endomorphins are endogenous peptides that have high affinity and selectivity for the mu-opiate receptor and potent analgesic activity. The distributions of endomorphin 1 (Tyr-Pro-Trp-Phe-NH2; EM1) and endomorphin 2 (Tyr-Pro-Phe-Phe-NH2; EM2) in the rat central nervous system were determined by immunocytochemistry with two antisera, each demonstrating clear preference for the target antigen. Perikarya expressing EM2-like immunoreactivity were present in the posterior hypothalamus, whereas those expressing EM1-like immunoreactivity were present in both the posterior hypothalamus and the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). EM1-like immunoreactivity was more widely and densely distributed throughout the brain than was EM2-like immunoreactivity, whereas EM2-like immunoreactivity was more prevalent in the spinal cord than was EM1-like immunoreactivity. The greatest density of EM1-like-immunoreactive fibers was detected in the parabrachial nucleus and the NTS, with notable staining in the septum, diagonal band, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, organum vasculosum, nucleus of Meynert, paraventricular thalamic nucleus, posterior hypothalamic nucleus, periaqueductal gray, locus coeruleus, nucleus accumbens, and amygdala. The greatest density of EM2-like-immunoreactive fibers was detected in the superficial laminae of the spinal cord dorsal horn and the nucleus of the spinal trigeminal tract. The overall pattern of immunoreactivities was similar in rat, mouse, and guinea pig, but some differences were observed. In many but not in all locations, immunoreactive fibers were prominently present in regions in which mu receptors are reported to be concentrated. The neuroanatomical results suggest that endomorphins participate in modulating nociceptive and autonomic nervous system processes and responsiveness to stress.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone immunoreactive (CRH-ir) neurons were examined in the hypothalamus of euhydrated and dehydrated rats without using colchicine. CRH-ir cells were observed in the lateral hypothalamus, retrochiasmatic, and in magnocellular parts of the supraoptic and paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH) in dehydrated but not euhydrated animals. However, CRH-ir neurons were decreased in the medial parvicellular part of the PVH. These results indicate that altered CRH mRNA levels previously reported in dehydrated animals translate into changes in peptide immunoreactivity.
One of the major issues in neural transplantation is the low survival rate (&lt;5%) of transplanted dopamine (DA) neurons [3]. Recently it has been shown that it is possible to enhance the survival of these neurons, which in turn may decrease the amount of tissue that is required for each transplantation patient. The present paper demonstrates a novel approach for enhancing neuronal survival by co-transplantation of neuronal tissue with Testis-derived Sertoli cells (SC). This strategy could improve neuronal survival through the provision of trophic support.
Cannabinoids suppress behavioral and neurophysiological responses to noxious stimuli in rodents when administered systemically. The purpose of this study was to extend previous studies of the site of cannabinoid analgesia. Rats were tested in the tail flick test before and after microinjections of the cannabinoid agonist WIN55, 212-2 (5 microg) into one of 17 different brain regions. WIN55,212-2 significantly elevated tail-flick latencies when injected into the amygdala, the lateral posterior and submedius regions of the thalamus, the superior colliculus and the noradrenergic A5 region. By contrast, pain behavior was unaffected by microinjections of the cannabinoid into the other 11 areas examined (prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, lateral hypothalamus, substantia nigra, cuneiform nucleus, anterior pretectal, intralaminar, parafasicular, posterior, thalamic nuclei, as well as the ventral medial, ventral lateral nuclei in the posterior thalamus).
The fate of ocular surface epithelial cells in response to injury of the cornea was examined. Corneal epithelial cells were labeled during DNA synthesis with [3H]thymidine 1 h prior to wounding. A 3-mm diameter epithelial defect was made in the center of the rat cornea, with the basement membrane remaining intact. Within 12 h of abrasion, labeled cells were detected in the regenerating surface. At 18 h, there was a 2.7- and 17-fold increase of labeled basal and suprabasal cells, respectively, in the epithelium adjacent to the wound, and at 24 and 30 h there was an excessive number of cell layers (up to 7) at the margin of the abrasion. Re-epithelialization progressed as a gradient of cell layers that became diminished towards the center of the wound. Completion of layers 1, 2, 3, and 4 were recorded at 24, 30, 36, and 72 h, respectively. No changes in the labeling index of the limbus or conjunctiva were noted. These results suggest that processes of centripetal and vertical migration, as well as events related to cell division, in the uninjured corneal surface are not impeded by wounding of the corneal epithelium. However, wound healing appears to require cells with a basal phenotype, presumably because of this cell type's migratory capability.
We have analyzed the binding properties of the selective D3 receptor agonist [3H]PD 128907 in 120 days old rats. In tissue sections, we found high numbers of binding sites for [3H]PD 128907 both in the islands of Calleja and the caudate-putamen (Bmax values being 500 and 1000 fmol/mg protein, respectively). The KD values were higher in the caudate-putamen than in the islands of Calleja. Similar regional differences in Bmax and KD values were observed in membranes from the caudate-putamen and the subcortical limbic region. The distribution of [3H]PD 128907 in adult rats is markedly different from that observed in young rats. Taken together, the present results suggest a prominent presence of D3 receptors in the caudate-putamen of adult, but not young, rats. Hence, these findings may have important physiological, pathophysiological, and clinical implications.
Recent cloning studies have isolated proteins which confer responsiveness to calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). In this study, we have determined the central nervous system (CNS) distribution of the mRNA of one such protein, termed CGRP-receptor component protein (RCP), by in situ hybridization. CGRP-RCP mRNA was widely expressed in the guinea-pig CNS, being particularly abundant in cerebellum and hippocampus. These data should assist in the determination of the potential physiological function(s) of this protein in the CNS.
The regional expression of mRNA for the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunits alpha3, alpha4 and alpha7 was examined in postmortem brain tissues from controls and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) by using quantitative RT-PCR. In parallel, the numbers of nAChRs were measured by receptor binding. Relative quantification of the nAChR gene transcripts in control brains showed that expression of alpha3 was highest in the parietal cortex, frontal cortex and hippocampus, and lower in the temporal cortex and cerebellum. The highest level of alpha4 mRNA was found in the temporal cortex and cerebellum, while alpha7 mRNA was equally distributed in all brain regions except for hippocampus where it was less abundant. In comparison with AD brains, no differences in the expression of alpha3 and alpha4 in the temporal cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum were found. The level of alpha7 mRNA was significantly higher in the hippocampus of AD brains compared to controls. The binding sites for [3H] epibatidine and [3H] nicotine in the temporal cortex and [125I] alpha-bungarotoxin in hippocampus were significantly decreased in AD patients compared to controls. Saturation analysis of [3H] epibatidine binding revealed two classes of binding sites, with a significant reduction of the higher affinity epibatidine binding sites in the temporal cortex of AD brain. The results show that there is a regional distribution of the expression of the different nAChRs subunits in human brain. The findings that the alpha3 and alpha4 mRNA levels were not changed in AD brains suggest that the loss of higher affinity epibatidine binding sites observed in AD patients cannot be attributed to alternations at the transcriptional level of the alpha3 and alpha4 genes and that causes have to be searched for at the translational and/or posttranslational level. The increased mRNA level of alpha7 previously found in lymphocytes, and now also in the hippocampus of AD patients, indicate that subunit specific changes in gene expression of nAChRs is associated with AD.
The HS9 gene encoding a surface membrane protein is expressed in thymic epithelial cells. We have isolated the mouse HS9 gene and determined the sequence of all exons. The mouse HS9 gene is composed of 14 exons spanning approx. 31 kb. Primer extension analysis identified two transcription initiation sites 33 bp and 179 bp upstream from the ATG start codon. DNA sequence analysis of the 5'-flanking region of the first exon revealed a number of consensus binding sites for known transcription factors such as GC box, Sp1, NFkappaB, gamma-IRE. Neither typical TATA nor CCAAT boxes were found in this region. These results and the analysis of the luciferase activity showed that transcription of the HS9 gene is regulated at a TATA-less promoter.
We studied the release of somatostatin, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P in response to electrical field stimulation from isolated tracheas of rats following 4 weeks of streptozotocin (50 mg/kg i.v.)-induced diabetes. Field stimulation (40 V, 0.1 ms, 10 Hz for 120 s) increased the release of somatostatin, CGRP and substance P from the baseline 0.18+/-0.029, 0.17+/-0.027, and 1.77+/-0.086 to 0.51+/-0.022, 0.69+/-0.115, and 5.96+/-0.377 in control preparations and 0.31+/-0.081, 0.41+/-0.142, and 3.14+/-0.443 fmol/mg wet tissue weight in preparations from diabetic rats as measured by radioimmunoassay (control vs. diabetic P&lt;0.01 for each). The results show a simultaneous decrease in release of the three sensory neuropeptides and an enhanced plasma somatostatin level in rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes.
We have demonstrated previously 1) that the dystroglycan complex, but not the sarcoglycan complex, is expressed in peripheral nerve, and 2) that alpha-dystroglycan is an extracellular laminin-2-binding protein anchored to beta-dystroglycan in the Schwann cell membrane. In the present study, we investigated the transmembrane molecular architecture of the dystroglycan complex in Schwann cells. The cytoplasmic domain of beta-dystroglycan was co-localized with Dp116, the Schwann cell-specific isoform of dystrophin, in the abaxonal Schwann cell cytoplasm adjacent to the outer membrane. beta-dystroglycan bound to Dp116 mainly via the 15 C-terminal amino acids of its cytoplasmic domain, but these amino acids were not solely responsible for the interaction of these two proteins. Interestingly, the beta-dystroglycan-precipitating antibody precipitated only a small fraction of alpha-dystroglycan and did not precipitate laminin and Dp116 from the peripheral nerve extracts. Our results indicate 1) that Dp116 is a component of the submembranous cytoskeletal system that anchors the dystroglycan complex in Schwann cells, and 2) that the dystroglycan complex in Schwann cells is fragile compared with that in striated muscle cells. We propose that this fragility may be attributable to the absence of the sarcoglycan complex in Schwann cells.
We have defined how four elements that regulate expression of the rat skeletal muscle type 1 sodium channel (SkM1) gene cooperate to yield specific expression in differentiated muscle. A basal promoter region containing within it a promoter E-box (-31/-26) is broadly expressed in many cells, including myoblasts and myotubes; mutations within the promoter E-box that disrupt binding of the myogenic basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) factors reduce expression in all cell types only slightly. Sequential addition of upstream elements to the wild-type promoter confer increasing specificity of expression in differentiated cells, even though all three upstream elements, including a positive element (-85/-57), a repressor E-box (-90/-85), and upstream repressor sequences (-135/-95), bind ubiquitously expressed transcription factors. Mutations in the promoter E-box that disrupt the binding of the bHLH factors counteract the specificity conferred by addition of the upstream elements, with the greatest interaction observed between the upstream repressor sequences and the promoter E-box. Forced expression of myogenin in myoblasts releases repression exerted by the upstream repressor sequences in conjunction with the wild-type, but not mutant, promoter E-box, and also initiates expression of the endogenous SkM1 protein. Our data suggest that particular myogenic bHLH proteins bound at the promoter E-box control expression of SkM1 by releasing repression exerted by upstream repressor sequences in differentiated muscle cells.
Ca2+ stimulation of adenylyl cyclase type VIII (ACVIII) occurs through loosely bound calmodulin. However, where calmodulin binds in ACVIII and how the binding activates this cyclase have not yet been investigated. We have located two putative calmodulin-binding sites in ACVIII. One site is located at the N terminus as revealed by overlay assays; the other is located at the C terminus, as indicated by mutagenesis studies. Both of these calmodulin-binding sites were confirmed by synthetic peptide studies. The N-terminal site has the typical motif of a Ca2+-dependent calmodulin-binding domain, which is defined by a characteristic pattern of hydrophobic amino acids, basic and aromatic amino acids, and a tendency to form amphipathic alpha-helix structures. Functional, mutagenesis studies suggest that this binding makes a minor contribution to the Ca2+ stimulation of ACVIII activity, although it might be involved in calmodulin trapping by ACVIII. The primary structure of the C-terminal site resembles another calmodulin-binding motif, the so-called IQ motif, which is commonly Ca2+-independent. Mutagenesis and functional assays indicate that this latter site is a calcium-dependent calmodulin-binding site, which is largely responsible for the Ca2+ stimulation of ACVIII. Removal of this latter calmodulin-binding region from ACVIII results in a hyperactivated enzyme state and a loss of Ca2+ sensitivity. Thus, Ca2+/calmodulin regulation of ACVIII may be through a disinhibitory mechanism, as is the case for a number of other targets of Ca2+/calmodulin.
DP5, which contains a BH3 domain, was cloned as a neuronal apoptosis-inducing gene. To confirm that DP5 interacts with members of the Bcl-2 family, 293T cells were transiently co-transfected with DP5 and Bcl-xl cDNA constructs, and immunoprecipitation was carried out. The 30-kDa Bcl-xl was co-immunoprecipitated with Myc-tagged DP5, suggesting that DP5 physically interacts with Bcl-xl in mammalian cells. Previously, we reported that DP5 is induced during neuronal apoptosis in cultured sympathetic neurons. Here, we analyzed DP5 gene expression and the specific interaction of DP5 with Bcl-xl during neuronal death induced by amyloid-beta protein (A beta). DP5 mRNA was induced 6 h after treatment with A beta in cultured rat cortical neurons. The protein encoded by DP5 mRNA showed a specific interaction with Bcl-xl. Induction of DP5 gene expression was blocked by nifedipine, an inhibitor of L-type voltage-dependent calcium channels, and dantrolene, an inhibitor of calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum. These results suggested that the induction of DP5 mRNA occurs downstream of the increase in cytosolic calcium concentration caused by A beta. Moreover, DP5 specifically interacts with Bcl-xl during neuronal apoptosis following exposure to A beta, and its binding could impair the survival-promoting activities of Bcl-xl. Thus, the induction of DP5 mRNA and the interaction of DP5 and Bcl-xl could play significant roles in neuronal degeneration following exposure to A beta.
The principal component of Alzheimer's amyloid plaques, Abeta, derives from proteolytic processing of the Alzheimer's amyloid protein precursor (APP). FE65 is a brain-enriched protein that binds to APP. Although several laboratories have characterized the APP-FE65 interaction in vitro, the possible relevance of this interaction to Alzheimer's disease has remained unclear. We demonstrate here that APP and FE65 co-localize in the endoplasmic reticulum/Golgi and possibly in endosomes. Moreover, FE65 increases translocation of APP to the cell surface, as well as both alphaAPPs and Abeta secretion. The dramatic (4-fold) FE65-dependent increase in Abeta secretion suggests that agents which inhibit the interaction of FE65 with APP might reduce Abeta secretion in the brain and therefore be useful for preventing or slowing amyloid plaque formation.
To examine changes in nerve growth factor (NGF) levels in spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) after spinal injury, male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 150-175 g were given spinal hemisections. NGF content was measured at various post-surgical times and compared with naive controls (n = 4 per time point) in the spinal cord, DRG and blood serum by ELISA techniques (Promega). Levels of NGF in the blood serum were significantly increased 8-fold at 48h but were significantly decreased in the spinal cord and DRG by 2- to 4-fold until 7 days postsurgery (ANOVA, p &lt; 0.05). Contrary to accepted dogma, spinal injury results in decreased levels of NGF in the spinal cord and DRG following spinal injury.
We demonstrated previously that the lateral habenula (Lhb) mediates maternal behavior. Our present goal was to identify the first and second order afferent connections of the Lhb, particularly those relevant for maternal behavior. Using pseudorabies virus (PRV) as a retrograde transneuronal tracer and the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold, we identified first order Lhb afferent projections from the lateral preoptic area, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area, each important for the display of maternal behavior. Maternally relevant second order neurons originated from the medial preoptic area and amygdala. Additional regions with first and second order neurons afferent to the Lhb were also identified.
Pooling DNA from subjects within a group and comparing the pooled DNA across groups for a dense map of DNA markers offers a solution to the conundrum that linkage is systematic but not powerful whereas allelic association is powerful but not systematic. We used DNA pooling to screen 66 markers on chromosome 22 in original and replication samples of children of high general cognitive ability (g) and controls of average g. Although none of these markers survived our three-stage screening design (original pooling, replication pooling, individual genotyping), the results of DNA pooling were largely confirmed by individual genotyping. We can therefore exclude associations of major effect size on chromosome 22 for g, a key variable for cognitive neuroscience research on learning and memory.
Neuroplasticity might play a beneficial role in the recovery of function after stroke but empirical evidence for this is lacking thus far. Constraint-induced (CI) therapy was used to increase the use of a paretic upper extremity in four hemiparetic stroke patients. Dipole modeling of steady-state movement-related cortical potentials was applied before and after training and 3 months later. The source locations associated with affected hand movement were unusual at follow-up because activation of the ipsilateral hemisphere was found in the absence of mirror movements of the unaffected hand. This long-term change may be considered as an initial demonstration of large-scale neuroplasticity associated with increased use of the paretic limb after application of CI therapy.
Cortical activity can be substantially changed by the type of anaesthetic used, and by its dose level. For easy monitoring of depth of anaesthesia we describe the changes in electroencephalogram and electrocardiogram accompanying changes in depth of anaesthesia in the cat. Anaesthesia was induced by the volatile anaesthetic isoflurane. The high-frequency components (around 30 Hz) in the electroencephalogram disappear in deep anaesthesia. The electrocardiogram also shows substantial changes in contamination due to muscle fasciculations with anaesthesia level. Fasciculations appear as noise in the electrocardiogram. The amplitude of the electrical muscle activity contaminating the ECG can be easily used for the maintainance of a constant level of anaesthesia during a neurophysiological experiment.
The precursor of non-amyloid beta protein component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid (NACP/alpha-synuclein), found in Lewy bodies of Parkinson's disease (PD), is a presynaptic protein genetically linked to some familial types PD. Mechanisms of abnormal NACP/alpha-synuclein aggregation in neurodegenerative diseases are unclear. Since oxidative stress might play a role in PD pathogenesis, we investigated the role of iron and peroxide in NACP/alpha-synuclein aggregation. Immunoblot analysis showed that human NACP/alpha-synuclein (but not beta-synuclein) aggregated in the presence of ferric ion and was inhibited by the iron chelator deferoxamine. Ferrous ion was not effective by itself, but it potentially aggregated NACP/alpha-synuclein in the presence of hydrogen peroxide. NACP/ alpha-synuclein aggregates displayed strong thioflavine-S and congo-red reactivity, reminiscent of amyloid. This study suggests that NACP/alpha-synuclein aggregation might be closely related to oxidative reactions which may play a critical role in neurodegeneration in disorders with Lewy bodies.
(+/-)Cyclazocine, synthesized by Archer in 1962, was originally tested as a treatment for heroin addiction. (+/-)Cyclazocine is a mu opioid antagonist and kappa opioid agonist, and because of these actions, would be expected to modulate dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens as well as the reinforcing effects of drugs of abuse. In a recent study (+/-)cyclazocine was reported to decrease cocaine self-administration in rats. The aim of the present study was to determine whether (+/-)cyclazocine would alter the dopaminergic effects of nicotine that are thought to mediate its rewarding effects. Using in vivo microdialysis in awake and freely moving rats, we investigated the effect of (+/-)cyclazocine (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) on the acute dopamine response to nicotine (0.32 mg/kg, i.v. over a 5 min period, infused 30 min later) in the nucleus accumbens. (+/-)Cyclazocine significantly attenuated the increase in extracellular dopamine levels induced by the nicotine infusion and enhanced nicotine-induced increases in dopamine metabolites. (+/-)Cyclazocine alone did not significantly affect extracellular dopamine levels. However, both the (+) and (-) enantiomers of cyclazocine did alter basal dopamine levels and these effects made it difficult to assess their individual interactions with nicotine. The results suggest that the effects of both enantiomers contribute to the effects of the racemate; (+/-)cyclazocine may decrease the rewarding effect of nicotine and may be the prototype of a potentially novel treatment for smoking.
The gene encoding the murine thromboxane A2 receptor (TP) is split into three exons and spans 6.2 kilobase pairs. Primer extension analysis revealed two transcription initiation sites located approximately 210 nucleotides 5' of the first intron. The 1.2-kb 5'-flanking region lacks typical TATA and CAAT boxes but contains several potential regulatory elements including binding sites for Sp-1, NF-kappaB, AP-2, and a glucocorticoid response element. A 192-bp murine repetitive B2 element is located in the 5'-flanking region, but did not exert a negative effect on the basal promoter activity in transient transfection experiments with reporter constructs. Ribonuclease protection assays showed expression of TP RNA in several organs including thymus, spleen, kidney, and lung. In the thymus, in situ hybridization revealed transcripts in the cortex, but not in the medulla, suggesting that thromboxane A2 may play a role in the development of T-lymphocytes.
It had been suggested that influenza virus-mediated membrane fusion might be dependent on a pH gradient across a target membrane. We have designed experiments in which this issue could be addressed. Two populations of liposomes were prepared, both simulating the plasma membrane of target cells, but with the pH of the internal aqueous medium buffered either at pH 7.4 (physiological cytosol pH) or at pH 5.0 (endosomal pH at which influenza virus displays maximal fusion activity). By monitoring fusion using the R18 assay, we found that the internal pH of the target liposomes did not influence membrane merging as mediated by the influenza virus hemagglutinin, thus demonstrating that a transmembrane pH gradient is not required in this fusion process.
Degeneracy, the ability of elements that are structurally different to perform the same function, is a prominent property of many biological systems ranging from genes to neural networks to evolution itself. Because structurally different elements may produce different outputs in different contexts, degeneracy should be distinguished from redundancy, which occurs when the same function is performed by identical elements. However, because of ambiguities in the distinction between structure and function and because of the lack of a theoretical treatment, these two notions often are conflated. By using information theoretical concepts, we develop here functional measures of the degeneracy and redundancy of a system with respect to a set of outputs. These measures help to distinguish the concept of degeneracy from that of redundancy and make it operationally useful. Through computer simulations of neural systems differing in connectivity, we show that degeneracy is low both for systems in which each element affects the output independently and for redundant systems in which many elements can affect the output in a similar way but do not have independent effects. By contrast, degeneracy is high for systems in which many different elements can affect the output in a similar way and at the same time can have independent effects. We demonstrate that networks that have been selected for degeneracy have high values of complexity, a measure of the average mutual information between the subsets of a system. These measures promise to be useful in characterizing and understanding the functional robustness and adaptability of biological networks.
Streptozotocin (STZ) selectively destroys insulin-producing beta islet cells of the pancreas providing a model of type I diabetes. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) is a nuclear enzyme whose overactivation by DNA strand breaks depletes its substrate NAD+ and then ATP, leading to cellular death from energy depletion. We demonstrate DNA damage and a major activation of PARP in pancreatic islets of STZ-treated mice. These mice display a 500% increase in blood glucose and major pancreatic islet damage. In mice with homozygous targeted deletion of PARP (PARP -/-), blood glucose and pancreatic islet structure are normal, indicating virtually total protection from STZ diabetes. Partial protection occurs in PARP +/- animals. Thus, PARP activation may participate in the pathophysiology of type I diabetes, for which PARP inhibitors might afford therapeutic benefit.
In the rat olfactory bulb, activation of opioid receptors enhances basal adenylyl cyclase (EC 4.6.1.1) activity and potentiates enzyme stimulation by Gs-coupled neurotransmitter receptors in a pertussis toxin-sensitive manner. In the present study, we investigated the involvement of G protein betagamma subunits by examining the effects of betagamma scavengers and exogenously added betagamma subunits of transducin (betagamma(t)). The QEHA fragment of type II adenylyl cyclase (50 microM), a peptide that binds to and inactivates betagamma, inhibited the maximal stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity elicited by Leu-enkephalin (Leu-enk) by about 50%. Similarly, the GDP-bound form of the alpha subunit of transducin (5 nM-1.5 microM), another betagamma scavenger, reduced both the opioid stimulation of basal adenylyl cyclase activity and the potentiation of vasoactive intestinal peptide-stimulated enzyme activity. Under the same experimental conditions, these agents failed to affect the stimulation of the enzyme activity elicited by activation of beta-adrenergic receptors with 1-isoproterenol. Moreover, the addition of betagamma(t)(400 nM) stimulated basal adenylyl cyclase by 80%, and this effect was not additive with that produced by Leu-enk. The data indicate that opioids enhance adenylyl cyclase activity in rat olfactory bulb by promoting the release of betagamma subunits from pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins Gi/Go.

By use of suitable methods, different spots on the skin surface can be shown to be selectively sensitive to one of four sensory qualities in decreasing order of density: pain, touch, cool and warm. The presence of such spots was observed virtually simultaneously in the early 1880s by three independent investigators. Two papers on punctuate sensitivity of the skin were published in 1882 and 1883 by Magnus Blix of Uppsala University in Sweden; three papers were published in 1884 by Alfred Goldscheider, a German army doctor; and one was published in 1885 by Henry Donaldson of Johns Hopkins University in Maryland. Donaldson's findings originated from a serendipitous observation. In contrast, Blix's and Goldscheider's experiments were based on Johannes Muller's concept of &quot;specific sense energies&quot; and the extension of this idea to sensory qualities (the law of &quot;specific nerve energies&quot;) by others, including Hermann von Helmholtz. The discovery of different types of sensory spots had considerable influence on other researchers of the period, including Max von Frey, but has only recently been substantiated by electrophysiological experiments.
The severe neurological deficit in embryos carrying null mutations for the retinoblastoma (Rb) gene suggests that Rb plays a crucial role in neurogenesis. While developing neurons undergo apoptosis in vivo neural precursor cells cultured from Rb-deficient embryos appear to differentiate and survive. To determine whether Rb is an essential regulator of the intrinsic pathway modulating terminal mitosis we examined the terminal differentiation of primary cortical progenitor cells and bFGF-dependent neural stem cells derived from Rb-deficient mice. Although Rb -/- neural precursor cells are able to differentiate in vitro we show that these cells exhibit a significant delay in terminal mitosis relative to wild-type cells. Furthermore, Rb -/- cells surviving in vitro exhibit an upregulation of p107 that is found in complexes with E2F3. This suggests that p107 may partially compensate for the loss of Rb in neural precursor cells. Functional ablation of Rb family proteins by adenovirus-mediated delivery of an E1A N-terminal mutant results in apoptosis in Rb-deficient cells, consistent with the interpretation that other Rb family proteins may facilitate differentiation and survival. While p107 is upregulated and interacts with the putative Rb target E2F3 in neural precursor cells, our results indicate that it clearly cannot restore normal E2F regulation. Rb-deficient cells exhibit a significant enhancement of E2F 1 and 3 activity throughout differentiation concomitant with the aberrant expression of E2F-inducible genes. In these studies we show that Rb is essential for the regulation of E2F 1 and 3 activity as well as the onset of terminal mitosis in neural precursor cells.
The mitotic marker 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was injected twice daily (60 mg/kg) into pregnant hooded rats on one of embryonic days (E) 11, 12, 13, 15, 17, or 21, or into rat pups on postnatal day (P) 10. The principal findings were the following: (1) BrdU exposure on E11 produces profound effects on body morphology, and animals must be fed a special diet because of chronic tooth abnormalities; (2) BrdU exposure at E17 or earlier produces a change in coat spotting pattern, the precise pattern varying with age; (3) BrdU exposure on E15 or earlier produces a reduction in both brain and body weight; (4) BrdU exposure on E17 or earlier reduces cortical thickness; (5) BrdU exposure on E11-E13 and at P10 reduces cerebellar size relative to cerebral size; (6) spatial learning is significantly affected after injections of BrdU at E11-E17, but the largest effect is on E17; (7) the deficit in spatial learning may be related in part to a reduction in visual acuity; and (8) skilled forelimb ability is most disrupted after BrdU exposure at E15 but is also impaired after injections on E13 or earlier. BrdU thus has teratological effects on body, brain, and behavior that vary with the developmental age of the fetus or infant.
Zinc appears to play a role in synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. We tested the hypothesis that zinc is similarly involved in sensory transmission by determining whether vesicular zinc and metallothionein-III (MT-III), a zinc-binding protein, are localized in rat primary afferent neurons. MT-III mRNA, measured using RT-PCR, and MT-III immunoreactivity, were both present in the spinal cord as well as the thoracic and lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG). At a time (24 hr) that allows retrograde transport of zinc selenite to cell bodies, only small-diameter neurons and neurons scattered throughout lamina V of the spinal cord were stained by sodium selenite injected intrathecally. This stain disappeared if a ligature was placed on the dorsal root to block axonal transport, demonstrating that these cells are, in fact, zinc-containing primary afferent neurons. When assessed 1 hr after sodium selenite, stain was distributed throughout the neuropil of the spinal cord, especially in lamina III and the area surrounding the central canal. Even in rhizotomized animals, large- and small-diameter DRG neuronal cell bodies were also stained with either selenite (1 hr) or 6-methoxy 8-para-toluene sulfonamide quinoline (TSQ). Paradoxically, this unique pool of zinc was eliminated in large-diameter DRG neurons after neonatal capsaicin treatment, which had no effect on selenite stain or MT-III mRNA content in small-diameter DRG neurons. In summary, we demonstrate that there is a population of capsaicin-insensitive small-diameter primary afferent neurons that are zinc-containing. In addition, there is a unique pool of capsaicin-sensitive zinc that is associated with large-diameter cell bodies.
We asked whether the dynamics of target motion are represented in visual area MT and how information about image velocity and acceleration might be extracted from the population responses in area MT for use in motor control. The time course of MT neuron responses was recorded in anesthetized macaque monkeys during target motions that covered the range of dynamics normally seen during smooth pursuit eye movements. When the target motion provided steps of target speed, MT neurons showed a continuum from purely tonic responses to those with large transient pulses of firing at the onset of motion. Cells with large transient responses for steps of target speed also had larger responses for smooth accelerations than for decelerations through the same range of target speeds. Condition-test experiments with pairs of 64 msec pulses of target speed revealed response attenuation at short interpulse intervals in cells with large transient responses. For sinusoidal modulation of target speed, MT neuron responses were strongly modulated for frequencies up to, but not higher than, 8 Hz. The phase of the responses was consistent with a 90 msec time delay between target velocity and firing rate. We created a model that reproduced the dynamic responses of MT cells using divisive gain control, used the model to visualize the population response in MT to individual stimuli, and devised weighted-averaging computations to reconstruct target speed and acceleration from the population response. Target speed could be reconstructed if each neuron's output was weighted according to its preferred speed. Target acceleration could be reconstructed if each neuron's output was weighted according to the product of preferred speed and a measure of the size of its transient response.
Cortical neurons recorded in vivo exhibit highly variable responses to the repeated presentation of the same stimulus. To further understand the cellular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon, we performed intracellular recordings from neurons in cat striate cortex in vivo and examined the relationships between spontaneous activity and visually evoked responses. Activity was assessed on a trial-by-trial basis by measuring the membrane potential (Vm) fluctuations and spike activity during brief epochs immediately before and after the onset of an evoked response. We found that the response magnitude, expressed as a change in Vm relative to baseline, was linearly correlated with the preceding spontaneous Vm. This correlation was enhanced when the cells were hyperpolarized to reduce the activation of voltage-gated conductances. The output of the cells, expressed as spike counts and latencies, was only moderately correlated with fluctuations in the preceding spontaneous Vm. Spike-triggered averaging of Vm revealed that visually evoked action potentials arise from transient depolarizations having a rise time of approximately 10 msec. Consistent with this, evoked spike count was found to be linearly correlated with the magnitude of Vm fluctuations in the gamma (20-70 Hz) frequency band. We also found that the threshold of visually evoked action potentials varied over a range of approximately 10 mV. Examination of simultaneously recorded intracellular and extracellular activity revealed a correlation between Vm depolarization and spike discharges in adjacent cells. Together these results demonstrate that response variability is attributable largely to coherent fluctuations in cortical activity preceding the onset of a stimulus, but also to variations in action potential threshold and the magnitude of high-frequency fluctuations evoked by the stimulus.
Although the initiation of inflammatory pain (hyperalgesia) has been demonstrated to require the cAMP second messenger signaling cascade, whether this mechanism and/or other mechanisms underlie the continued maintenance of the induced hyperalgesia is unknown. We report that injection of adenylyl cyclase inhibitors before but not after injection of direct-acting hyperalgesic agents (prostaglandin E2 and purine and serotonin receptor agonists) resulted in reduction in hyperalgesia, evaluated by the Randall-Selitto paw-withdrawal test. In contrast, injection of protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitors either before or after these hyperalgesic agents resulted in reduced hyperalgesia, suggesting that hyperalgesia after its activation was maintained by persistent PKA activity but not by adenylyl cyclase activity. To evaluate further the role of PKA activity in the maintenance of hyperalgesia, we injected the catalytic subunit of PKA (PKACS) that resulted in hyperalgesia similar in magnitude to that induced by the direct-acting hyperalgesic agents but much longer in duration (&gt;48 vs 2 hr). Injection of WIPTIDE (a PKA inhibitor) at 24 hr after PKACS reduced hyperalgesia, suggesting that PKACS hyperalgesia is not independently maintained by steps downstream from PKA. In summary, our results indicate that, once established, inflammatory mediator-induced hyperalgesia is no longer maintained by adenylyl cyclase activity but rather is dependent on ongoing PKA activity. An understanding of the mechanism maintaining hyperalgesia may provide important insight into targets for the treatment of persistent pain.
Although recent studies have provided evidence for hair cell regeneration in mammalian inner ears, the mechanism underlying this regenerative process is still under debate. Here we report immunocytochemical, histological, electron microscopic, and autoradiographic evidence that, in cultured postnatal rat utricles, a substantial number of hair cells can survive gentamicin insult even their stereocilia are lost. These partially damaged hair cells can survive for a prolonged time and regrow the stereocilia. Although the number of stereocilia-bearing hair cells increases over time after gentamicin insult, hair cell and supporting cell numbers remain essentially unchanged. Tritiated thymidine autoradiography and bromodeoxyuridine immunocytochemistry of the cultures demonstrate that cell proliferation in the sensory epithelium is very limited and is far below the number of recovered hair cells. Furthermore, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling analysis indicates that gentamicin-induced apoptosis in the sensory epithelium occurs mainly during a 2 d treatment period, and additional cell death is minimal 2-11 d after treatment. Considered together, intracellular repair of partially damaged hair cells can be an important contributor to spontaneous hair cell recovery in mammalian inner ears.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) supports survival of 50% of visceral afferent neurons in the nodose/petrosal sensory ganglion complex (NPG; Ernfors et al., 1994a; Jones et al., 1994; Conover et al., 1995; Liu et al., 1995; Erickson et al., 1996), including arterial chemoafferents that innervate the carotid body and are required for development of normal breathing (Erickson et al., 1996). However, the relationship between BDNF dependence of visceral afferents and the location and timing of BDNF expression in visceral tissues is unknown. The present study demonstrates that BDNF mRNA and protein are transiently expressed in NPG targets in the fetal cardiac outflow tract, including baroreceptor regions in the aortic arch, carotid sinus, and right subclavian artery, as well as in the carotid body. The period of BDNF expression corresponds to the onset of sensory innervation and to the time at which fetal NPG neurons are BDNF-dependent in vitro. Moreover, baroreceptor innervation is absent in newborn mice lacking BDNF. In addition to vascular targets, vascular afferents themselves express high levels of BDNF, both during and after the time they are BDNF-dependent. However, endogenous BDNF supports survival of fetal NPG neurons in vitro only under depolarizing conditions. Together, these data indicate two roles for BDNF during vascular afferent pathway development; initially, as a target-derived survival factor, and subsequently, as a signaling molecule produced by the afferents themselves. Furthermore, the fact that BDNF is required for survival of functionally distinct populations of vascular afferents demonstrates that trophic requirements of NPG neurons are not modality-specific but may instead be associated with innervation of particular organ systems.
Mice were generated expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) promoter. Green fluorescence was observed in, and restricted to, GnRH-immunopositive neuronal somata in the olfactory bulb, ganglion terminale, septal nuclei, diagonal band of Broca (DBB), preoptic area (POA), and caudal hypothalamus, as well as GnRH neuronal dendrites and axons, including axon terminals in the median eminence and organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT). Whole-cell recordings from GFP-expressing GnRH neurons in the OVLT-POA-DBB region revealed a firing pattern among GFP-expressing GnRH neurons distinct from that of nonfluorescent neurons. Nucleated patches of GFP-expressing GnRH neurons exhibited pronounced responses to fast application of GABA and smaller responses to L-glutamate and AMPA. One-fifth of the nucleated patches responded to NMDA. The GABA-A, AMPA, and NMDA receptor channels on GnRH neurons mediating these responses may play a role in the modulation of GnRH secretory oscillations.
Abnormal synaptic transmission has been hypothesized to be a cause of neuronal death resulting from transient ischemia, although the mechanisms are not fully understood. Here, we present evidence that synapses are markedly modified in the hippocampus after transient cerebral ischemia. Using both conventional and high-voltage electron microscopy, we performed two- and three-dimensional analyses of synapses selectively stained with ethanolic phosphotungstic acid in the hippocampus of rats subjected to 15 min of ischemia followed by various periods of reperfusion. Postsynaptic densities (PSDs) from both area CA1 and the dentate gyrus were thicker and fluffier in postischemic hippocampus than in controls. Three-dimensional reconstructions of selectively stained PSDs created using electron tomography indicated that postsynaptic densities became more irregular and loosely configured in postischemic brains compared with those in controls. A quantitative study based on thin sections of the time course of PSD modification indicated that the increase in thickness was both greater and more long-lived in area CA1 than in dentate gyrus. Whereas the magnitude of morphological change in dentate gyrus peaked at 4 hr of reperfusion (140% of control values) and declined thereafter, changes in area CA1 persisted and increased at 24 hr of reperfusion (191% of control values). We hypothesize that the degenerative ultrastructural alteration of PSDs may produce a toxic signal such as a greater calcium influx, which is integrated from the thousands of excitatory synapses onto dendrites, and is propagated to the neuronal somata where it causes or contributes to neuronal damage during the postischemic phase.
Although extracellular adenosine concentrations in brain are increased markedly by a variety of stimuli such as hypoxia and ischemia, it has been difficult to demonstrate large increases in adenosine with stimuli that do not result in pathological tissue damage. The present studies demonstrate that increasing the temperature at which rat hippocampal brain slices are maintained (typically from 32.5 to 38.5 degrees C) markedly inhibits excitatory synaptic transmission. This effect was reversible on cooling, readily repeatable, and was blocked by A1 receptor antagonists and by adenosine deaminase, suggesting that it was mediated by increased activation of presynaptic adenosine A1 receptors by endogenous adenosine. This increase in adenosinergic inhibition was not a response to hyperthermia per se, because it could be elicited by temperatures that remained entirely within the hypothermic range (e. g., from 32.5 to 35.5 degrees C). The increased activity at A1 receptors appeared to be attributable to the direct release of adenosine via nucleoside transporters; the release of adenine nucleotides, linked to either the activation of NMDA receptors or the increased efflux of cAMP, appeared not to be involved. These results suggest that changes in brain temperature can alter the regulation of extracellular adenosine in rat brain slices and that increased adenosine release may be an important regulatory mechanism for countering increased excitability consequent to increased brain temperature.
Astrocytes protect neurons and oligodendrocytes by buffering ions, neurotransmitters, and providing metabolic support. However, astrocytes are also vulnerable to oxidative stress, which may affect their protective and supportive functions. This paper examines the influence of calcium and iron on astrocytes and determines if cell death could be mediated by mitochondrial dysfunction. We provide evidence that the events associated with peroxide-induced death of astrocytes involves generation of superoxide at the site of mitochondria, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, and depletion of ATP. These events are iron-mediated, with iron loading exacerbating and iron chelation reducing oxidative stress. Iron chelation maintained the mitochondrial membrane potential, prevented peroxide-induced elevations in superoxide levels, and preserved ATP levels. Although increased intracellular calcium occurred after oxidative stress to astrocytes, the calcium increase was not necessary for collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential. Indeed, when astrocytes were oxidatively stressed in the absence of extracellular calcium, cell death was enhanced, mitochondrial membrane potential collapsed at an earlier time point, and superoxide levels increased. Additionally, our data do not support opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore as part of the mechanism of peroxide-induced oxidative stress of astrocytes. We conclude that the increase in intracellular calcium following peroxide exposure does not mediate astrocytic death and may even provide a protective function. Finally, the vulnerability of astrocytes and their mitochondria to oxidative stress correlates more closely with iron availability than with increased intracellular calcium.
1. Regional distinctions in GABA type A (GABAA) miniature IPSC responses are thought to be determined by postsynaptic receptor composition. The kinetics of receptor activation and deactivation were studied using rapid exchange (100 micros) of GABA at excised patches containing recombinant (alpha1beta1gamma2 or alpha2beta1gamma2) and native (cortical) GABAA receptors. 2. Receptors activated by brief (&lt; 1 ms) pulses of GABA demonstrated a characteristic current response, hereby referred to as the 'receptor system response'. System response properties included agonist concentration-dependent peak amplitudes and concentration-independent maximal rates of activation and deactivation. Receptor subtypes were characterized functionally and phenotyped using the system response characteristics. 3. System responses obtained for alpha1beta1gamma2 receptors exhibited a single phenotype while alpha2beta1gamma2 receptors exhibited either a predominant slow deactivation (type I) or a relatively infrequent faster (type II) phenotype. Receptor system responses of alpha2beta1gamma2 receptors reached peak currents twice as fast as those of alpha1beta1gamma2 receptors (0.5 versus 1.0 ms) but decayed 2 or 6 times more slowly (taulong of approximately 190 and 62 ms for type I and II alpha2beta1gamma2, and approximately 34 ms for alpha1beta1gamma2 receptors). 4. Receptor system responses from cultured fetal mouse cortical neurons could be statistically separated and classified into five major types with little intragroup variability, primarily based on variations in the current deactivation phases. 5. Receptors subjected to pharmacological modulation exhibited alterations in system response properties consistent with known mechanisms of action, such that distinctions between binding and gating modulations were possible. 6. Brief agonist exposure places limits on receptor activation and deactivation response kinetics. Consequently, receptor system responses may be used to characterize and functionally phenotype an excised patch receptor population. Furthermore, since synaptic exposure to transmitter is postulated to be similarly brief, IPSC kinetics may reflect a functional fingerprint of synaptic receptors.
1. G protein-regulated inward rectifier K+ (GIRK) channels were over-expressed in dissociated rat superior cervical sympathetic (SCG) neurones by co-transfecting green fluorescent protein (GFP)-, GIRK1- and GIRK2-expressing plasmids using the biolistic technique. Membrane currents were subsequently recorded with whole-cell patch electrodes. 2. Co-transfected cells had larger Ba2+-sensitive inwardly rectifying currents and 13 mV more negative resting potentials (in 3 mM [K+]o) than non-transfected cells, or cells transfected with GIRK1 or GIRK2 alone. 3. Carbachol (CCh, 1-30 microM) increased the inwardly rectifying current in 70 % of GIRK1+ GIRK2-transfected cells by 261 +/- 53 % (n = 6, CCh 30 microM) at -120 mV, but had no effect in non-transfected cells or in cells transfected with GIRK1 or GIRK2 alone. Pertussis toxin prevented the effect of carbachol but had no effect on basal currents. 4. The effect of CCh was antagonized by 6 nM tripitramine but not by 100 nM pirenzepine, consistent with activation of endogenous M2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors. 5. In contrast, inhibition of the voltage-activated Ca2+ current by CCh was antagonized by 100 nM pirenzepine but not by 6 nM tripitramine, indicating that it was mediated by M4 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors. 6. We conclude that endogenous M2 and M4 muscarinic receptors selectively couple to GIRK currents and Ca2+ currents respectively, with negligible cross-talk.
Conditional gene targeting depends on tissue and time specificity of recombination events. Endogenous promoters are often used to drive various transgenic constructs. To avoid the problems associated with reconstituting a specific expression pattern in transgenic animals by this method, we tested the internal ribosome entry site of the encephalomyocarditis virus, to enable linkage of the Cre recombinase or rtTA trans-activator to 3' untranslated ends of endogenous genes. Here we report that these constructs function effectively in COS cells. The data suggest that these cassettes will be appropriate for 3' targeting of mouse genes.
We investigated whether different methods of anaesthesia, used on the pregnant rat when collecting embryonic donor tissue, and a lipid peroxidation inhibitor (lazaroid U-83836E) affect the survival of grafted embryonic dopaminergic neurones in hemiparkinsonian rats. There was no difference in either functional recovery or survival of dopaminergic neurones between the different euthanasia groups: (a) isoflurane sedation followed by cervical dislocation, (b) equithesin- or (c) euthatal-anaesthesia. However, lazaroid-treatment enhanced both behavioural recovery and transplant survival.
The present report describes the effect of mGluR agonists and antagonists administration on phospholipase C activation by measuring accumulation of [3H] inositol monophosphates (IP) in rats pre-labeled with [3H]myo-inositol (i.c.v. 24 h pre-treatment). The levels of accumulated [3H]IP were then determined from clarified tissue homogenates using ion-exchange chromotography. Following lithium chloride treatment (10 mg/kg, s.c.), (R/S)-3, 5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), a selective group I mGluR agonist was found to dose-dependently cause a maximal increase in the levels of [3H]IP at 0.3 to 3 micromol/8 microliter i.c.v. with lower doses resulting in less efficacious or no responses. This effect was temporal-dependent reaching a plateau at 2 h. The DHPG-induced increases in [3H]IP were most pronounced in the hippocampus where a 3- to 5-fold increase above vehicle was consistently found, but significant approximately 2-fold increases were also seen in the cerebellum, striatum and frontal cortex. The mixed group I and II agonist, (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S, 3R-t-ACPD), similarly resulted in dose-dependent increases in [3H]IP levels with doses of 1 to 3 micromol i.c.v. Furthermore, this effect was enantiomer specific since the less active 1R,3S-t-ACPD failed to alter phosphoinositol hydrolysis. Administration of the selective mGluR5 agonist (R/S)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenyl-glycine (CHPG) resulted in a dose-dependent increase in hippocampal but not cerebellar levels of [3H]IP, consistent with the receptor distribution of the two group I mGluRs. The Group II agonist LY354740 (1S,2S,5R,6S-2-aminobicycl[3.1.0]hexane-2,6-dicarboxylate monohydrate) and the group III agonist L-AP4 (L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid) failed to alter the levels of [3H]IP. LY341495 (2S-2-amino-2-(1S, 2S-2-carboxycycloprop-1-yl)-3-(xanth-9-yl)propanoic acid) is a nM potent Group II antagonist. However, LY341495 has also been found to have microM potency in inhibiting mGluR1 and 5. The stimulation of [3H]PI hydrolysis by 1 micromol DHPG was dose-dependently blocked by co-administration of the mGluR antagonists, LY341495 at doses that are constant with an interaction at Group I mGluR's. Taken together these results suggest that stimulation of group I mGluRs results in measurable increases in PI hydrolysis in vivo. This method could be quite useful in determining the doses and routes of administration of agonists and antagonists that are required to interact with group I mGluRs.
We hypothesized that hypothalamic NPYergic mechanisms mediate the blood pressure lowering effect of caloric restriction in hypertensive rats. Aortic coarctation-induced (AC) hypertensive rats (n=25) were assigned to either an ad libitum fed control group (AL) or food restricted group (FR; 60% of AL consumption) for 3 weeks. Rats were instrumented chronically with vascular catheters and bilateral guide cannulae directed at the paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei (PVN). Blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) responses to bilateral PVN microinjection of saline (200 nl) or the putative NPY receptor antagonists [D-Trp32]NPY(1-36) (3.3 micrograms/200 nl) and [D-Tyr27,36 Thr32]NPY(27-36) (D-NPY(27-36); 3.3 micrograms/200 nl) were determined. The FR rats were then refed and cardiovascular responses to PVN injections of NPY receptor antagonists were again determined. FR rats had significantly reduced resting BP (159+/-4 vs. 129+/-4 mmHg) and HR (360+/-11 vs. 326+/-9 bpm) compared to AL controls. Refeeding restored BP and HR of FR rats to levels similar to AL (BP=153+/-4 mmHg, HR=359+/-11 bpm). PVN administration of [D-Trp32]NPY produced foraging behavior and concurrent increases in BP and HR in FR, AL and Re-fed rats. The behavioral activation suggests that [D-Trp32]NPY(1-36) produced activation of NPY receptors. In contrast, D-NPY (27-36) did not produce any behavioral response or affect BP or HR in AL or Re-fed rats. In FR rats, D-NPY (27-36) produced significant increases in BP (peak=15+/-3 mmHg) which partially reversed the effect of FR on BP. Thus, in FR rats with reduced BP, PVN administration of an NPY receptor antagonist increases BP. NPY blockade in the PVN accounted for about 50% of the BP effect of food restriction, thus other mechanisms are likely to be involved. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that NPYergic mechanisms may contribute to the reduction of BP produced by food restriction.
Long term forms of synaptic plasticity and in particular LTD/LTP are both present in the mammalian visual cortex. However, while LTP is not inducible in adulthood LTD can be elicited in the mature brain, but its developmental pattern is unknown. Aim of this work was to investigate whether LTD is expressed during postnatal development and if it is modulated by visual experience. To investigate these points we have used rat primary visual cortex slices taken at different stages of functional maturation process, i.e., postnatal day 17 (P17), P23 and P30-35. LTD was assessed by measuring the amplitude of extracellular field potentials recorded in cortical layers 2/3 and elicited by low frequency stimulation to the white matter. LTD was expressed at all ages investigated without significant differences between age groups. These data indicate that LTD developmental expression is not temporally related with the period of functional maturation of rat visual cortex. Dark rearing from birth to P23 resulted in a reduction of LTD amplitude while light deprivation from P17 to P30 did not affect LTD expression in comparison to age matched control values. We suggest that light imprinting is essential for a normal LTD expression during postnatal development.
The rat olfactory bulb undergoes rapid postnatal growth, thus requiring the continuous production of new proteins. The present study examined the development of ribosomes, a key component in protein synthesis, in the bulb using an antibody specific to ribosomal RNA (Y10b). Furthermore, the potential role of afferent activity on patterns of Y10b immunoreactivity, as well as total RNA production (using incorporation of 3H-uridine) was examined by blocking an external naris on postnatal day 1 (P1). In control pups, Y10b was restricted to mitral cells at P2, with labeling expanding to include all layers by P10. Considerable increases in staining density were observed by P30. Although no differences in Y10b immunoreactive patterns were seen in naris-occluded animals 12-48 h after occlusion, or on P10 or P20, by P30, an apparent decrease in numbers of labeled profiles (presumably tufted cells) in the external plexiform layer was found. Furthermore, no changes were seen in levels of 3H-uridine incorporation. Despite the apparent insensitivity to naris closure, the results indicate that ribosome expression, as measured by Y10b immunoreactivity, undergoes rapid postnatal changes that parallel general patterns of growth in the rat olfactory bulb.
In vitro evidence has suggested a change in the ability of tau bearing mutations associated with fronto-temporal dementia to promote microtubule assembly. We have used a cellular assay to quantitate the effect of both isoform differences and mutations on the physiological function of tau. Whilst all variants of tau bind to microtubules, microtubule extension is reduced in cells transfected with 3-relative to 4-repeat tau. Mutations reduce microtubule extension with the P301L mutation having a greater effect than the V337M mutation. The R406W mutation had a small effect on microtubule extension but, surprisingly, tau with this mutation was less phosphorylated in intact cells than the other variants.
Glutamate excitotoxicity has been implicated in a variety of acute and chronic neurodegenerative diseases but early phase clinical trials with competitive antagonists at both N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptors and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors have been disappointing. A family of atypical 2,3 benzodiazepines, exemplified by GYKI 52466, have been described recently which function as non-competitive AMPA-receptor antagonists. We have investigated the neuroprotective efficacy of LY303070 and LY300164, two analogs of GYKI-52466, in an embryonic rat hippocampal culture model of non-NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity using kainic acid (KA) as an agonist at the AMPA/KA receptor. Overnight treatment with 500 microM KA resulted in prominent neuronal excitotoxicity as assessed by lactate dehydrogenase efflux. LY300164 and LY303070 attenuated KA-excitotoxicity in a dose-dependent manner with IC50s of 4 and 2 microM, respectively. In contrast, their stereoisomers, LY300165 and LY303071 showed no neuroprotection at concentrations up to 25 microM. In addition, AMPA-mediated excitotoxicity in cyclothiazide pre-treated cultures was also completely blocked by LY303070. Finally, neuroprotection by this class of 2,3 benzodiazepines was not influenced by antagonism of the classical benzodiazepine receptor. LY303070 and LY300164 represent novel non-competitive AMPA-receptor antagonists which may offer unique advantages in the clinic over competitive AMPA-receptor antagonists.
We examined the time course of expression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) protein in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus following unilateral intrahippocampal injection of kainic acid (KA). Recurrent behavioral seizures were observed approximately 1 h after KA injection, which lasted for 4-6 h. GDNF immunoreactivity began to increase bilaterally in the granule cells within 3 h after KA injection, continued to increase until post-injection day (PID) 4, and returned to the control level by PID 7. The results suggest that the increase of GDNF protein in the granule cells may be ascribable to seizures induced by the KA injection. The increase of GDNF protein might promote survival of the granule cells after the intrahippocampal KA injection.



The present study investigates the potential role of the Ca2+-calmodulin-dependent type I phosphodiesterase (PDE)-cGMP-protein kinase G (PKG) pathway in spontaneous [Ca2+]i oscillations in GH3 cells using fura-2 single cell videoimaging. Vinpocetine (2.5-50 microM), a selective inhibitor of type I PDE, induced a concentration-dependent inhibition of spontaneous [Ca2+]i oscillations in these pituitary cells, and at the same time produced an increase of the intracellular cGMP content. The cell permeable cGMP analog N2,2'-O-dibutyryl-cGMP (dB-cGMP) (1 mM) caused a progressive reduction of the frequency and the amplitude of spontaneous [Ca2+]i oscillations when added to the medium. KT5823 (400 nM), a selective inhibitor of cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG), produced an increase of baseline [Ca2+]i and the disappearance of spontaneous [Ca2+]i oscillations. When KT5823 was added before vinpocetine, the PKG inhibitor counteracted the [Ca2+]i lowering effect of the cGMP catabolism inhibitor. Finally, the removal of extracellular Ca2+ or the blockade of L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) by nimodipine produced a decrease of cytosolic cGMP levels. Collectively, the results of the present study suggest that spontaneous [Ca2+]i oscillations in GH3 cells may be regulated by the activity of type I PDE-cGMP-PKG pathway.
Immunologic challenge with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) produces a functional response within the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) and leads to changes in gene expression within PVN neurons. Regulated expression of neuropeptide genes within neurons of the PVN is a potential mechanism by which an organism can adapt to stressful challenges. Here, the authors used a transgenic mouse model in which expression of a readily measurable beta-galactosidase reporter was driven in PVN neurons by human proenkephalin regulatory sequences. This proenkephalin-beta-galactosidase transgene has been demonstrated previously to respond appropriately to a variety of stressors. It is demonstrated that expression of the proenkephalin transgene product was up-regulated significantly in a subset of PVN neurons 6 hours following intraperitoneal LPS (16-400 microg/kg) administration, remained elevated at 12 hours, and fell below basal levels by 24 hours. A more rapid and transient pattern of transgene up-regulation in the PVN followed administration of intraperitoneal IL-1beta (10 microg/kg) with significant induction by 2 hours, peak levels reached by 4 hours, and a return toward basal levels by 6 hours. IL-1beta (10-50 ng/mouse) administered intracerebroventricularly also led to up-regulation of the transgene 6 hours following infusion. Transgene expression was not up-regulated in hypothalamic slice cultures treated directly with IL-1beta (5-10 ng/ml media). Up-regulation of transgene expression does not appear to result from local action of IL-1beta at the level of the PVN but, rather, through as yet unidentified intermediates. The authors demonstrate phosphorylation of the cyclic amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate response element binding protein, a transcription factor known to interact with proenkephalin regulatory sequences within the transgene, in the PVN following LPS administration. LPS induced up-regulation of the transgene was blocked by pretreatment with naltrexone, indicating an additional role for endogenous opioid systems in regulation of the PVN response to immune challenge.
Chronic (-) deprenyl (0.2 mg/kg, b.wt; for 25 days) treatment induced alterations in the dendritic morphology of prefrontal cortical neurons in adult Bonnett monkeys were evaluated in the present study. The branching points and intersections in apical and basal dendrites were studied up to a distance of 400 and 200 micrometers, respectively, in Golgi impregnated layer III pyramidal neurons of the prefrontal cortex. Our results revealed a significant (p&lt;0.001) increase in the number of branching points and intersections in both apical and basal dendrites in (-) deprenyl treated monkeys compared to controls. Such an enriched dendritic arborization in prefrontal cortical neurons may be responsible for the enhancement of cognitive functions in Alzheimer disease patients following (-) deprenyl treatment.
The 2A subtype of the alpha-adrenergic receptor (alpha2A-AR) is necessary for the hypotensive effects of clonidine and other sympathoinhibitory adrenergic agonists. This hypotensive response appears to be due to the inhibition of sympathoexcitatory reticulospinal neurons found in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL), including neurons of the C1 adrenergic cell group. The cellular mechanisms underlying this inhibition have not been established. Thus, this study examined the ultrastructural relationships between profiles containing alpha2AAR-immunoreactivity (alpha2AAR-I) and those containing the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) to determine potential cellular substrates for alpha2A-AR inhibition of C1 neuron activity. Consistent with previous light microscopic studies, alpha2AAR-I was found in perikarya and large dendrites and the majority of these profiles also contained TH-labeling (approximately 70% of 140). However, alpha2AAR-I in these cells was primarily found within endosomes and Golgi complexes and in clusters associated with the endoplasmic reticula, probable sites for synthesis and/or trafficking of receptors. In contrast, most of the alpha2AAR-I profiles (n=646) in the RVL were axons and axon terminals (approximately 68%) which lacked TH immunoreactivity. alpha2AAR-labeled axons were small and unmyelinated and labeled terminals usually formed symmetric synapses on the shafts of catecholaminergic or unlabeled dendrites. Most of these alpha2AAR-labeled axons were found in close proximity to TH-labeled profiles and approximately one-fifth (17% of 408) of the alpha2AAR-labeled axons and axon terminals directly contacted TH-labeled profiles, mostly dendrites. These studies suggest that alpha2AARs in the C1 area of the RVL function primarily as heteroreceptors on presynaptic axons and terminals of non-catecholaminergic cells, some of which provide inhibitory synaptic input to C1 neurons. These receptors may be activated by catecholamines released either from the dendrites of C1 neurons or from the terminals of other catecholaminergic neurons via volume transmission.
We compared the effects of galvanic vestibular stimulation applied at 0, 0.5, 1.5 and 2.5 s prior to a backward platform translation on postural responses. The effect of the galvanic stimulation was largest on the final equilibrium position of the center of pressure (CoP). The largest effects occurred for the 0.5 and 0-s pre-period, when the dynamic CoP pressure changes in response to both the galvanic stimulus and the platform translation coincided. The shift in the final equilibrium position was also larger than the sum of the shifts for the galvanic stimulus and the platform translation alone for the 0.5 and 0-s pre-periods. The initial rate of change of the CoP response to the platform translation was not significantly affected in any condition. Changes in the peak CoP position could be accounted for by local interaction of CoP velocity changes induced by the galvanic and translation responses alone, but the changes in final equilibrium position could only be accounted for by a change in global body orientation. These findings suggest that the contribution of vestibulospinal information is greatest during the dynamic phase of the postural response, and that the vestibular system contributes most to the later components of the postural response, particularly to the final equilibrium position. These findings suggest that a nonlinear interaction between the vestibular signal induced by the galvanic current and the sensory stimuli produced by the platform translation occurs when the two stimuli are presented within 1 s, during the dynamic phase of the postural response to the galvanic stimulus. When presented at greater separations in time, the stimuli appear to be treated as independent events, such that no interaction occurs.
The effects of intra-amygdalar neuropeptide Y infusions were assessed in rats using the social interaction test. Neuropeptide Y administered into the central nucleus of the amygdala did not alter behavior, while injections into the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala produced an increased social interaction time. Furthermore, the anxiolytic-like effect was antagonized by co-administration of the potent neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor antagonist ((R)-N-[[4-(aminocarbonylaminomethyl)-phenyl]methyl]-N2-(diphen ylacetyl)-argininamide trifluoroacetate) 3304, but not with the inactive enantiomer ((R)-N-[[4-(aminocarbonylaminomethyl)-phenyl]methyl]-N2-(diphen ylacetyl)-argininamide trifluoroacetate) 3457. Therefore, neuropeptide Y produces an anxiolytic-like effect in the social interaction test through neuropetide Y Y1 receptors located in the basolateral amygdala.
Tyrosine phosphorylation has been associated with several aspects of the regulation of cholinergic synaptic function, including nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) desensitization as well as the synthesis and clustering of synaptic components. While some progress has been made in elucidating the molecular events initiating such signals, the downstream targets of these tyrosine kinase pathways have yet to be characterized. In this paper we have used molecular cloning techniques to identify proteins which are tyrosine phosphorylated at the cholinergic synapse. Phosphotyrosine containing proteins (PYCPs) were isolated from the electric organ of Torpedo californica by anti-phosphotyrosine immunoaffinity chromatography. Peptide sequencing and expression cloning then identified the isolated proteins. The proteins identified included heat shock protein 90, type III intermediate filament from Torpedo electric organ, alpha-fodrin, beta-tubulin, actin and rapsyn. These tyrosine phosphorylated proteins may play a role in the regulation of synaptic function by tyrosine kinases.
G proteins play a critical role in transducing a large variety of signals into intracellular responses. Increasingly, there is evidence that G proteins may play other roles as well. Dominant-negative constructs of the alpha subunit of G proteins would be useful in studying the roles of G proteins in a variety of processes, but the currently available dominant-negative constructs, which target Mg2+-binding sites, are rather leaky. A variety of studies have implicated the carboxyl terminus of G protein alpha subunits in both mediating receptor-G protein interaction and in receptor selectivity. Thus we have made minigene plasmid constructs that encode oligonucleotide sequences corresponding to the carboxyl-terminal undecapeptide of Galphai, Galphaq, or Galphas. To determine whether overexpression of the carboxyl-terminal peptide would block cellular responses, we used as a test system the activation of the M2 muscarinic receptor activated K+ channels in HEK 293 cells. The minigenes were transiently transfected along with G protein-regulated inwardly rectifying K+ channels (GIRK) into HEK 293 cells that stably express the M2 muscarinic receptor. The presence of the Galphai carboxyl-terminal peptide results in specific inhibition of GIRK activity in response to agonist stimulation of the M2 muscarinic receptor. The Galphai minigene construct completely blocks agonist-mediated M2 mAChR K+ channel response whereas the control minigene constructs (empty vector, pcDNA3.1, and the Galpha carboxyl peptide in random order, pcDNA-GalphaiR) had no effect on agonist-mediated M2 muscarinic receptor GIRK response. The inhibitory effects of the Galphai minigene construct were specific because overexpression of peptides corresponding to the carboxyl terminus of Galphaq or Galphas had no effect on M2 muscarinic receptor stimulation of the K+ channel.
Glutamate receptors modulate multiple signaling pathways, several of which involve mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases, with subsequent physiological or pathological consequences. Here we report that stimulation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, using platelet-activating factor (PAF) as a messenger, activates MAP kinases, including c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase, p38, and extracellular signal-regulated kinase, in primary cultures of hippocampal neurons. Activation of the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) blocks this NMDA-signaling through PAF and MAP kinases, and the resultant cell death. Recombinant PAF-acetylhydrolase degrades PAF generated by NMDA-receptor activation; the hetrazepine BN50730 (an intracellular PAF receptor antagonist) also inhibits both NMDA-stimulated MAP kinases and neuronal cell death. The finding that the NMDA receptor-PAF-MAP kinase signaling pathway is attenuated by mGluR activation highlights the exquisite interplay between glutamate receptors in the decision making process between neuronal survival and death.
To determine the contribution of 150-kDa oxygen-regulated protein (ORP150) to cellular processes underlying adaptation to hypoxia, a cell line stably transfected to overexpress ORP150 antisense RNA was created. In human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells stably overexpressing ORP150 antisense RNA, ORP150 antigen and transcripts were suppressed to low levels in normoxia and hypoxia, whereas wild-type cells showed induction of ORP150 with oxygen deprivation. Inhibition of ORP150 in antisense transfectants was selective, as hypoxia-mediated enhancement of glucose-regulated protein (GRP) 78 and GRP94 was maintained. However, antisense ORP150 transfectants displayed reduced viability when subjected to hypoxia, compared with wild-type and sense-transfected HEK cells. In contrast, diminished levels of ORP150 had no effect on cytotoxicity induced by other stimuli, including oxygen-free radicals and sodium arsenate. Although cellular ATP content was similar in hypoxia, compared with ORP150 antisense transfectants and wild-type HEK cells, suppression of ORP150 expression was associated with accelerated apoptosis. Hypoxia-mediated cell death in antisense HEK transfectants did not cause an increase in caspase activity or in cytoplasmic cytochrome c antigen. A well recognized inducer of apoptosis in HEK cells, staurosporine, caused increased caspase activity and cytoplasmic cytochrome c levels in both wild-type and antisense cells. These data indicate that ORP150 has an important cytoprotective role in hypoxia-induced cellular perturbation and that ORP150-associated inhibition of apoptosis may involve mechanisms distinct from those triggered by other apoptotic stimuli.
The modulation of presynaptic calcium channel activity by second messengers provides a fine tuning mechanism for neurotransmitter release. In neurons, the activation of certain G protein-coupled receptors reduces N-type channel activity by approximately 60%. In contrast, activation of protein kinase C (PKC) results in an approximately 50% increase in N-type channel activity, and subsequent G protein inhibition is antagonized. Here, we describe the molecular determinants that control the dual effects of PKC-dependent phosphorylation. The double substitution of two adjacent PKC consensus sites in the calcium channel domain I-II linker (Thr422, Ser425) to alanines abolished both PKC-dependent up-regulation and the PKC-G protein cross-talk. The single substitution of Ser425 to glutamic acid abolished PKC up-regulation but had no effect on G protein modulation. Replacement of Thr422 with glutamic acid eliminated PKC-dependent up-regulation and mimicked the effects of PKC phosphorylation on G protein inhibition. Our data suggest that Thr422 mediates the antagonistic effect of PKC on G protein modulation, while phosphorylation of either Thr422 or Ser425 are sufficient to increase N-type channel activity. Thus, Thr422 serves as a molecular switch by which PKC is able to simultaneously trigger the up-regulation of channel activity and antagonize G protein inhibition.
The G protein beta subunit Gbeta5 deviates significantly from the other four members of Gbeta-subunit family in amino acid sequence and subcellular localization. To detect the protein targets of Gbeta5 in vivo, we have isolated a native Gbeta5 protein complex from the retinal cytosolic fraction and identified the protein tightly associated with Gbeta5 as the regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) protein, RGS7. Here we show that complexes of Gbeta5 with RGS proteins can be formed in vitro from the recombinant proteins. The reconstituted Gbeta5-RGS dimers are similar to the native retinal complex in their behavior on gel-filtration and cation-exchange chromatographies and can be immunoprecipitated with either anti-Gbeta5 or anti-RGS7 antibodies. The specific Gbeta5-RGS7 interaction is determined by a distinct domain in RGS that has a striking homology to Ggamma subunits. Deletion of this domain prevents the RGS7-Gbeta5 binding, although the interaction with Galpha is retained. Substitution of the Ggamma-like domain of RGS7 with a portion of Ggamma1 changes its binding specificity from Gbeta5 to Gbeta1. The interaction of Gbeta5 with RGS7 blocked the binding of RGS7 to the Galpha subunit Galphao, indicating that Gbeta5 is a specific RGS inhibitor.
The Ras-related small GTPases Rac, Rho, Cdc42, and RalA bind filamin, an actin filament-crosslinking protein that also links membrane and other intracellular proteins to actin. Of these GTPases only RalA binds filamin in a GTP-specific manner, and GTP-RalA elicits actin-rich filopods on surfaces of Swiss 3T3 cells and recruits filamin into the filopodial cytoskeleton. Either a dominant negative RalA construct or the RalA-binding domain of filamin 1 specifically block Cdc42-induced filopod formation, but a Cdc42 inhibitor does not impair RalA's effects, which, unlike Cdc42, are Rac independent. RalA does not generate filopodia in filamin-deficient human melanoma cells, whereas transfection of filamin 1 restores the functional response. RalA therefore is a downstream intermediate in Cdc42-mediated filopod production and uses filamin in this pathway.

We investigated the expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5), a subtype of group I mGluRs, in the cerebral cortex of cases with Down's syndrome (DS), using immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting with this receptor. The up-regulation of mGluR5 was observed in DS by immunohistochemistry, and atrophic pyramidal neurons were immunolabelled in elderly DS cases. Western blotting confirmed the increased expression in DS brains. Since group I mGluR regulates the metabolism of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and accelerates its processing into non-amyloidogenic APP, the overexpression of mGluR5 may be related to the pathological state of APP metabolism in DS.

The human indusium griseum (IG), the paired dorsal continuation of the hippocampus, was investigated with high-field (3.0T) MR imaging. The IG was clearly visible in 16 out of 20 healthy volunteers. The most common pattern was a single lateralized strip. The classical neuroanatomic pattern of paired symmetric strips along the midline was found in one case. The study clearly demonstrates that diminutive, hitherto overlooked structures such as the IG now can be readily investigated in vivo by non-invasive high-field MR imaging.
Female rodents tend to drink more alcohol than males, a difference that emerges at puberty and appears to vary over the female estrous cycle. In addition, male and female rodents display different responses to alcohol; for example, female rats are reported to have faster elimination rates than males. We were interested in whether circulating ovarian hormones influence alcohol distribution to or elimination from the brain of rats, which might explain observed differences in drinking behavior. We administered 0.8 g/kg of ethanol via intraperitoneal injection to age-matched male and female Sprague-Dawley rats. Extracellular brain ethanol was sampled using microdialysis, and vascular ethanol concentrations were determined via tail blood collection, in two separate experiments. Ethanol pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated for both compartments. There were no differences in pharmacokinetic parameters due to gender or estrous cycle stage in brain ethanol concentration profiles. There were, however, differences in blood ethanol profiles: females showed faster elimination rates and a smaller area under the ethanol concentration versus time curve than males. In addition, the maximum concentration varied significantly across the estrous cycle. These results suggest that (1) circulating ovarian hormones do not influence alcohol distribution to the brain, but do influence distribution to more peripheral tissues such as the tail; and (2) apparent differences in tail blood alcohol levels may not reflect differences in brain levels.

We previously showed that caloric vestibular stimulation elicits increases in sympathetic outflow to muscle (MSNA) in humans. The present study was conducted to determine the effect of this stimulation on sympathetic outflow to skin (SSNA). The SSNA in the tibial and peroneal nerves and nystagmus was recorded in nine subjects when the external meatus was irrigated with 50 ml of cold (10 degrees C) or warm (44 degrees C) water. During nystagmus, the SSNA in tibial and peroneal nerves decreased to 50 +/- 4% (with baseline value set as 100%) and 61 +/- 4%, respectively. The degree of SSNA suppression in both nerves was proportional to the maximum slow-phase velocity of nystagmus. After nystagmus, the SSNA increased to 166 +/- 7 and 168 +/- 6%, respectively, and the degree of motion sickness symptoms was correlated with this SSNA increase. These results suggest that the SSNA response differs from the MSNA response during caloric vestibular stimulation and that the SSNA response elicited in the initial period of caloric vestibular stimulation is different from that observed during the period of motion sickness symptoms.
Interleukin (IL)-6 has been proposed to mediate several sickness responses, including brain-mediated neuroendocrine, temperature, and behavioral changes. However, the exact mechanisms and sites of action of IL-6 are still poorly understood. In the present study, we describe the effects of central administration of species-homologous recombinant rat IL-6 (rrIL-6) on the induction of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity, fever, social investigatory behavior, and immobility. After intracerebroventricular administration of rrIL-6 (50 or 100 ng/rat), rats demonstrated HPA and febrile responses. In contrast, rrIL-6 alone did not induce changes in social investigatory and locomotor behavior at doses of up to 400 ng/rat. Coadministration of rrIL-6 (100 ng/rat) and rrIL-1beta (40 ng/rat), which alone did not affect the behavioral responses, reduced social investigatory behavior and increased the duration of immobility. Compared with rhIL-6, intracerebroventricular administration of rrIL-6 (100 ng/rat) induced higher HPA responses and early-phase febrile responses. This is consistent with a higher potency of rrIL-6, compared with rhIL-6, in the murine B9 bioassay. We conclude that species-homologous rrIL-6 alone can act in the brain to induce HPA and febrile responses, whereas it only reduces social investigatory behavior and locomotor activity in the presence of IL-1beta.


Protein kinase C (PKC) mediates important components of signal transduction pathways underlying neuronal excitability and modulates respiratory timing mechanisms in adult rats. To determine ventilatory effects of systemic PKC inhibition during development, whole-body plethysmographic recordings were conducted in 2-3-d (n = 11), 5-6-d (n = 19), 10-12-d (n = 14), and 20-21-d-old (n = 14) rat pups after treatment with vehicle and Ro 32-0432 (100 mg/kg, intraperitoneally). Ro 32-0432 decreased minute ventilation (V E) by 51.0 +/- 5.5% (mean +/- SEM) in youngest pups (p &lt; 0.01) but only 19.1 +/- 6.8% in 20-21-d-old pups (p &lt; 0.01). V E decreases were always due to frequency reductions with tidal volume (VT) remaining unaffected. Respiratory rate decreases primarily resulted from marked expiratory time (TE) prolongations being more pronounced in 2-3-d-old (115.5 +/- 28.9%) compared with 20-21-d old (36.6 +/- 10.9%; p &lt; 0.002 analysis of variance [ANOVA] ). Expression of the PKC isoforms alpha, beta, gamma, delta, iota, and mu was further examined in brainstem and cortex by immunoblotting and revealed different patterns with postnatal age and location. We conclude that endogenous PKC inhibition elicits age-dependent ventilatory reductions which primarily affect timing mechanisms rather than changes in volume drive. This effect on ventilation abates with increasing postnatal age suggesting that the neural substrate mediating overall respiratory output may be more critically dependent on PKC activity in the immature animal.
Though often reliable, human memory is also fallible. This article examines how and why memory can get us into trouble. It is suggested that memory's misdeeds can be classified into 7 basic &quot;sins&quot;: transience, absentmindedness, blocking, misattribution, suggestibility, bias, and persistence. The first three sins involve different types of forgetting, the next three refer to different types of distortions, and the final sin concerns intrusive recollections that are difficult to forget. Evidence is reviewed concerning each of the 7 sins from relevant sectors of psychology (cognitive, social, and clinical) and from cognitive neuroscience studies that include patients with focal brain damage or make use of recently developed neuroimaging techniques. Although the 7 sins may appear to reflect flaws in system design, it is argued instead that they are by-products of otherwise adaptive features of memory.
The development of the rat vomeronasal organ was studied morphologically and immunocytochemically, using the monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) VOBM1, VOBM2 and VOM2 that react with the luminal surface of the vomeronasal sensory epithelium. Postnatal day (P) 7, 14, 21, 28, 35 and adult animals were examined. The vomeronasal organ and the blood vessel of the organ markedly increased in size and the vomeronasal glands increased in number between P7 and P14. At P35, the shape of the vomeronasal organ was similar to that of the adult but its size was slightly smaller. Electron microscopy showed that only a few scattered microvilli were present on supporting cells, and receptor cells were immature at P7. At P21, well-branched microvilli of the receptor cells and many microvilli of the supporting cells were observed on the luminal surface of the sensory epithelium. At P35, most apical endings of supporting cells and receptor cells were covered with numerous microvilli. Less developed areas were also present at the luminal surface of the epithelium at P35. At P7, immunoreactivities of the three antibodies were observed as discontinuous thin-layered bands only on the luminal surface of the sensory epithelium and no immunoreactivity was observed in other regions of the vomeronasal organ. Immunoreactivities of the VOBM1, VOBM2 and VOM2 increased with age and were observed as continuous thin-layered bands on the luminal surface of the epithelium by P35. These finding suggest that the development of the vomeronasal organ continues after birth and that the organ may reach maturity just before puberty (P42-49).
We investigated how male cricket frogs Acris crepitans, alter their advertisement calls in response to broadcasts of synthetic calls that were either 'attractive' or 'aggressive'. The stimulus calls differed in temporal but not spectral characteristics. Male cricket frogs produced a more aggressive call when presented with the aggressive stimulus, indicating that they perceived the temporal differences between the two call categories. The direction and degree of temporal and spectral changes depended on the relative dominant frequency of the resident and opponent. If the resident's dominant frequency was initially higher than the stimulus frequency, the pattern of change in dominant frequency mirrored that seen for the temporal call characters. In contrast, if the resident's initial dominant frequency was below that of the stimulus, then the temporal and spectral changes were in opposite directions. Furthermore, stimulus order influenced whether males responded differently to playbacks of aggressive and attractive calls; males that received the aggressive call first produced more aggressive calls during the aggressive stimulus, while males that received the attractive call first produced similar calls in response to the two stimuli. This suggests that experience with different types of signals influences the subsequent calling behaviour of male cricket frogs. Copyright 1999 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour.
Gelsolin-related amyloidosis (familial amyloidosis, Finnish type) is a rare disorder, reported worldwide in kindreds carrying a G654A or G654T gelsolin gene mutation. Facial palsy, mild peripheral neuropathy, and corneal lattice dystrophy are characteristic, but atrophic bulbar palsy, ataxia of gait, and minor cognitive impairment may occur. In histological and immunohistochemical studies of the central nervous system in 4 patients with a G654A gelsolin mutation, we found widespread spinal, cerebral, and meningeal amyloid angiopathy, with deposition of gelsolin-related amyloid (AGel). Marked extravascular deposits occurred in the dura, spinal nerve roots, and sensory ganglia. The amyloid deposits were also variably immunoreactive for apolipoprotein E (ApoE), alpha1-antichymotrypsin (alpha1-ACT), and cystatin C (Cys C). Cerebral perivascular fibrinogen immunoreactivity was occasionally noted. The patients showed posterior column degeneration and diffuse loss of myelin in the centrum semiovale with perivascular accentuation. Postmortem magnetic resonance imaging, performed on 1 patient, showed white matter lesions, colocalizing with the histological abnormalities. Our study shows that deposition of AGel in the spinal and cerebral blood vessel walls, meninges, as well as spinal nerve roots and sensory ganglia is an essential feature of this form of systemic amyloidosis and may contribute to the central nervous system symptoms.


This study sought to determine whether depressive symptoms and/or platelet serotonin receptor (5HT2A) density are associated with increased platelet activation (PA) found among smokers. Flow cytometric detection of PA was used to study 36 smokers and 16 nonsmokers, aged 18 to 48 years. Subjects were tested at baseline and after either smoking 2 cigarettes (smokers) or a similar resting interval (nonsmokers). Assessment of PA included both platelet secretion and fibrinogen receptor (GPIIb/IIIa) binding. Platelet 5HT2A receptor binding and saturation were tested using [3H]LSD, and depressive symptoms were measured using the Beck Depression Inventory. Platelet 5HT2A receptor density was increased among smokers versus nonsmokers (82.7+/-67.7 versus 40.0+/-20.2 fmol/mg protein; P&lt;0.005), and there was a dose-dependent relationship between receptor density and packs/d among smokers. Baseline wound-induced GPIIb/IIIa binding at 1 minute and GPIIb/IIIa binding in response to collagen stimulation in vitro was increased among smokers (P&lt;0.05); there were no changes in PA among smokers after smoking, and platelet secretion was not elevated among smokers. Depressive symptoms were associated with 5HT2A receptor density among nonsmokers (P&lt;0.005), but no such relationship was evident among smokers; PA was unrelated to 5HT2A receptor density in either group. The findings indicate that smoking is associated with increased platelet serotonin receptor density and with increased GPIIb/IIIa receptor binding, although these 2 factors are not related to each other or to depressive symptoms among smokers. Serotonergic dysfunction may be an important factor in the development of cardiovascular disease among smokers.

Stimulation in the hypothalamus elicits locomotor stepping. Before stepping is initiated, head scanning movements occur. We determined the relationships between the latency of locomotor initiation and the number, extent and direction of the head scanning movements. Chronic stimulation electrodes were stereotaxically implanted in and around the hypothalamus of 29 rats. Under awake conditions, 38 locomotor sites were tested in a runway apparatus. Behaviors occurring between the onset of stimulation and the first step were recorded on videotape. Points on the rat were digitized at sampling rate of 6 Hz to produce measures of head angles in the vertical, horizontal, and sagittal planes. The priming paradigm was used with a current selected for each site that was minimally sufficient to produce reliable stepping. In trials at approximately 1-min intervals, a 5-s train of stimulation (the control) was followed by a second train (the test) delivered 5-20 s later. Initiation latency on control trains was strongly correlated with head movement measures. Vertical and lateral head movements were independent of one another. Together, their frequency and extent accounted for 85% of the variance in locomotor initiation latencies. In effective priming trials, when locomotor initiation latencies were reduced on the test train, the frequency and extent of vertical and lateral head movements were also reduced. In non-effective priming trials, when latencies were not reduced, head movements were not reduced. Head scanning and locomotor initiation reflect reciprocal processes.
Studies on foraging rats suggest that they can use visual, olfactory, and self-movement cues for spatial guidance, but their relative reliance on these different cues is not well understood. In the present study, rats left a hidden refuge to search for a large food pellet located somewhere on a circular table, and the accuracy with which they returned to the refuge with the food pellet was measured. Cue use was manipulated by administering probe trials from novel locations, blindfolding, moving the home cage relative to the table, rotating the table and using combinations of these manipulations. When visual cues were available and a consistent starting location used, a visual strategy dominated performance. When blindfolded, the rats used olfactory cues from the surface of the table and from the starting hole. When olfactory stimuli were made uninformative, by changing the starting hole and rotating the table, the rats still homed accurately, suggesting they used self-movement cues. In a number of cue combinations, in which cues gave conflicting information, performance degraded. The results suggest that rats display a hierarchical preference in using visual, olfactory and self-movement cues while at the same time being able to reaffirm or switch between various cue combinations. The results are discussed in relation to ideas concerning the neural basis of spatial navigation.
The aim of this study was twofold: (1) to study the predictive validity of the drug-naive, bilaterally MPTP-treated monkey as an animal model of Parkinson's disease (PD), and (2) to investigate the therapeutic and undesired effects of the D1 agonist SKF 82958 as compared to L-DOPA treatment, in drug-naive and L-DOPA pretreated monkeys. A detailed ethogram was used, allowing the separation of therapeutic and undesired effects. Eight weeks after bilateral intracarotid MPTP administration, SKF 82958 (1 mg/kg, n = 4, SKF 82958, naive group) or methyl-L-DOPA + carbi-dopa (10 + 2.5 mg/kg, n = 4, L-DOPA group) was administered intramuscularly for 22 days. After a drug-free period of eight weeks, the L-DOPA group was treated with SKF 82958 for 22 days (SKF 82959, 1 mg/kg, n=4, pretreated). All drug treatments increased the parameters used classically to evaluate dopaminergic drugs, namely body displacement, dyskinesia and dystonia. However, the new detailed analysis revealed that L-DOPA, but not SKF 82958, had therapeutic effects, reflected by an increase in goal-directed fore-limb use. SKF 82958, but not L-DOPA, induced additional undesired effects; including epileptoid behaviours in both drug-naive and drug-pretreated monkeys. In one L-DOPA-unresponsive monkey, SKF 82958 did induce minor therapeutic effects, as well as undesired effects. Although the effects of SKF 82958 on fore-limb movements, rotational behaviours and body displacement were comparable in the naive and pretreated group, SKF 82958 re-initiated undesired effects in the L-DOPA pretreated group from day one. It is concluded that the bilaterally MPTP-treated monkey is an animal model with predictive validity for PD: it adequately predicts the therapeutic effects and undesired effects of L-DOPA. Furthermore, it is concluded that SKF 82958 is less effective than L-DOPA in the treatment of PD, because it did not induce therapeutic effects, but instead elicited several undesired effects.
The goal of this study was to evaluate the validity of the pretreated, unilaterally MPTP-treated monkey as an animal model of Parkinson's disease (PD). For that purpose, a detailed ethogram was developed and assessed in four male rhesus monkeys that had received MPTP (2.5 mg) in the carotid artery contralateral to the dominant limb. Subsequently, the behavioural effects of the dopamine D2 agonist quinpirole and the dopamine D1 agonist SKF 81297 were studied. The ethogram was found to allow a clear-cut and objective separation of drug-induced behaviours into therapeutic and undesired effects in the MPTP-treated monkeys. Saline-treated monkeys predominantly displayed ipsilateral goal-directed fore-limb movements, and distinct types of ipsilaterally directed rotations. Although quinpirole and SKF 81297 increased motor behaviours, such as body displacement, contralateral fore-limb movements and contralateral rotational behaviours, assessment of the new detailed ethogram revealed that this increase was completely due to the activation of abnormal, non-goal-directed behaviours, such as dyskinetic fore-limb movements, pivoting and shuffling. Moreover, the new ethogram made clear that the drug treatments induced not only dyskinesia and dystonia, but also epileptoid behaviour, which was confirmed by EEG analysis. In summary, the detailed behavioural analysis showed that this model does not adequately predict the clinical effects of the D2 agonist. It is concluded that the pretreated, unilaterally MPTP-treated monkey is not a valid model to predict the therapeutic and undesired effects of dopaminergic drugs in humans.

This article provides an overview and general explanation of the rapidly developing area of gene chips and expression array technology. These are methods targeted at allowing the simultaneous study of thousands of genes or messenger RNAs under various physiological and pathological states. Their technical basis grows from the Human Genome Project. Both methods place DNA strands on glass computer chips (or microscope slides). Expression arrays start with complementary DNA (cDNA) clones derived from the EST data base, whereas Gene Chips synthesize oligonucleotides directly on the chip itself. Both are analyzed using image analysis systems, are capable of reading values from two different individuals at any one site, and can yield quantitative data for thousands of genes or mRNAs per slide. These methods promise to revolutionize molecular biology, cell biology, neuroscience and psychiatry. It is likely that this technology will radically open up our ability to study the actions and structure of the multiple genes involved in the complex genetics of brain disorders.
Fast exocytosis in melanotropic cells, activated by calcium entry through voltage-gated calcium channels, is very sensitive to mobile calcium buffers (complete block at 800 microM ethylene glycol bis(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N'N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA)). This indicates that calcium diffuses a substantial distance from the channel to the vesicle. Surprisingly, 1, 2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA), having a similar KD for calcium as EGTA but a approximately 100 times faster binding rate, blocked exocytosis only twice as effectively as EGTA. Using computer simulations, we demonstrate that this result cannot be explained by free diffusion and buffer binding rates. We hypothesized that local saturation of calcium buffers is involved. A diffusion barrier for both calcium and buffer molecules, located 50-300 nm from the membrane and reducing diffusion 1000 to 10,000 times, generated similar calcium concentrations for specific concentrations of EGTA and BAPTA. With such barriers, calcium rise phase kinetics upon short step depolarizations (2-20 ms) were faster for EGTA than for BAPTA, implying that short depolarizations should allow exocytosis with 50 microM EGTA but not with 25 microM BAPTA. This prediction was confirmed experimentally with capacitance measurements. Coupling exocytosis to calcium dynamics in the model, we found that a barrier with a approximately 3000 times reduced diffusion at approximately 130 nm beneath the membrane best explains the experimentally observed effects of EGTA and BAPTA on block and kinetics of release.
We have cloned two splice variants of the human homolog of the alpha1A subunit of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. The sequences of human alpha1A-1 and alpha1A-2 code for proteins of 2510 and 2662 amino acids, respectively. Human alpha1A-2alpha2bdeltabeta1b Ca2+ channels expressed in HEK293 cells activate rapidly (tau+10mV = 2.2 ms), deactivate rapidly (tau-90mV = 148 micros), inactivate slowly (tau+10mV = 690 ms), and have peak currents at a potential of +10 mV with 15 mM Ba2+ as charge carrier. In HEK293 cells transient expression of Ca2+ channels containing alpha1A/B(f), an alpha1A subunit containing a 112 amino acid segment of alpha1B-1 sequence in the IVS3-IVSS1 region, resulted in Ba2+ currents that were 30-fold larger compared to wild-type (wt) alpha1A-2-containing Ca2+ channels, and had inactivation kinetics similar to those of alpha1B-1-containing Ca2+ channels. Cells transiently transfected with alpha1A/B(f)alpha2bdeltabeta1b expressed higher levels of the alpha1, alpha2bdelta, and beta1b subunit polypeptides as detected by immunoblot analysis. By mutation analysis we identified two locations in domain IV within the extracellular loops S3-S4 (N1655P1656) and S5-SS1 (E1740) that influence the biophysical properties of alpha1A. alpha1AE1740R resulted in a threefold increase in current magnitude, a -10 mV shift in steady-state inactivation, and an altered Ba2+ current inactivation, but did not affect ion selectivity. The deletion mutant alpha1ADeltaNP shifted steady-state inactivation by -20 mV and increased the fast component of current inactivation twofold. The potency and rate of block by omega-Aga IVA was increased with alpha1ADeltaNP. These results demonstrate that the IVS3-S4 and IVS5-SS1 linkers play an essential role in determining multiple biophysical and pharmacological properties of alpha1A-containing Ca2+ channels.
1. Migraine headache pain is thought to result from an abnormal distention of intracranial, extracerebral blood vessels and the consequent activation of the trigeminal nervous system. Migraine is also often accompanied by extracranial sensory disturbances from facial tissues. These experiments investigate whether meningeal dilation produces central sensitization of neurones that receive convergent input from the face. 2. Single unit extracellular activity was recorded from the trigeminal nucleus caudalis of anaesthetized rats in response to either noxious stimulation of the dura mater, innocuous stimulation of the vibrissae or to a transient dilation of the meningeal vascular bed. 3. Rat alpha-CGRP (calcitonin gene-related peptide; 1 microg kg(-1), i.v.) caused a dilation of the middle meningeal artery and facilitated vibrissal responses by 36+/-7%. 4. The 5-HT1B/1D agonist, L-741,604 (3 mg kg(-1), i.v.), inhibited responses to noxious stimulation of the dura mater (16+/-7% of control) and, in a separate group of animals, blocked the CGRP-evoked facilitation of vibrissal responses. 5. L-741,604 (3 mg kg(-1), i.v.) also inhibited responses to innocuous stimulation of the vibrissa (14+/-10% of control) with neurones that received convergent input from the face and from the dura mater, but not with cells that received input only from the face (70+/-12% of control). 6. These data show that dilation of meningeal blood vessels causes a sensitization of central trigeminal neurones and a facilitation of facial sensory processing which was blocked by activation of pre-synaptic 5-HT1B/1D receptors. 7. Sustained dural blood vessel dilation during migraine may cause a sensitization of trigeminal neurones. This may underlie some of the symptoms of migraine, such as the headache pain and the extracranial allodynia. Inhibition of this central sensitization may therefore offer a novel strategy for the development of acute and/or prophylactic anti-migraine therapies.


The Wobbler mouse is used as a model of human motoneuron disease (MND). During the disease progress, the significant loss of motoneurons in cervical spinal cord and cranial motor nuclei leads to the progressive loss of motor function in the forelimb, head, and neck regions. The loss of cutting and chewing ability that results in the inability to feed properly might lead to a lower mean body weight (b. wt.) that is generally one-half that of the normal phenotype littermate controls. Nutritional deficit might also influence neuronal processes sprouting in the cervical spinal ventral horn. To determine whether nutritional deficits contribute to the wt. loss, and influence the progress of MND as well as its sprouting phenomenon, Wobbler and normal phenotype control littermates were dropper-fed three times daily on a regular laboratory diet of Rat Chow. Weight measurements and behavioral tests were taken to monitor the disease. Immunocytochemisty of serotonin, substance P, and leucine enkephalin were conducted in the cervical spinal cord to investigate if any alteration occurred on the previously reported values in ad lib-fed animals. Organ wts. were measured to determine where nutritional benefit was incurred. Although mean wt. loss in Wobblers was reduced, wt. differed significantly from the control values after dropper feeding. However, the progress of the disease or alteration of neurotransmitters containing neuronal processes were not affected by nutritional factors. Therefore, nutritional intake affects wt. gain, but is not a primary consideration in the progress of MND. Behavioral deficits and neurotransmitter alterations are probably directly caused by motoneuron losses.
Tilly Edinger (1897-1967) was a vertebrate paleontologist interested in the evolution of the central nervous system. By combining methods and insights gained from comparative neuroanatomy and paleontology, she almost single-handedly founded modern paleoneurology in the 1920s while working at the Senckenberg Museum in Frankfurt am Main. Edinger's early research was mostly descriptive and conducted within the theoretical framework of brain evolution formulated by O. C. Marsh in the late 19th century. Nevertheless, she became immediately known in 1929 after publishing an extensive review on &quot;fossil brains.&quot; Reconstructing evolutionary history from the fossil record instead of from the comparative analysis of living forms allowed her to identify the sequence of neural innovations within several mammalian lineages. Anti-Jewish terrorism forced Edinger to leave Nazi Germany in 1939. After finding refuge first in England, she continued her career at Harvard's Museum of Comparative Zoology. There she documented the occurrence of gross neural correlates of specialized behavior in several vertebrate lineages, and identified parallel evolution in mammalian sulcation patterns. Her insight that neural innovations need not be &quot;correlated&quot; with either nonneural innovations or with evolutionary &quot;success&quot; led her to reject Marsh's theory of progressive increase in brain size over time and other &quot;anthropocentric&quot; understandings of brain evolution. Edinger's research, her insistence on a stratigraphic and evolutionary framework for interpretation, and her massive compilations of paleoneurological literature established her as the leading definer, practitioner, and chronicler of her field.
MEG correlates of the recognition of facial expressions of emotion were studied in four healthy volunteers. Subjects performed a facial emotion recognition task and a control task involving recognition of complex objects including faces. Facial emotion recognition activated inferior frontal cortex, amygdala and different parts of temporal cortex in a relatively consistent time sequence. The characteristics of these activations were clearly different from those recorded during the control task. Most interesting was the fact that faces evoked different MEG responses as a function of task demands, i.e., the activations recorded during facial emotion recognition were different from those recorded during simple face recognition in the control task. These findings support the assumption that MEG is able to specifically identify the activation pattern of the brain when recognition of the emotional expression of a face is performed.
Semantic memory impairment is a common feature of dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT). Recent research has shown that patients with DAT are more impaired (relative to non-demented controls) in generating exemplars from a particular semantic category (e.g., animals) than words beginning with a particular letter, exhibit an altered temporal dynamic during the production of category exemplars, are impaired on confrontation naming tasks and make predominantly superordinate or semantically related errors, consistently misidentify the same objects across a variety of semantic tasks, and have alterations in multi-dimensional scaling models of their semantic network that are indicative of a loss of concepts and associations. These results are consistent with the view that Alzheimer's disease results in a breakdown in the organization and structure of semantic knowledge as neurodegeneration spreads to the association cortices that presumably store semantic representations.
Hebb proposed that synaptic change underlies behavioural and cognitive plasticity. When applied to recovery from brain injury, the general hypothesis is that if there is recovery following brain injury, then there ought to be a correlated synaptic change, which is presumed to be responsible for recovery. In contrast, if recovery fails to occur, or expected recovery is blocked in some manner, then the synaptic change will likely not be present. Systematic study of functional recovery and synaptic change following brain injury at different ages supports these predictions. Good recovery is always correlated with enhanced connectivity whereas poor recovery is always correlated with an absence of reorganized connectivity. Furthermore, factors that stimulate recovery, such as neurotrophins or experience, stimulate synaptic change and functional recovery. Factors that retard recovery, such as depletion of neuromodulators, also block synaptic change. These results thus support Hebb's general idea that synaptic plasticity is related to behavioural change.
Behavioural context is known to affect neural activity in the striatum. Responses of single cells increase to rewarding stimuli, or drop out as a bar press or saccade is learned. Networks that can accomplish a unique response to changing contexts are of particular interest to systems neuroscience and were a part of Hebb's interest in perception and learning. An overall map of the striatum that localizes changes related to this remarkable phenomenon of contextual responses contributes to our understanding of anatomical substrates of neural systems that integrate information, and may lead us to new striatal regions to study synaptic mechanisms of learning.
This paper discusses work on the function of the motor cortex as revealed by single cell recordings in monkeys and artificial neural network modelling. Our key conceptual approach both in behavioural neuroscience and neural network modeling of motor cortical function relies on reconstructing, visualizing, and modelling the activity in neuronal populations, indeed a key concept advanced by Hebb (1949). The behaviour investigated ranges from exertion of isometric force to pointing movements to complex cognitive processing. The functional properties of single cells with respect to the direction of movement in space are described as well as a population code which provides a unique measure for this direction. Finally, the results of modeling studies are discussed in which directional population activity is used as an input to an artificial neural network to drive a simulated arm.
Both morphine and anandamide significantly stimulated cultured endothelial intracellular calcium level increases in a concentration-dependent manner in cells pre-loaded with fura 2/AM. Morphine is more potent than anandamide (approximately 275 vs. 135 nM [Ca]i), and the [Ca]i for both ligands was blocked by prior exposure of the cells to their respective receptor antagonist, i.e., naloxone and SR 171416A. Various opioid peptides did not exhibit this ability, indicating a morphine-mu3-mediated process. In comparing the sequence of events concerning morphine's and anandamide's action in stimulating both [Ca]i and nitric oxide production in endothelial cells, we found that the first event precedes the second by 40+/-8 sec. The opiate and cannabinoid stimulation of [Ca]i was attenuated in cells leeched of calcium, strongly suggesting that intracellular calcium levels regulate cNOS activity.
We used whole-mount immunocytochemistry to characterize the distribution of serotonin in the stomatogastric nervous systems of seven species of crayfish representing three genera from the family Cambaridae (Orconectes, Cambarus, and Procambarus) and one from the family Astacidae (Pacifastacus). In all species, we observed serotonin-like immunoreactivity in four gastropyloric receptor (GPR) neurons located in the lateral ventricular nerves, with one pair of neurons in each nerve. As in other crustaceans, the GPR axons project to the stomatogastric ganglion and to the bilateral commissural ganglia. In three crayfishes, we observed the GPR axons crossing the commissural ganglia, and extending toward the thoracic nervous system. This feature was most clearly and consistently seen in Pacifastacus leniusculus. The number of stained somata in the commissural ganglia varied among crayfish species from two (in Procambarus clarkii) to five (in Pacifastacus leniusculus). The largest soma (the L cell) displayed both serotonin- and tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity in all species, suggesting that serotonin and dopamine are cotransmitters in this cell. The inferior esophageal nerve and a branch of this nerve (the inner labral nerve) contained several axons with serotonin-like immunoreactivity. These axons were clearly present in only one species (Procambarus clarkii). Serotonin acts as a neuromodulator of rhythms produced by circuits in the crab and lobster stomatogastric ganglion, and is likely to play a similar role in crayfish. Differences are apparent in the distribution of serotonin among crayfish species and between crayfish and other crustaceans, and could result in differences in the physiological action of this modulator.
A novel technique for rapid anterograde labelling of cut axons in vitro was used to visualise the peripheral branches of mesenteric nerve trunks supplying the guinea-pig small intestine. Biotinamide, dissolved in an artificial intracellular solution, was applied to the cut ends of the mesenteric nerves and the tissue was maintained in organ culture overnight. Labelled nerve fibres were visualised by fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-conjugated streptavidin. Intense staining of nerve fibres and terminal varicosities in the ganglia and internodal strands of the myenteric plexus was achieved up to 15 mm from the application site. Filled fibres formed baskets around some myenteric nerve cell bodies, suggesting target-specific neurotransmission. When combined with multiple-labelling immunohistochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), calcitonin gene-related protein (CGRP) or choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), most anterogradely labelled nerve fibres, and many pericellular baskets, were found to be TH immunoreactive, indicating their postganglionic sympathetic origin. Double-labelling immunohistochemistry revealed that the postganglionic sympathetic pericellular baskets preferentially surrounded 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-handling myenteric neurons. Some biotinamide-filled fibres were CGRP immunoreactive, and are likely to originate from spinal sensory neurons. We describe for the first time many pericellular baskets labelled from the mesenteric nerves which were ChAT immunoreactive. Retrogradely filled intestinofugal nerve cell bodies were also observed, all of which had a single axon arising from a small nerve cell body with short filamentous or lamellar dendrites. Many of these cells were ChAT immunoreactive. This in vitro technique is effective in identifying the fine arrangement of nerve terminals arising from nerve trunks in the periphery.
Early generated layers of neocortex are important factors in forming the subsequent architecture of the cerebral cortex. To further explore the role of early generated cortex, we disrupted formation of an early generated cohort of cells by intraperitoneal injections of the mitotic inhibitor methylazoxymethanol (MAM) into pregnant ferrets timed to coincide with generation of subplate neurons in the ventricular zone. Our studies demonstrate that if early development of the neocortex is interrupted by injection of MAM during embryogenesis (on embryonic day 24 or 28; E24 or E28), a distinct laminar pattern fails to form properly in the parietal cortex. A reduced number of MAP2-positive cells were observed in the region of the subplate when compared with the number of MAP2-positive cells found in normal animals. Interference with the superficial neocortical layers that form later during development (on embryonic day 33) by appropriately timed MAM injections does not result in a severely disrupted laminar pattern. The interrupted laminar pattern that arises after early MAM injections coincides with distorted radial glial cells (identified by immunoreactivity to the intermediate filament protein, vimentin), which occur after early, but not late, MAM injections. Further analysis suggests that interference with early development of neocortex leads to premature differentiation of radial glial cells into astrocytes, as demonstrated by the presence of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Experiments involving injections of the thymidine analog, bromodeoxyuridine (BRDU), demonstrated that 4 days after E24 MAM injection cells are generated and migrate into the thin cortical plate. By E38, however, cells continue to be generated in animals treated with MAM on E24 but do not reach their normal positions in the cortical plate. In addition, immunoreactivity using the CR50 antibody, which identifies presumptive Cajal-Retzius cells present in layer 1, demonstrates that the CR50-positive cells, normally precisely located in the outer portion of layer 1, are distributed in disarray throughout the thickness of the neocortex and intermediate zone in early MAM-treated animals, but not in those treated with MAM injections later during gestation. These findings are consistent with the idea that early generated layers are important in providing factors that maintain the environment necessary for subsequent neuronal migration and formation of neocortical layers.
We report two patients aged 65 and 61 years, who presented a subacute dementia with normal CT scan without contrast injection. Angiography showed a dural arteriovenous malformation. The patients improved dramatically with treatment of the malformation. Dementia was characterised by frontal dysfunction, emotional disorders, amnesic and praxic impairment. This neuropsychological pattern suggests a profile of global dementia in the field of vascular dementia.
Child disability services are under pressure to evaluate what they provide. Evaluation encompasses both the procedures they adopt and the outcomes for their clients, that is, for children and families. This paper presents practical frameworks for service evaluation, with examples from experience and from published literature. Individual services cannot carry out evaluation of the clinical effectiveness of particular interventions, but they can clarify their goals, institute regular audit projects, develop guidelines for their practice through participatory evaluation, and sample parents' views of the quality of the services they provide. Practical suggestions are made for the measurement of outcomes for individual children and families.
Benign triton tumor (neuromuscular hamartoma) is a rare tumor of the peripheral nerves, comprising mature neural and striated muscle elements. We report the third case, according to the literature, of a benign triton tumor affecting the Vth cranial nerve in a 4-year-old male child. The tumor was seen to involve the mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve in the infratemporal fossa and extend intracranially by eroding the base of middle cranial fossa. The mass was totally excised. In the tumor, bundles of axons intermingling with fascicles of relatively mature skeletal muscle were found. This type of hamartomatous lesions of neuroectodermal-mesenchymal origin could have arisen as the result of incorporation of mesenchymal tissue into nerve sheaths during embryogenesis or aberrant differentiation of neuroectodermal component into mesenchymal elements.
The effect of ethanol and acetaldehyde on the activity of a range of intracellular cytoplasmic and lysosomal proteolytic enzymes has been determined in human brain, liver and skeletal muscle tissues in vitro. There was a substantial degree of inhibition for most protease types in all tissues if sufficiently high concentrations of ethanol (10%, v/v; 1.7 mol/L) or acetaldehyde (1%, v/v; 0.17 mol/L) were used in the assay media. However, it was concluded that direct inhibition of proteases in vivo by ethanol or acetaldehyde is improbable, at the concentrations of these agents likely to pertain in vivo, and that any effect of these agents on intracellular protein catabolism must occur via a more subtle biochemical mechanism.
Borrelia Lyme disease is a complex disorder that sometimes becomes chronic. There are contradictory reports of experimental Borrelia infections regarding which type of T cell cytokine responses, i.e. Th1 or Th2, are needed to eradicate the Borrelia spirochaetes. In human borreliosis a predominance of Borrelia-specific Th1-like responses has been shown. In this study, spontaneous, as well as Borrelia-specific, secretion of IFN-gamma (Th1) and IL-4 (Th2) in Borrelia-seropositive healthy asymptomatic individuals (n = 17) was investigated in peripheral blood by a sensitive ELISPOT assay, and compared with previously reported responses in patients with clinical Borrelia infection (n = 25). The seropositive asymptomatic individuals displayed the same predominance of Borrelia-specific IFN-gamma-secreting cells as the patients with clinical Borrelia infection. Interestingly, the proportion of spontaneously IL-4-secreting cells, reflecting the unstimulated in vivo secretion, was lower in the seropositive asymptomatic individuals compared with patients with chronic Borrelia infections (n = 13, P = 0.02), whereas no such difference was found compared with subacute Borrelia infections (n = 12). These findings indicate that IFN-gamma secretion alone is not sufficient to eliminate Borrelia spirochaetes in humans, although IFN-gamma may still have a beneficial role in borreliosis acting in concert with other mechanisms.

The consequences of public health of the acquisition and use of drugs of abuse have been well demonstrated. Despite intense effort, however, progress has been slow in recent years in ascertaining the specific neurodevelopmental effects of these drugs on the children of drug-abusing mothers. The use of animal models allows the investigator to determine the specific biological contributions of prenatal exposure to drugs of abuse on neurodevelopmental outcome while controlling for covariates that have confounded clinical studies, such as altered nutrition in pregnancy, suboptimal rearing environment of the young, and availability of drug and nondrug stimulation to the offspring. This article selectively reviews the preclinical literature on the gestational effects of drugs of abuse with particular emphasis on cocaine, ethanol, and the opiate narcotics. Mechanisms of drug action on the mature and developing brain are summarized. A model of developmental impact on the brain regions underlying drug-induced reward and reinforcement and its potential postnatal importance is presented.
The analysis of complex sound features is important for the perception of environmental sounds, speech and music, and may be abnormal in disorders such as specific language impairment in children, and in common adult lesions including stroke and multiple sclerosis. This work addresses the problem of how the human auditory system detects features in complex sound, and uses those features to perceive the auditory world. The work has been carried out using two independent means of testing the same hypotheses; detailed psychophysical studies of neurological patients with central lesions, and functional imaging using positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging of normal subjects. The psychophysical and imaging studies have both examined which brain areas are concerned with the analysis of auditory space, and which are concerned with the analysis of timing information in the auditory system. This differs from many previous human auditory studies, which have concentrated on the analysis of sound frequency. The combined lesion and functional imaging approach has demonstrated analysis of the spatial property of sound movement within the right parietal lobe. The timing work has confirmed that the primary auditory cortex is active as a function of the time structure of sound, and therefore not only concerned with frequency representation of sounds.
Delusional disorder symptomatology has been poorly investigated with factor analytic studies. Most attempts to identify its symptomatologic structure were made with schizophrenic or mixed psychotic populations and included only delusional symptoms. The purpose of this study was to analyze the whole symptomatologic structure of delusional disorder. One hundred eight inpatients with delusional disorder (DSM-III-R) were evaluated for lifetime symptoms using the Operational Criteria (OPCRIT) checklist for psychotic illness and included in a factorial analysis. Four factors were evaluated: (1) core depressive symptoms, (2) hallucinations, (3) delusions, and (4) irritability symptoms. Thus, when scored by the OPCRIT checklist, delusional symptomatology consisted of four independent factors, indicating a substantial heterogeneity of this diagnostic category.
The introduction of non-linear regression analysis of data from pharmacological experiments has provided an enormous advantage in making it possible to analyze raw data without any mathematical transformation. However, the disadvantage has been the lack of computer programs with simple user interfaces and the ability to easily handle large amounts of data. With the aim to develop a light-weight and still powerful program we have written an application called EasyBound which is designed to be used with Microsoft Excel and hence takes advantage of the abilities of the spreadsheet application to handle large amounts of data. Focus has been on creating an easy-to-understand user interface. There are commercial programs available, but they tend to be very complex and difficult to grasp for inexperienced users. EasyBound displays original data, calculated results and graphs on the same sheet/page. The program fully implements the most powerful algorithms for non-linear regression analysis, giving results that are more accurate than using built-in iterative analysis functions of the spreadsheet application without compromising ease of use.

In acute monosymptomatic optic neuritis, treatment with oral prednisone alone should be avoided. Therapy with intravenous methylprednisolone (1 g/day for 3 days) followed by 11 days of oral prednisone (1 mg/kg with a short taper) should be considered instead. This is particularly true if a patient considers accelerated visual recovery to be particularly urgent or if magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrates three or more signal abnormalities consistent with demyelination. In patients without a diagnosis of clinically definite multiple sclerosis (CDMS), an MRI should be considered to assess the prognosis for developing multiple sclerosis (MS) and to eliminate other causes of optic neuropathy. Foregoing an MRI or steroid treatment is an acceptable option. Chest x-ray, blood tests, and lumbar puncture are not necessary in evaluating patients with typical clinical features of optic neuritis. These tests may be appropriate, however, for patients who are about to undergo corticosteroid therapy, which could complicate or mask an unrecognized condition.
The Belly spot and tail (Bst) semidominant mutation, mapped to mouse Chromosome 16, leads to developmental defects of the eye, skeleton, and coat pigmentation. In the eye, the mutant phenotype is characterized by the presence of retinal colobomas, a paucity of retinal ganglion cells, and axon misrouting. The severity of defects in the Bst/+ retina is variable among individuals and is often asymmetric. In order to determine the role of the Bst locus during retinal morphogenesis, we searched for the earliest observable defects in the developing eye. We examined the retinas of Bst/+ and +/+ littermates from embryonic day 9.5 (E9.5) through E13.5 and measured retinal size, cell density, cell death, mitotic index, and cell birth index. We have found that development of the Bst/+ retina is notably dilatory by as early as E10.5. The affected retinas are smaller than their wildtype counterparts, and optic fissure fusion is delayed. In the mutant, there is a marked lag in the exit of retinal cells from the mitotic cycle, even though there are no observable differences in the rate of cellular proliferation or cell death between the two groups. We hypothesize that Bst regulates retinal cell differentiation and that variability of structural defects in the mutant, such as those affecting optic fissure fusion, is a reflection of the extent of developmental delay brought about by the Bst mutation.
The aim of the study was to examine the predictive value of the variables of parental assessment score, pre-, peri-, and postpartum optimality, sex, socioeconomic status (SES), and maternal education with respect to developmental delay at 18 months, and intellectual disability and school achievement problems at 8 and 14 years. The sample studied comprised 101 children (53 low scorers and 48 controls) originally from a total population of 2783 children assessed by their parents at 18 months using a screening instrument. Data were analysed by logistic regression. The results yielded moderate but statistically significant correlations between predictor and outcome variables. Optimality score and maternal education were the best predictors of developmental delay at 18 months. At 8 years, parental assessment score and maternal education constituted the best predictors of school achievement problems. At 14 years, SES together with parental assessment score were included in the model, when school achievement problems were predicted. Parental assessment score showed the strongest association with school achievement problems at both 8 and 14 years, when children with intellectual disability were included in the analysis. The exclusion of children with intellectual disability from the analyses yielded a stronger association between maternal education (at 8 years) and SES (at 14 years) and school achievement problems. The overall classification accuracy of the models varied between 67% and 88%. Specificity varied from 65% at 18 months to 95% at 14 years. Sensitivity varied from 70% at 18 months and 55% (all cases) and 42% (children with intellectual disability excluded) at 14 years.
In this study, young rats were deprived of early social interactions during weeks 4 and 5 of life. Different behavioral tests were conducted in adulthood to study the behavioral responses of rats lacking early social experiences. Juvenile deprivation resulted in decreased social activity and an altered sexual pattern, but did not affect locomotor activity or the performance in the elevated plus maze. Furthermore, behavioral and neuroendocrine responses of juvenile isolated rats were dramatically altered when they were confronted with territorial aggression. Juvenile deprived rats did not readily display a submissive posture in response to the resident and showed no immobility behavior after being returned to the resident's territory, while their plasma corticosterone and adrenaline concentrations were significantly increased compared to nonisolated controls. In contrast, behavioral responses in the shock prod test were not affected by previous isolation. The results suggest that early social experiences are vital for interactions with conspecifics later in life, i.e., aggression, sexual, and social interactions.
In order to identify molecular mechanisms involved in striatal development, we employed a subtraction cloning strategy to enrich for genes expressed in the lateral versus the medial ganglionic eminence. Using this approach, the homeobox gene Meis2 was found highly expressed in the lateral ganglionic eminence and developing striatum. Since Meis2 has recently been shown to be upregulated by retinoic acid in P19 EC cells (Oulad-Abdelghani, M., Chazaud, C., Bouillet, P., Sapin, V., Chambon, P. and Doll, P. (1997) Dev. Dyn. 210, 173-183), we examined a potential role for retinoids in striatal development. Our results demonstrate that the lateral ganglionic eminence, unlike its medial counterpart or the adjacent cerebral cortex, is a localized source of retinoids. Interestingly, glia (likely radial glia) in the lateral ganglionic eminence appear to be a major source of retinoids. Thus, as lateral ganglionic eminence cells migrate along radial glial fibers into the developing striatum, retinoids from these glial cells could exert an effect on striatal neuron differentiation. Indeed, the treatment of lateral ganglionic eminence cells with retinoic acid or agonists for the retinoic acid receptors or retinoid X receptors, specifically enhances their striatal neuron characteristics. These findings, therefore, strongly support the notion that local retinoid signalling within the lateral ganglionic eminence regulates striatal neuron differentiation.
Synaptic pathology is central in the pathogenesis of several psychiatric disorders, for example in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and schizophrenia. Quantification of specific synaptic proteins has proved to be a useful method to estimate synapitc density in the brain. Using this approach, several synaptic proteins have been demonstrated to be altered in both AD and schizophrenia. Until recently, the analysis of synaptic pathology has been limited to postmortem tissue. In living subjects, these synaptic proteins may be studied through analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). In an earlier study performed by us, one synaptic vesicle specific protein, synaptotagmin, was detected in CSF for the first time using a procedure based on affinity chromatography, reversed-phase chromatography, sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and chemiluminescence immunoblotting. However, other synaptic proteins were not detectable with this procedure. Therefore, we have developed a procedure including precipitation of CSF proteins with trichloroacetic acid, followed by liquid-phase isoelectric focusing using the Rotofor Cell, and finally analysis of Rotofor fractions by Western blotting for identification of synaptic proteins in CSF. Five synaptic proteins, rab3a, synaptotagmin, growth-associated protein (GAP-43), synaptosomal-associated protein (SNAP-25) and neurogranin, have been demonstrated in CSF using this method. The major advantage of liquid-phase isoelectric focusing (IEF) using the Rotofor cell is that it provides synaptic proteins from CSF in sufficient quantities for identification. This method may also be suitable for identification of other types of trace amounts of brain-specific proteins in CSF. These results demonstrate that several synaptic proteins can be identified and measured in CSF to study synaptic function and pathology in degenerative disorders.
Although multiple cortical tubers are a hallmark of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC), seizures often originate from a single tuber, making excisional surgery a therapeutic option for intractable patients. To assess the role of ictal single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in defining the epileptogenic tuber, we reviewed videoelectroencephalography (V/EEG) data, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and SPECT scans of 15 patients (aged 3 months to 15 years, mean 5.1) with medically resistant partial seizures and TSC. SPECT scans were performed using Tc-99m-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) injected within 30 seconds of electrographic seizure onset and were graded on a scale from 1 to 5 (1 weakly perfused, 5 strongly perfused). The scalp EEG revealed localized seizure origin in ten patients; five had concordant hyperperfused SPECT regions consisting of comma-shaped areas surrounding hypoperfused areas in the candidate tuber. Strongly hyperperfused regions (grade 3-5) were noted in two patients whose ictal EEG patterns were characterized by sustained, rhythmic fast activity or spiking. The other five patients had nonlocalizing or poorly sustained ictal EEG patterns; one patient in this group had focal hyperperfusion. Invasive EEG recordings in two patients revealed propagated EEG patterns that correlated with the ictal SPECT findings. These findings indicate a strong correlation between ictal SPECT and ictal scalp EEG, especially when there are sustained rhythmic fast ictal EEG patterns.
Signaling events leading to B cell growth or apoptosis are beginning to be unravelled, but detailed information is still lacking. To identify signaling molecules involved in B cell antigen receptor (BCR)-initiated pathways, we used the immature B cell line, WEHI-231, to investigate protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTP) whose expression was modulated by BCR ligation. Among the PTP cloned by reverse transcription-PCR, mRNA expression of the proline-, glutamic acid-, serine- and threonine-rich (PEST) domain phosphatase (PEP) was selectively elevated 3.1-fold within 3 h after anti-IgM antibody stimulation. In contrast, expression of another PEST domain phosphatase, PTP-PEST, was unaffected. Western blot analysis revealed that 71% of PEP was located in the cytosolic fraction, while 29% was in the membrane fraction. To examine the direct contribution made by PEP to BCR-initiated signal transduction, we transfected an antisense PEP cDNA into WEHI-231 cells. Two stable clones were established in which PEP expression was reduced by 34% and 47%, respectively. Strikingly, BCR-mediated inhibition of DNA synthesis was significantly rescued in the clones, and G1 phase cell cycle arrest and apoptosis were almost completely ablated. Considered collectively, these results indicate that PEP is a positive, crucial regulator in determining B cell fate triggered by BCR engagement.
Urho Kekkonen, born in 1900, was elected President of Finland in 1956. He stayed in office for 25 years, the longest term for any democratically elected chief of state, until his resignation in 1981. Since he was always a model of good health, news of his cognitive decline while still in office came as a surprise to the whole nation. The impact was aggravated by an attempted cover-up of his dementia. The attempt failed and the health of presidential candidates became, suddenly, a topic of intense public discussion. No special team of presidential doctors was established but Kekkonen's successor initiated a practice of reporting annually on his health. The ethical dilemma involving mass media was, and still is, its duty to inform people versus its right to self-censorship, which was practised in Kekkonen's case. The physicians face the question of when, how and whom to inform when they notice that the president or some other powerful leader suffers from cognitive decline or other neuropsychological or mental disability. These are universal problems whose solution depends on the degree of democracy and freedom of expression in each country. Kekkonen died in complete privacy in 1986. Until now, no scientific report of his cognitive decline has been published.
The effects of altered N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit composition on seizure development in kindling epilepsy were assessed in transgenic mice expressing high neuronal levels of NR2D under control of the calcium/calmodulin kinase II alpha subunit (alphaCaMKII) promoter. The NR2D subunit is normally present at very low levels in the mature forebrain. Transgenic mice showed a marked reduction of amygdala kindling development. Spread of epileptic activity was retarded and generalized seizures appeared later in animals overexpressing NR2D compared with wild-type mice. The progressive lengthening of epileptiform activity, which normally occurs in kindling, was also dampened in transgenic animals. We conclude that NMDA receptor subunit composition determines the progression of experimental epilepsy.
Recent functional brain imaging studies with positron emission tomography (PET), in painful peripheral mononeuropathy and nitroglycerin-provoked cluster headache attacks, suggest a preference of the right hemisphere, especially the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC), in attributing emotional valence and attention to the pain suffering. We have investigated the central processing of painful trigeminal neuropathy (PTN) in patients treated with electric extradural precentral gyrus stimulation (PCGS). Increased regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was detected in the right caudal ACC [Brodmann area (BA) 24] and anterior limbic thalamus, while a decreased activity was observed in the right MPFC (BA 9/32) during the habitual-pain state, in comparison with the pain-alleviated state regardless of the inflicted side of PTN. The involvement of BA 9/32 and the anterior limbic thalamus spatially extended to the left hemisphere, but the local maxima and a significant negative correlation between the rCBF changes in the two structures were found only in the right hemisphere. The activation of the caudal BA24 further supports the theory that ACC is crucial for the suffering in chronic pain. Our study not only verifies the preferential role of the right hemisphere in the appreciation of pain suffering, but further supports that sustained chronic pain, being devoid of the motivational component of an escape response, targets the right hemisphere, particularly the BA24 of the ACC. Copyright 1999 European Federation of Chapters of the International Association for the Study of Pain.
Neuropeptide Y(NPY) co-exists with norepinephrine in the sympathetic nervous system, and NPY may represent the sympathetic-neuronal output. Fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) patients have perturbations in the hypothalmic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and in the sympathetic stress axis as well. As opioid peptides, monoamines and sex steroids are integrated in the regulation of stress, it is interesting to further explore the role of NPY in FMS patients, as they show many symptoms that are related to perturbations of those systems.In this study, plasma NPY levels were assessed in subgroups of FMS patients: cyclic (regular menstrual cycles), non-cyclic (post-menopausal), depressed and non-depressed patients. In order to examine whether pain and other symptoms seen in FMS patients are correlated to the NPY levels, the patients were also registering 15 different symptoms daily during 28 days. Sex and age-matched healthy controls were recruited for comparisons. Non-parametric tests were used for the statistical analyses.The results showed that the NPY levels were significantly elevated in the patients compared to the controls. In the luteal phase of the cyclic patients, the levels of the peptide were higher than in the corresponding controls. For the non-cyclic patients, there was a positive correlation between physical symptoms and NPY levels, however, pain per se did not reach the significant level of correlation. The non-depressed patients had the same levels of NPY as the depressed FMS patients, who also had a positive correlation between anxiety and NPY levels.These results suggest that FMS patients have an altered activity in the NPY system, most likely due to prolonged and/or repeated stress, and that the hormonal state and time of the menstrual cycle also may be of importance in the complex pathophysiologic mechanism behind the development of FMS. Copyright 1999 European Federation of Chapters of the International Association for the Study of Pain.
Hypnosis is a powerful tool in pain therapy. Attempting to elucidate cerebral mechanisms behind hypnotic analgesia, we measured regional cerebral blood flow with positron emission tomography in patients with fibromyalgia, during hypnotically-induced analgesia and resting wakefulness. The patients experienced less pain during hypnosis than at rest. The cerebral blood-flow was bilaterally increased in the orbitofrontal and subcallosial cingulate cortices, the right thalamus, and the left inferior parietal cortex, and was decreased bilaterally in the cingulate cortex. The observed blood-flow pattern supports notions of a multifactorial nature of hypnotic analgesia, with an interplay between cortical and subcortical brain dynamics. Copyright 1999 European Federation of Chapters of the International Association for the Study of Pain.
In order to receive a further understanding of stress-regulation in depressed suicide attempters, peptides that are supposed to be related to the stress system (the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and the autonomic nervous system) were studied in plasma. When compared with healthy controls, cortisol was high (p&lt;0.001) and corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) appeared to be low (p&lt;0.001) in patients who had recently attempted suicide. Patients who had repeatedly attempted suicide had the lowest NPY. A correlation between NPY and cortisol (p&lt;0.05) was found in suicidal patients with depression NOS, whereas beta-endorphins correlated with cortisol (p&lt;0.01) in suicidal patients with major depressive disorder. A postdexamethasone decrease of NPY was noted in the controls but not in the patients. These results suggest stress system alterations in suicidal patients with mood disorders.
The accuracy of visually guided pointing movements decreases with speed. We have shown that for movements to a visually defined remembered target, the variability of the final arm endpoint position does not depend on movement speed. We put forward a hypothesis that this observation can be explained by suggesting that movements directed at remembered targets are produced without ongoing corrections. In the present study, this hypothesis was tested for pointing movements in 3D space to kinesthetically defined remembered targets. Passive versus active acquisition of kinesthetic information was contrasted. Pointing errors, movement kinematics, and joint-angle coordination were analyzed. The movements were performed at a slow speed (average peak tangential velocity of about 1.2 m/s) and at a fast speed (2.7 m/s). No visual feedback was allowed during the target presentation or the movement. Variability in the final position of the arm endpoint did not increase with speed in either the active or the passive condition. Variability in the final values of the arm-orientation angles determining the position of the forearm and of the upper arm in space was also speed invariant. This invariance occurred despite the fact that angular velocities increased by a factor of two for all the angles involved. The speed-invariant variability supports the hypothesis that there is an absence of ongoing corrections for movements to remembered targets: in the case of a slower movement, where there is more time for movement correction, the final arm endpoint variability did not decrease. In contrast to variability in the final endpoint position, the variability in the peak tangential acceleration increased significantly with movement speed. This may imply that the nervous system adopts one of two strategies: either the final endpoint position is not encoded in terms of muscle torques or there is a special on-line mechanism that adjusts movement deceleration according to the muscle-torque variability at the initial stage of the movement. The final endpoint position was on average farther from the shoulder than the target. Constant radial-distance errors were speed dependent in both the active and the passive conditions. In the fast speed conditions, the radial distance overshoots of the targets increased. This increase in radial-distance overshoot with movement speed can be explained by the hypothesis that the final arm position is not predetermined in these experimental conditions, but is defined during the movement by a feedforward or feedback mechanism with an internal delay.
Obliquus capitis inferior (OCI) is a monoarticular suboccipital muscle linking the transverse process of the atlas (C1) to the spinous process of the axis (C2). Histochemical analysis of fiber-type composition showed that the muscle has a marked gradient of fiber-type distribution in which type I fibers comprise 95-100% of fibers in the deepest region but less than 10% of fibers in the superficial layer. Step-like changes in fiber-type proportions occurred between groups of fascicles. In most instances the boundaries between these fascicles did not exhibit different perimysial features from those fascicles with similar fiber-type proportions. OCI contained large numbers of muscle spindles, which were concentrated in deep regions rich in type I fibers. The degree of nonuniformity in fiber-type distribution seen in OCI is unusually large when compared with patterns described in other primate muscles, and has implications for the way that the muscle is studied anatomically and physiologically.
Osteopontin (OPN) is a soluble secreted phosphoprotein that binds with high affinity to several different integrins. While numerous activities have been ascribed to OPN in vitro, and several in vivo functions have been suggested for the molecule, including much attention focused recently on OPN in different pathologies, the actual role that the protein plays in mammalian physiology remains conjectural. Analysis of recently developed strains of mice lacking OPN because of a targeted disruption of its gene promises to provide important information on this issue. Here, we review the data implicating OPN as functioning in a variety of pathologic conditions as well as the initial results generated with the OPN knockout mice, with particular focus on the question of whether OPN has a protective or a damaging effect in different pathologies. These data will be important to the definition of how OPN contributes to mammalian physiology and pathophysiology.
Although nontoxic when administered alone, diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC) is known to enhance the dopamine-depleting effects of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in the mouse striatum. The purpose of the present study was twofold: (i) to carefully characterize the effects of DDC on MPTP-induced degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta using unbiased, stereological cell counting techniques and (ii) to determine whether or not DDC can convert a nontoxic dose of MPTP into one which is clearly toxic on dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. A single low dose of MPTP (15 mg/kg intraperitoneally (ip)) was used for these studies, which failed to induce any neurochemical or histological effects on the nigrostriatal system of C57BL/6 mice when administered alone. However, when animals were pretreated with DDC (400 mg/kg ip), the same dose of MPTP resulted in a 50% loss of neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, as well as a 70% reduction in striatal dopamine (DA). A 31% reduction of DA in the ventral mesencephalon was also seen. This combined regimen of DDC and MPTP was not significantly different from a maximally tolerated &quot;toxic&quot; dose of MPTP alone (15 mg/kg x 4, 1 h apart, ip). As expected, animals receiving DDC alone did not show any dopamine depletion nor nigral neuronal loss. The present study confirms previous work suggesting that DDC enhances MPTP-induced nigral cell loss and shows for the first time that DDC can &quot;unmask&quot; MPTP toxicity. These observations could have implications for theories on the cause of Parkinson's disease.
Fetal ventral mesencephalic (VM) transplants have been studied in the context of dopaminergic (DA) replacement therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD). DA neurons from VM transplants will grow axons and form functional synapses in the adult host central nervous system (CNS). Recently, studies have demonstrated that most of the transplanted DA neurons die in grafts within the first week after implantation. An important feature of neural development, also in transplanted developing fetal neural tissue, is cell death. However, while about 50% of cells born in the CNS will die naturally, up to 99% of fetal cells die after neural transplantation. It has been shown that VM grafts contain many apoptotic cells even at 14 days after transplantation. The interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (ICE) cysteine protease and 11 other ICE-like-related proteases have been identified, now named caspases. Activation of caspases is one of the final steps before a neuron is committed to die by apoptosis. Here we review this cell death process in detail: Since the growth of fetal neural grafts placed in the adult brain in many ways mimics normal development, it is likely that the caspases also play a functional role in transplants. Pharmacological inhibitors of caspases and genetically modified mice are now available for the study of neuronal death in fetal neuronal transplants. Understanding cell death mechanisms involved in acute cellular injury, necrosis, and programmed cell death (PCD) is useful in improving future neuronal transplantation methodology, as well as in neuroprotection, for patients with neurodegenerative diseases.

The expression of the alpha-subunit of voltage-gated sodium channel 6 (NaCh6) was examined in cultures of astrocytes from E18 rat spinal cord by using an antibody specific for NaCh6. Stellate cells with processes and flat, pancake-like astrocytes are the two morphological types predominantly present in these cultures. The antibody to NaCh6 labeled clusters at the cell body and along the length of the processes in stellate, process-bearing cells. Weak staining was observed in the flat, pancake-like astrocytes. Together with previous studies (Black et al., Mol Brain Res 23:235-245, 1994, Glia 14:133-144, 1995) that show that stellate cells express NaChs II and III (but not NaCh I) and flat cells express NaCh II, these results support the conclusions that there are different patterns of sodium channel expression between flat and stellate astrocytes and that multiple channel isoforms are expressed within the same cell. This study also suggests that NaCh6 may contribute to the electrical properties found in stellate astrocytes.
The marginal cells of the stria vascularis possess distinctive morphological characteristics associated with their role in endolymph production. Interestingly, when stria-derived epithelial cells are grown in association with the underlying mesenchyme, the final differentiation of these cell types does not occur. Beyond the rudimentary polarity that is established, similar to that shown in epithelial monolayers, cells in culture bear only a slight resemblance to their marginal cell counterparts in vivo. The ultrastructural features that typify these epithelia, extensive cytoplasmic invaginations, with an abundance of mitochondria, and darkly stained cytoplasm, are not evident under standard culture conditions. In order to determine whether fluid transport, a key function of the stria vascularis, has an effect on the ultrastructural morphology, we examined de novo stria vascularis tissues that formed a fluid-filled cyst in vitro. We found that only cells associated with the luminal structure demonstrated dark cytoplasmic staining and amplification of the basolateral membrane of the marginal cells. Additionally, other epithelial features, such as mitochondria-rich and microvilli-rich cells, were observed in cyst-forming tissues. The enhancement of the marginal cell specializations was not as robust as that observed in vivo; however, they were clearly more extensive when compared to cells in the same culture that were not associated with a fluid-filled lumen. Thus it appears that fluid transport may be necessary to maximize differentiation of stria vascularis tissues in vitro.
This study provides new information on brainstem areas, assumed to be auditory based on observations in other species, in the oscar, Astronotus ocellatus. The primary goal of the study was to explore the morphology of the dorsal descending octaval nucleus, which contains a population of neurons that receives acoustic afferents from the inner ear. Using cytoarchitectonic and connectional criteria, we revised the previously defined dorsal boundary of the descending octaval nucleus, such that the most dorsomedial neurons in this nucleus are positioned ventral to the cerebellar crest and medial to nucleus medialis. At some levels, these dorsomedial cells are continuous with another part of the dorsal descending nucleus that underlies nucleus medialis. The terminal fields of the saccule and lagena are located within this latter, more ventral part of the dorsal descending nucleus. However, the dorsomedial cells that are proximate to the cerebellar crest have long ventral dendrites that extend into these terminal fields, and therefore likely receive saccular and lagenar input. In contrast to a previous report, saccular afferents terminate more medially within the dorsal descending nucleus than do lagenar inputs. Injections of horseradish peroxidase in nucleus centralis of the torus semicircularis revealed that many descending nucleus neurons that lie within the saccular and lagenar terminal fields, including the dorsomedial neurons proximate to the cerebellar crest, project to this acoustic midbrain area. These injections also revealed a secondary octaval population like that described in otophysan fishes.
This paper studied the effect of wrist angle on the amount of hand opening achieved by electrical stimulation in people with spastic hemiplegia. With their forearm in pronation, subjects were asked to relax while their affected wrist was passively moved in steps of about 15 degrees from full flexion into extension. Trains of stimuli were applied to the long finger extensor muscles through surface electrodes on the forearm. At each wrist position stimulation was turned on for a few seconds until hand opening equilibrated. Wrist angle and fingertip positions were recorded using a three-dimensional (3-D) motion analysis system. Maximal displacements between thumbtip and each fingertip occurred when the wrist was fully flexed. As the wrist was extended, hand aperture achieved by electrical stimulation progressively declined, reaching zero at 40 degrees of wrist extension. We conclude that electrical stimulation can significantly increase the grasp aperture of the hemiplegic hand, but this is strongly dependent on wrist posture and accompanying voluntary effort.
We report two patients with lingual dyskinesia and complaints of food regurgitation following long-term antipsychotic therapy. Esophageal contrast radiography revealed dyskinetic movements extending from the pharynx to the upper portion of the esophagus. The elevation of intraesophageal pressure was confirmed by esophageal manometry. The dyskinetic movements almost disappeared along with improvement of lingual dyskinesia following the administration of sulpiride in one patient. Another patient suddenly died due to asphyxiation of foods before the beginning of treatment. We termed this life-threatening movement, 'esophageal dyskinesia'. It should be emphasized that 'esophageal dyskinesia' associated with lingual dyskinesia is a potentially fatal adverse reaction to antipsychotic therapy.
Medulloblastoma is one of the most common primary tumors of the central nervous system seen in children; in contrast, it is somewhat uncommon in adult age. Due to the infrequent occurrence, data on incidence rates are sparse. The present study was aimed at ascertaining the epidemiological characteristics of medulloblastoma in adult age in Piedmont during the period 1976-1995. Piedmont is a region in northwest Italy, which had a total population of 4.30 millions/year for the period mentioned. From the files of clinical records of patients hospitalized in neurologic and neurosurgical departments, 45 cases (32 males, 13 females) of histologically verified medulloblastoma were recorded. The incidence rate (annual per million) in the whole period studied was 0.5 (95% confidence interval, 0.36-0.67). The incidence rate was high in the age group 15 to 19 years (2.33/million/year) and decreased up to age 40, consistent with the embryonal origin of the tumor. No time-trend of incidence rate was found. Male excess was evident in all age groups and in each time period. Median survival time was 17.6 years; the 5-year survival rate was 69.9%. Survival rate in the present group of adult medulloblastoma is slightly better than that reported in clinical series. A comparison was made with incidence data concerning pediatric medulloblastoma reported in the Registry of Childhood Cancer of Piedmont: from 1980 to 1989, adult medulloblastomas represented 34% of medulloblastomas. The figure is higher than that generally assumed, and indicates that the occurrence of this embryonal tumor in adult age is relevant. Our epidemiological data are consistent with an embryonal origin of medulloblastoma.
Since their discovery in 1991, an extraordinary amount of information has accumulated about the neurobiology and pharmacology of D(4) receptors in the mammalian central nervous system, making it timely to review salient aspects of this rapidly evolving research story and its relevance to clinical neuroscience. Recent progress in the molecular, genetic, anatomical, and functional characterization of D(4) receptors in the animal and human brain is yielding insights into their neurochemical and physiological roles in brain function. The temporal patterns of postnatal D(4) receptor development appear to differ in specific regions of mammalian forebrain. Postmortem neuropathological and clinical genetic studies have generally been disappointing regarding possible relationships of D(4) receptors to the pathophysiology or treatment of schizophrenia, however, they suggest relationships to other neuropsychiatric conditions, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, mood disorders, and Parkinson's disease. Several selective agonists and antagonists for D(4) receptors have been developed. Some are employed as experimental D(4) probes. The potential of D(4)-selective ligands as innovative treatments for neuropsychiatric disorders requires further investigation.
Yawning is considered a brainstem regulated behavior which is associated with changes in arousal and activity levels. Yawning and stretching are dopamine (DA) mediated behaviors and pharmacological studies indicate that these behaviors are associated with increased DA release coupled with stimulation of postsynaptic DA-D2 receptors. Despite their relation to the dopaminergic system, yawning and stretching are poorly documented in untreated or treated patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). A 49 year old fully medicated female patient with juvenile onset PD is presented in whom recurrent episodes of yawning and stretching developed during transcranial administration of AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EM Fs) of picotesla flux density. These episodes have not been observed previously in this or other patients during treatment with levodopa or DA receptor agonists or in unmedicated PD patients during treatment with AC pulsed EMFs. It is suggested that yawning and stretching behavior resulted in this patient from a synergistic interaction between EMFs and DA derived from levodopa supplementation with EMFs possibly facilitating the release of DA and simultaneously activating postsynaptic DA-D2 receptors in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathways. In addition, it is postulated that the release of ACTH/MSH peptides from peptidergic neurons in the brain upon stimulation of the DA-D2 receptors reinforced the yawning and stretching behavior.
Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) is widely considered as an animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS). Damage to the bulbospinal serotonergic (5-HT) neurons occurs in the early paralytic stages of EAE in rats with the severity of neurologic signs corresponding to spinal serotonergic depletion. Neurologic recovery of EAE rats is associated with reestablishment of spinal 5-HT transmission possibly through sprouting of undamaged axons and nerve terminals. Damage to the bulbospinal serotonergic fibers also occurs in patients with MS (as reflected by reduced lumbar CSF 5-HIAA levels) and may contribute to several manifestations of the disease including autonomic dysregulation, sensory symptoms (i.e., paresthesias, pain) and motor symptoms (weakness, spasticity, clonus). Spinal serotonergic neuronal sprouting with regeneration of 5-HT nerve terminals may also occur in the early stages of MS and may be associated with spontaneous remission of MS symptoms following an acute relapse. Sprouting of serotonergic neurons may also explain the disparity in MS between the extent of demyelinating plaques and clinical signs of the disease. The chronic course of MS may be associated with progressive axonal degenerative changes with reduction of serotonergic nerve terminals and loss of their sprouting capability. It is proposed that the beneficial effects of treatment with AC pulsed electromagnetic fields on the symptoms and course of the disease in patients with chronic progressive MS may be related in part to renewed sprouting of serotonergic neurons.
The relationship of IQ (measured by WAIS and all its subscales) and EEG broad band spectral parameters were studied in 40 right-handed, male volunteers ranging in age from 20 to 25 years old. EEGs were recorded in 20 derivations during rest with eyes opened. The results obtained reveal positive and negative correlations with abundant frontal participation in all bands. Mean frequency data show a frequency shift in a very narrow range suggesting that more relations in narrow band could be achieved. These results highlight the need of psychological tests that measure more homogeneous abilities and finer measurement technique to reveal clearly explainable correlations and demonstrate that EEG recordings do reflect intellectual abilities.
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is a fatal malignancy that ranks as the fourth most common cause of cancer-related mortality in the United States. The median survival after diagnosis is 3-6 months, with a 5-year survival rate of 3% or less. In spite of treatment efforts of surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy, the survival rate remains unchanged. In this study, we discovered that an endogenous opioid peptide, [Met5]-enkephalin, inhibited the growth of human pancreatic cancers in vitro; in view of this pentapeptide's action it has been termed opioid growth factor (OGF). OGF was found to be constitutively expressed, autocrine produced, and tonically capable of suppressing cell replication in an opioid receptor mediated manner. Growth inhibition was dose-related, reversible, not cytotoxic, and independent of serum. All 4 pancreatic cancer cell lines examined, representative of poor to well-differentiated neoplasias, exhibited growth regulation by OGF. Immunocytochemical studies detected both OGF and its related receptor, zeta, in the cytoplasm of log phase cells. Radioimmunoassays revealed that OGF was produced and secreted by the cells. These data suggest that a native opioid peptide, OGF, interacts with a novel opioid receptor, zeta, to arrest the growth of human pancreatic cancer.

The frequency-discrimination behavior of rats in a simple go/no-go task was analyzed using the theory of signal detection. Discrimination acuity was studied and the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) was generated in subjects by varying the reinforcement schedule and signal probability. The detectability indices d', A', and sensitivity index (SI) and response-bias indices B&quot; and responsivity index (RI) were used to describe behavior. A' gave the most suitable psychometric functions while RI best described response-bias behavior. Weber ratios were 6.25% +/- 0.23% at 5 kHz in three subjects. The best method to obtain the ROC was to vary the probability with which subjects were reinforced. The ROC in two subjects demonstrated classical forms; in another subject, the function was asymmetric to the extent that detectability was not independent of response bias. Subjects altered their decision criterion in reporting a signal from trial to trial depending on previous trial events. On any given trial, subjects made a decision in one of several &quot;decision states.&quot; Variables that influenced decision states included previous reinforcement and timeouts. The data indicate that timeouts may not be a useful feature in go/no-go tasks. The identification of multiple-decision states within a single behavioral session is a convenient method to generate the ROC without expressly manipulating experimental conditions.
Agents that block many types of K+ channels (e.g., the aminopyridines) have substantial inotropic effects in skeletal muscle. Specific blockers of ATP-sensitive and Ca2+-activated K+ channels, on the other hand, do not, or minimally, alter the force of nonfatigued muscle, consistent with a predominant role for voltage-gated K+ channels in regulating muscle force. To test this more directly, we examined the effects of peptide toxins, which in other tissues specifically block voltage-gated K+ channels, on rat diaphragm in vitro. Twitch force was increased in response to alpha-, beta-, and gamma-dendrotoxin and tityustoxin Kalpha (17 +/- 6, 22 +/- 5, 42 +/- 14, and 13 +/- 5%; P &lt; 0.05, &lt; 0.01, &lt; 0.05, &lt; 0.05, respectively) but not in response to delta-dendrotoxin or BSA (in which toxins were dissolved). Force during 20-Hz stimulation was also increased significantly by alpha-, beta-, and gamma-dendrotoxin and tityustoxin Kalpha. Among agents, increases in twitch force correlated with the degree to which contraction time was prolonged (r = 0.88, P &lt; 0.02). To determine whether inotropic effects could be maintained during repeated contractions, muscle strips underwent intermittent 20-Hz train stimulation for a duration of 2 min in presence or absence of gamma-dendrotoxin. Force was significantly greater with than without gamma-dendrotoxin during repetitive stimulation for the first 60 s of repetitive contractions. Despite the approximately 55% higher value for initial force in the presence vs. absence of gamma-dendrotoxin, the rate at which fatigue occurred was not accelerated by the toxin, as assessed by the amount of time over which force declined by 25 and 50%. These data suggest that blocking voltage-activated K+ channels may be a useful therapeutic strategy for augmenting diaphragm force, provided less toxic blockers of these channels can be found.
The hypothesis that neuroepithelial endocrine (NEE) cells control spontaneous tone in isolated guinea pig tracheal preparations was examined. Epithelium-denuded preparations were unable to develop a normal oscillating tone in 12% oxygen (corresponding to systemic arterial oxygen levels) and, instead, developed a strong, smooth tone, similar to the &quot;classic&quot; tone in 94% oxygen. Inhibition of the hydrogen peroxide-producing NADPH oxidase in the NEE cells by 20 microM diphenyleneiodonium chloride transformed, in intact preparations in 94% oxygen, the tone from a strong, smooth type to an oscillating tone of considerably less force. Similar experiments in denuded preparations showed no change of tone and no oscillations. After pretreatment with the catalase inhibitor 3-amino-1,2, 4-triazole (1 mM), addition of 2 mM hydrogen peroxide to intact preparations displaying the oscillating tone caused a transformation to a strong, smooth type. These findings support the hypothesis that the spontaneous tone in this preparation is largely controlled by the oxygen-sensing NEE cells. For the first time, previous findings on isolated cells can be linked to effects in intact tissue preparations. The results also suggest that the regulation by the NEE cells involves the release of powerful relaxing and contracting factors from the epithelium.
The present investigation was undertaken to study the neurotoxic effects of beta,beta'-iminodipropionitrile (IDPN) in normal, diabetic and insulin-treated diabetic rats. Sprague-Dawley male rats were divided into five groups: control, IDPN, diabetes, diabetes plus IDPN and diabetes plus insulin plus IDPN. The diabetes was induced with a single i.p. injection of streptozotocin (50 mg kg(-1)). One month after the induction of diabetes, the rats were treated with IDPN (100 mg kg(-1), i.p.) daily for 11 days. One of the diabetic groups treated with IDPN also received daily injection of insulin (25 U kg(-1), s.c.), 1 h before IDPN. The rats were observed daily for abnormal head movements and circling. The grip strength of the forelimbs was also measured. In the IDPN group the dyskinetic symptoms appeared on the 8th day, whereas the onset of dyskinesia was on the 12th day in IDPN-treated diabetic rats. The incidence and severity of dyskinesia were significantly higher in IDPN-treated normal (non-diabetic) rats as compared to IDPN-treated diabetic rats. The treatment of diabetic rats with insulin normalized striatal dopamine (DA) turnover but partially reversed diabetes-induced protection against IDPN dyskinesia. There was severe degeneration of sensory hair cells in crista ampullaris of IDPN-treated normal rats, whereas the diabetic rats showed significant protection against IDPN-induced vestibular hair cell degeneration. In conclusion, our study clearly demonstrates that diabetic rats are resistant to IDPN-induced neurobehavioural and vestibular toxicity. The results also show that diabetes-induced protection against IDPN-induced dyskinesia can be partially reversed by insulin. The mechanism behind the decreased vulnerability of diabetic animals to IDPN remains to be resolved. Further studies are warranted to investigate this paradoxical phenomenon.

Although there is no truly effective disease-specific therapy for any of the motor neuron diseases, rapid progress in our understanding of the pathophysiology of some of these disorders is being made. In addition to progress in neuroscience, clinical trials of agents that appear to slow the progress of at least one of these diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, are beginning to show promising results. The first clinical trials in spinal muscular atrophy are currently underway. A number of other developments have raised the quality of clinical trials, which should improve their productivity and efficiency in the future.
Chemokines direct tissue invasion by specific leukocyte populations. Thus, chemokines may play a role in multiple sclerosis (MS), an idiopathic disorder in which the central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory reaction is largely restricted to mononuclear phagocytes and T cells. We asked whether specific chemokines were expressed in the CNS during acute demyelinating events by analyzing cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), whose composition reflects the CNS extracellular space. During MS attacks, we found elevated CSF levels of three chemokines that act toward T cells and mononuclear phagocytes: interferon-gamma-inducible protein of 10 kDa (IP-10); monokine induced by interferon-gamma (Mig); and regulated on activation, normal T-cell expressed and secreted (RANTES). We then investigated whether specific chemokine receptors were expressed by infiltrating cells in demyelinating MS brain lesions and in CSF. CXCR3, an IP-10/Mig receptor, was expressed on lymphocytic cells in virtually every perivascular inflammatory infiltrate in active MS lesions. CCR5, a RANTES receptor, was detected on lymphocytic cells, macrophages, and microglia in actively demyelinating MS brain lesions. Compared with circulating T cells, CSF T cells were significantly enriched for cells expressing CXCR3 or CCR5. Our results imply pathogenic roles for specific chemokine-chemokine receptor interactions in MS and suggest new molecular targets for therapeutic intervention.
It is well established that maternal smoking during pregnancy is a leading preventable cause of low birth weight and prematurity. Less appreciated is that maternal smoking during pregnancy is also associated with alterations in pulmonary function at birth and greater incidence of respiratory illnesses after birth. To determine if this is the direct result of nicotine interacting with nicotinic cholinergic receptors (nAChRs) during lung development, rhesus monkeys were treated with 1 mg/kg/day of nicotine from days 26 to 134 of pregnancy. Nicotine administration caused lung hypoplasia and reduced surface complexity of developing alveoli. Immunohistochemistry and in situ alpha-bungarotoxin (alphaBGT) binding showed that alpha7 nAChRs are present in the developing lung in airway epithelial cells, cells surrounding large airways and blood vessels, alveolar type II cells, free alveolar macrophages, and pulmonary neuroendocrine cells (PNEC). As detected both by immunohistochemistry and by alphaBGT binding, nicotine administration markedly increased alpha7 receptor subunit expression and binding in the fetal lung. Correlating with areas of increased alpha7 expression, collagen expression surrounding large airways and vessels was significantly increased. Nicotine also significantly increased numbers of type II cells and neuroendocrine cells in neuroepithelial bodies. These findings demonstrate that nicotine can alter fetal monkey lung development by crossing the placenta to interact directly with nicotinic receptors on non-neuronal cells in the developing lung, and that similar effects likely occur in human infants whose mothers smoke during pregnancy.

Jon Kaas received a Ph.D. in Psychology with Irving Diamond at Duke University and completed a postdoctoral fellowship with Clinton Woolsey in neurophysiology at the University of Wisconsin, where he also collaborated with Ray Guillery. After 4 years as an Assistant Professor in Neurophysiology at Wisconsin, he moved to the Department of Psychology at Vanderbilt University where he is currently Centennial Professor. Awards include the Earl Sutherland Prize, Javits Neuroscience Investigator Award, Krieg Cortical Discoverer Award, and American Psychological Association Distinguished Scientific Contribution Award.
In this study we examined the properties of the processes involved in the structural analysis of sentences using event-related brain potential measures (ERP). Previous research had shown two ERP components to correlate with phrase structure violations: an early left anterior negativity (ELAN), which is assumed to reflect first-pass parsing processes, and a late parietally distributed positivity (P600), assumed to reflect second-pass parsing processes. We hypothesized that the first-pass parsing processes are highly automatic, whereas second-pass parsing processes are more controlled. To test this hypothesis we varied the proportion of correct sentences and sentences containing phrase structure violations with incorrect sentences being either of a low (20% violation) or a high (80% violation) proportion. Results showed that the early left anterior negativity was elicited and equally pronounced under both proportion conditions. By contrast, the late positivity was elicited for a low proportion of incorrect sentences only. This data pattern suggests that first-pass parsing processes are automatic, whereas second-pass parsing processes are under participants' strategic control.
The ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH) is a key nucleus for regulating homeostatic, neuroendocrine, and behavioral functions. We conducted immunocytochemical analyses by using antisera directed against gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), its synthetic enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67), GABA-A receptor subunits (alpha2, beta3, epsilon), estrogen receptor-alpha, and Neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the region of the VMH in embryonic mice to identify potential patterning elements for VMH formation. Cells and fibers containing GABA and GAD67 encircled the primordial VMH as early as embryonic day 13 (E13) when the cytoarchitecture of the VMH was not recognizable by Nissl stain. At E16-17 the cytoarchitecture of the VMH became recognizable by Nissl stain as GABAergic fibers invaded the nucleus, continued postnatally, and by adulthood the density of GABAergic fibers was greater inside than outside the VMH. GABA-A receptor subunit expression (beta3 by E13 and alpha2 by E15) within the primordial VMH suggested potential sensitivity to the surrounding GABA signal. Brain slices were used to test whether fibers from distal or proximal sites influenced VMH development. Coronal Vibratome slices were prepared and maintained in vitro for 0-3 days. Nissl stain analyses showed a uniform distribution of cells in the region of the VMH on the day of plating (E15). After 3 days in vitro, cellular aggregation suggesting VMH formation was seen. Nuclear formation in vitro suggests that key factors resided locally within the coronal plane of the slices. It is suggested that either GABA intrinsic to the region nearby the VMH directly influences the development and organization of the VMH, or along with other markers provides an early indicator of pattern determination that precedes the cellular organization of the VMH.
Neuropeptides: corticotropin releasing factor (CRF), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and somatostatin (STS) have been associated with depression and anxiety, while neurotensin (NT), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and tachykinins [neurokinin A (NKA) and substance P (SP)] are presumed to also play a role in the function of the dopaminergic system. Moreover, investigations in the past decade have shown that psychotomimetics and antipsychotic drugs as well as lithium affect brain synthesis, tissue concentrations, and release of some neuropeptides. In view of the above, experiments were carried out to explore whether changes in neuropeptides constitute one of the mechanisms of action of electroconvulsive treatment (ECT). Human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was studied before and after ECT, and brains from healthy and models of depression rats were investigated in electroconvulsive stimuli (ECS)-treated and sham-treated animals. The major findings were that a series of ECTs, in parallel to clinical recovery, increased CSF concentrations of NPY-like immunoreactivity (-LI), STS-LI, and CRF-LI, and in one study endothelin-LI. A series of ECS, but not a single treatment, reproducibly elevated concentrations of NPY-LI, NKA-LI, and STS-LI--but not NT-LI, SP-LI, galanin-LI, or CGRP-LI--in hippocampus, frontal cortex, and occipital cortex. No changes were measured in other regions, e.g., striatum. NPY and STS mRNAs were also increased indicating that ECS affects peptide synthesis. Generalized seizures induced by, e.g., kainic acid or pentylenetetrazole, had similar effects on neuropeptides. The changes persisted for at least 1 week after the last treatment. Pretreatment with compounds reducing seizures, such as benzodiazepines and MK-801; had no effect on magnitude of neuropeptide changes although the seizure duration was decreased by &gt; 50%. On the basis of these findings, it is suggested that neuropeptides are involved in ECT's mechanisms of action. Since ECT is therapeutically efficient in both schizophrenia and depression and, taking into account that antipsychotic drugs and psychotomimetics as well as lithium selectively affect some neuropeptides, it is hypothesized that distinct combinations of neuropeptide and monoamine changes in selected neuronal populations constitute the underpinnings of ECT's effects on specific disease symptoms, conceivably independent of diagnosis.

The secretion of LH from the anterior pituitary of male rats was studied at different periods of postnatal development. According to an established classification we used rats 14 (infantile), 23 (juvenile), 45 (pubertal) and 90 (adult) days old. By using an in vitro incubation system, both basal and stimulated LH secretion were studied in the same gland. Age-related differences were observed in basal LH secretion, with juvenile and pubertal pituitaries showing higher secretion compared with infantile and adult pituitaries. However, the GnRH-induced secretory response was significantly higher in the infantile rats than in other ages. LH secretion was also studied in primary cultures from infantile or adult pituitaries. In 24 and 48 h cultures, infantile cells showed a significantly larger response to GnRH than that of adult cells. In the infantile pituitary LH-immunopositive cells showed differences in size at different locations in the gland. At the periphery of the lobes the predominant cells were smaller and angular shaped, whereas in the center of the gland the majority of the cells were ovoid shaped. In the adult pituitary, the predominant LH-positive cells were ovoid in shape and larger in size. Furthermore, 10% more LH-positive cells were observed in infantile pituitaries. On the basis of these data we propose that at the infantile period the male rat pituitary has two populations of LH-secreting cells, one with adult secretory function and shape and a second with increased sensitivity to GnRH and with a morphology atypical of the adult cell. The results presented support the hypothesis that the infantile period is a transitional stage in the rat pituitary development.
The euglenoids are an ancient and extremely diverse lineage of eukaryotic flagellates with unclear relationships among taxa. Synapomorphies for the euglenoids include a surface pellicle and a closed mitosis with a series of separate sub-spindles. The taxonomy currently in use is inconsistent with the available data and needs revision. Most euglenoid phylogenies are largely intuitive reconstructions based on a limited number of morphological characters. Therefore, we have added molecular characters from the Small Subunit (SSU) rDNA to generate an overall phylogenetic framework for the euglenoids. SSU rDNA sequences from photosynthetic, osmotrophic, and phagotrophic euglenoids were aligned based on secondary structure. Phylogenetic analysis using the conserved areas of the sequence was performed using parsimony, maximum likelihood, and distance methods. Trees derived using different criteria are in agreement. The euglenoids form a distinct monophyletic clade with phagotrophic members diverging prior to the phototrophic and osmotrophic members. Among photosynthetic members, the biflagellate form diverged prior to the uniflagellate form. Additionally, the genus Euglena appears to be paraphyletic, with osmotrophic taxa, such as Astasia and Khawkinea, diverging independently within the clade containing the photosynthetic genus Euglena.


The incorporation of velocity-encoding gradient pulses in RF-pulse trains is proposed and examined. Velocity selective perturbation is shown to be analogous in many respects to the well established use of trains of short RF-pulses for chemical shift selective perturbation. Velocity selective perturbation is viable in a biomedical setting only if additional RF refocusing pulses are inserted between the individual RF-pulse elements. Aspects of velocity selective excitation saturation and inversion are examined, and new inversion pulse trains proposed. The selective perturbation of both flowing and stationary spins is demonstrated in phantoms and possible biomedical applications of these pulse trains are discussed.
Cultured cerebellar granule neurons exhibit different developmental potentials in culture dependent on cerebellar age at plating. In cultures prepared at postnatal days (P)2-6, when all granule neurons reside in the external germinal layer (EGL) in vivo, levels of the GABA(A) receptor beta2 and gamma2 subunit mRNAs are constant. In contrast, in cultures prepared at P8-10, when neurons have begun to migrate into the internal granule cell layer (IGL), the mRNAs increase several-fold in a pattern mimicking that found in vivo. To determine the relationship between neuronal differentiation in culture and potential to express GABA(A) receptor beta2 and gamma2 subunit transcripts in the mature pattern, neuronal maturity in P6 and P10 cultures was compared. Bromodeoxyuridine labeling studies demonstrated that P10 as well as P6 cultures contained neurons only from the EGL. Moreover, the maturation of cultured P10 and P6 neurons appeared virtually identical. Cells dissociated at both ages expressed mRNAs encoding the EGL markers MATH-1 and TAG-1. The MATH-1 transcript disappeared from cultures maintained 4 days when expression of the GABA(A) receptor alpha6 subunit, a marker of mature cells, was initiated. Thus, although cultured P6 and P10 granule neurons exhibit the same maturation markers, P10 neurons presumably have been modulated by environmental cues specifying increases in GABA(A) receptor beta2 and gamma2 subunit expression. This possibility is supported by the finding that extracts of dissociated P10 cells but not P6 cells induce increases in GABA(A) receptor subunit expression in P6 cultures.
Valproic acid (VPA) is a potent broad-spectrum anti-epileptic with demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of bipolar affective disorder. It has previously been demonstrated that both VPA and lithium increase activator protein-1 (AP-1) DNA binding activity, but the mechanisms underlying these effects have not been elucidated. However, it is known that phosphorylation of c-jun by glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3beta inhibits AP-1 DNA binding activity, and lithium has recently been demonstrated to inhibit GSK-3beta. These results suggest that lithium may increase AP-1 DNA binding activity by inhibiting GSK-3beta. In the present study, we sought to determine if VPA, like lithium, regulates GSK-3. We have found that VPA concentration-dependently inhibits both GSK-3alpha and -3beta, with significant effects observed at concentrations of VPA similar to those attained clinically. Incubation of intact human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells with VPA results in an increase in the subsequent in vitro recombinant GSK-3beta-mediated 32P incorporation into two putative GSK-3 substrates (approximately 85 and 200 kDa), compatible with inhibition of endogenous GSK-3beta by VPA. Consistent with GSK-3beta inhibition, incubation of SH-SY5Y cells with VPA results in a significant time-dependent increase in both cytosolic and nuclear beta-catenin levels. GSK-3beta plays a critical role in the CNS by regulating various cytoskeletal processes as well as long-term nuclear events and is a common target for both lithium and VPA; inhibition of GSK-3beta in the CNS may thus underlie some of the long-term therapeutic effects of mood-stabilizing agents.
To determine the gene(s) induced by hypertonicity in the brain, we performed a differential display analysis using RNA isolated from isotonic and hypertonic rat astrocytes. One cDNA rapidly up-regulated by hypertonicity was isolated, and the DNA sequence revealed that it was identical to adenine nucleotide translocator (ANT)2. ANT2 protein exchanges intramitochondrial ATP for cytoplasmic ADP. Among three ANT isoforms, only ANT2 mRNA was up-regulated markedly from 1 to 4 h after exposure to hypertonicity. Induction of the mRNA did not require de novo protein synthesis. Furthermore, ADP translocase activity in mitochondria of astrocytes was increased significantly by hypertonicity. To see the localization and regulation of ANT2 mRNA in the brain, we performed in situ hybridization of rat brain after intraperitoneal injection of a high concentration of NaCl. Although there were only weak signals in the control, intense hybridization signals were seen in hypertonic rat whole brain. Microscopic examination showed that ANT2 signals were present in the neurons, as well as glial cells. These results suggest that ANT2 may play a role in brain cells to adapt to the hypertonic environment.
Thioltransferase (TTase) is a member of the family of thiol-disulfide oxidoreductases that are involved in the maintenance of sulfhydryl homeostasis in cells by catalyzing thiol-disulfide interchange reactions. One of the major consequences of oxidative stress in brain is the formation of protein-glutathione mixed disulfides (through oxidation of protein thiols), which can be reversed by TTase during the recovery of brain from oxidative stress. We therefore examined the presence of TTase in brain regions from rat. In the rat, TTase activity in the whole brain was comparable with the corresponding activity in liver, but significantly higher in hippocampus. The enzyme activity was significantly lower in striatum and cerebellum compared with activity in whole brain. Rat brain TTase shared immunological similarity with the human red blood cell enzyme, but not with the pig liver enzyme. The constitutive expression of the mRNA to TTase was demonstrable by northern blotting. Localization of the TTase mRNA in rat brain by fluorescent in situ hybridization showed the presence of high amounts of mRNA in the olfactory bulb, cortex, and hippocampus and its predominant localization in the neurons. TTase mRNA was also present in Purkinje cells in the cerebellum, in giant reticular neurons in the midbrain, and in the striatal and thalamic neurons. This study demonstrates the constitutive presence of a functional TTase system in brain and delineates the regional and cellular localization of the enzyme in rat brain.
The influence of beta-amyloid on cholinergic neurotransmission was studied by measuring alterations in nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in autopsy brain tissue from subjects carrying the Swedish amyloid precursor protein (APP) 670/671 mutation. Significant reductions in numbers of nAChRs were observed in various cortical regions of the Swedish 670/671 APP mutation family subjects (-73 to -87%) as well as in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases (-37 to -57%) using the nicotinic agonists [3H]epibatidine and [3H]nicotine, which bind with high affinity to both alpha3 and alpha4 and to alpha4 nAChR subtypes, respectively. Saturation binding studies with [3H]epibatidine revealed two binding sites in the parietal cortex of AD subjects and controls. A significant decrease in Bmax (-82%) for the high-affinity site was observed in APP 670/671 subjects with no change in K(D) compared with controls (0.018 nM APP 670/671; 0.036 nM control). The highest load of neuronal plaques (NPs) was observed in the parietal cortex of APP 670/671 brains, whereas the number of [3H]nicotine binding sites was less impaired compared with other cortical brain regions. Except for a positive significant correlation between the number of [3H]nicotine binding sites and number of NPs in the parietal cortex, no strict correlation was observed between nAChR deficits and the presence of NPs and neurofibrillary tangles, suggesting that these different processes may be closely related but not strictly dependent on each other.
The compound LY231617 [2,6-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-[[(1-ethyl)amino]methyl]phenol hydrochloride] has been reported to afford significant neuroprotection against hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced toxicity in vitro and global ischemia in vivo. We now report on further mechanistic studies of H2O2 toxicity and protection by LY231617. Brief exposure to H2O2 (15 min) elicited an oxidative insult comparable with that generated by overnight treatment. H2O2-mediated cellular degeneration was characterized using lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, changes in total glutathione, and a new marker of oxidative stress, 8-epiprostaglandin F2alpha (8-isoprostane). LY231617 attenuated H2O2-mediated degeneration under a variety of exposure conditions, including a more clinically relevant posttreatment paradigm. Levels of 8-isoprostane paralleled LDH release under various treatment paradigms of 100 microM H2O2 +/- 5 microM drug. In contrast, despite affording significant protection, LY231617 had modest to no effects on cellular levels of glutathione. Taken together, these results are consistent with a membrane site of action for LY231617 and suggest that the compound affords cytoprotection via its antioxidant properties.
The amyloid beta-peptide (A beta) is a major component of the neuritic plaques that are a defining histological characteristic of Alzheimer's disease. A beta can be directly toxic and pro-inflammatory to cells in vitro. Numerous reports have shown that oxidative damage and reactive oxygen species play a role in A beta-mediated neurotoxicity. 8-Epiprostaglandin F2alpha (8-isoprostane) is a well characterized product of lipid peroxidation that is formed nonenzymatically in cell membranes following an oxidative insult. We report a time- and concentration-dependent increase in 8-isoprostane levels in rat hippocampal cultures treated with A beta(1-40) or hydrogen peroxide. As evidence that 8-isoprostane production is part of an A beta toxic pathway, alkaline-treated peptide, which shows minimal toxic activity, resulted in greatly attenuated 8-isoprostane production. Although the increase in 8-isoprostane levels preceded cell death, exogenously added 8-isoprostane had no cytotoxic effects. The antioxidants vitamin E and propyl gallate attenuated A beta-induced 8-isoprostane formation yet had no effect on A beta-induced lactate dehydrogenase release. Neither vitamin E nor propyl gallate had any effect on A beta's ability to adopt a beta-pleated sheet structure and deposit on cells as determined by thioflavine S fluorescence. We conclude that 8-isoprostane is an indicator of A beta-induced damage but not necessarily a mediator of A beta-induced neurotoxicity. Also, 8-isoprostane could be a useful marker for assessing oxidative damage in the CNS.
At this point three brain centres are thought to be involved in the regulation of the melanotrope cells of the pituitary pars intermedia of Xenopus laevis: the magnocellular nucleus, the suprachiasmatic nucleus and the locus coeruleus. This study aims to investigate the existence of a fourth, serotonergic, centre controlling the melanotrope cells. In-vitro superfusion studies show that serotonin has a dose-dependent stimulatory effect on peptide release (1.6 x basal level at 10(-6) M serotonin) from single melanotrope cells. Retrograde neuronal tract tracing experiments, with the membrane probe FAST Dil applied to the pars intermedia, reveals retrogradely labelled neurones in the magnocellular nucleus, the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the locus coeruleus and the raphe nucleus. Of these brain centres, after immunocytochemistry only the raphe nucleus revealed serotonin-immunoreactive cell bodies. In addition, serotonin-immunoreactive cell bodies were found in the nucleus of the paraventricular organ, the posteroventral tegmental nucleus and the reticular istmic nucleus. In the pituitary, the pars nervosa, pars intermedia and pars distalis all reveal serotonin-immunoreactive nerve fibres. With immunocytochemical double-labelling for tyrosine hydroxylase and serotonin no colocalization of serotonin and tyrosine hydroxylase was observed in cell bodies in the brain, and in the pituitary hardly any colocalization was found in the nerve fibres. However, after in-vitro loading of neurointermediate lobes with serotonin, tyrosine hydroxylase and serotonin appear to coexist in a fibre network in the pars intermedia. On the basis of these data we propose that the melanotrope cells in the Xenopus pars intermedia are innervated by a 5-HT network originating in the raphe nucleus; this network represents the first identified stimulatory input to the pars intermedia of this species.
We have recently demonstrated that ConA-induced suppressor cell function is defective in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). To assess whether this defect plays a role in disease activity and its reversal is important in recovery, we studied modifications of ConA-induced suppressor cell function induced by prednisone and plasma exchange in 20 patients with CIDP. We found a significant increase towards normal of ConA-induced suppressor cell function after treatment in concurrence with clinical improvement. Induction of suppression, presumably through favorable modifications of the cytokine network or other humoral mediators, might be one, among others, of the mechanisms through which prednisone and plasma exchange are effective in CIDP.
Recent surveys indicate a decreasing north-to-south gradient in the mortality and incidence rates of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in Italy, possibly indicating a different susceptibility to ALS in these populations. Piemonte, a region of northwestern Italy, experienced a considerable migration from other regions in Italy between 1940 and 1975; we therefore analyzed the effects of place of birth and migration upon the risk of developing ALS. Data on all ALS cases occurring in Piemonte during the period 1971-1990 were collected. Standardized incidence ratios (SIRs) for patients born outside Piemonte were calculated, using the Piemonte-born population as reference. A total of 962 ALS cases were identified during the study period, corresponding to a mean annual crude incidence rate of 1.37/100,000 population (95% confidence interval, 1.29-1.46). The SIRs of patients born in three southern Italian regions and of foreign-born persons were significantly higher than those of persons born in Piemonte and or other regions in Italy, and increased with age. This observation may be explained by an interaction between environmental and genetic factors or by selective migration.

Recent studies indicate that fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) might confer neuroprotection against excitotoxicity. Therefore, the fact that acidic FGF (aFGF) is more abundant in motoneurons than in the hippocampal formation suggests that aFGF contributes to the selective vulnerability of neurons in entorhinal cortex (EC) in Alzheimer disease (AD). In order to understand the role of aFGF in AD, patterns of aFGF FGF receptor (FGFR), and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDAR) expression in the EC and hippocampus of AD and control cases were investigated, and effects of aFGF on excitotoxicity were examined in vitro. In AD, the number of aFGF immunolabeled neurons was decreased in EC, while the remaining neurons showed significantly higher aFGF immunoreactivity. This latter group of neurons did not show cytoskeletal abnormalities. Acidic FGF and FGFR immunoreactivity were positively correlated, whereas a negative correlation was found between aFGF and NMDAR expression. These results were confirmed in vitro utilizing NT2N cells. Higher levels of FGFR protein were expressed in aFGF-treated cells, while less NMDAR protein was found compared with untreated cells. Furthermore, exposure of treated and untreated NT2N cell to glutamate revealed that aFGF can prevent glutamate induced cell death. Taken together these data suggest that aFGF regulates the expression of NMDAR and FGFR and thereby contributes to neuroprotection against glutamate excitotoxicity. Therefore, altered patterns of aFGF immunoreactivity in EC in AD are an important marker for selective vulnerability of EC neurons.
Past studies determined that there is a critical period at approximately embryonic day (E)17 during which phrenic motoneurons (PMNs) undergo a number of pivotal developmental events, including the inception of functional recruitment via synaptic drive from medullary respiratory centers, contact with spinal afferent terminals, the completion of diaphragm innervation, and a major transformation of PMN morphology. The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that there would be a marked maturation of motoneuron electrophysiological properties occurring in conjunction with these developmental processes. PMN properties were measured via whole cell patch recordings with a cervical slice-phrenic nerve preparation isolated from perinatal rats. From E16 to postnatal day 1, there was a considerable transformation in a number of motoneuron properties, including 1) 10-mV increase in the hyperpolarization of the resting membrane potential, 2) threefold reduction in the input resistance, 3) 12-mV increase in amplitude and 50% decrease duration of action potential, 4) major changes in the shapes of potassium- and calcium-mediated afterpotentials, 5) decline in the prominence of calcium-dependent rebound depolarizations, and 6) increases in rheobase current and steady-state firing rates. Electrical coupling among PMNs was detected in 15-25% of recordings at all ages studied. Collectively, these data and those from parallel studies of PMN-diaphragm ontogeny describe how a multitude of regulatory mechanisms operate in concert during the embryonic development of a single mammalian neuromuscular system.
Chemical synaptic transmission was investigated at a central synapse between identified neurons in the freshwater snail, Lymnaea stagnalis. The presynaptic neuron was the dopaminergic cell, Right Pedal Dorsal one (RPeD1). The postsynaptic neuron was Visceral Dorsal four (VD4). These neurons are components of the respiratory central pattern generator. The synapse from RPeD1 to VD4 showed variability of sign, i.e., it was either inhibitory (monophasic and hyperpolarizing), biphasic (depolarizing followed by hyperpolarizing phases), or undetectable. Both the inhibitory and biphasic synapse were eliminated by low Ca2+/high Mg2+ saline and maintained in high Ca2+/high Mg2+ saline, indicating that these two types of connections were chemical and monosynaptic. The latency of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP) in high Ca2+/high Mg2+ saline was approximately 43 ms, whereas the biphasic postsynaptic potential (BPSP) had approximately 12-ms latency in either normal or high Ca2+/high Mg2+ saline. For a given preparation, when dopamine was pressured applied to the soma of VD4, it always elicited the same response as the synaptic input from RPeD1. Thus, for a VD4 neuron receiving an IPSP from RPeD1, pressure application of dopamine to the soma of VD4 produced an inhibitory response similar to the IPSP. The reversal potentials of the IPSP and the inhibitory dopamine response were both approximately -90 mV. For a VD4 neuron with a biphasic input from RPeD1, pressure-applied dopamine produced a biphasic response similar to the BPSP. The reversal potentials of the depolarizing phase of the BPSP and the biphasic dopamine response were both approximately -44 mV, whereas the reversal potentials for the hyperpolarizing phases were both approximately -90 mV. The hyperpolarizing but not the depolarizing phase of the BPSP and the biphasic dopamine response was blocked by the D-2 dopaminergic antagonist (+/-) sulpiride. Previously, our laboratory demonstrated that both IPSP and the inhibitory dopamine response are blocked by (+/-) sulpiride. Conversely, the depolarizing phase of both the BPSP and the biphasic dopamine response was blocked by the Cl- channel antagonist picrotoxin. Finally, both phases of the BPSP and the biphasic dopamine response were desensitized by continuous bath application of dopamine. These results indicate that the biphasic RPeD1 --&gt; VD4 synapse is dopaminergic. Collectively, these data suggest that the variability in sign (inhibitory vs. biphasic) at the RPeD1 --&gt; VD4 synapse is due to activation of two different dopamine receptors on the postsynaptic neuron VD4. This demonstrates that two populations of receptors can produce two different forms of transmission, i.e., the inhibitory and biphasic forms of the single RPeD1 --&gt; VD4 synapse.
The GABAB-mediated modulation of spinal neurons in the lamprey is investigated in this study. Activation of GABAB receptors reduces calcium currents through both low- (LVA) and high-voltage activated (HVA) calcium channels, which subsequently results in the reduction of the calcium-dependent potassium (KCa) current. This in turn will reduce the peak amplitude of the afterhyperpolarization (AHP). We used the modulatory effects of GABAB receptor activation on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced, TTX-resistant membrane potential oscillations as an experimental model in which to separate the effects of GABAB receptor activation on LVA calcium channels from that on KCa channels. We show experimentally and by using simulations that a direct effect on LVA calcium channels can account for the effects of GABAB receptor activation on intrinsic membrane potential oscillations to a larger extent than indirect effects mediated via KCa channels. Furthermore, by conducting experiments and simulations on intrinsic membrane potential oscillations, we find that KCa channels may be activated by calcium entering through LVA calcium channels, providing that the decay kinetics of the calcium that enters through LVA calcium channels is not as slow as the calcium entering via NMDA receptors. A combined experimental and computational analysis revealed that the LVA calcium current also contributes to neuronal firing properties.
Glutamate is the primary excitatory transmitter in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs) mediate transduction of light information from the retina to the SCN, an important circadian clock phase shifting pathway. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) may play a significant modulatory role. mGluR modulation of SCN responses to glutamate was investigated with fura-2 calcium imaging in SCN explant cultures. SCN neurons showed reproducible calcium responses to glutamate, kainate, and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). Although the type I/II mGluR agonists L-CCG-I and t-ACPD did not evoke calcium responses, they did inhibit kainate- and NMDA-evoked calcium rises. This interaction was insensitive to pertussis toxin. Protein kinase A (PKA) activation by 8-bromo-cAMP significantly reduced iGluR inhibition by mGluR agonists. The inhibitory effect of mGluRs was enhanced by activating protein kinase C (PKC) and significantly reduced in the presence of the PKC inhibitor H7. Previous reports show that L-type calcium channels can be modulated by PKC and PKA. In SCN cells, about one-half of the calcium rise evoked by kainate or NMDA was blocked by the L-type calcium channel antagonist nimodipine. Calcium rises evoked by K+ were used to test whether mGluR inhibition of iGluR calcium rises involved calcium channel modulation. These calcium rises were primarily attributable to activation of voltage-activated calcium channels. PKC activation inhibited K+-evoked calcium rises, but PKC inhibition did not affect L-CCG-I inhibition of these rises. In contrast, 8Br-cAMP had no effect alone but blocked L-CCG-I inhibition. Taken together, these results suggest that activation of mGluRs, likely type II, modulates glutamate-evoked calcium responses in SCN neurons. mGluR inhibition of iGluR calcium rises can be differentially influenced by PKC or PKA activation. Regulation of glutamate-mediated calcium influx could occur at L-type calcium channels, K+ channels, or at GluRs. It is proposed that mGluRs may be important regulators of glutamate responsivity in the circadian system.
Much work now emphasizes the concept that interneuronal networks play critical roles in generating synchronized, oscillatory behavior. Experimental work has shown that functional inhibitory networks alone can produce synchronized activity, and theoretical work has demonstrated how synchrony could occur in mutually inhibitory networks. Even though gap junctions are known to exist between interneurons, their role is far from clear. We present a mechanism by which synchronized bursting can be produced in a minimal network of mutually inhibitory and gap-junctionally coupled neurons. The bursting relies on the presence of persistent sodium and slowly inactivating potassium currents in the individual neurons. Both GABAA inhibitory currents and gap-junctional coupling are required for stable bursting behavior to be obtained. Typically, the role of gap-junctional coupling is focused on synchronization mechanisms. However, these results suggest that a possible role of gap-junctional coupling may lie in the generation and stabilization of bursting oscillatory behavior.
Electrophysiological and video recording methods were used to investigate the function of lip touch in feeding ingestion behavior of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. Although this stimulus was used successfully as a conditioning stimulus (CS) in appetitive learning experiments, the detailed role of lip touch as a component of the sensory stimulus provided by food in unconditioned feeding behavior was never ascertained. Synaptic responses to lip touch in identified feeding motoneurons, central pattern generator interneurons, and modulatory interneurons were recorded by intracellular electrodes in a semi-intact preparation. We showed that touch evoked a complex but characteristic sequence of synaptic inputs on each neuron type. Touch never simply activated feeding cycles but provided different types of synaptic input, determined by the feeding phase in which the neuron was normally active in the rhythmic feeding cycle. The tactile stimulus evoked mainly inhibitory synaptic inputs in protraction-phase neurons and excitation in rasp-phase neurons. Swallow-phase neurons were also excited after some delay, suggesting that touch first reinforces the rasp then swallow phase. Video analysis of freely feeding animals demonstrated that during normal ingestion of a solid food flake the food is drawn across the lips throughout the rasp phase and swallow phase and therefore provides a tactile stimulus during both these retraction phases of the feeding cycle. The tactile component of the food stimulus is strongest during the rasp phase when the lips are actively pressed onto the substrate that is being moved across them by the radula. By using a semi-intact preparation we demonstrated that application of touch to the lips during the rasp phase of a sucrose-driven fictive feeding rhythm increases both the regularity and frequency of rasp-phase motoneuron firing compared with sucrose applied alone.
Previous work suggested that the cerebellum and red nucleus are not necessary for the acquisition, extinction, and reacquistion of the in vitro classically conditioned abducens nerve response in the turtle. These findings are extended in the present study by obtaining conditioned responses (CRs) in preparations that received a partial ablation of the brain stem circuitry. In addition to removing all tissue rostral to and including the midbrain and cerebellum, a transection was made just caudal to the emergence of the IXth nerve. Such ablations result in a 4-mm-thick section of brain stem tissue that functionally eliminates the sustained component of the unconditioned response (UR) while leaving only a phasic component. We refer to this region of brain stem tissue caudal to the IXth nerve as the &quot;caudal premotor blink region.&quot; Neural discharge was recorded from the abducens nerve following a single shock unconditioned stimulus (US) applied to the ipsilateral trigeminal nerve. When the US was paired with a conditioned stimulus (CS) applied to the posterior eighth, or auditory, nerve using a delay conditioning paradigm, a positive slope of CR acquisition was recorded in the abducens nerve, and CR extinction was recorded when the stimuli were alternated. Resumption of paired stimuli resulted in reacquisition. Quantitative analysis of the CRs in preparations in which the caudal premotor blink region had been removed and those with cerebellar/red nucleus lesions showed that both types of preparations had abnormally short latency CR onsets compared with preparations in which these regions were intact. Preparations with brain stem transections had significantly earlier CR offsets as more CRs terminated as short bursts when compared with intact or cerebellar lesioned preparations. These data suggest that a highly reduced in vitro brain stem preparation from the turtle can be classically conditioned. Furthermore, the caudal brain stem is not a site of acquisition in this reduced preparation, but it contributes to the sustained activity of both the UR and CR. Finally, the unusually short CR onset latencies following lesions to the cerebellum are not further exacerbated by removal of the caudal brain stem. These studies suggest that convergence of CS and US synaptic inputs onto the abducens nerve reflex circuitry may underlie acquisition in this reduced preparation, but that mechanisms that control learned CR timing arise from the cerebellorubral system.
We have used whole cell recording in the anesthetized rat to study whisker-evoked synaptic and spiking responses of single neurons in the barrel cortex. On the basis of their intrinsic firing patterns, neurons could be classified as either regular-spiking (RS) cells, intrinsically burst-spiking (IB) cells, or fast-spiking (FS) cells. Some recordings responded to current injection with a complex spike pattern characteristic of apical dendrites. All cell types had high rates of spontaneous postsynaptic potentials, both excitatory (EPSPs) and inhibitory (IPSPs). Some spontaneous EPSPs reached threshold, and these typically elicited only single action potentials in RS cells, bursts of action potentials in FS cells and IB cells, and a small, fast spike or a complex spike in dendrites. Deflection of single whiskers evoked a fast initial EPSP, a prolonged IPSP, and delayed EPSPs in all cell types. The intrinsic firing pattern of cells predicted their short-latency whisker-evoked spiking patterns. All cell types responded best to one or, occasionally, two primary whiskers, but typically 6-15 surrounding whiskers also generated significant synaptic responses. The initial EPSP had a relatively fixed amplitude and latency, and its amplitude in response to first-order surrounding whiskers was approximately 55% of that induced by the primary whisker. Second- and third-order surrounding whiskers evoked responses of approximately 27 and 12%, respectively. The latency of the initial EPSP was shortest for the primary whiskers, longer for surrounding whiskers, and varied with the neurons' depth below the pia. EPSP latency was shortest in the granular layer, longer in supragranular layers, and longest in infragranular layers. The receptive field size, defined as the total number of fast EPSP-inducing whiskers, was independent of each cell's intrinsic firing type, its subpial depth, or the whisker stimulus parameters. On average, receptive fields included &gt;10 whiskers. Our results show that single neurons integrate rapid synaptic responses from a large proportion of the mystacial vibrissae, and suggest that the whisker-evoked responses of barrel neurons are a function of both synaptic inputs and intrinsic membrane properties.
Hyperalgesic and nociceptor sensitizing effects mediated by the beta-adrenergic receptor were evaluated in the rat. Intradermal injection of epinephrine, the major endogenous ligand for the beta-adrenergic receptor, into the dorsum of the hindpaw of the rat produced a dose-dependent mechanical hyperalgesia, quantified by the Randall-Selitto paw-withdrawal test. Epinephrine-induced hyperalgesia was attenuated significantly by intradermal pretreatment with propranolol, a beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist, but not by phentolamine, an alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist. Epinephrine-induced hyperalgesia developed rapidly; it was statistically significant by 2 min after injection, reached a maximum effect within 5 min, and lasted 2 h. Injection of a more beta-adrenergic receptor-selective agonist, isoproterenol, also produced dose-dependent hyperalgesia, which was attenuated by propranolol but not phentolamine. Epinephrine-induced hyperalgesia was not affected by indomethacin, an inhibitor of cyclo-oxygenase, or by surgical sympathectomy. It was attenuated significantly by inhibitors of the adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate signaling pathway (the adenylyl cyclase inhibitor, SQ 22536, and the protein kinase A inhibitors, Rp-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate and WIPTIDE), inhibitors of the protein kinase C signaling pathway (chelerythrine and bisindolylmaleimide) and a mu-opioid receptor agonist DAMGO ([D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol]-enkephalin). Consistent with the hypothesis that epinephrine produces hyperalgesia by a direct action on primary afferent nociceptors, it was found to sensitize small-diameter dorsal root ganglion neurons in culture, i. e., to produce an increase in number of spikes and a decrease in latency to firing during a ramped depolarizing stimulus. These effects were blocked by propranolol. Furthermore epinephrine, like several other direct-acting hyperalgesic agents, caused a potentiation of tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium current, an effect that was abolished by Rp-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate and significantly attenuated by bisindolylmaleimide. Isoproterenol also potentiated tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium current. In conclusion, epinephrine produces cutaneous mechanical hyperalgesia and sensitizes cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons in the absence of nerve injury via an action at a beta-adrenergic receptor. These effects of epinephrine are mediated by both the protein kinase A and protein kinase C second-messenger pathways.
Our recent work has suggested that the nitric oxide/guanosine 3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate (NO/cGMP) signal transduction system contributes to central sensitization of spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons in part by influencing the descending inhibition of nociception resulting from stimulation in the periaqueductal gray. This study was designed to examine further whether activation of the NO/cGMP cascade reduces the inhibition of the activity of STT neurons mediated by spinal inhibitory amino acid (IAA) receptors. Responses of STT cells to noxious cutaneous stimuli were inhibited by iontophoresis of glycine and GABA agonists in anesthetized monkeys. Administration of 8-bromoguanosine-3',5'-cyclophosphate sodium (8-bromo-cGMP), a membrane permeable analogue of cGMP, either by microdialysis or by iontophoresis reduced significantly the IAA-induced inhibition of wide dynamic range (WDR) STT cells in the deep layers of the dorsal horn. The reduction in inhibition lasted for up to 1-1.5 h after the cessation of drug infusion. In contrast, IAA-induced inhibition of WDR STT cells in the superficial dorsal horn and high-threshold (HT) cells in superficial or deep layers was not significantly changed during 8-bromo-cGMP infusion. Iontophoresis of 8-bromo-cGMP onto STT cells produced the same actions as produced by microdialysis of this agent, but the effect was not as long-lasting nor as potent. Finally, an attenuation of the IAA receptor-mediated inhibition of STT cells produced by iontophoretic release of a NO donor, 3-morpholinosydnonimine, could be blocked by pretreatment of the spinal cord with a guanylate cyclase inhibitor, 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one. These results suggest that an increased spinal cGMP level contributes to the sensitization of WDR STT neurons in the deep dorsal horn in part by down-regulating spinal IAA receptors. However, no evidence is provided in this study that the NO/cGMP cascade regulates IAA receptors on HT and superficial WDR neurons. Combined with the preceding studies, our data support the view that NO and cGMP function in the same signal transduction cascade and play an important role in central sensitization.
This study concentrated on whether an increase in spinal nitric oxide (NO) diminishes inhibition of spinothalamic tract (STT) cells induced by activating the periaqueductal gray (PAG) or spinal glycinergic and GABAergic receptors, thus contributing to the sensitization of STT neurons. A reduction in inhibition of the responses to cutaneous mechanical stimuli induced by PAG stimulation was seen in wide dynamic range (WDR) STT cells located in the deep layers of the dorsal horn when these neurons were sensitized during administration of a NO donor, 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1), into the dorsal horn by microdialysis. In contrast, PAG-induced inhibition of the responses of high-threshold (HT) and superficial WDR STT cells was not significantly changed by spinal infusion of SIN-1. A reduction in PAG inhibition when STT cells were sensitized after intradermal injection of capsaicin could be nearly completely blocked by pretreatment of the dorsal horn with a NO synthase inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole. Moreover, spinal inhibition of nociceptive activity of deep WDR STT neurons elicited by iontophoretic release of glycine and GABA agonists was attenuated by administration of SIN-1. This change paralleled the change in PAG-induced inhibition. However, the inhibition of HT and superficial WDR cells induced by glycine and GABA release did not show a significant change when SIN-1 was administered spinally. Combined with our recent results, these data show that the effectiveness of spinal inhibition can be reduced by the NO/cGMP pathway. Thus disinhibition may constitute one mechanism underlying central sensitization.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been proposed to contribute to the development of hyperalgesia by activating the NO/guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) signal transduction pathway in the spinal cord. We have examined the effects of NO on the responses of primate spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons to peripheral cutaneous stimuli and on the sensitization of STT cells following intradermal injection of capsaicin. The NO level within the spinal dorsal horn was increased by microdialysis of a NO donor, 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1). SIN-1 enhanced the responses of STT cells to both weak and strong mechanical stimulation of the skin. This effect was preferentially on deep wide dynamic range STT neurons. The responses of none of the neurons tested to noxious heat stimuli were significantly changed when SIN-1 was administered. Intradermal injection of capsaicin increased dramatically the content of NO metabolites, NO-2/NO-3, within the dorsal horn. This effect was attenuated by pretreatment of the spinal cord with a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). Sensitization of STT cells induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin was also prevented by pretreatment of the dorsal horn with the NOS inhibitors, L-NAME or 7-nitroindazole. Blockade of NOS did not significantly affect the responses of STT cells to peripheral stimulation in the absence of capsaicin injection. The data suggest that NO contributes to the development and maintenance of central sensitization of STT cells and the resultant mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia after peripheral tissue damage or inflammation. NO seems to play little role in signaling peripheral stimuli under physiological conditions.
Spontaneous and stimulus-induced responses were recorded from neighboring groups of neurons by an array of electrodes in the primary (SI) somatosensory cortex of intact, halothane-anesthetized cats. Cross-correlation analysis was used to characterize the coordination of spontaneous activity and the responses to peripheral stimulation with moving or stationary air jets. Although synchronization was detected in only 10% (88 of 880) of the pairs of single neurons that were recorded, cross-correlation analysis of multiunit responses revealed significant levels of synchronization in 64% of the 123 recorded electrode pairs. Compared with spontaneous activity, both stationary and moving air jets caused substantial increases in the rate, proportion, and temporal precision of synchronized activity in local regions of SI cortex. Among populations of neurons that were synchronized by both types of air-jet stimulation, the mean rate of synchronized activity was significantly higher during moving air-jet stimulation than during stationary air-jet stimulation. Moving air jets also produced significantly higher correlation coefficients than stationary air jets in the raw cross-correlograms (CCGs) but not in the shift-corrected CCGs. The incidence and rate of stimulus-induced synchronization varied with the distance separating the recording sites. For sites separated by &lt;/=300 microm, 80% of the multiunit responses displayed significant levels of synchronization during both types of air-jet stimulation. For sites separated by &gt;/=500 microm, only 37% of the multiunit responses were synchronized by discrete stimulation with a single air jet. Measurements of the multiunit CCG peak half-widths showed that the correlated activity produced by moving air jets had slightly less temporal variability than that produced by stationary air jets. These results indicate that moving stimuli produce greater levels of synchronization than stationary stimuli among local groups of SI neurons and suggest that neuronal synchronization may supplement the changes in firing rate which code intensity and other attributes of a cutaneous stimulus.
Prostaglandins, metabolites of arachidonic acid, released during tissue injury and inflammation sensitize primary afferent nociceptors. While it has been suggested that this effect on nociceptors is mediated mainly via the cAMP second messenger system, recent evidence suggests that nitric oxide (NO) is also involved in peripheral pain mechanisms. To test the hypothesis that NO contributes to the sensitization of nociceptors to mechanical stimuli induced by hyperalgesic prostaglandins, we compared von Frey hair mechanical threshold as well as the response evoked by 10-s sustained threshold mechanical stimulation before and after injection of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) alone, and NOS inhibitor NG-methyl-L-arginine (L-NMA) or its inactive stereoisomer NG-methyl-D-arginine (D-NMA) plus PGE2, adjacent to the receptive field of C-fiber nociceptors. The reduction of mechanical threshold and increase in number of action potentials to sustained mechanical stimulation induced by intradermal application of PGE2 was blocked by L-NMA, but not D-NMA. It is suggested that NO contributes to nociceptor sensitization induced by hyperalgesic prostaglandins.
Functional MRI (fMRI) allows cognitive processes to be studied on an individual basis. fMRI is at the crossing of many fields, such as physiology, MRI physics, cognitive neurosciences, data analysis,.... Hence, it requires the collaboration of inter-disciplinary teams, in which neuroradiologists should play an important role. This article provides an overview of the general principles necessary to conduct fMRI studies on a practical matter (choice of magnetic field, patient set-up and preparation, paradigm design, data acquisition and analysis).
Each of the dorsal columns of the rat spinal cord conveys primary sensory information, by way of the medullary dorsal column nucleus, to the ventrobasal thalamus on the contralateral side; thus the dorsal columns are an important source of neural input to the sensorimotor cortex. Damage to the dorsal columns causes impairments in synergistic proximal or whole-body movements in cats and distal limb impairments in primates, particularly in multiarticulated finger movements and tactile foviation while handling objects, but the behavioral effects of afferent fiber lesions in the dorsal columns of rodents have not been described. Female Long-Evans rats were trained to reach with a forelimb for food pellets and subsequently received lesions of the dorsomedial spinal cord at the C2 level, ipsilateral to their preferred limb. Reaching success completely recovered within a few days of dorsal column lesion. Nevertheless, a detailed analysis of high-speed video recordings revealed that rotatory limb movements (aiming, pronation, supination, etc.) were irreversibly impaired. Compensation was achieved with whole-body and alternate limb movements. These results indicate the following: (1) in the absence of the dorsal columns, other sensorimotor pathways support endpoint success in reaching; (2) sensory input conveyed by the dorsal columns is important for both proximal and distal limb movements used for skilled reaching; and (3) detailed behavioral analyses in addition to endpoint measures are necessary to completely describe the effects of dorsal column lesions.
Sensitivity to the pungent vanilloid, capsaicin, defines a subpopulation of primary sensory neurons that are mainly polymodal nociceptors. The recently cloned vanilloid receptor subtype 1 (VR1) is activated by capsaicin and noxious heat. Using combined in situ hybridization and histochemical methods, we have characterized in sensory ganglia the expression of VR1 mRNA. We show that this receptor is almost exclusively expressed by neurofilament-negative small- and medium-sized dorsal root ganglion cells. Within this population, VR1 mRNA is detected at widely varying levels in both the NGF receptor (trkA)-positive, peptide-producing cells that elicit neurogenic inflammation and the functionally less characterized glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-responsive cells that bind lectin Griffonia simplicifolia isolectin B4 (IB4). Cells without detectable levels of VR1 mRNA are found in both classes. A subpopulation of the IB4-binding cells that produce somatostatin has relatively low levels of VR1 mRNA. A previously uncharacterized population of very small cells that express the receptor tyrosine kinase (RET) and that do not label for trkA or IB4-binding has the highest relative levels of VR1 mRNA. The majority of small visceral sensory neurons of the nodose ganglion also express VR1 mRNA, in conjunction with the BDNF receptor trkB but not trkA. Axotomy results in the downregulation of VR1 mRNA in dorsal root ganglion cells. Our data emphasize the heterogeneity of VR1 mRNA expression by subclasses of small sensory neurons, and this may result in their differential sensitivity to chemical and noxious heat stimuli. Our results also indicate that peripherally derived trophic factors may regulate levels of VR1 mRNA.
The nucleus accumbens (Acb) is prominently involved in the aversive behavioral aspects of kappa-opioid receptor (KOR) agonists, including its endogenous ligand dynorphin (Dyn). We examined the ultrastructural immunoperoxidase localization of KOR and immunogold labeling of Dyn to determine the major cellular sites for KOR activation in this region. Of 851 KOR-labeled structures sampled from a total area of 10,457 microm2, 63% were small axons and morphologically heterogenous axon terminals, 31% of which apposed Dyn-labeled terminals or also contained Dyn. Sixty-eight percent of the KOR-containing axon terminals formed punctate-symmetric or appositional contacts with unlabeled dendrites and spines, many of which received convergent input from terminals that formed asymmetric synapses. Excitatory-type terminals that formed asymmetric synapses with dendritic spines comprised 21% of the KOR-immunoreactive profiles. Dendritic spines within the neuropil were the major nonaxonal structures that contained KOR immunoreactivity. These spines also received excitatory-type synapses from unlabeled terminals and were apposed by Dyn-containing terminals. These results provide ultrastructural evidence that in the Acb shell (AcbSh), KOR agonists play a primary role in regulating the presynaptic release of Dyn and other neuromodulators that influence the output of spiny neurons via changes in the presynaptic release of or the postsynaptic responses to excitatory amino acids. The cellular distribution of KOR complements those described previously for the reward-associated mu- and delta-opioid receptors in the Acb shell.
Pathophysiological, lesion, and electrophysiological studies suggest that the cerebellar cortex is important for controlling the direction and speed of movement. The relationship of cerebellar Purkinje cell discharge to the control of arm movement parameters, however, remains unclear. The goal of this study was to examine how movement direction and speed and their interaction-velocity-modulate Purkinje cell simple spike discharge in an arm movement task in which direction and speed were independently controlled. The simple spike discharge of 154 Purkinje cells was recorded in two monkeys during the performance of two visuomotor tasks that required the animals to track targets that moved in one of eight directions and at one of four speeds. Single-parameter regression analyses revealed that a large proportion of cells had discharge modulation related to movement direction and speed. Most cells with significant directional tuning, however, were modulated at one speed, and most cells with speed-related discharge were modulated along one direction; this suggested that the patterns of simple spike discharge were not adequately described by single-parameter models. Therefore, a regression surface was fitted to the data, which showed that the discharge could be tuned to specific direction-speed combinations (preferred velocities). The overall variability in simple spike discharge was well described by the surface model, and the velocities corresponding to maximal and minimal discharge rates were distributed uniformly throughout the workspace. Simple spike discharge therefore appears to integrate information about both the direction and speed of arm movements, thereby encoding movement velocity.
Paired intracellular recordings have been used to examine the activity-dependent plasticity and neuromodulator-induced metaplasticity of synaptic inputs from identified inhibitory and excitatory interneurons in the lamprey spinal cord. Trains of spikes at 5-20 Hz were used to mimic the frequency of spiking that occurs in network interneurons during NMDA or brainstem-evoked locomotor activity. Inputs from inhibitory and excitatory interneurons exhibited similar activity-dependent changes, with synaptic depression developing during the spike train. The level of depression reached was greater with lower stimulation frequencies. Significant activity-dependent depression of inputs from excitatory interneurons and inhibitory crossed caudal interneurons, which are central elements in the patterning of network activity, usually developed between the fifth and tenth spikes in the train. Because these interneurons typically fire bursts of up to five spikes during locomotor activity, this activity-dependent plasticity will presumably not contribute to the patterning of network activity. However, in the presence of the neuromodulators substance P and 5-HT, significant activity-dependent metaplasticity of these inputs developed over the first five spikes in the train. Substance P induced significant activity-dependent depression of inhibitory but potentiation of excitatory interneuron inputs, whereas 5-HT induced significant activity-dependent potentiation of both inhibitory and excitatory interneuron inputs. Because these metaplastic effects are consistent with the substance P and 5-HT-induced modulation of the network output, activity-dependent metaplasticity could be a potential mechanism underlying the coordination and modulation of rhythmic network activity.
Persistent potentiations of the chemical and electrotonic components of the eighth nerve (NVIII) EPSP recorded in vivo in the goldfish reticulospinal neuron, the Mauthner cell, can be evoked by afferent tetanization or local dendritic application of an endogenous transmitter, dopamine (3-hydroxytyramine). These modifications are attributable to the activation of distinct intracellular kinase cascades. Although dopamine-evoked potentiation (DEP) is mediated by the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), tetanization most likely activates a Ca2+-dependent protein kinase via an increased intracellular Ca2+ concentration. We present evidence that the eighth nerve tetanus that induces LTP does not act by triggering dopamine release, because it is evoked in the presence of a broad spectrum of dopamine antagonists. To test for interactions between these pathways, we applied the potentiating paradigms sequentially. When dopamine was applied first, tetanization produced additional potentiation of the mixed synaptic response, but when the sequence was reversed, DEP was occluded, indicating that the synapses potentiated by the two procedures belong to the same or overlapping populations. Experiments were conducted to determine interactions between the underlying regulatory mechanisms and the level of their convergence. Inhibiting PKA does not impede tetanus-induced LTP, and chelating postsynaptic Ca2+ with BAPTA does not block DEP, indicating that the initial steps of the induction processes are independent. Pharmacological and voltage-clamp analyses indicate that the two pathways converge on functional AMPA/kainate receptors for the chemically mediated EPSP and gap junctions for the electrotonic component or at intermediaries common to both pathways. A cellular model incorporating these interactions is proposed on the basis of differential modulation of synaptic responses via receptor-protein phosphorylation.
Mutations in alpha1A, the pore-forming subunit of P/Q-type calcium channels, are linked to several human diseases, including familial hemiplegic migraine (FHM). We introduced the four missense mutations linked to FHM into human alpha1A-2 subunits and investigated their functional consequences after expression in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. By combining single-channel and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we show that all four mutations affect both the biophysical properties and the density of functional channels. Mutation R192Q in the S4 segment of domain I increased the density of functional P/Q-type channels and their open probability. Mutation T666M in the pore loop of domain II decreased both the density of functional channels and their unitary conductance (from 20 to 11 pS). Mutations V714A and I1815L in the S6 segments of domains II and IV shifted the voltage range of activation toward more negative voltages, increased both the open probability and the rate of recovery from inactivation, and decreased the density of functional channels. Mutation V714A decreased the single-channel conductance to 16 pS. Strikingly, the reduction in single-channel conductance induced by mutations T666M and V714A was not observed in some patches or periods of activity, suggesting that the abnormal channel may switch on and off, perhaps depending on some unknown factor. Our data show that the FHM mutations can lead to both gain- and loss-of-function of human P/Q-type calcium channels.
A method for simultaneous measurement of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activation and phosphorylation in permeabilised and intact bovine adrenal chromaffin cells (BACCs) was established. Permeabilised cells were stimulated with cyclic AMP (1--10 microM) in the presence of [32P]ATP and L-[carboxyl-(14)C]tyrosine. Intact BACCs were preincubated with 32P(i) for 3 h and stimulated with forskolin (1--5 microM) in the presence of L-[carboxyl-(14)C]tyrosine. On stimulation each well was covered with a sealed 'chimney' fitted with a small plastic cup containing 300 microl of 1.0 M NaOH that trapped the 14CO(2) released. TH activity was determined by measuring 14C radioactivity. TH phosphorylation was measured in the same cells by separating the solubilized proteins on SDS PAGE followed by autoradiography and/or HPLC analysis. It was found that H89, a protein kinase A inhibitor, significantly blocked both TH phosphorylation and activation in response to cyclic AMP in permeabilised cells. However, in intact cells, H89 was effective only in respect to forskolin-stimulated TH activity and did not block the forskolin-stimulated TH phosphorylation of Ser-40. The reason(s) for this lack of correlation between TH activation and phosphorylation is presently not understood.
A genetic defect in complex I of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) is implicated in the etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD), and has been studied in hybrid mitochondrial transgene cells based on the SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma. We sought to characterize further the mechanisms and time course of cell death in cultures of human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells exposed to the ETC complex I inhibitor methylpyridinium ion (MPP+). We verify previous reports that apoptosis occurs after MPP+ exposure in SH-SY5Y cells. Nuclear pyknosis, the end stage of apoptosis, is evident after 18-hr exposure to 5 mM MPP+ and reversible until 10 hr, providing a temporal window within which to look for molecular and physiological correlates of MPP+-induced apoptosis. We then looked for mitochondrial correlates of MPP+ induced apoptosis in SH-SY5Y cells. Using flow cytometry, we found that MPP+ -induced increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) and lactate production consistent with inhibition of the ETC. Rho(o) cells, lacking a functional ETC, showed no ROS production, compensatory lactate production or apoptosis after exposure to MPP+. Finally, we show a collapse in ROS production and mitochondrial potential that is temporally correlated with irreversibility of MPP+ -induced apoptosis.
Shortly after birth, an otherwise healthy infant developed eye deviation and ptosis due to a hamartomatous lesion of the interpeduncular segment of the right oculomotor nerve. The left nerve became similarly involved when the child was 1.5 years of age. Direct nerve repair was not possible. Instead, the trochlear nerve was divided and its proximal end was attached to the distal end of the third nerve. Elevation of the upper eyelid and partial adduction of the eye developed gradually over the ensuing 3 to 5 months. Both functions were lost after an additional 2 months, presumably as a result of tumor recurrence or neuroma formation. This case report shows that surgically created fourth-third cranial nerve communication is feasible and may merit consideration under similar circumstances.
The present work aimed at studying the participation of the homologous contralateral zone to a unilateral somatomotor cortex lesion, once the animals had showed a significant functional recovery. We studied recovery of coordinated walking after unilateral motor cortex aspiration in rats. A callosotomy was performed 20 days after the initial lesion, without significant effects. We conclude that after this time period, the intact hemisphere plays no role in the recovery process, suggesting that at this time point recovery does not depend on the integrity of corpus callosal fibers at this rostral-caudal level.
In the present study, we used the potent cocaine analog [3H]WIN 35, 428 to map and quantify binding to the dopamine transporter (DAT) within the dorsal striatum, nucleus accumbens, substantia nigra, and ventral tegmental area in young (6-month-old), middle-aged (12-month-old), and aged (18- and 24-month-old) Fischer 344 rats. Quantitative autoradiographic analysis of indirect [3H]WIN 35,428 saturation curves revealed two-site binding for all four brain regions in every age group. The percentage of binding to the high- or low-affinity sites did not differ with age or region and was approximately 50%. However, significant age-related decreases in the overall density (Bmax) of [3H]WIN 35,428-binding sites were observed in the striatum, nucleus accumbens, substantia nigra, and ventral tegmental area. The Bmax within all brain regions declined by more than 15% every 6 months, with the Bmax in the aged (24-month-old) group being approximately half that measured in the young adult (6-month-old) group. Competition experiments indicated that nomifensine also exhibited two-site binding to the DAT in Fischer 344 rats. No consistent age-related differences in binding affinities were noted with either [3H]WIN 35,428 or nomifensine. Taken together, these results support the hypothesis that functional DATs within the nigrostriatal and mesolimbic systems are down-regulated with age, without changing their affinity for ligands.
Sydnocarb (3-(beta-phenylisopropyl)-N-phenylcarbamoylsydnonimine) is a psychostimulant in clinical practice in Russia as a primary and adjunct therapy for a host of psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia and depression. It has been described as a stimulant with an addiction liability and toxicity less than that of amphetamines. The present study undertook to evaluate the psychomotor stimulant effects of sydnocarb in comparison to those of methamphetamine. Sydnocarb increased locomotor activity of mice with reduced potency (approximately 10-fold) and efficacy compared with methamphetamine. Sydnocarb blocked the locomotor depressant effects of haloperidol at doses that were inactive when given alone. The locomotor stimulant effects of both methamphetamine and sydnocarb were dose-dependently blocked by the dopamine D1 and D2 antagonists SCH 39166 and spiperone, respectively; blockade generally occurred at doses of the antagonists that did not depress locomotor activity when given alone. In mice trained to discriminate methamphetamine from saline, sydnocarb fully substituted for methamphetamine with a 9-fold lower potency. When substituted for methamphetamine under self-administration experiments in rats, 10-fold higher concentrations of sydnocarb maintained responding by its i.v. presentation. Sydnocarb engendered stereotypy in high doses with approximately a 2-fold lower potency than methamphetamine. However, sydnocarb was much less efficacious than methamphetamine in inducing stereotyped behavior. Both sydnocarb and methamphetamine increased dialysate levels of dopamine in mouse striatum; however, the potency and efficacy of sydnocarb was less than methamphetamine. The convulsive effects of cocaine were significantly enhanced by the coadministration of nontoxic doses of methamphetamine but not of sydnocarb. Taken together, the present findings indicate that sydnocarb has psychomotor stimulant effects that are shared by methamphetamine while demonstrating a reduced behavioral toxicity.
Previous studies showed that recombinant homomeric GluR6 receptors are acutely inhibited by ethanol. This study examined the acute actions of ethanol on recombinant homomeric and heteromeric kainate (KA) receptors with different subunit configurations. Application of 25 to 100 mM ethanol produced inhibition of a similar magnitude of both GluR5-Q and GluR6-R KA receptor-dependent currents in Xenopus oocytes. Ethanol decreased the KA Emax without affecting the EC50 and its effect was independent of the membrane holding potential for both of these receptors subtypes. Ethanol also inhibited homomeric and heteromeric receptors transiently expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. In these cells, the expression of heteromeric GluR6-R subunit-containing receptors was confirmed by testing their sensitivity to 1 mM alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid. Ethanol inhibited to a similar extent KA-gated currents mediated by receptors composed of either GluR6 or GluR6 + KA1 subunits, and to a slightly lesser extent receptors composed of GluR6 + KA2 subunits. Acute ethanol's effects were tested on GluR5 KA receptors that are expressed as homomers (GluR5-Q) or heteromers (GluR5-R + KA1 and GluR5-R + KA2). Homomeric and heteromeric GluR5 KA receptors were all inhibited to a similar extent by ethanol; however, there was slightly more inhibition of GluR5-R + KA2 receptors. Thus, recombinant KA receptors with different subunit compositions are all acutely inhibited to a similar extent by ethanol. In light of recent reports that KA receptors regulate neurotransmitter release and mediate synaptic currents, we postulate that these receptors may play a role in acute ethanol intoxication.
The environmental neurotoxicant methylmercury (MeHg) causes profound disruption of cerebellar function. Previous studies have shown that acute exposure to MeHg impairs synaptic transmission in both the peripheral and central nervous systems. However, the effects of MeHg on cerebellar synaptic function have never been examined. In the present study, effects of acute exposure to MeHg on synaptic transmission between parallel fibers or climbing fibers and Purkinje cells were compared in 300- to 350-microm cerebellar slices by using extracellular and intracellular microelectrode-recording techniques. Field potentials of parallel-fiber volleys (PFVs) and the associated postsynaptic responses (PSRs) were recorded in the molecular layer by stimulating the parallel fibers in transverse cerebellar slices. The climbing-fiber responses were also recorded in the molecular layer by stimulating white matter in sagittal cerebellar slices. At 20, 100, and 500 microM, MeHg reduced the amplitude of both PFVs and the associated PSRs to complete block, however, it blocked PSRs more rapidly than PFVs. MeHg also decreased the amplitudes of climbing-fiber responses to complete block. For all responses, an initial increase in amplitude preceded MeHg-induced suppression. Intracellular recordings of excitatory postsynaptic potentials of Purkinje cells were compared before and after MeHg. At 100 microM and 20 microM, MeHg blocked the Na+-dependent, fast somatic spikes and Ca++-dependent, slow dendritic spike bursts. MeHg also hyperpolarized and then depolarized Purkinje cell membranes, suppressed current conduction from parallel fibers or climbing fibers to dendrites of Purkinje cells, and blocked synaptically activated local responses. MeHg switched the pattern of repetitive firing of Purkinje cells generated spontaneously or by depolarizing current injection at Purkinje cell soma from predominantly Na+-dependent, fast somatic spikes to predominantly Ca++-dependent, low amplitude, slow dendritic spike bursts. Thus, acute exposure to MeHg causes a complex pattern of effects on cerebellar synaptic transmission, with apparent actions on both neuronal excitability and chemical synaptic transmission.
1. Patch-clamp recordings were made from rat ventromedial hypothalamic neurones in slices of brain tissue in vitro. In cell-attached recordings, removal of extracellular glucose or metabolic inhibition with sodium azide reduced the firing rate of a subpopulation of cells through the activation of a 65 pS channel that was blocked by the sulphonylureas tolbutamide and glibenclamide. 2. In whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, in the absence of ATP in the electrode solution, glucose-receptive neurones gradually hyperpolarized due to the induction of an outward current at -60 mV. This outward current and the resultant hyperpolarization were blocked by the sulphonylureas tolbutamide and glibenclamide. 3. In recordings where the electrode solution contained 4 mM ATP, this outward current was not observed. Under these conditions, 500 microM diazoxide was found to induce an outward current that was blocked by tolbutamide. 4. In cell-attached recordings diazoxide and the active fragment of leptin (leptin 22-56) reduced the firing rate of glucose-receptive neurones by the activation of a channel with similar properties to that induced by removal of extracellular glucose. 5. Reverse transcription followed by the polymerase chain reaction using cytoplasm from single glucose-receptive neurones demonstrated the expression of the ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channel subunits Kir6.1 and SUR1 but not Kir6.2 or SUR2. 6. It is concluded that glucose-receptive neurones within the rat ventromedial hypothalamus exhibit a KATP channel current with pharmacological and molecular properties similar to those reported in other tissues.
The objective of this review is to summarize recent data on the genetics of autism, highlight the evidence for genetic heterogeneity and extend the implications of these findings for the identification of susceptibility genes in this disorder. Family studies have shown that autism runs in families and twin studies indicate that the basis of that familial aggregation is genetic. As a result the prospects for the identification of susceptibility genes using either linkage or association studies are quite good. However, recent evidence is accumulating suggesting that the disorder is genetically heterogeneous; higher functioning individuals with autism may arise from separate genetic mechanisms that lower functioning ones. If true, this will make the detection of linkage and association much more difficult.
Feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) is a lentivirus causing immune suppression and neurological disease in cats. Like primate lentiviruses, FIV utilizes the chemokine receptor CXCR4 for infection. In addition, FIV gene expression has been demonstrated in immortalized human cell lines. To investigate the extent and mechanism by which FIV infected primary and immortalized human cell lines, we compared the infectivity of two FIV strains, V1CSF and Petaluma, after cell-free infection. FIV genome was detected in infected human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and macrophages at 21 and 14 days postinfection, respectively. Flow cytometry analysis of FIV-infected human PBMC indicated that antibodies to FIV p24 recognized 12% of the cells. Antibodies binding the CCR3 chemokine receptor maximally inhibited infection of human PBMC by both FIV strains compared to antibodies to CXCR4 or CCR5. Reverse transcriptase levels increased in FIV-infected human PBMC, with detection of viral titers of 10(1.3) to 10(2.1) 50% tissue culture infective doses/10(6) cells depending on the FIV strain examined. Cell death in human PBMC infected with either FIV strain was significantly elevated relative to uninfected control cultures. These findings indicate that FIV can productively infect primary human cell lines and that viral strain specificity should be considered in the development of an FIV vector for gene therapy.
Both p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) are known to play important roles in neuronal apoptosis. However, the relationship between these kinases and caspases, another key mediator of apoptosis, is unclear. In the present study, we investigated the possible effects of SB203580 [(4-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-(4-methylsulfinylphenyl)-5-(4-pyridyl)-i mid azole], an inhibitor of p38, on caspase activation and apoptosis of cultured rat cerebellar granule neurons. In granule neurons, SB203580 prevented apoptosis that was induced by lowering the concentration of KCl in the culture medium for 24 hr. SB203580 also prevented augmentation of caspase-3-like protease activity at 8 hr after the low KCl treatment. The IC50 values of SB203580 for both events were between 3 microM and 10 microM. Expression and phosphorylation of c-Jun, potently induced by low KCl treatment, were prevented by SB203580 at 10 microM. Z-Asp-CH2-DCB, a caspase inhibitor with anti-apoptotic activity, did not inhibit the induction and phosphorylation of c-Jun. Granule neurons displayed high levels of p38 and JNK activities. SB203580 inhibited not only p38 but also JNK activities extracted from granule neurons. These results suggest that activation of c-Jun by p38 and/or JNK mediates the activation of caspase in the low KCl-induced apoptosis in cerebellar granule neurons.
Although we have obtained a number of pharmacological tools and mutant mice lacking specific genes related to the pain, the distinct molecular basis of the pain-producing mechanism has remained to be fully clarified since we have been using conventional paradigms of the nociception test that may drive multiple endogenous molecules affecting nociception at the same time. Here, I will introduce a new paradigm of the nociception test. In this test, we focused on polymodal C-fibers by measuring nociceptive flexor responses induced by the peripheral application of a single species of nociceptive molecule. In addition, we identified the site of drug actions on nociceptor endings by the fact that the nociception was abolished by the intrathecal pretreatment with antisense oligodeoxynucleotide for receptors. Throughout experiments using this paradigm of the nociception test, it was firstly revealed that substance P, a major neurotransmitter of polymodal C-fibers, directly stimulates nociceptor endings through activation of Gq/11 and phospholipase C, followed by Ca2+ influx through plasma membrane-bound inositol trisphosphate receptors, and that bradykinin and histamine, both endogenous representative pain-producing substances, share this mechanism. Another unique mechanism is through Gi-coupled receptors such as receptors for nociceptin (orphanin FQ) or kyotorphin (tyrosine-arginine). The latter mechanism was found to be mediated through a substance P release from nociceptor endings. Future studies including some modifications of this paradigm should be also clinically useful for neuropathic pain research as well as understanding of pain physiology.

Experimentally naive rats can learn rapidly to discriminate among three odors to obtain food reinforcement. After three massed trials, they show almost errorless performance. This task has proved to be useful in studying time-dependent postacquisition intracellular processes necessary for long-term memory. The present experiments evaluated the temporal dynamics of the role of beta-noradrenergic receptors in long-term consolidation. Rats were implanted with intracerebroventricular cannulae and trained in a single session to find reinforcement in a hole in a sponge impregnated with a particular odor. Injections of the beta-receptor antagonist timolol were made at 5 min, 1, 2, or 5 hr after training. Memory and relearning ability were evaluated 48 hr later. Rats treated with timolol 2 hr after training showed a memory deficit at the retention test, but were able to relearn the task normally. Injections at the earlier or later time points were ineffective. The results reinforce previous observations with systemic injections that beta-noradrenergic receptors are involved in the late phase of memory consolidation and suggest a critical time window during which they are necessary. The time window is compatible with the current view that long-term memory depends on late involvement of the cAMP cascade leading to new protein synthesis necessary for synaptic reorganization.
We propose a five-phase model for schizophrenia: (A) Imperfect diet-induced fatty acid combinations are mobilized from reservoirs during stress exposure into the bloodstream; (B) Increased brain-blood barrier permeability, with a further penetration of fat into the brain matter; (C) Rearrangement in the regional neuronal membrane fatty acids with a further physical compression of the adjacent membrane protein structures causing conformational alterations; (D) Cytokines generate further physical changes, impairing single- or multi-dispersed ion channels placed on the same neuron; (E) Ion channels are blocked, with a subsequent biophysical ion shunt-to-ion flow propagation, which results in neuronal misfiring and the appearance of schizophrenic signs and symptoms.

Gabapentin and Pregabalin are both 3-alkylated gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) analogs. Gabapentin was designed as a lipophilic GABA analog and was first synthesized as a potential anticonvulsant and was launched in 1994 as add-on therapy for the treatment of epilepsy. In this review the discovery and development of gabapentin as an anticonvulsant are discussed. During human trials and while in clinical use, it became apparent that gabapentin induced some other potentially useful therapeutic effects in chronic pain states and behavioral disorders. A review of animal and clinical data relating to these other potential therapeutic utilities is presented. Pregabalin was identified after an investigation into other 3-substituted GABA analogs. It has since been shown to have a similar pharmacological profile to gabapentin with greater potency in preclinical models of pain and epilepsy. Studies of the mechanism(s) of action of these compounds are discussed. Work towards identifying new analogs of both gabapentin and pregabalin is also reviewed.
A comparative study of the effects of excitotoxic levels of glutamate with ischemia on the cerebral energy metabolism and [NAD]/[NADH] ratio was carried out in adult rat brain slices. Glutamate moderately decreased the high energy phosphates and intracellular pH whereas ischemia showed a pronounced decrease in the high energy phosphates and intracellular pH. The [NAD]/[NADH] ratio increased continuously during glutamate exposure whereas an initial reduction and subsequent oxidation occurred during ischemia. Uptake of glutamate prevailed throughout the glutamate exposure to brain slices signifying favorable glial energy levels while efflux occurred during ischemia indicating complete neuronal and glial depolarization. A net synthesis of glutamate was also observed during ischemia. A small but significant increase in lactate may be a result of increased glycolysis during glutamate exposure, on the other hand a large increase in lactate during ischemia suggests a total failure of oxidative metabolism. Our results show that glutamate exposure to brain slices causes a mild energetic stress and an increase in [NAD]/[NADH] ratio whereas predominant inhibition of phosphate metabolites and dual effect on NAD/NADH redox state was observed during ischemia. It is suggested that the NAD/NADH redox state together with phosphate metabolites and intracellular pH of the periinfarct region could provide vital evidence about the possible involvement of glutamate.
Approximately 70% of mRNAs in Caenorhabditis elegans are trans spliced to conserved 21- to 23-nucleotide leader RNAs. While the function of SL1, the major C. elegans trans-spliced leader, is unknown, SL1 RNA, which contains this leader, is essential for embryogenesis. Efforts to characterize in vivo requirements of the SL1 leader sequence have been severely constrained by the essential role of the corresponding DNA sequences in SL1 RNA transcription. We devised a heterologous expression system that circumvents this problem, making it possible to probe the length and sequence requirements of the SL1 leader without interfering with its transcription. We report that expression of SL1 from a U2 snRNA promoter rescues mutants lacking the SL1-encoding genes and that the essential embryonic function of SL1 is retained when approximately one-third of the leader sequence and/or the length of the leader is significantly altered. In contrast, although all mutant SL1 RNAs were well expressed, more severe alterations eliminate this essential embryonic function. The one non-rescuing mutant leader tested was never detected on messages, demonstrating that part of the leader sequence is essential for trans splicing in vivo. Thus, in spite of the high degree of SL1 sequence conservation, its length, primary sequence, and composition are not critical parameters of its essential embryonic function. However, particular nucleotides in the leader are essential for the in vivo function of the SL1 RNA, perhaps for its assembly into a functional snRNP or for the trans-splicing reaction.
Genetic resistance to pyrethroid insecticides involves nervous system insensitivity linked to regulatory and structural genes of voltage-sensitive sodium channels. We examined the properties and relative density of sodium channels in central neurons of susceptible and pyrethroid-resistant (Pyr-R) insects that were homozygous for the amino acid substitution V421M in the I-S6 transmembrane segment. Pyr-R sodium channels show approximately 21-fold lower sensitivity to the synthetic pyrethroid permethrin and a approximately 2-fold increased sensitivity to the alpha-scorpion toxin LqhalphaIT. Pyr-R channels also exhibit altered gating properties, including a approximately 13 mV positive shift in voltage-dependent activation and approximately 7 mV positive shift in steady-state inactivation. Consistent with these changes in gating behavior, Pyr-R central neurons are less excitable, as evidenced by an approximately 11 mV elevation of action potential threshold. No differences in sodium channel density are evident. The altered properties of Pyr-R sodium channels provide a plausible molecular basis for nervous system insensitivity associated with pyrethroid resistance.
Differential display polymerase chain reaction was used to identify genes regulated by the mood-stabilizing drug valproate (VPA). Four differentially displayed valproate-regulated gene fragments were isolated in rat cerebral cortex after i.p. injection of sodium VPA (300 mg/kg) for 3 weeks, and their expression was confirmed by Northern and slot blot analysis in rat cerebral cortex and C6 glioma cells. Sequencing analysis revealed three previously unidentified cDNA fragments in addition to a sequence with 100% homology with a molecular chaperone, 78-kDa glucose-regulated protein (GRP78). VPA treatment did not increase mRNA expression of 70-kDa heat shock protein, which is a related stress-induced molecular chaperone protein. All four candidate genes, including GRP78, showed similar VPA concentration-dependent increases in mRNA abundance. Another commonly prescribed mood-stabilizing anticonvulsant, carbamazepine, also increased GRP78 mRNA expression in C6 glioma cells, whereas lithium had no effect at doses up to 2 mM. Immunoblotting revealed that GRP78 protein levels were also increased in C6 glioma cells treated with VPA under the same conditions. Nuclear runoff analysis showed that VPA increased GRP78 gene transcription. Because GRP78 possesses molecular chaperone activity, binds Ca2+ in the endoplasmic reticulum, and protects cells from the deleterious effects of damaged proteins, the present findings suggest that VPA (and possibly carbamazepine) treatment may target one or more of these processes.
Depression has been associated with both suppression and enhancement of various aspects of immune functioning. It was of interest to determine whether cytokine alterations associated with depression, including interleukin-1 (IL-1beta) and interleukin-2 (IL-2), were related to the neurovegetative symptom profile or to the chronicity of the illness. Circulating ACTH, cortisol, norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine levels, and production of IL-1beta and IL-2 from mitogen-stimulated lymphocytes were assessed in classical major depression, atypical depression (ie, with reversed neurovegetative features), and dysthymia (chronic depression without comorbid major depression) with either typical or atypical profiles, as well as nondepressed control subjects. Among atypical depressives, plasma ACTH levels were elevated while cortisol was reduced relative to controls. Irrespective of neurovegetative profile, IL-1beta production was increased in dysthymic patients, and was highly correlated with age-of-onset and duration of illness. In contrast, IL-2 production was reduced in each of the groups, although less so among atypical major depressives. Moreover, IL-2 production in the depressive groups was directly related to plasma NE levels. While neither depressed mood per se nor neurovegetative features accounted for this effect, it seemed likely that chronicity of illness or age-of-onset were associated with cytokine alterations. Given that circulating cytokines influence neuroendocrine functioning, and may affect neurovegetative features, a role for interleukins may exist with respect to the pathophysiology of certain subtypes of depression.

In the study of behavioral development both causal and functional approaches have been used, and they often overlap. The concept of ontogenetic adaptations suggests that each developmental phase involves unique adaptations to the environment of the developing animal. The functional concept of optimal outbreeding has led to further experimental evidence and theoretical models concerning the role of sexual imprinting in the evolutionary process of sexual selection. From a causal perspective it has been proposed that behavioral ontogeny involves the development of various kinds of perceptual, motor, and central mechanisms and the formation of connections among them. This framework has been tested for a number of complex behavior systems such as hunger and dustbathing. Imprinting is often seen as a model system for behavioral development in general. Recent advances in imprinting research have been the result of an interdisciplinary effort involving ethology, neuroscience, and experimental psychology, with a continual interplay between these approaches. The imprinting results are consistent with Lorenz' early intuitive suggestions and are also reflected in the architecture of recent neural net models.

Using a method and model developed in our laboratory to quantitatively study brain phospholipid metabolism, in vivo rates of incorporation and turnover of docosahexaenoic acid in brain phospholipids were measured in awake rats. The results suggest that docosahexaenoate incorporation and turnover in brain phospholipids are more rapid than previously assumed and that this rapid turnover dilutes tracer specific activity in brain docoshexaenoyl-CoA pool due to release and recycling of unlabeled fatty acid from phospholipid metabolism. Fractional turnover rates for docosahexaenoate within phosphatidylinositol, choline glycerophospholipids, ethanolamine glycerophospholipids and phosphatidylserine were 17.7, 3.1, 1.2, and 0.2 %.h(-1), respectively. Chronic lithium treatment, at a brain level considered to be therapeutic in humans (0.6 micromol.g(-1)), had no effect on turnover of docosahexaenoic acid in individual brain phospholipids. Consistent with previous studies from our laboratory that chronic lithium decreased the turnover of arachidonic acid within brain phospholipids by up to 80% and attenuated brain phospholipase A2 activity, the lack of effect of lithium on docosahexaenoate recycling and turnover suggests that a target for lithium's action is an arachidonic acid-selective phospholipase A2.
We examined the effect of tricyclic antidepressants on intracellular Ca2+ signalling in cultured cells of neuronal and glial origin. High concentrations of amitriptyline and desipramine increased the intracellular Ca2+ in PC-12 and U-87 MG cells. In PC-12 cells amitriptyline induced a biphasic rise in intracellular Ca2+. A rapid and transient increase due to release of Ca2+ from intracellular pools was followed by sustained elevation of [Ca2+]i due to influx from the extracellular medium. Desipramine evoked the Ca2+ release from intracellular pools but the influx of Ca2+ was not elicited. In U-87 MG cells both the drugs induced Ca2+ release from intracellular pools, however amitriptyline also induced a transient influx of Ca2+. To delineate the mechanisms involved in mobilization of Ca2+ by the drugs pharmacological agents that inhibit IP3 formation in cells and Ca2+ channel blockers were used and changes in [Ca2+]i and membrane potential were monitored. The results show that both the drugs release Ca2+ from IP3 sensitive pools by activation of phospholipase C and amitriptyline in addition activates a non specific cation channel in the plasma membrane of cells. Paradoxically at relatively lower concentrations (&lt; 50 microM) amitriptyline and desipramine inhibited the Ca2+ signal induced by adenosine triphosphate in both the cell types. Our data demonstrate that tricyclic antidepressants at different doses may have inhibitory or stimulatory effects on cellular Ca2+ signalling.
In this study, we analyzed how distinct glycolysis inhibitors influenced the redox status of retinal cells, used as a neuronal model. Three different approaches were used to inhibit glycolysis: the cells were submitted to iodoacetic acid (IAA), an inhibitor of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, to 2-deoxy-glucose (DG) in glucose-free medium, which was used as a substitute of glucose, or in the absence of glucose. The redox status of the cells was evaluated by determining the reduction of MTT (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide). By the analysis of dose-response curves of MTT reduction, IAA showed values of IC50 = 7.02 x 10(-5) M, whereas DG showed values of IC50 = 7.42 x 10(-4) M. Upon 30 min-incubation, glucose deprivation, per se, did not significantly affect MTT reduction. We also evaluated the reduction of MTT as an indicator of cell injury by exposing the cells to 100 microM glutamate during the decrement of glycolysis function. In the presence of glutamate, for 2 h, there was a decrease in MTT reduction, which was potentiated in the presence of DG (10-20% decrease), in the presence of IAA (about 30% decrease) or in glucose-free medium (about 30% decrease). Major changes observed by the MTT assay, upon exposure to glutamate, indicative of changes in the redox status of retinal cells, were concomitant with variations in intracellular ATP. Under glucose deprivation, endogenous ATP decreased significantly from 38.9+/-4.4 to 13.3+/-0.7 nmol/mg protein after exposure to 100 microM glutamate. The results support a different vulnerability of retinal cells after being exposed to distinct forms of glycolysis inhibition.
Advances in imageology have improved the diagnostic yield of cerebral venous/sinus thrombosis (CVT). However, its management remains a challenge. The present study was carried out to study the role of heparin in CVT. Therapeutic outcome of 150 patients of puerperal CVT manifesting within one month of delivery or abortion, was analyzed. The diagnosis was supported by cranial computed tomography and/or angiography whenever required. Seventy three patients, 46 with non-haemorrhagic infarction and 27 with haemorrhagic infarction, received 2500 units of subcutaneous heparin, three times a day within 24 hours of hospitalization till 30th post partum day or symptomatic relief. Seventy seven patients during the same period, 50 with non-haemorrhagic infarction and 27 with haemorrhagic infarction, who did not receive heparin formed the control group. Repeat CT scans were done when indicated. Among the heparin group, 34 patients made full recovery. There were eight deaths, all among the patients with haemorrhagic lesion. In control group, only 14 patients recovered completely (P=&lt;0.001) and 18 died (P=&lt;0.001). There were no adverse effects of heparin. Low dose heparin is safe and efficacious in puerperal CVT, even in patients with haemorrhagic infarction.
Head injury is associated with psychological sequelae which impair the patient's psychosocial functioning. Information processing, attention and memory deficits are seen in head injuries of all severity. We attempted to improve deficits of focused, sustained and divided attention. The principle of overlapping sources of attention resource pools was utilised in devising the remediation programme. Tasks used simple inexpensive materials. Four head injured young adult males with post concussion syndrome underwent the retraining program for one month. The patients had deficits of focused, sustained and divided attention parallel processing, serial processing, visual scanning, verbal learning and memory and working memory. After the retraining programme the deficits of attention improved in the four patients. Serial processing improved in two patients. Parallel processing and neuropsychological deficits did not improve in any patient. The symptom intensity reduced markedly and behavioural functioning improved in three of the four patients. The results supported an association between improving attention and reduction of symptom intensity. Attention remediation shows promise as a cost effective, time efficient and simple technique to improve the psychological and psychosocial functioning of the head injured patient.
The advancements in the field of science in the past fifty years have highlighted the need to integrate all fields of human endeavours and have emphasised interdependency of various disciplines. The separation of humanities, therefore, from neurosciences is a preposterous practical joke on all thinking men. With the human genome project on the anvil, biotechnology is making significant headway holding out promise for organ regeneration. Macro evolution is over, but micro-evolution continues in the brain. Neural Darwinism thus, continues to evolve as long as individual remains conscious and has memory. In the milieu of widely varying internal physiological mechanisms and external stimuli, an alternative theory to preprogrammed directionalism is proposed by three mechanisms namely developmental variation and selection, experiential selections and reentrant signalling. Reentrant signalling reorients and correlates the external inputs leading to psychic development preceding the development of consciousness. The cholinergic and aminergic neuro-modelling systems are well suited to serve as value systems. The main achievement of consciousness is to bring together the many categorizations involved in perceptions into a SCENE. Another part of evolution involved capacity of reentrant signalling to be guided by a value system where it is provided with a lot of choices. With 10(13) neurons and 10(16) connections, freedom of choice may manifest into a 'Buddha' or a 'Hitler'. As part of the evolutionary process, it was interesting how capacity to categorize the need to worship by referring to environment outside evolved into a search within our minds. As the next stage of evolution, neuroscience may, thus, serve as the next gateway to understanding the mind and soul.
Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD) is an inherited disorder characterized by the clinical triad of life-threatening progressive cardiomyopathy with conduction defect, early onset joint contractures and slow progressive muscle weakness in scapulo-humero-peroneal distribution. Cardiomyopathy in EDMD is usually noticed after the second to third decade of life, and becomes worse with age. Permanent auricular paralysis occurs frequently and is considered a hallmark of EDMD cardiomyopathy. Cardiac involvement may also occur in female carriers. In autopsy cases, enlargement of the atria with remarkable thinning have been observed. Identification of the gene responsible for X-linked EDMD (X-EDMD) and the protein product, emerin, provided a diagnostic clue for EDMD. Since the emerin gene is rather small, the entire sequence can easily be surveyed. Western blot and immunohistochemistry show an absence of emerin in muscle and skin tissues and oral exfoliating cells in male patients with X-EDMD, and a reduction of the protein content with a mosaic expression pattern in female carriers. Emerin anchors at the inner nuclear membrane of cardiac, skeletal and smooth muscles, and interacts with lamins and nucleoplasm, thereby possibly maintaining the mechanical stability of the nuclear membrane of muscle cells that shows rigorous contraction/relaxation. More recently, positive emerin staining at the cardiac demosomes and fasciae adherentes was noticed in addition to the specific localization at the inner nuclear membrane. This localization implies a physiological role for the protein in cardiac conduction.
During synaptic development, proteins aggregate at specialized pre- and postsynaptic structures. Mechanisms that mediate protein clustering at these sites remain unknown. To investigate this process, we analyzed synaptic targeting of a postsynaptic density protein, PSD-95, by expressing green fluorescent protein- (GFP-) tagged PSD-95 in cultured hippocampal neurons. We find that postsynaptic clustering relies on three elements of PSD-95: N-terminal palmitoylation, the first two PDZ domains, and a C-terminal targeting motif. In contrast, disruptions of PDZ3, SH3, or guanylate kinase (GK) domains do not affect synaptic targeting. Palmitoylation is sufficient to target the diffusely expressed SAP-97 to synapses, and palmitoylation cannot be replaced with alternative membrane association motifs, suggesting that a specialized synaptic lipid environment mediates postsynaptic clustering. The requirements for PDZ domains and a C-terminal domain of PSD-95 indicate that protein-protein interactions cooperate with lipid interactions in synaptic targeting.
Whole-cell voltage clamp recordings have been used to identify and characterise inward currents mediated by native kainate receptors in rat cultured cerebellar granule cells. While the selective AMPA receptor antagonist GYKI 53655 (50 microM) completely abolished inward currents evoked by AMPA (10-100 microM) in the presence of cyclothiazide (100 microM), kainate evoked currents in cells pretreated with concanavalin A (Con A) always showed a component (35-140 pA, n = 13) resistant to blockade. The majority (73+/-7%, n = 5) of GYKI 53655-resistant kainate-evoked inward currents remained in the presence of 100 microM AMPA. However, these currents were reversibly blocked by the competitive AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist NBQX (100 microM). (2S, 4R)-4-methylglutamate (SYM 2081, 10 microM) evoked inward currents in Con A treated cells (15-60 pA, n = 7), which were resistant to complete blockade by GYKI 53655 (50 microM) but antagonised by NBQX (100 microM). Kainate-evoked responses in the presence of GYKI 53655 (50 microM) had linear or slightly outwardly rectifying current-voltage (I-V) relationships in all cells examined (n = 5) and were resistant to blockade by Joro spider toxin (JsTx, 1 microM; n = 5). These results provide evidence that rat cultured cerebellar granule cells express functional kainate receptors made up of subunits which are edited at the Q/R site, and that SYM 2081 is an agonist at these native kainate receptors with a greater selectivity than kainate itself.
Abnormal processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP), in particular the generation of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. This study examined the consequences of deleting the APP gene on hippocampal synaptic plasticity, and upon the biophysical properties of morphologically identified neurones in APP-null mice. The hippocampus of APP-null mice had a characteristic increase in gliosis throughout the CA1 region and a disruption of staining for the dendritic marker MAP2 and the presynaptic marker synaptophysin. The disruption of MAP2 staining was associated with a significant reduction in overall dendritic length and projection depth of biocytin labeled CA1 neurones. In two groups of APP-null mice that were examined at 8-12 months, and 20-24 months of age, there was an impairment in the formation of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 region compared to isogenic age matched controls. This LTP deficit was not associated with an alteration in the amplitude of EPSPs at low stimulus frequencies (0.033 Hz) or facilitation during a 100 Hz stimulus train, but was associated with a reduction in post-tetanic potentiation. Paired-pulse depression of GABA-mediated inhibitory post-synaptic currents was also attenuated in APP-null mice. These data demonstrate that the impaired synaptic plasticity in APP deficient mice is associated with abnormal neuronal morphology and synaptic function within the hippocampus.
The substituted (S)-3-phenylpiperidine (-)-OSU6162 belongs to a novel class of functional modulators of dopaminergic systems. In vivo, (-)-OSU6162 has a unique stabilising profile on dopaminergic functions. In vitro this compound exhibits low affinity for the dopamine D2 receptor, but due to its similarity to neuroleptics on brain dopaminergic neurochemistry and different postsynaptic effects it has been characterised as a preferential dopamine autoreceptor antagonist. To further clarify the effects of (-)-OSU6162 on the postjunctional nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, dopamine receptor binding was measured in rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) by positron emission tomography (PET) using the D1 and D2 dopamine receptor radioligands [11C]SCH23390 and [11C]raclopride respectively, before and during continuous intravenous infusions of(-)-OSU6162. Additionally, the test-retest variability of sequential [11C]SCH23390 scans was estimated. Following the administration of (-)-OSU6162, [11C]raclopride binding in striatum was dose-dependently decreased with a 76% reduction occurring after 3.0 mg/kg per h continuous infusion. Whereas (-)-OSU6162 in the lower doses had no effect on [11C]SCH23390 binding, the highest dose, 3.0 mg/kg per h, increased [11C]SCH23390 binding, which may indicate a potentiating effect on D1 dopamine receptor mediated functions. Thus, in contrast to the conditions in vitro, (-)-OSU6162 produces a high displacement of raclopride from D2 receptors in vivo.
In a series of experiments, we examined whether auditory attention shifts in the direction of an upcoming saccade, as recently reported for visual attention. Normal listeners made speeded discriminations for the elevation (up versus down) of abrupt sounds, regardless of their laterality. Each sound was presented around the time that a lateral saccade was made. Auditory elevation discriminations were reliably faster when the saccade was made towards the side of the auditory probe rather than away. Furthermore, an auditory probe on one side speeded up centrally-cued saccades made in that direction, although sounds did not influence saccades to peripheral visual events. The latter visual events were insufficient to affect hearing unless a saccade was made towards them. A further study showed that fixating towards or away from sounds, rather than saccading, could also affect elevation judgements, with poorer performance when fixating away. However, the influence of an upcoming saccade upon hearing could not be reduced to this fixation effect, since the saccade influence was found even for sounds which terminated before any shift in fixation began. Taken together, our results imply that the direction of an upcoming saccade can affect hearing, as can eye-position.
This experiment examined the participation of the auditory cortex of the temporal lobe in the perception and retention of rhythmic patterns. Four patient groups were tested on a paradigm contrasting reproduction of auditory and visual rhythms: those with right or left anterior temporal lobe removals which included Heschl's gyrus (HG), the region of primary auditory cortex (RT-A and LT-A); and patients with right or left anterior temporal lobe removals which did not include HG (RT-a and LT-a). Estimation of lesion extent in HG using an MRI-based probabilistic map indicated that, in the majority of subjects, the lesion was confined to the anterior secondary auditory cortex located on the anterior-lateral extent of HG. On the rhythm reproduction task, RT-A patients were impaired in retention of auditory but not visual rhythms, particularly when accurate reproduction of stimulus durations was required. In contrast, LT-A patients as well as both RT-a and LT-a patients were relatively unimpaired on this task. None of the patient groups was impaired in the ability to make an adequate motor response. Further, they were unimpaired when using a dichotomous response mode, indicating that they were able to adequately differentiate the stimulus durations and, when given an alternative method of encoding, to retain them. Taken together, these results point to a specific role for the right anterior secondary auditory cortex in the retention of a precise analogue representation of auditory tonal patterns.
We report two positron emission tomography (PET) studies of cerebral activation during picture and word matching tasks, in which we compared directly the processing of stimuli belonging to different semantic categories (animate and inanimate) in the visual (pictures) and verbal (words) modality. In the first experiment, brain activation was measured in eleven healthy adults during a same/different matching task for textures, meaningless shapes and pictures of animals and artefacts (tools). Activations for meaningless shapes when compared to visual texture discrimination were localized in the left occipital and inferior temporal cortex. Animal picture identification, either in the comparison with meaningless shapes and in the direct comparison with non-living pictures, involved primarily activation of occipital regions, namely the lingual gyrus bilaterally and the left fusiform gyrus. For artefact picture identification, in the same comparison with meaningless shape-baseline and in the direct comparison with living pictures, all activations were left hemispheric, through the dorsolateral frontal (Ba 44/6 and 45) and temporal (Ba 21, 20) cortex. In the second experiment, brain activation was measured in eight healthy adults during a same/different matching task for visually presented words referring to animals and manipulable objects (tools); the baseline was a pseudoword discrimination task. When compared with the tool condition, the animal condition activated posterior left hemispheric areas, namely the fusiform (Ba 37) and the inferior occipital gyrus (Ba 18). The right superior parietal lobule (Ba 7) and the left thalamus were also activated. The reverse comparison (tools vs animals) showed left hemispheric activations in the middle temporal gyrus (Ba 21) and precuneus (Ba 7), as well as bilateral activation in the occipital regions. These results are compatible with different brain networks subserving the identification of living and non-living entities; in particular, they indicate a crucial role of the left fusiform gyrus in the processing of animate entities and of the left middle temporal gyrus for tools, both from words and pictures. The activation of other areas, such as the dorsolateral frontal cortex, appears to be specific for the semantic access of tools only from pictures.
We recently reported that clozapine behaves as a partial agonist at the cloned human m4 muscarinic receptor subtype. In the present study, we investigated whether the drug could elicit similar effects at the cloned human m1, m2, and m3 muscarinic receptor subtypes expressed in the Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. Clozapine elicited a concentration-dependent stimulation of [3H]inositol phosphates accumulation in CHO cells expressing either the m1 or the m3 receptor subtype. Moreover, clozapine inhibited forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation and enhanced [35S] GTP gamma S binding to membrane G proteins in CHO cells expressing the m2 receptor. These agonist effects of clozapine were antagonized by atropine. The intrinsic activity of clozapine was lower than that of the full cholinergic agonist carbachol, and, when the compounds were combined, clozapine potently reduced the receptor responses to carbachol. These data indicate that clozapine behaves as a partial agonist at different muscarinic receptor subtypes and may provide new hints for understanding the receptor mechanisms underlying the antipsychotic efficacy of the drug.
The benzodiazepines flunitrazepam, diazepam, and Ro 15-1788 and the beta-carboline DMCM bind with equivalent affinity to the benzodiazepine binding site of GABAA receptors containing different alpha subunits (i.e., alpha 1, alpha 2, alpha 3, or alpha 5); whereas, the triazolopyridazine CL 218,872 and imidazopyridine zolpidem have higher affinity for alpha 1 subunit-containing GABAA receptors. In the present study, the in vivo binding of [3H]Ro 15-1788 in mouse cerebellum and spinal cord was used to establish the occupancy of the benzodiazepine binding site of GABAA receptors containing primarily alpha 1 and alpha 2/alpha 3 subunits, respectively. Thus, the nonselective compounds flunitrazepam, diazepam, and DMCM all produced a similar inhibition of binding in cerebellum and spinal cord (respective ID50 values of 0.2 to 0.3 mg/kg, 2 mg/kg, and 10 mg/kg i.p.); whereas, the alpha 1 selective compounds CL 218,872 and zolpidem were more potent at inhibiting [3H]Ro 15-1788 binding in the cerebellum (ID50 values 4.5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg i.p.) compared to the spinal cord (ID50 values 12 mg/kg and &gt; 30 mg/kg i.p.). Thus, the reduction of in vivo f[3H]Ro 15-1788 binding in tissues containing alpha 1 and alpha 2/alpha 3 receptor populations reflects the in vitro affinities of subtype selective compounds and should help to interpret the behavioral profile of such compounds.

One of the original views about motor convulsions with bilateral synchronous EEG discharges was that ascending projections from deep midline brainstem neurons subserve discharge synchronisation. We examined this in kainic acid- and picrotoxin-induced seizures using the distribution of Fos protein expression in the brainstem as a possible marker of brainstem neuronal activation. Before seizure, Fos was present in parabrachial nucleus, central grey and A1/C1 cell groups and, to a lesser extent, in A2/C2 cell groups and A6 neurons. Seizure correlated with further induction of Fos in these cell groups as well as in A6 neurons. There was no Fos in other cell groups with bilateral cerebro-cortical projections nor in cell groups likely to participate in the expression of seizures, reflecting a limitation of the Fos method. This study provides evidence of locus coeruleus involvement in these two models of seizure.
Long-term exposure to the psychotomimetic drug phencyclidine produces prefrontal cortical cognitive and dopaminergic dysfunction in rats and monkeys, effects possibly relevant to the frontal cortical impairments of schizophrenia. In the present study, the effects of subchronic phencyclidine administration (0.3 mg/kg twice-daily for 14 days) on monoamine systems in the monkey brain were examined and related to cognitive performance on an object retrieval/detour task, which has been linked with frontostriatal function. Long-term (14 days) administration of phencyclidine resulted in a marked and persistent reduction in dopamine utilization in the frontal cortex. Moreover, the degree of cognitive impairment in phencyclidine-treated monkeys correlated significantly with the magnitude of dopaminergic inhibition within the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and prelimbic cortex. No specific correlation was measured for dopamine utilization in other cortical regions or for indices of serotonin transmission in any brain region. These data show that repeated exposure to phencyclidine reduces prefrontal cortical dopamine transmission, and this inhibition of dopaminergic function is associated with performance impairments on a task sensitive to frontostriatal cognitive dysfunction. Thus, the cognitive deficits of phencyclidine-treated monkeys, as in schizophrenia, appear to be mediated, in part, by reduced dopaminergic function in specific subregions of the frontal cortex.
Trophic factor gene therapy may provide a rational treatment strategy for neurodegenerative disease. Recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors, incorporating a neuron-specific promoter driving bicistronic expression of green fluorescent protein and either nerve growth factor or brain-derived neurotrophic factor, transduced 10,000-15,000 neurons in the medial septum for periods of at least six months. Both cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons expressed green fluorescent protein. Nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor vectors produced up to 50% increases in immunohistochemical detection of the acetylcholine-synthesizing enzyme in septal neurons ipsilateral to the injection. Increased levels of this enzyme, choline acetyltransferase, persisted for six months with the brain-derived neurotrophic factor vector. The nerve growth factor vector increased Trk receptor immunoreactivity in a volume of brain exceeding that of the transduced cells. Counterstaining for the neuronal marker, NeuN, or Nissl substance did not reveal any vector toxicity at any time-point. It therefore appears that the lasting effects of vector-mediated trophic factor gene transfer will offer a new approach for modulating septal cholinergic transmission and Trk receptor activity.
Electromyograms were recorded by surface electrodes from the mm. biceps brachii (caput longum et breve), brachioradialis and triceps brachii (caput longum) in 10 healthy human subjects during slow linear movements in the elbow joint against a weak extending torque. The test movements were carried out under visual control through combining on a monitor screen a signal from a joint angle sensor with an appropriate command generated by a computer. The movements were fulfilled against a weak constant extending torque (0.5-2.5 Nm) and the extensor muscles were inactive. Surface electromyograms were full-wave rectified, filtered and averaged within sets of 10 identical tests. For the test movements in the range from 20 degrees to 100 degrees (0 degrees corresponds to a completely extended joint in these designations) the dynamic components of the efferent commands to actively contracted muscles frequently had a well-expressed monotonous increase. The electromyography intensity during movement quite often increased exponentially in all three investigated flexors. At the same time, the averaged electromyograms in one or two muscles could contain non-monotonous oscillations, thus showing a well-expressed decrease in the intensity of the efferent inflow within a middle range of a movement phase. The non-monotonous oscillations could occur in some subjects under minimal loads (0.5-0.75 Nm); they usually appeared initially only in one muscle, whereas the frequency of their occurrence was not high. The probability of finding the non-monotonous oscillations in the electromyograms from the muscles under study increased with heightening the extending load. Under the loads of 2.0-2.5 Nm this type of reaction could be found in almost half of all records (for the three muscles in each of the 10 subjects under testing). The presence of noticeable non-monotonous components in the electromyograms of the elbow flexors during their contraction is probably connected to their biomechanical arrangement within the joint. It is known that the arms of the forces generated by elbow flexors are maximal in the middle range of joint angles and decrease with a change in angle in both directions. Thus, we can suppose that non-monotonous decrement components in the electromyograms of the elbow flexors are presumably connected with an obvious necessity for a subject to decrease the excitatory efferent inflow to the muscles in the middle range of the joint angles. The pattern of electromyograms in the flexors acting around the joint was also dependent on a redistribution of activity between agonists. In the subjects showing stable non-monotonous components on the averaged electromyogram records in two agonists, a redistribution of the activity between these muscles has been demonstrated when phases of the electromyogram diminishing in one of them coincided with the appropriate increments in the other.
Direct injections into the cerebroventricles have been extensively utilized in neurophysiological studies. Mapping the distribution of injectate after intracerebroventricular injection has been made only by post mortem analysis, and the dynamic distribution of injectate within the brain has not been well characterized. In this report, we apply contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging to study the pharmacokinetics and extent of non-ionic gadodiamide transport into brain tissue in vivo after intracerebroventricular administration. The results indicate that intracerebroventricular injectate travels quickly throughout the ventricular system from the lateral ventricular site of injection to the fourth ventricle and foramina of Luschka and Magendie within 2 min. After this, the signal intensity begins to increase in the periventricular and paraventricular brain parenchyma. Contrast enhancement is visible 2 mm into the brain tissue from the ventricles. Quantitative analysis of the data shows that the transport of gadodiamide across the ependymal layer that lines the cerebrospinal fluid space characterized a rate constant of 0.066+/-0.017 min(-1). These results provide a better understanding of chemical transport and diffusion following direct injection into the cerebroventricles. They provide information on the in vivo dynamics of injectate after intracerebroventricular administration, and show that contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging may be used to more precisely define the target sites of chemicals after intracerebroventricular administration into the brain.
The sulphydryl agent, cysteamine, accelerates the ageing-related accumulation of peroxidase-positive (iron-rich) cytoplasmic inclusions in rat subcortical astroglia and induces their appearance in primary neuroglial cultures. In the present study, infusion of cysteamine into the lateral ventricle of young, adult rats (1 mg/day for three weeks followed by a one-month drug &quot;washout&quot; period) significantly increased numbers of peroxidase-positive astrocytic granules in the stratum oriens of the CA1 hippocampus relative to saline-infused controls. In contrast to the gliopathic changes, no evidence of neuronal or myelin damage was observed in the cysteamine-exposed rats. The cysteamine-treated animals exhibited significant impairment in spatial learning as determined using a three-panel runway task. The working memory deficits were more robust at the end of the drug washout period than immediately following cessation of the cysteamine infusion. Thus, the cysteamine-related memory deficits are of long duration and are not due to any acute neuroactive properties of the drug itself. Using hippocampal slices prepared after the drug washout period, we observed attenuated paired-pulse depression, with no significant effects on basal excitatory synaptic transmission or induction of long-term potentiation, in the cysteamine-infused animals relative to controls. We propose that, in cysteamine-treated rats and in the course of normal ageing, hippocampal dysfunction and associated cognitive deficits may be secondary to fundamental pathological processes originating within the astroglial compartment.
Prolonged constant light exposure causes disruptions in circadian rhythms, resulting in splitting of circadian activity rhythms in hamsters and arrhythmicity in rats. Hamsters with lesions of the thalamic intergeniculate leaflet do not exhibit constant light-induced disruptions in rhythmicity. We have shown that circadian rhythms of rats with monosodium glutamate-induced neurotoxic damage to visual pathways persist under constant light, and hypothesized that monosodium glutamate damaged the retinogeniculate pathway, thus preventing constant light-induced arrhythmicity. The present study demonstrates, however, that the intergeniculate leaflet does not mediate these effects in rats. Rats with bilateral electrolytic intergeniculate leaflet lesions showed the same rate of disruption of circadian temperature rhythms as did sham-operated animals, housed under constant light. We also show that, unlike intergeniculate leaflet-lesioned rats, rats treated neonatally with monosodium glutamate exhibit neuropeptide Y fiber staining in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, indicating that the geniculohypothalamic tract is functionally intact following monosodium glutamate treatment. Taken together, these data demonstrate that the disruption of circadian rhythms during constant light exposure is not mediated directly via the geniculohypothalamic tract in rats. Whether this disruption in rhythmicity results from effects of constant light exposure on the circadian pacemaker, or is a direct effect of light on body temperature, is unknown. Retinal or collicular damage in monosodium glutamate-treated rats may render these animals insensitive to the disruptive effects of constant light.
The effect of the novel GABAc receptor antagonist (1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridine-4-yl)methyl-phosphinic acid (TPMPA) on synaptic transmission and GABA-mediated responses was investigated with electrophysiological recordings from the in vitro spinal cord preparation of the neonatal rat. Bath-applied TPMPA (10 microM) had no effect on spinal reflexes evoked by dorsal root stimulation, on ventral root polarization level or amplitude of ventral root depolarizations induced by exogenously applied GABA (0.5 mM). TPMPA significantly attenuated the depressant action of GABA on spinal reflexes without changing responses induced by the GABA(A) receptor agonist isoguvacine (50 microM) or the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen (0.5-2 microM). Following block of GABA(A) receptors by bicuculline (20 microM) and of glycine receptors by strychnine (1 microM), regular bursting activity recorded from ventral roots developed spontaneously and persisted unchanged for many hours. This bursting pattern, which is generated at the level of the interneuronal network, was significantly slowed down by TPMPA, which also increased the duration of individual bursts and the number of intraburst oscillations. These results suggest that in the neonatal rat spinal cord some functional GABAc receptors exist: their role was clearly unmasked following pharmacological block of GABA(A) (and glycine) receptors. Under these conditions GABAc receptors appeared to contribute to the excitation of spinal interneurons supporting rhythmic bursting activity.
Multiple-site optical recording of transmembrane potential changes with a voltage-sensitive dye was used to reveal the functional expression and developmental changes of the postsynaptic potentials in the early embryonic chick superior cervical ganglion. The ganglia were isolated from five- to 12-day-old chick embryos with preganglionic nerve fibres (vertebral and/or cervical carotic nerves) attached. The preparations were stained with a voltage-sensitive merocyanine-rhodanine dye (NK2761). Voltage-related optical (absorbance) changes were recorded simultaneously from 127 contiguous loci in the preparation, using a 12 x 12-element photodiode array. Optical changes having two components were evoked by preganglionic nerve stimulation. One component was the fast spike-like signal and another the delayed slow signal. The amplitude of the slow signal was decreased by repetitive stimulation, reduced by low external calcium ion concentrations and eliminated in the presence of manganese or cadmium ions. The slow signals were also eliminated in the presence of D-tubocurarine. Accordingly, we concluded that the slow signal corresponds to cholinergic excitatory postsynaptic potentials. In the five- and six-day-old superior cervical ganglia, only the fast optical signals (referred to as the action potentials) were recorded. Slow optical signals (referred to as the excitatory postsynaptic potentials) were detected from preparations older than seven days. The amplitude of the slow optical signal gradually increased, together with an expansion of the response area, as the developmental stage proceeded from seven to 10 days. To compare the distribution patterns of the neural responses evoked by stimuli applied to the cervical carotic and vertebral nerves, we have mapped and imaged the spatial patterning of the synaptic responses. In the maps, the positions of the peak size regions of the slow signals were assessed, and we found that there were differences in the location of these areas for the cervical carotic vs vertebral nerves. From these experimental results, we conclude that synaptic function within the chick superior cervical ganglion is initiated at the seven-day-old embryonic stage, and reaches a maximum level at 10 days. Synaptic transmission at these stages is mediated solely by nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The spatial mapping of the synaptic responses reveals that the neural populations related synaptically to the cervical carotic and vertebral nerves are located separately within the ganglion, even at an early developmental stage.
The present paper using microiontophoresis analysis describes transmitters and their receptor subtypes used in retinotectal and isthmotectal transmission, and suggests several modes converging retinotectal and isthmotectal afferents on tectal neurons in toads (Bufo bufo gargarizans). Neuronal responses of tectal cells were extracellularly recorded to both visual stimulation and electrical stimulation of the nucleus isthmi, and effects of glutamatergic, cholinergic, GABAergic and glycinergic antagonists on these responses examined. Visual responses in 80% of tectal cells were reversibly blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist 3-Rs-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl-propyl-1-phosphonic acid, and those of the remaining 20% of cells by the muscarinic antagonist atropine, suggesting that there may be at least two kinds of retinotectal synapse that use glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, and acetylcholine and muscarinic receptors, respectively. Electrical stimulation of the nucleus isthmi elicited excitatory responses in 67% of tectal cells, excitatory-inhibitory responses in 16% of cells, and inhibitory responses in 17% of cells examined. The excitatory responses were reversibly abolished by atropine, but not affected by either 3-Rs-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl-propyl-1-phosphonic acid or the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, whereas the inhibitory responses were released by the GABA receptor A antagonist bicuculline, but not influenced by the GABA receptor B antagonist 2-hydroxysaclofen and glycinergic antagonist strychnine. Excitatory and inhibitory components in the excitatory-inhibitory responses were blocked by atropine and bicuculline, respectively. It appears that glutamatergic and cholinergic afferents from the retina, and cholinergic and GABAergic afferents from the nucleus isthmi may converge on tectal neurons in at least five modes of synaptic connections, in agreement with the heterogeneous populations of tectal cells in amphibians.
The multiple effects of opiate alkaloids, important therapeutic drugs used for pain control, are mediated by the neuronal miro-opioid receptor. Among the side effects of these drugs is a profound impairment of gastrointestinal transit. Endomorphins are opioid peptides recently isolated from the nervous system, which have high affinity and selectivity for micro-opioid receptors. Since the miro-opioid receptor undergoes ligand-induced receptor endocytosis in an agonist-dependent manner, we compared the ability of endomorphin-1, endomorphin-2 and the micro-opioid receptor peptide agonist, [D-Ala2,MePhe4,Gly-ol5]-enkephalin (DAMGO), to induce receptor endocytosis in cells transfected with epitope-tagged micro-opioid receptor complementary DNA, and in myenteric neurons of the guinea-pig ileum, which naturally express this receptor. Immunohistochemistry with antibodies to the FLAG epitope or to the native receptor showed that the micro-opioid receptor was mainly located at the plasma membrane of unstimulated cells. Endomorphins and DAMGO induced micro-opioid receptor endocytosis into early endosomes, a process that was inhibited by naloxone. Quantification of surface receptors by flow cytometry indicated that endomorphins' and DAMGO stimulated endocytosis with similar time-course and potency. They inhibited with similar potency electrically induced cholinergic contractions in the longitudinal muscle-myenteric plexus preparation through an action antagonized by naloxone. The apparent affinity estimate of naloxone (pA2 approximately 8.4) is consistent with antagonism at the micro-opioid receptor in myenteric neurons. These results indicate that endomorphins directly activate the micro-opioid receptor in neurons, thus supporting the hypothesis that they are ligands mediating opioid actions in the nervous system. Endomorphin-induced micro-opioid receptor activation can be visualized by receptor endocytosis.
This study found that glutamate receptor antagonists block the excitatory effects of carbachol, a cholinergic agonist, on bursting neurons in the dorsal cochlear nucleus of rat brain slices. Among antagonists for glutamate receptor subtypes, those for non-N-methyl-D-aspartate ionotropic glutamate receptors were more potent than those for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. The glutamate receptor antagonists did not block the effects of carbachol on regularly firing neurons in the dorsal cochlear nucleus of the same slices. Antagonists for GABA or glycine receptors did not alter the effects of carbachol on bursting neurons. Effects of carbachol on bursting activity could be mimicked by application of glutamate or its agonist, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate, whose effects were not blocked by synaptic blockade. During carbachol application, increased release of glutamate and glycine from the dorsal cochlear nucleus part of brain slices was measured using high-performance liquid chromatography. Release of other amino acids showed no significant change. The results suggest that, in rat dorsal cochlear nucleus, cholinergic effects on regular and bursting spontaneous firing occur through different mechanisms. Cholinergic effects on regular neurons (which include fusiform cells) are direct, through muscarinic receptors. Cholinergic effects on bursting neurons (which include cartwheel cells) are indirect and involve glutamatergic neurotransmission, mostly via non-N-methyl-D-aspartate ionotropic receptors. The granule cell-parallel fiber pathway may be involved in this glutamatergic transmission.
Modulation of long-term plasticity by both the intrinsic activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors and dopamine released from the nigrostriatal pathway was investigated at excitatory striatal synapses. Intracellular recordings demonstrated that tetanic stimulation at an intensity equal to that used for synaptic sampling produced, on average, a slight long-term depression of excitatory postsynaptic potentials. The long-term response pattern was variable, however, with some cells showing potentiation and others no plasticity. Block of metabotropic glutamate receptors with 3-aminophosphonovaleric acid changed the pattern of responses, increasing the percentage of cells showing long-term potentiation. Similarly, 6-hydroxydopamine lesions to the substantia nigra changed the pattern of response to tetanic stimulation, increasing the expression of long-term potentiation. These data indicate that metabotropic glutamate receptor and dopamine receptor activation may function to regulate the expression of activity-dependent plasticity at corticostriatial synapses. Paired-pulse stimulation revealed that post-tetanic plasticity was negatively correlated with changes in paired-pulse plasticity in the control and 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned groups, suggesting that the expression of long-term plasticity has a presynaptic component at corticostriatal synapses.
The role of the D3 dopamine receptor in mediating the effects of clozapine was analysed using in situ hybridization histochemistry to measure the induction of the immediate early gene c-fos in different brain areas of mice lacking a functional D3 dopamine receptor compared to wild type mice. Clozapine treatment (15 and 30 mg/kg, s.c.) resulted in a dose-dependent pattern of induction of c-fos messenger RNA in the striatum, accumbens and septal area, with a non-significant increase in the prefrontal cortex. There was no difference detected in any of these areas in the level of induction between mice lacking the D3 receptor (D3-/-) and wild type (D3+/+). To determine which types of neurons in the striatum and accumbens displayed clozapine (30 mg/kg) induction of c-fos messenger RNA, a double-labeling experiment was performed using a radioactive c-fos messenger RNA probe and a digoxigenin-labeled enkephalin messenger RNA probe, the latter used as a marker of D2-containing neurons. Clozapine-induced c-fos was detected in 20% of enkephalin-positive striatal neurons and 15% of enkephalin-positive accumbens neurons, and in both areas in about 10% of enkephalin-negative, putative D1 neurons, in both D3+/+ and D3-/- mice. These results demonstrate that clozapine induction of c-fos messenger RNA is not dependent on the D3 dopamine receptor subtype in the striatum or nucleus accumbens.
The acute self-stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle was reported to induce the expression of c-Fos, the protein product of c-fos, an immediate early gene, in the central nervous system. In the present study, we examined regional changes in c-Fos expression in several reward-related areas of rat brain in response to short- and long-term exposure to self-stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle. Short-term one-hour stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle for one day after training, which evoked steady self-stimulation behavior, significantly increased the number of c-Fos-positive neurons bilaterally in all of 15 brain structures assayed, as compared to the non-stimulation control. Among them, structures showing a larger number of the stained neurons on the stimulated side were the anterior olfactory nucleus, amygdala, medial caudate-putamen complex, lateral septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminals, ventral pallidum, substantia innominata, lateral preoptic area, medial preoptic area, lateral hypothalamus rostral to the stimulating electrodes, and substantia nigra. Long-term stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle once daily for five successive days, which maintained consistently stable self-stimulation behavior, also increased the number of c-Fos-positive neurons in the aforementioned structures, as compared to the control. However, the long-term rewarding stimulation diminished the increased number of labeled neurons, as compared to the short-term rewarding stimulation. Seven areas, medial caudate-putamen complex, ventral pallidum, substantia innominata, lateral preoptic area, medial preoptic area, rostral lateral hypothalamus and substantia nigra, showed asymmetrical, ipsilateral predominance after the short- and long-term stimulation. However, the stained neuron count in those areas after the long-term stimulation was reduced to less than 50% of that found after the short-term stimulation with the exception of lateral preoptic area and rostral lateral hypothalamus. The results suggest that the development of desensitization of c-Fos response may differ among the reward-relevant brain regions as a consequence of repeated self-stimulation. They also indicate that a larger portion of neurons in the lateral preoptic area and rostral lateral hypothalamus may be implicated in both short- and long-term self-stimulations of the medial forebrain bundle.
In many neonatal mammals, including humans and rats, there is a developmental increase in the ventilatory response to elevated pCO2. This maturation of central respiratory chemoreception may result from maturation of intrinsic chemosensitivity of brainstem neurons. We have examined age-related changes in chemosensitivity of neurons from the rat medullary raphe, a putative site for central chemoreception, using perforated patch-clamp recordings in vitro. In brain slices from rats younger than 12 days old, firing rate increased in 3% of neurons and decreased in 17% of neurons in response to respiratory acidosis (n = 36). In contrast, in slices from rats 12 days and older, firing rate increased in 18% of neurons and decreased in 15% of neurons in response to the same stimulus (n = 40). A tissue culture preparation of medullary raphe neurons was used to examine changes in chemosensitivity with age from three to 74 days in vitro. In cultured neurons younger than 12 days in vitro, firing rate increased in 4% of neurons and decreased in 44% of neurons in response to respiratory acidosis (n = 54). In contrast, in neurons 12 days in vitro and older, firing rate increased in 30% of neurons and decreased in 24% of neurons in response to respiratory acidosis (n = 105). In both types of chemosensitive neuron (&quot;stimulated&quot; and &quot;inhibited&quot;), the magnitudes of the changes in firing rate were greater in older neurons than in young neurons. These results indicate that the incidence and the degree of chemosensitivity of medullary raphe neurons increase with age in brain slices and in culture. This age-related increase in cellular chemosensitivity may underlie the development of respiratory chemoreception in vivo. Delays in this maturation process may contribute to developmental abnormalities of breathing, such as sudden infant death syndrome.
The expression of four cadherins (N-cadherin, R-cadherin, cadherin-6B and cadherin-7) was mapped in the developing tectal system of the chicken embryo from four to 19 days of incubation. Each of the cadherins is expressed in a restricted fashion in specific tectal layers, with partial overlap between the cadherins. In some layers, subpopulations of neurons differentially express the cadherins, e.g., in the stratum griseum centrale. Double labeling demonstrates that many of the projection neurons in this layer co-express at least two cadherins. Fibers of the efferent (tectofugal) pathways originating in these neurons also differentially express the cadherins, most prominently at around 1 1 days of incubation. While the different subpopulations of cadherin-expressing projection neurons are dispersed and mixed within the tectum, their neurites sort out and fasciculate according to which cadherin they express, as they collect in the major output of the tectum, the brachium colliculi superioris. From here, cadherin-expressing fascicles follow separate paths to their respective target areas, some of which also express the respective cadherins, in a matching fashion. We propose that the preferentially homophilic binding of cadherins provides a potential adhesive basis for the sorting and selective fasciculation of specific subpopulations of neurites, similar to the well-established sorting and aggregation of cells expressing cadherins. The combinatorial expression of cadherins by the tectal projection neurons may contribute to the complexity and specificity of functional connections in this system.
Neurotransmitter secretion from the nerve terminal is mediated by the fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane. It is generally believed that neurotransmitter release in mature synapses is localized to the presynaptic nerve terminals. To probe the topology of neurotransmitter secretion along developing axons in culture, we recorded membrane currents from myocytes manipulated into contact with axons. At the early stages of growth, exocytotic events were detected along the axon as well as at the growth cone. At the later stages of growth, neurotransmitter secretion adopted the form of a smooth proximodistal gradient, with the highest level of activity at the growth cone region. Our results reveal the existence of a previously undetected early stage of axonal growth and suggest developmental regulation in the pattern of neurotransmitter secretion along the growing nerve processes.
Altering levels of serotonin in the primary somatosensory cortex during early postnatal life influences thalamocortical development. Recent in vivo experiments suggest that serotonin may have direct effects on the growth of thalamocortical axons, and the present study was undertaken to determine whether this amine influences process outgrowth from thalamic cells maintained in culture. Ventrobasal thalamic neurons were harvested from newborn rats and maintained in culture for eight days. At the end of this period, 0, 10, 25, 50 or 100 microM serotonin was added to the culture medium. After an additional six days, cultures were fixed and stained with neuron-specific enolase. Quantitative analysis of &gt;500 cells from each condition indicated that 25 microM serotonin, but not the other concentrations of this amine, significantly increased the length of the primary (longest) process growing out from the cell body (P &lt; 0.001), the total (summed) length of all processes (P &lt; 0.0001), total neurites per cell (P &lt; 0.05), number of branch points per cell (P &lt; 0.01) and branch points on the primary neurite (P &lt; 0.0005). These results demonstrate that exposing thalamic cells to serotonin increases process outgrowth from them in the absence of their cortical targets.
Now that spinal cord regeneration has been demonstrated in mammals [Bregman B. S. et al. (1995) Nature 378, 498-501; Cheng H. et al. (1996) Science 273, 510-513], we must examine the consequences and look for means of avoiding negative outcomes. The larval lamprey, which readily regenerates cut spinal axons, offers a model for this important next step. In the present study, one group of larval lampreys with spinal lesions was kept at room temperature during recovery. Another group was returned to their usual cold room temperature. A majority of animals kept at room temperature recovered full locomotor behavioral function, while a majority of those that recovered at a colder temperature exhibited dysfunctional locomotor behavior. The dysfunction most often consisted of segments rostral and caudal to the lesion site lacking the usual coordination and apparently interfering with each. In both groups, there was a close association between the presence of dysfunction and the quality of the intersegmental coordination as assessed in the isolated spinal cord preparation. These results suggest that a relatively minor difference in conditions under which an animal recovers may drastically alter the likelihood of a favorable functional outcome.
It is well documented that acute increases of target-derived nerve growth factor affect the morphological and neurochemical features of post-ganglionic sympathetic neurons. It has yet to be determined, however, whether similar changes are still evident after prolonged exposure to increased levels of endogenous nerve growth factor. Using a transgenic line of mice which overexpresses nerve growth factor in the brain commencing after the first week of postnatal life and continuing into adulthood, we have shown previously that sympathetic axons sprout into the nerve growth factor-rich cerebellum of these animals; no such axons are seen in the cerebellum of age-matched wild type animals. The aim of this study was to examine and characterize the effects of chronically elevated levels of endogenous nerve growth factor on sympathetic neurons of the superior cervical ganglion. In comparison to adult wild type mice, adult transgenic animals possessed hypertrophied ganglia which displayed both an increase in sympathetic somal size and a decrease in their density. At the electron microscope level, sympathetic somata of the adult transgenic animals had numerous electron-dense lysosome-like structures in the cytoplasm, as compared to that seen in the sympathetic somata of adult wild type animals. Immunodetection of nerve growth factor in the sympathetic somata revealed that the staining intensity in postnatal (day 28) transgenic mice was greater than that in age-matched wild type mice. By adulthood, however, such differences in the intensities of nerve growth factor immunostaining were no longer evident. In situ hybridization analyses of trkA receptor messenger RNA revealed that levels of expression among somata of similar sizes were comparable between the transgenic and wild type neuronal populations of both postnatal day 28 and adult animals. A small subpopulation of sympathetic somata in postnatal transgenic mice displayed a marked increase in p75NTR messenger RNA expression in comparison to somata of a similar size in age-matched wild type animals. By adulthood, the proportion of sympathetic somata in the transgenic animals possessing elevated levels of p75NTR messenger RNA expression had increased. These results reveal that chronically elevated levels of endogenous nerve growth factor in the postnatal and adult mouse brain can induce both structural and neurochemical remodelling of sympathetic neurons. The preferential increase in p75NTR messenger RNA expression among sympathetic somata of transgenic mice may be required for their growth of collateral axons into the nerve growth factor-rich cerebellum during postnatal development and may facilitate the increased immunodetection of nerve growth factor on these aberrant sympathetic axons in adult transgenic animals.
To clarify the mechanism of hyperalgesia in diabetic neuropathy, we investigated the effects of streptozocin-induced hyperglycemia on tetrodotoxin-resistant Na+ channel activity of dorsal root ganglion neurons. Experiments were performed on enzymatically isolated neurons of dorsal root ganglia dissected from streptozocin-induced diabetic and their age-matched control rats. Membrane currents were recorded using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Mean current density of tetrodotoxin-resistant Na+ channels was significantly larger in neurons prepared from diabetic rats than in control neurons. Tetrodotoxin-resistant Na+ channels were activated at more negative potentials in diabetic than in control neurons. Curves representing the steady-state inactivation and the peak Na+ conductance as a function of membrane potential shifted to the negative side. The changes in gating property of the Na+ channel were observed six weeks after the injection of streptozocin, and still after eight months, indicating that tetrodotoxin-resistant Na+ channel abnormality starts to develop early and persists during the whole period of diabetes. These results suggest that neurons participating in nociception are highly excitable in diabetic animals. The present results may provide an important clue to the elucidation of hyperalgesia in diabetes.
In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to show the distribution of messenger RNA for central cannabinoid CB 1 receptors in dorsal root ganglia of the rat. CB1 messenger RNA was highly expressed in neuronal subpopulations of rat dorsal root ganglia. The phenotypes of neurons that express messenger RNA for CB1 were subsequently examined by combining a 35S-labeled ribonucleotide probe for CB1 messenger RNA with digoxigenin-labeled riboprobes for preprotachykinin A (substance P precursor), alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide and preprosomatostatin (somatostatin precursor) messenger RNAs. Qualitative examination revealed expression of CBI messenger RNA predominantly in medium-and large-sized cells distributed throughout the dorsal root ganglia. The majority of neurons expressing substance P messenger RNA were CB1 messenger RNA negative and smaller in size than the CB1 messenger RNA-positive cells. Only 13% of substance P messenger RNA-positive cells expressed CB1 messenger RNA. A similar degree of co-localization was observed with alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide: 10% of cells expressing messenger RNA for this neuropeptide were CB1 messenger RNA positive. Co-localization of CB1 and somatostatin messenger RNAs was observed in less than 0.5% of somatostatin messenger RNA-positive cells. The data suggest that subpopulations of neurons in rat dorsal root ganglia are capable of synthesizing cannabinoid receptors and inserting them on terminals in the superficial dorsal horn. These findings provide anatomical evidence for cannabinoid modulation of primary afferent transmission. Although an anatomical basis for cannabinoid-mediated suppression of release of neurogenic peptides from nociceptive primary afferents is provided, our results demonstrate that the majority of CB messenger RNA-positive neurons in the dorsal root ganglia contain transmitters and/or neuromodulators other than the neuropeptides examined herein.
Apolipoprotein D gene and protein expression were investigated in the rat brain and cerebellum, respectively, during development. Apolipoprotein D gene expression was first observed in embryonic day 12 rat brain, with a moderate increase in apolipoprotein D messenger RNA levels towards the later part (embryonic days 15-17) of gestation. In the postnatal rat brain, a marked induction of apolipoprotein D messenger RNA occurred at postnatal day 10, with progressively higher levels of apolipoprotein D messenger RNA observed up to postnatal day 20. Somewhat lower, but none the less high, levels of apolipoprotein D messenger RNA continued to be present in brains of adult animals. In the immature cerebellum (day 3 up to one- to two-week-old rats), there were many densely labeled apolipoprotein D-immunoreactive cells that had features of oligodendrocyte precursors. Purkinje neurons showed apolipoprotein D immunoreactivity in one- to two-week-old animals, after which there appeared to be some decrease in staining. Oligodendrocytes in the cerebella of two-week-old animals were strongly apolipoprotein D positive, with immunoreactivity declining in older animals. These results reveal a maturation-associated induction of apolipoprotein D gene expression in the rat brain, and expression of apolipoprotein D in glial (immature oligodendrocyte) cells in the immature cerebellum, followed by specific expression of apolipoprotein D in Purkinje neurons.
Apolipoprotein E isoforms affect the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Apolipoprotein E-associated risk may be related to its binding to and clearance by cell surface receptors, including members of the low-density lipoprotein receptor family. We examined the brain expression of the most recently identified member of this receptor family, apolipoprotein E receptor 2, in human brain and placenta. We analysed apolipoprotein E receptor 2 messenger RNA by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and apolipoprotein E receptor 2 protein by immunohistochemistry. Four exons of the apolipoprotein E receptor 2 message were alternately spliced in both fetal and adult brain tissue. Exon 5, encoding three of the seven ligand binding repeats, was absent in the apolipoprotein E receptor 2 messenger RNA examined. Apolipoprotein E receptor 2 messages lacking exon 8, encoding an epidermal growth factor precursor repeat, exon 15, encoding the O-glycosylation region, or exon 18, encoding a cytoplasmic domain, were also present as minor splice variants in the brain and placenta. No differences were observed in the pattern of apolipoprotein E receptor 2 splicing between control and Alzheimer brains. Immunohistochemistry of mouse brain showed that apolipoprotein E receptor 2 was expressed in neurons throughout the brain, with strong expression in pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus, granule cells of the dentate gyrus, cortical neurons and Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. Thus, apolipoprotein E receptor 2 is the fourth apolipoprotein E receptor identified on neuronal cells.
Whether exocytosis evoked by a given releasing stimulus from different neuronal families or by different stimuli from one neuronal population occurs through identical mechanisms is unknown. We studied the release of [3H]noradrenaline, [3H]acetylcholine and [3H]dopamine induced by different stimuli from superfused rat brain synaptosomes pretreated with tetanus toxin or botulinum toxin F, known to block exocytosis by cleaving VAMP/synaptobrevin. The external Ca2(+)-dependent [3H]transmitter overflows evoked by KCl were similarly inhibited by tetanus toxin or botulinum toxin F; the toxins cleaved similar amounts of synaptosomal synaptobrevin, as determined by western blot analysis, suggesting prevalent involvement of synaptobrevin-II. GABA uptake-mediated release of the three [3H]transmitters was that differentially sensitive to the toxins: only the release of [3H]noradrenaline, which is dependent on external Ca2+, but not of [3H]acetylcholine and [3H]dopamine was blocked. Neither toxin affected the [3H]transmitter overflows evoked by the Ca2(+) ionophore ionomycin. Cadmium blocked the K(+)-evoked release of all [3H]transmitters and the GABA-evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline; the GABA-evoked releases of [3H]acetylcholine and [3H]dopamine and those elicited by ionomycin were insensitive to cadmium. The results suggest that tetanus toxin and botulinum toxin F selectively affect exocytosis linked to activation of voltage-sensitive Ca2(+) channels; the Ca2(+)-dependent, exocytotic-like release induced by stimuli not leading to activation of voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels seems insensitive to these clostridial toxins.
Activation of dendritic voltage-dependent calcium (Ca2+) conductances in neuroendocrine cells of the hypothalamus may underlie previously documented Ca2+ spikes in these cells. The present study, in which whole-cell recordings were obtained from paraventricular nucleus neurons in a hypothalamic slice preparation, addresses this issue by directly activating dendritic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the presence of tetrodotoxin. Application of tetrodotoxin abolished spontaneous action potentials in all paraventricular nucleus neurons tested (n = 27). Following tetrodotoxin, spikes were evoked by depolarizing current pulses, in an all-or-none fashion in the majority of cells (n = 20). Removal of extracellular Ca2+ (n = 6) or addition of 500 microM CdCl2 (n = 4) abolished the spikes in response to pulses. Repetitive spiking activity (in tetrodotoxin) was also observed following N-methyl-D-aspartate agonist application in 75% of the cells tested (n = 15). The spikes, underscored by a slow membrane depolarization, were abolished by the administration of CdCl2 (n = 4). N-Methyl-D-aspartate agonist elicited a slow inward current in cells voltage-clamped at -60 mV (n = 5). Additionally, larger amplitude, transient inward currents were observed near the onset of the response. The activation threshold to elicit spikes following N-methyl-D-aspartate agonist application was significantly more negative (-54.6+/-3.6 mV) than the potential at which spikes were initiated as a result of depolarizing current injection (-32.3+/-1.8 mV; Student's t-test: P &lt; 0.0001). In contrast to this, Na+ spikes in control solution had an invariable threshold (-49.6+/-0.7 mV vs -51.5+/-1.2 mV; P &gt; 0.05), regardless of the stimulus used to initiate the spikes. These observations suggest that direct activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors located on the dendrites of paraventricular nucleus neurons triggers Ca2+ spikes. Although the precise function of these spikes is unclear, previous data reporting dendritic neuropeptide release in the paraventricular nucleus raise the possibility that dendritically initiated spikes may serve as a local signal to trigger such release.
Growth hormone-releasing peptide-6 injection induces c-fos messenger RNA expression in many arcuate nucleus neurons, and sub-populations of neurons in this region project to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. We examined electrophysiologically whether arcuate nucleus neurons that project to the paraventricular nucleus also project to the median eminence, and whether these neurons are activated by systemic injection of growth hormone-releasing peptide-6. Of 116 arcuate nucleus neurons tested, 43 were antidromically-identified as projecting to the paraventricular nucleus and a further 30 as projecting to the median eminence; these populations displayed distinct electrophysiological characteristics, and contrasting patterns of orthodromic response to stimulation of the median eminence and paraventricular nucleus, indicating that these two populations are functionally distinct with limited communication between them. Only one cell was antidromically-identified as projecting to both these regions. Three of 10 arcuate nucleus neurons that projected to the paraventricular nucleus were activated by injection of growth hormone-releasing peptide-6. In parallel experiments, we examined whether Fos protein expression is induced in arcuate nucleus neurons that project to the paraventricular nucleus, as identified by retrograde-labelling with FluoroGold. Immunocytochemical studies revealed that 20% of arcuate nucleus neurons that were retrogradely-labelled from the paraventricular nucleus were Fos-positive following growth hormone-releasing peptide-6 injection, although cells that were both Fos-positive and retrogradely-labelled accounted for less than 5% of the total number of Fos-positive arcuate nucleus neurons. These results confirm that there is a direct projection from the arcuate nucleus to the paraventricular nucleus and indicate that growth hormone-releasing peptide-6 activates some of these neurons.
Somatostatin is a neuromodulator in the mammalian CNS. To date, genes for at least five different somatotrophin release inhibiting factor receptors, termed sst1-sst5, have been cloned. The rat sst2 receptor exists in two splice variants, sst(alpha)a) and sst2(b), which differ in their carboxy-termini. When heterologously expressed in Chinese hamster ovary-K1 cells, these splice variants show little difference in their operational characteristics. Recently, the distribution of the sst2(a) receptor was documented, yet at present no data are available about the distribution of the sst2(b) receptor in the CNS. Here, we present the characterization of a novel polyclonal anti-peptide antibody that is selective for the sst2(b) receptor splice variant. The antibody was raised against the unique intracellular carboxy-terminal portion of the receptor protein. Using this affinity-purified antibody in western blotting experiments, the sst2(b) receptor expressed in Chinese hamster ovary-K1 cells was shown to be a glycoprotein with a molecular weight centred at about 85,000. The antibody showed no cross-reactivity to any of the recombinant human sst1-5 receptors, the rat sst2(a) receptor or wild-type Chinese hamster ovary-K1 cells. Employing immunohistochemistry, we investigated the distribution of the sst2(b) receptor in the brain and spinal cord of adult rats. A distinct distribution was found throughout the rostrocaudal axis of the CNS. Somatodendritic as well as axonal staining was observed. Somatodendritic labelling was particularly obvious in the olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, hippocampal formation, mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus and cerebellum, as well as in cranial and spinal motor areas. The results show that the distribution of the sst2(b) receptor partially overlaps with that of the sst2(b) receptor, although there were differences in a number of brain areas. The location of the sst2(b) receptor implies that it may mediate a modulatory role of somatostatin inhibitory releasing factor on sensory as well as motor functions.
The neurotransmitters expressed by neurons activated by D-fenfluramine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) were identified in the hypothalamus, amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Induction of Fos immunoreactivity following D-fenfluramine injection was used as an index of neuronal activation. To test whether D-fenfluramine activated neurons by releasing serotonin from the serotonergic nerve terminals, rats were pretreated with fluoxetine (10 mg/kg, i.p.), a serotonin reuptake inhibitor that prevents the release of serotonin stimulated by D-fenfluramine, 12 h before D-fenfluramine injection. The approximate percentages of peptidergic neurons that contained Fos immunoreactivity after D-fenfluramine administration were 94% of corticotropin-releasing factor and 22% of oxytocin cells in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, 6% of oxytocin cells in the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus, 36% of enkephalin and 15% of neurotensin cells in the central amygdaloid nucleus, and 19% of enkephalin and 9% of neurotensin cells in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Fluoxetine pretreatment blocked Fos expression in corticotropin-releasing factor- and oxytocin-expressing cells in the hypothalamus, but not in enkephalin-and neurotensin-expressing cells located in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and central amygdaloid nucleus. D-Fenfluramine did not induce Fos immunoreactivity in vasopressin-, thyrotropin-releasing hormone-, somatostatin- and tyrosine hydroxylase-containing cells in the hypothalamus, and corticotropin-releasing factor-expressing cells in the central amygdaloid nucleus and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. These results show that D-fenfluramine stimulates corticotropin-releasing factor- and oxytocin-expressing cells in the hypothalamus via serotonin release. The enkephalin- and neurotensin-expressing cells in the amygdala are activated by D-fenfluramine via non-serotonergic mechanisms. Induction of Fos expression by D-fenfluramine in restricted populations of cells suggests a selective activation of neuronal circuitry that is likely to be involved in the appetite suppressant effects of D-fenfluramine.
The goal of this study was to determine if high-dose methamphetamine treatment altered presynaptic immunoreactivity for the amino acid neurotransmitters GABA and glutamate within the basal ganglia. Methamphetamine (15 mg/kg every 6 h, four doses) treatment in rats resulted in severe hyperthermia and a long-lasting (four weeks) depletion of striatal dopamine content (&gt;80%). Severe dopamine loss correlated with a decrease in the density of presynaptic immunolabeling for GABA one week post-drug, and an increase after four weeks. Although no changes were seen in presynaptic striatal glutamate immunoreactivity, there was a significant increase in the percentage of glutamate-immuno-positive terminals associated with perforated postsynaptic densities. Rats given the same dose of methamphetamine but prevented from becoming hyperthermic showed less severe dopamine depletions and a lack of ultrastructural or immunocytochemical changes. In addition, induction of hyperthermia in the absence of drug decreased immunolabeling within mitochondria, but had no effect on dopamine content, morphology or nerve terminal immunoreactivity. Altered presynaptic GABA immunolabeling and terminal size were found in both the striatum and globus pallidus, suggesting that dynamic changes occur in the striatopallidal pathway following methamphetamine-induced dopamine loss. In addition, ultrastructural changes in glutamate-positive synapses which have been correlated with increased synaptic activity were found. These results are similar to changes in GABA and glutamate synapses that follow nigrostriatal dopamine loss in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned animals and in Parkinson's disease, and provide the first direct evidence that methamphetamine-induced dopamine loss alters the GABAergic striatopallidal pathway. Exposure to either methamphetamine or prolonged hyperpyrexia decreased mitochondrial Immunoreactivity, indicating that hyperthermia may contribute to methamphetamine toxicity by affecting energy stores.
Pharmacological studies have suggested that the m2 muscarinic receptor functions as an autoreceptor in the cholinergic axons which innervate the cerebral cortex and striatum. To test this hypothesis in the macaque monkey, we used a subtype-specific antibody to the m2 muscarinic receptor. Immunoreactive cells were well visualized in the nucleus basalis, where some of these cells displayed dense m2 immunoreactivity, while others were lightly labeled. This heterogeneity of labeling intensity was not based on peculiarities of the methodology, because cholinergic cells of the striatum expressed uniformly dense m2 immunoreactivity. Concurrent labeling with choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity proved that most of the heavily m2-labeled cells in the nucleus basalis were also choline acetyl-transferase positive. The findings demonstrate that at least 10-25% of the cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis of the monkey are densely m2 immunoreactive. In the striatum, concurrent labeling demonstrated that the majority, if not all, choline acetyltransferase-positive cells also contained m2 immunoreactivity. In addition, these experiments identified a population of smaller striatal cells which were m2 immunoreactive and choline acetyltransferase negative. Consecutive labeling with m2 immunoreactivity and NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry demonstrated that many of these m2-immunoreactive non-cholinergic neurons belonged to the population of nitric oxide-synthesizing medium aspiny neurons. The findings indicate that the m2 muscarinic receptor may be expressed at high levels in only a subset of cholinergic basal forebrain neurons. In contrast, m2 receptors appear to be expressed by all cholinergic cells of the striatum.
In vivo microdialysis was used to measure the effects of partial deafferentation of cortical cholinergic inputs on acetylcholine efflux in young (four to seven months) and aged (24-28 months) male F344/BNNIA rats. Partial deafferentation was produced by bilateral infusions of the immunotoxin 192 immunoglobulin G-saporin (0.56 microg/1.0 microl) or its vehicle solution into the ventral pallidum/substantia innominata region of the basal forebrain. The lesion produced comparable (65%) decreases in basal cortical acetylcholine efflux in young and aged rats. Presentation of a complex environmental stimulus (exposure to darkness/palatable food), in conjunction with the systemic administration of the benzodiazepine receptor weak inverse agonist ZK 93 426, increased cortical acetylcholine efflux in young shams, aged shams and young lesioned rats, but not in aged lesioned rats. Administration of the benzodiazepine receptor partial inverse agonist FG 7142, in the absence of the environmental stimulus, comparably stimulated cortical acetylcholine efflux in young and aged sham rats. FG 7142-induced increases in acetylcholine efflux were attenuated by approximately 50% following partial deafferentation in both young and aged rats. These results suggests that, under certain conditions, ageing potently interacts with the integrity of the cortical cholinergic afferent system. The effects of ageing on cortical cholinergic function may be most potently revealed by experiments assessing age-related limitations in the responsiveness of a partially deafferented cholinergic system to certain behavioral and/or pharmacological stimuli.
The tumor suppressor protein p53 is implicated in cell cycle arrest and DNA repair as well as in apoptosis. In the CNS, p53 has been associated with neuronal cell death following various insults, including cerebral ischemia. We investigated the expression of p53 messenger RNA and protein, and the messenger RNA expression of the p53-responsive gene p21(WAF1/CiP1, in specific hippocampal regions following 15 min of normothermic and neuroprotective hypothermic (33 degrees C) global forebrain ischemia in the rat. Both p53 and p21WAF1/Cip1 messenger RNAs were transiently induced in ischemia resistant regions following normo- and hypothermic ischemia. In the ischemia sensitive CA1 region, p53 and p21WAF1/Cip1 messenger RNAs were up-regulated throughout reperfusion following the normothermic insult. The p53 protein levels increased following the insult, most markedly in ischemia-resistant CA3 neurons after normothermic ischemia, and in the CA1 neurons following hypothermic ischemia. Concomitantly, the protein was translocated to nuclei. These findings indicate that p53 and p21WAF1/Cip1 are not markers of neuronal death following global cerebral ischemia. Their rapid and transient induction correlates with cell survival, and suggests a possible role in DNA repair.
We have previously identified three distinct populations of CA1 pyramidal neurons after reperfusion based on differences in synaptic response, and named these late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neurons (enhanced synaptic transmission), non-late depolarizing postsynaptic potential and small excitatory postsynaptic neurons (depressed synaptic transmission). In the present study, spontaneous activity and membrane properties of CA1 neurons were examined up to 48 h following approximately 14 min ischemic depolarization using intracellular recording and staining techniques in vivo. In comparison with preischemic properties, the spontaneous firing rate and the spontaneous synaptic activity of CA1 neurons decreased significantly during reperfusion; spontaneous synaptic activity ceased completely 36-48 h after reperfusion, except for a low level of activity which persisted in non-late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neurons. Neuronal hyperactivity as indicated by increasing firing rate was never observed in the present study. The membrane input resistance and time constant decreased significantly in late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neurons at 24-48 h reperfusion. In contrast, similar changes were not observed in non-late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neurons. The rheobase, spike threshold and spike frequency adaptation in late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neurons increased progressively following reperfusion. Only a transient increase in rheobase and spike threshold was detected in non-late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neurons and spike frequency adaptation remained unchanged in these neurons. The amplitude of fast afterhyperpolarization increased in all neurons after reperfusion, with the smallest increment in non-late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neurons. Small excitatory postsynaptic potential neurons shared similar changes to those of late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neurons. These results suggest that the enhancement and depression of synaptic transmission following ischemia are probably due to changes in synaptic efficacy rather than changes in intrinsic membrane properties. The neurons with enhanced synaptic transmission following ischemia are probably the degenerating neurons, while the neurons with depressed synaptic transmission may survive the ischemic insult.
The effects of prolonged hypoxia were studied by field and intracellular recordings from hippocampal slices of the rat, kept submerged at 34 degrees C. When artificial cerebrospinal fluid contained 10 mM glucose, even very long exposures to hypoxia or 300 microM cyanide (21-25 min) did not block field excitatory postsynaptic potentials and population spikes irreversibly. By contrast, in the presence of 4 mM glucose, hypoxia lasting only 9-13 min-ending 2-3 min after the characteristic transient recovery (&quot;hypoxic injury potential&quot;)-resulted in irreversible block of synaptic responses. Voltage-dependent sodium channels and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are involved, because irreversible block was prevented by tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM), kynurenate (2 mM) or DL-aminophosphonovalerate (50 microM), whereas 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (25 microM) suppressed only the transient recovery. The hypoxic suppression of afferent volleys in slices kept in 4 mM glucose was also prevented by kynurenate or aminophosphonovalerate. Intracellular recordings revealed opposite effects of hypoxia according to glucose concentration: in 10 mM glucose, mainly hyperpolarization; in 4 mM glucose, after a brief hyperpolarization, a major and usually irreversible depolarization. In the presence of kynurenate or tetrodotoxin, major depolarizations also occurred, but they were reversible. Thus, large depolarizations of hippocampal neurons do not necessarily lead to irreversible block of synaptic transmission: there is lasting damage only when hypoxia is combined with low glucose, presumably because a reduced supply of glycolytically generated ATP limits the Na+/K+ pump's ability to maintain or restore membrane potentials and thus prevent excessive activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
Tetanization of Schaffer collaterals, which induces long-term potentiation of excitatory transmission in the hippocampus of the rat, also affects local inhibitory circuits. Mechanisms controlling plasticity of early and late components of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in CA1 pyramidal cells were studied using intracellular recordings and Ca2+ imaging in rat hippocampal slices. High-frequency stimulation (100 Hz/s) of Schaffer collaterals resulted in no change in the mean amplitude of early or late inhibitory postsynaptic potentials 30 min post-tetanus. However, intracellular injection of the Ca2+ chelator 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetate unmasked a significant increase in mean amplitude of both inhibitory postsynaptic potentials 30 min post-tetanus and the induction of this potentiation was blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist(+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphopentanoic acid. In contrast to high-frequency tetanization, &quot;theta-burst&quot; stimulation in normal medium resulted in a significant potentiation of the mean amplitude of both early and late inhibitory postsynaptic potentials 30 min post-tetanus. This potentiation was blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. The more physiological tetanization pattern, which mimics the endogenous theta rhythm, therefore resulted in an N-methyl-D-aspartate-dependent increase in inhibition 30 min post-tetanus. Calcium imaging during whole-cell recordings from pyramidal cells revealed differences in the Ca2+ signal associated with high-frequency and theta-burst stimulations. During theta-burst stimulation of Schaffer collaterals, the mean time to peak of Ca2+ signals was significantly longer, and the mean peak amplitude and area under the Ca2+ response were larger than during high-frequency stimulation. These results indicate that tetanization induces long-lasting synaptic plasticity in hippocampal inhibitory circuits. This plasticity involves an interaction between a Ca2(+)-mediated postsynaptic depression and an N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated potentiation of GABAA and GABAB inhibition, and these processes are differentially sensitive to tetanization parameters.
Streptozotocin-diabetic rats, an animal model for diabetes mellitus, show learning deficits and impaired long-term potentiation in the CA1-field of the hippocampus. The present study aimed to further characterize the effects of streptozotocin-diabetes on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent long-term potentiation in the CA1-field, to extend these findings to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent and independent long-term potentiation in other regions of the hippocampus and to examine effects on long-term depression. First, the effect of diabetes duration on long-term potentiation in the CA1-field was determined. A progressive deficit was observed after a diabetes duration of six to eight weeks, which reached a maximum after 12 weeks of diabetes and remained stable thereafter. Next, long-term potentiation was examined in the dentate gyrus and in the CA3-field after 12 weeks of diabetes. Both were found to be impaired compared to controls. Finally, long-term depression was examined in the CA1-field of the hippocampus after 12 weeks of diabetes and found to be enhanced in slices from diabetic rats compared to controls. Changes in synaptic plasticity were observed in hippocampal slices from streptozotocin-diabetic rats. Expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent long-term potentiation was impaired in the CA1-field and dentate gyrus and expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent long-term potentiation was impaired in the CA3-field. In contrast, expression of long-term depression was facilitated in CA1. It is suggested that this combination of changes in plasticity may reflect alterations in intracellular signalling pathways.
Tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., imipramine, desipramine) are currently used in the treatment of mood disorders such as depression. At the cellular level they inhibit the re-uptake of the exocytosed monoamines serotonin and noradrenaline. However, they also stimulate phospholipase C activity and the production of the second messenger inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate. Since phospholipase C activation can also lead to the production of the protein kinase C activator diacylglycerol, we have undertaken experiments to see whether acutely applied desipramine could change the synaptic strength of neurons in a protein kinase C-dependent manner. Experiments performed with cultured hippocampal neurons dissociated from neonatal rats revealed that desipramine rapidly enhanced the spontaneous vesicular release of glutamate. This was observed by measuring the frequency of tetrodotoxin-resistant spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents. Analysis of amplitude distribution histograms indicated a presynaptic site of action. The protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine and down-regulation of protein kinase C activity greatly reduced the desipramine-dependent enhancement of the frequency of tetrodotoxin-resistant spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents. This presynaptic modulation requires SNARE proteins because cleavage of SNAP-25 with the botulinum neurotoxin A strongly reduced the desipramine-induced glutamate release. Thus, acute applications of desipramine stimulated the ongoing neurotransmitter release pathway, probably by activating protein kinase C. Our data indicate that tricyclic antidepressant drugs not only act on serotoninergic and/or noradrenergic cells but can also modify the activity of glutamatergic neurons.
Homozygous tottering (tg/tg) and compound heterozygous tottering/leaner (tg/tg(la)) mutant mice exhibit juvenile onset of three abnormal neurological phenotypes: (i) petit mal-like epilepsy; (ii) ataxia; and (iii) an intermittent myoclonus-like movement disorder. Homozygous leaner mice (tg(la)/tg(la)) exhibit early onset of ataxia (postnatal days 10-12), and also exhibit the myoclonus-like movement disorder and evidence of absence seizure activity; the myoclonus-like disorder is most evident in the first month of life, then diminishes in severity and frequency. The ultrastructure of the cerebellar molecular layer was examined in adult (six to eight months) and juvenile (20-25 days) mice of all three mutant genotypes. In mice of all three genotypes and both ages, Purkinje cell dendritic spines were observed to make multiple contacts with individual parallel fiber varicosities in all sections analysed. These multiple synaptic units were observed in both anterior and posterior vermis and hemispheres of the cerebellum, and ranged from two to nine spines/parallel fiber varicosity. Occasionally, one of the postsynaptic spines belonged to an ectopic spine emerging from the proximal region of a Purkinje cell dendrite. This increase in the multiple synaptic index of some parallel fiber varicosities was observed in juvenile tottering mice before the onset of the symptoms of the neurological disorders. This is highly suggestive that the onset of the neurological phenotype is not a primary cause of multiple Purkinje cell dendritic spines synapsing with single parallel fiber varicosities in these mice, but on the contrary, that it could be the cause of the ataxic symptoms.
Undifferentiated PC12 cells undergo apoptosis, via a calcium-induced calcium release mechanism, when the calcium-binding protein purified from bovine brain (native S100) is present in micromolar concentration in the medium. This process begins when S100 binds to specific membrane binding sites and involves up to 50% of the cell population. In the experiments reported here, we demonstrate that, by utilizing [3H]S100, the S100 protein can be displaced from its binding sites only during the first 10 min of incubation. This fact is due to an internalization mechanism, having a time-course with a plateau after 10-20 min of incubation. The native form of S100 is a mixture of two different S100 isoforms: S100A1 (20%) and S100B (80%). Using confocal microscopy and monoclonal antibodies, we demonstrated that only one of these isoforms, S100A1, was autoexpressed in more than 50% of the PC12 cells analysed. After cell incubation with 2 microM native S100, S100B also appears in PC12 cells, with a maximum presence after 10 min of incubation. This fact seems to indicate that this isoform, at least, is effectively translocated when stimulated with external native S100. From the data reported, it is possible to hypothesize that, in PC12 cells, a possible homeostatic mechanism is present that can counteract the effect of a continuously applied lethal stimulus (stimuli) on cell viability.
In horizontal cells freshly dissociated from crucian carp (Carassius auratus) retina, we examined the effects of modulators of glutamate receptor desensitization, concanavalin A, cyclothiazide, aniracetam and 4-[2-(phenylsulfonylamino)ethylthio]-2,6-difluoro-phenoxyacetam ide (PEPA), on responses to rapid application of glutamate and kainate, using whole-cell voltage-clamp techniques. Incubation of concanavalin A suppressed the peak response but weakly potentiated the equilibrium response of horizontal cells to glutamate. Cyclothiazide blocked glutamate-induced desensitization in a dose-dependent manner, which resulted in a steady increase of the equilibrium current. The concentration of cyclothiazide causing a half-maximal potentiation for the equilibrium response was 85 microM. Furthermore, cyclothiazide shifted the dose-response relationship of the equilibrium current to the right, but slightly suppressed the kainate-induced sustained current. These effects of concanavalin A and cyclothiazide are consistent with the supposition that glutamate receptors of carp horizontal cells may be an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA)-preferring subtype. In order to further characterize the AMPA receptors of horizontal cells, modulation by aniracetam and PEPA of glutamate- and kainate-induced currents was studied. Aniracetam, a preferential modulator of flop variants of AMPA receptors, considerably blocked desensitization of glutamate-induced currents, but only slightly potentiated kainate-induced currents. It was further found that PEPA, a flop-preferring allosteric modulator of AMPA receptor desensitization, slightly suppressed the peak current, while it dramatically potentiated the equilibrium current induced by glutamate in a dose-dependent manner. PEPA was much potent than aniracetam at these receptors and showed the effect on glutamate-induced desensitization even at a concentration as low as 3 microM. PEPA also potentiated non-desensitizing currents induced by kainate, but with much less extent. These modulatory effects of concanavalin A, cyclothiazide, aniracetam and PEPA on AMPA receptors in carp horizontal cells were rather similar to those obtained at AMPA receptors assembled from flop variants expressed in Xenopus oocyte and HEK cell. Consequently, we speculate that the AMPA receptor on carp horizontal cells may predominantly carry the flop splice variants.
The airpuff startle stimulus elicits both a behavioral and a concurrent sympathetic and parasympathetic activation, which have been shown to differ between inbred normotensive Wistar Kyoto and Spontaneously Hypertensive rat strains. Neither the brain sites responsible for the cardiovascular and motor responses, nor the origins of the strain differential responses, have yet been elucidated. The goals of the present study were (i) to define the neuronal pattern of immunoreactive Fos expression to the airpuff stimulus, and (ii) to determine whether this pattern of expression differed between the two contrasting inbred rat strains, thereby relating to observed differences in response. The airpuff stimulus induced Fos protein expression in discrete nuclei within the hypothalamus, thalamus, midbrain, pons and medulla of both strains, with strain-dependent differences evident in the hypothalamus (lateral, ventromedial and dorsomedial), pons (locus coeruleus) and medulla (rostroventrolateral medulla and solitary tract nuclei). To remove Fos expression arising from test chamber novelty, which was observed in both strains, a subset of animals was habituated to the test chamber for four days prior to testing. Habituation reduced Fos expression in several brain regions in the Wistar Kyoto, but failed to do so in the Spontaneously Hypertensive rat. The present results are the first to identify a set of brain regions likely to be responsible for the mediation of the cardiovascular and motor responses associated with the airpuff startle stimulus. Several of the identified areas contain neurotransmitters implicated by prior pharmacological studies. Further, these data identify differences in the degree of activation of specific neuronal structures that probably underlie strain differences in the cardiovascular response to the airpuff. Additionally, the results provide a cellular correlate to reported deficits in behavioral habituation by the Spontaneously Hypertensive rat and suggest a potentially profound difference between the ability of these two strains to adapt to repeated mild stress stimuli.
In order to study the neurobiological basis of seasonal changes in hippocampal structure and function, the rate of cell proliferation was examined in male and female wild meadow voles captured during different seasons. We found that the number of [3H]thymidine-labeled cells varied across the seasons and across sex in the meadow vole. Non-breeding female meadow voles had a higher rate of cell proliferation and cell death than males captured during either season or breeding females. These seasonal changes in the female meadow vole were associated with both fluctuating levels of adrenal steroids and gonadal steroids. Estradiol level was highly correlated with both the number of [3H]thymidine-labeled cells and the number of pyknotic cells in female meadow voles, with high levels of estradiol being associated with low levels of cell proliferation and cell death. Corticosterone level was associated with the number of [3H]thymidine-labeled cells in the hilus of female meadow voles. This seasonal change in the number of [3H]thymidine-labeled cells was also related to the overall volume of the hippocampus. At variance with past literature, there was no statistically significant sex difference favoring males in hippocampal volume, although the means were in the predicted direction. In male meadow voles, the number of pyknotic cells was related to testosterone level, with high levels of testosterone being associated with greater levels of cell death in the granular cell layer. There was also a suggestion that the number of [3H]thymidine-labeled cells in the hilus varied seasonally in males, with higher rates of cell proliferation during the breeding season than during the non-breeding season. In summary, we found that there were large fluctuations across the season in the rate of cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of adult female meadow voles. Females captured during the non-breeding season had higher rates of cell proliferation in the granule cell layer than females captured during the breeding season. This seasonal fluctuation was related to hormone levels, with high levels of corticosterone and estradiol being related to lower levels of cell proliferation. These seasonal changes in cell proliferation may be related to known changes in spatial learning in the meadow vole and provide insights into changes in the hippocampus that occur in other species, including primates.
The prefrontal cortices in rats participate in a range of cognitive, emotional, and locomotor functions that are dependent on its rich catecholamine innervation. Sex differences identified in many of these functions suggest that the prefrontal cortex is also influenced by gonadal hormones. Previous studies have shown that prefrontal catecholamines can be modified by changes in the hormone environment in developing animals. The present analyses, carried out in male rats gonadectomized as adults, with and without supplementation with testosterone proprionate, and examined at intervals from two days to 10 weeks after surgery, revealed that both the anatomical organization of prefrontal catecholamine afferents, and a behavioral measure sensitive to their selective lesioning remain highly responsive to changes in testicular hormones in adulthood. Thus, gonadectomy in adult male rats rapidly led to a large but transient decrease in the density of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in all layers of the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex. This was followed by a sustained period in which immunoreactivity in the supragranular layers returned to levels that were just below normal (between 72 and 79% of normal), and labeling in deep laminae stabilized at considerably elevated innervation densities (approximately 150% of normal). Neither the acute decrease nor the chronic over-innervation characteristic of gonadectomized animals was observed in rats that were gonadectomized and supplemented with testosterone proprionate. Open field activity assessed along a corresponding 10 week timeline showed that gonadectomized animals were significantly less active than hormonally intact controls, a behavioral pattern opposite to the hyperactivity which persists following prefrontal dopamine lesions. Gonadectomized animals supplemented with testosterone proprionate, on the other hand, had open field scores that were not significantly different from controls. Taken together, these findings indicate that the adult hormone environment provides a significant, and seemingly functionally significant influence over the catecholamine innervation of the rat prefrontal cortex. Such lifelong responsiveness of the prefrontal cortical catecholamines to circulating hormones suggests that gonadal steroids are an active component of the biology of normal adult cognition, and may also have relevance for cortical dysfunction in disorders such as schizophrenia which are not only strongly tied to the catecholamines, but exhibit considerable biases among men and women as well.
Typical antipsychotic agents are potent antagonists of Gi-coupled dopamine D2 receptors, but their mechanisms of action following this initial blockade remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that in striatal neurons, interruption of this inhibitory dopamine D2 input would unmask endogenous striatal Gs-coupled receptors. An increase in cAMP levels generated by these unopposed receptors would then lead to the well-described behavioral and molecular effects of antipsychotic administration such as catalepsy and striatal c-fos and neurotensin gene transcription. We examined three striatal Gs-coupled receptor systems (serotonin 5-HT4, serotonin 5-HT6 and adenosine A2a) to assess their potential involvement in the mechanism of action of the typical antipsychotic haloperidol. Antagonists of each of these three receptor systems together with a 1 mg/kg dose of haloperidol were co-administered to Sprague-Dawley rats, and both the degree of catalepsy produced in the animals and the induction of striatal c-fos and neurotensin messenger RNAs were measured. Both the specific adenosine A2a antagonist 8-(3-chlorostyryl)-caffeine and the general adenosine antagonist theophylline reduced haloperidol-dependent induction of striatal neurotensin and c-fos messenger RNA. Administration of these agents also greatly reduced the degree of catalepsy induced by haloperidol. Antagonists of the 5-HT6 receptor failed to block the induction of striatal messenger RNAs, but the 5-HT6 antagonist clozapine (an important atypical antipsychotic agent in its own right) was a potent inhibitor of catalepsy. 5-HT4 agents were unable to alter haloperidol's effects on striatal messenger RNA levels or catalepsy. We conclude that the striatal Gs-coupled adenosine A2a receptor is an important mediator of the molecular and behavioral sequelae following haloperidol administration.
Recently, five members of the somatostatin receptor family have been cloned. However, little is known about their cellular and subcellular localization in the central nervous system. Using specific anti-peptide antisera, we observed somatostatin receptor 3-like immunoreactivity in many brain regions, including the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, amygdala and cerebellum. In all of these regions (except for the cerebellar cortex), somatostatin receptor 3-like immunoreactivity was selectively targeted to 4-8-microm-long rod-shaped profiles which did not co-localize with axonal or dendritic markers. One immunoreactive profile was always associated with one neuronal cell body. This staining pattern was resistant to colchicine treatment and showed a closely overlapping distribution with somatostatin receptor 3 messenger RNA, suggesting that the receptor protein is not transported over long distances. Electron microscopic analysis revealed that somatostatin receptor 3-like immunoreactivity is localized to the plasma membrane of neuronal cilia which extended into an intercellular pocket and showed a 9+0 filament pattern in their basal body and proximal segments. Thus, somatostatin receptor 3 demonstrates a unique example of a G-protein-coupled receptor not localized to &quot;classical&quot; pre- or postsynaptic sites, but selectively targeted to neuronal cilia. The presence of the somatostatin receptor 3 receptor on neuronal cilia suggests that these presumably non-motile cilia may not merely represent developmental remnants, but rather function as chemical sensors of the immediate milieu.
Neurogenic inflammation of the dura, expressed in plasma extravasation and vasodilatation, putatively contributes to different types of headache. A novel in vitro preparation of the fluid-filled skull cavities was developed to measure mediator release from dura mater encephali upon antidromic electrical stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion and after application of a mixture of inflammatory mediators (serotonin, histamine and bradykinin, 10(-5) M each, pH 6.1) to the arachnoid side of rat dura. The release of calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P and prostaglandin E2 from dura mater was measured in 5-min samples of superfusates using enzyme immunoassays. Orthodromic chemical and antidromic electrical stimulation of dural afferents caused significant release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (2.8- and 4.5-fold of baseline). The neuropeptide was found to be increased during the 5-min stimulation period and returned to baseline (20.9 +/- 12 pg/ml) in the sampling period after stimulation. In contrast, release of substance P remained at baseline levels (19.3 +/- 11 pg/ml) throughout the experiment. Prostaglandin E2 release was elevated during chemical and significantly also after antidromic electrical stimulation (6- and 4.2-fold of baseline, which was 305 +/- 250 pg/ml). Prostaglandin E2 release outlasted the stimulation period for at least another 5 min. The data support the hypothesis of neurogenic inflammation being involved in headaches and provide new evidence for prostaglandin E2 possibly facilitating meningeal nociceptor excitation and, hence, pain.
A transgenic mouse has been developed which, during development, over-expresses nerve growth factor under the control of a myelin basic protein promoter. These animals display an ectopic network of substance P-containing sensory fibers in the white matter of the spinal cord. To study the functional significance of this model to nociception, these mice were studied in a test measuring the latency to tail withdrawal from a noxious radiant heat stimulus. Baseline reaction times were significantly less in transgenic mice, suggesting thermal allodynia. A mechanical stimulus was then applied to the tip of the tail at either 450 g or 1400 g for 2 s and tail withdrawal readings were taken for another 10 min. In control mice, the 450 g stimulus was without effect, suggesting that it is normally innocuous. In transgenic mice, this stimulus induced a transient decrease in withdrawal latency at 1 min. Thus, transgenic mice exhibited mechanical allodynia. The 1400 g stimulus decreased withdrawal latency in both transgenic and control mice. However, the response was greater in transgenic mice, indicating that they exhibited mechanical hyperalgesia. The neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist CP-96,345, but not the inactive stereoisomer CP-96,344, administered subcutaneously 30 min before the 450 g stimulus, blocked the stimulation-induced allodynia in transgenic mice, and revealed a transient antinociception in transgenic and control mice. Ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, given intraperitoneally 10 min before 450 g stimulation, blocked the allodynia in transgenic mice. These results indicate that these transgenic mice display hyperalgesia and allodynia, and that these nociceptive responses are reversed by substance P and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists.
The modulation of GABA-gated ion channel responses to GABA, pentobarbital and diazepam by muscarine was studied in freshly isolated rat dorsal root ganglion neurons using a whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Muscarine enhanced current activated by 5 microM GABA dose-dependently with an EC50 of 40 +/- 2 microM. This potentiation was not blocked by pirenzepine, gallamine and atropine, the specific and non-specific muscarinic receptor antagonists. Muscarine shifted the GABA dose-response curve to the left, with the GABA EC50 decreased from 45 +/- 2 to 13 +/- 2 microM. The maximal response to GABA was suppressed to 89.3 +/- 4.6% as compared with the control (100%) by 80 microM muscarine. Muscarine potentiated GABA (1-100 microM)-activated current in a voltage-independent manner. Muscarine shifted the dose-response curve for pentobarbital enhancement of GABA-activated current to the left, and the enhancement of GABA-activated current by muscarine was additive to that of pentobarbital over all pentobarbital concentrations. Muscarine shifted the dose-response curve for diazepam (1-100 nM) enhancement of GABA-activated current to the left. However, muscarine attenuated the facilitatory effect of saturating concentrations of diazepam (&gt; 100 nM). The potentiating effect of muscarine was blocked by 1 nM ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate, the inverse agonist of benzodiazepine receptors. These results suggest that GABA-gated ion channel responses to GABA and pentobarbital were potentiated by muscarine and the binding site(s) for muscarine might be related to those for diazepam.
In the present study, we analysed the distribution and cellular localization of metabotropic glutamate receptors (1alpha, 2/3, 5) in parabrachial and Klliker-Fuse nuclei using subtype-specific antisera. Immunolabelling revealed that different nuclei express different sets of metabotropic glutamate receptors. Metabotropic glutamate receptor la immunoreactivity was found in the Klliker-Fuse nucleus and in several parabrachial nuclei, including the waist area, lateral crescent, medial, external medial and ventral lateral nuclei. The external lateral and internal lateral parabrachial nuclei were devoid of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha immunoreactivity. Metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 immunoreactivity was observed in the Klliker-Fuse and in the medial parabrachial nuclei, while in the remaining nuclei the staining was very weak. Again, the external lateral nucleus was devoid of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 immunoreactivity. The metabotropic glutamate receptor 2/3 antisera stained all lateral parabrachial nuclei as well as the Klliker-Fuse nucleus, while staining in the medial parabrachial nucleus was weak. Metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha immunoreactivity was observed on presumed dendritic profiles, while metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 immunoreactivity was found predominantly on neuronal cell bodies. Metabotropic glutamate receptor 2/3 immunoreactivity was present as a fine, punctate immunostaining in the neuropil. Our data suggest that glutamate release in the parabrachial and Klliker-Fuse nuclei might induce a variety of second messenger cascades, as indicated by the presence or absence of certain types of metabotropic glutamate receptors.
The present study examined the electrophysiological and kinetic properties of a hyperpolarizing-activated current in neurons located in the lateral parabrachial nucleus. We investigated whether differences observed in the shape of action potential afterhyperpolarizations in lateral parabrachial nucleus neurons, and the ability of these neurons to accommodate, correlated with the presence of this current. A voltage-activated inwardly rectifying current that increased in amplitude with hyperpolarization was observed in 83% of the neurons examined. Under voltage-clamp recording conditions, this current activated at about -70 mV, was half-activated at -96.5 mV and was blocked by bath application of 2 mM cesium, but not by 100 microM barium. In the current-clamp mode, activation of this current resulted in a transient increase in neuronal excitability at the termination of the more negative current injections. The presence of this current did not correlate with specific action potential characteristics or the ability of lateral parabrachial nucleus neurons to accommodate, as the kinetics and voltage-dependent characteristics are such that this hyperpolarizing-activated current does not affect neuronal excitability at or near the resting membrane potential. However, it may act as an important depolarizing mechanism that prevents neurons from becoming unresponsive when they are excessively hyperpolarized, These results provide evidence that the majority of neurons located in the lateral parabrachial nucleus exhibit a mixed cationic current, which is consistent with the H-current or Q-current. This current may function as a negative feedback mechanism that is activated under conditions of intense hyperpolarization so as to ensure that lateral parabrachial nucleus neurons are in a more suitable state of readiness to respond appropriately to afferent input.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of chelated ferric ion on neuronal development in vitro using cultured cerebellar granule cells of the rat. The cells were exposed to ferric nitrilotriacetate at varying concentrations for seven or 14 days. In addition to morphological studies, protein content determination and malondialdehyde measurement were performed. The study showed that cell development, with the addition of a lower concentration of chelated ferric ion (5 microM), could be kept in a normal condition, no significant changes in protein content and malondialdehyde production being found as compared with those of the controls, while the addition of higher concentrations of chelated ferric ion (&gt; or = 10 microM) to the cultures demonstrated an adverse effect on development of cerebellar granule cell in vitro. Determination of protein content showed that the neuronal population decreased significantly, and the neuronal loss was inversely proportional to the iron concentrations added. Malondialdehyde measurement demonstrated that the extent of lipid peroxidation reaction increased remarkably with increasing iron concentration. A very close and highly significant correlation (gamma=0.985) between changes of malondialdehyde production and protein content was observed. These results suggest that the neuronal loss in the cultures with higher concentrations of iron was due to lipid peroxidation reaction induced by the addition of iron, and that iron overload might accelerate the process of ageing and death of cerebellar granule cells in vitro.
The distribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit messenger RNA was examined in the superior olivary complex of the rat using in situ hybridization methods. Non-radioactive methods showed N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-1 and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-2A, -2B and -2C subunit expression to be abundant in principal cells of all major superior olivary complex regions, with N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-1 expression higher than N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-2. After auto-radiographic in situ hybridization, counting silver grains over cells was used to quantitate and compare levels of expression of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-2 subunits. N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptor-2A, -2B and -2C expression was detected over cells in the lateral and medial superior olive, the medial, lateral and ventral nucleus of the trapezoid body, and the superior paraolivary nucleus. N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptor-2D expression was only observed in the lateral superior olive, lateral nucleus of the trapezoid body and ventral nucleus of the trapezoid body. Three distinct patterns of labeling were observed. The lateral superior olive and ventral nucleus of the trapezoid body showed higher expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-2A and -2C than other subunits; the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body showed higher N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-2B expression than other subunits; and the medial superior olive, superior paraolivary nucleus and ventral nucleus of the trapezoid body showed relatively equivalent expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-2A, -2B and -2C subunits. N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptor-2D had the lowest expression, with levels greater than background in only the lateral superior olive, ventral nucleus of the trapezoid body and lateral nucleus of the trapezoid body. Immunocytochemistry using antibodies to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-2A, -2B and -2C showed immunolabeling consistent with in situ hybridization results. These results show diversity in expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-2 subunits in different superior olivary complex regions and would predict pharmacological differences.
The impulse flow-dependent dopamine release in the striatum was acutely blocked by unilateral lesion of the medial forebrain bundle with 6-hydroxydopamine. Within 45 min this disruption reduced the striatal extracellular dopamine levels by 80% as determined by in vivo voltammetry. A strong induction of c-fos messenger RNA was detected in the ipsilateral dorsolateral striatum 75 min after 6-hydroxydopamine injection by in situ hybridization. Double labelling demonstrates that this induction was confined to neurons expressing the dopamine D2 receptor messenger RNA. At this time-point, there were no changes in the striatal levels of either tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity or dopamine D2 receptor messenger RNA. The c-fos messenger RNA expression induced by acute 6-hydroxydopamine injection was abolished by intraperitoneal pretreatment with the dopamine D2 receptor agonist, quinelorane (2 mg/kg) and strongly reduced by administration of the selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonist SCH-58261 (5 mg/kg). The results reported here show, by using a novel methodological approach, that an acute decrease of dopamine release causes an induction of c-fos messenger RNA in dopamine D2 receptor-containing striatopallidal neurons. This, together with previous findings, demonstrates that the c-fos gene expression is tonically inhibited by the impulse flow-dependent dopamine release via D2 receptors. In addition, this study provides evidence that endogenous adenosine, acting via adenosine A2A receptors, induces striatal c-fos messenger RNA when extracellular dopamine levels are strongly reduced. Thus endogenous dopamine and adenosine exert opposite effects on the activity of the D2-containing striatopallidal neurons.
Dopaminergic neurons in vivo fire spontaneously in three distinct patterns or modes. It has previously been shown that the firing pattern of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons can be differentially modulated by local application of GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor antagonists. The GABA(A) antagonists, bicuculline or picrotoxin, greatly increase burst firing in dopaminergic neurons whereas GABA(B) antagonists cause a modest shift away from burst firing towards pacemaker-like firing. The three principal GABAergic inputs to nigral dopaminergic neurons arise from striatum, globus pallidus and from the axon collaterals of nigral pars reticulata projection neurons, each of which appear to act in vivo primarily on GABA(A) receptors (see preceding paper). In this study we attempted to determine on which afferent pathway(s) GABA(A) antagonists were acting to cause burst firing. Substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons were studied by single unit extracellular recordings in urethane anesthetized rats during pharmacologically induced inhibition and excitation of globus pallidus. Muscimol-induced inhibition of pallidal neurons produced an increase in the regularity of firing of nigral dopaminergic neurons together with a slight decrease in firing rate. Bicuculline-induced excitation of globus pallidus neurons produced a marked increase in burst firing together with a modest increase in firing rate. These changes in firing rate were in the opposite direction to what would be expected for a monosynaptic GABAergic pallidonigral input. Examination of the response of pars reticulata GABAergic neurons to similar manipulations of globus pallidus revealed that the firing rates of these neurons were much more sensitive to changes in globus pallidus neuron firing rate than dopaminergic neurons and that they responded in the opposite direction. Pallidal inhibition produced a dramatic increase in the firing rate of pars reticulata GABAergic neurons while pallidal excitation suppressed the spontaneous activity of pars reticulata GABAergic neurons. These data suggest that globus pallidus exerts significant control over the firing rate and pattern of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons through a disynaptic pathway involving nigral pars reticulata GABAergic neurons and that at least one important way in which local application of bicuculline induces burst firing of dopaminergic neurons is by disinhibition of this tonic inhibitory input.
Dopaminergic neurons express both GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors and GABAergic inputs play a significant role in the afferent modulation of these neurons. Electrical stimulation of GABAergic pathways originating in neostriatum, globus pallidus or substantia nigra pars reticulata produces inhibition of dopaminergic neurons in vivo. Despite a number of prior studies, the identity of the GABAergic receptor subtype(s) mediating the inhibition evoked by electrical stimulation of neostriatum, globus pallidus, or the axon collaterals of the projection neurons from substantia nigra pars reticulata in vivo remain uncertain. Single-unit extracellular recordings were obtained from substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons in urethane anesthetized rats. The effects of local pressure application of the selective GABA(A) antagonists, bicuculline and picrotoxin, and the GABA(B) antagonists, saclofen and CGP-55845A, on the inhibition of dopaminergic neurons elicited by single-pulse electrical stimulation of striatum, globus pallidus, and the thalamic axon terminals of the substantia nigra pars reticulata projection neurons were recorded in vivo. Striatal, pallidal, and thalamic induced inhibition of dopaminergic neurons was always attenuated or completely abolished by local application of the GABA(A) antagonists. In contrast, the GABA(B) antagonists, saclofen or CGP-55845A, did not block or attenuate the stimulus-induced inhibition and at times even increased the magnitude and/or duration of the evoked inhibition. Train stimulation of globus pallidus and striatum also produced an inhibition of firing in dopaminergic neurons of longer duration. However this inhibition was largely insensitive to either GABA(A) or GABA(B) antagonists although the GABA(A) antagonists consistently blocked the early portion of the inhibitory period indicating the presence of a GABA(A) component. These data demonstrate that dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta are inhibited by electrical stimulation of striatum, globus pallidus, and the projection neurons of substantia nigra pars reticulata in vivo. This inhibition appears to be mediated via the GABA(A) receptor subtype, and all three GABAergic afferents studied appear to possess inhibitory presynaptic GABA(B) autoreceptors that are active under physiological conditions in vivo.
The effect of treatment with the D1 dopamine receptor agonist SKF 38393 on the expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1, 3, 4 and 5 receptor subtypes and of the glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate ionotropic receptor subunits NRI, NR2A and NR2B was analysed using in situ hybridization. We studied the neocortex and neostriatum of normal rats and of rats unilaterally treated with 6-hydroxydopamine, a neurotoxin that, after intracerebral injection into the ventral tegmental area, causes selective degeneration of the ascending dopamine pathway. In the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 3 messenger RNA levels were ipsilaterally increased in the neocortex and neostriatum, while the levels of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 4 messenger RNA were bilaterally increased in both regions. When administered to the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, the D1 receptor agonist SKF 38393 (3 x 20 mg/kg, s.c.) produced a bilateral decrease in the expression of the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 1 and 5 receptor messenger RNA levels in the neocortex and neostriatum. In the neostriatum, SKF 38393 attenuated the ipsilateral increase in the expression of striatal metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 3 messenger RNA produced by the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. Furthermore, SKF 38393 produced a bilateral decrease in the levels of NRI receptor subunit messenger RNA and, in contrast, an increase in the striatal NR2B messenger RNA levels. All of these effects were abolished by the D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23360. These results indicate a differential D1 receptor-mediated modulation of the expression of some glutamate receptor subtypes in the neostriatum and neocortex, in agreement with the idea of a functional coupling between dopamine and excitatory amino acid systems in both regions. Thus, pharmacological targeting of excitatory amino acid systems could provide alternative or complementary treatment strategies for diseases involving dopaminergic systems in the striatum (e.g., Parkinson's disease) and cortex (e.g., schizophrenia).
The nature of age-related changes in cholinergic function and their relationship to age-related behavioral decline were examined in the present study. Male Fischer-344 rats of four ages (four, 11, 17 and 23 months) were tested in a battery of cognitive tasks. Discrete microdissections of brain areas involved in cognitive function were performed, and activity of choline acetyltransferase and levels of hemicholinium-3 binding were determined to assess the integrity of cholinergic innervation. Age-related changes in cholinergic markers occurred predominantly in the medial septal area and its target areas (hippocampus and cingulate cortex), and were also present in the posterior caudate. However, most of the age-related changes in cholinergic markers were already present at ages at which behavioral impairment was not yet maximal. There were some consistent correlations between behavioral and neurochemical measures, independent of age, but these accounted for relatively small proportions of variance in behavioral performance. For most of these correlations, lower levels of presynaptic cholinergic markers were related to better behavioral performance. In brain areas in which correlations changed with age, lower levels of presynaptic cholinergic markers were associated with better performance in young rats, whereas higher levels were associated with better performance in aged rats. Recent lesion studies using a toxin selective for basal forebrain cholinergic neurons have suggested that these neurons do not play as central a role in learning and memory in young and aged animals as was previously thought. When considered in this context, the present results suggest that preserved cholinergic function in old age might act indirectly to sustain cognitive ability. Changes in cholinergic function may represent one of a number of age-related neurobiological events that underlie behavioral impairments, or may be a permissive factor for other age-related processes that are more directly responsible for cognitive impairments.
The pars compacta and pars dissipata of the pedunculopontine nucleus contain cholinergic cell group Ch5, and the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus contains cholinergic cell group Ch6. The pedunculopontine nucleus has been implicated in a variety of functions, including mediation of rapid eye movement sleep and in extrapyramidal motor function, although the role of cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons is unclear. Quantitative neuroanatomical techniques were used to map the distribution of cholinergic neurons in the mesopontine nuclei of the adult human brain. In addition, the number and distribution of comparably sized non-cholinergic neurons at selected anatomical levels were compared. An antibody raised against human choline acetyltransferase was used to stain immunohistochemically the mesopontine neurons in six brains, ranging in age from 28 to 60 years. The rostrocaudal length of the Cb5/Ch6 cell complex was approximately 10 mm. The estimated total number of cells was similar for all brains, and varied by less than 7%. The estimated average number of cholinergic cells in the combined pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei was approximately 20,000, with 30% of the cells in the pedunculopontine nucleus pars compacta, 57% in the pedunculopontine nucleus pars dissipata and 13% in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus. There was no correlation between cell number and age. Within areas of mesopontine tegmentum occupied by the Ch5 cholinergic neurons, there were often more noncholinergic neurons than comparably sized cholinergic neurons. The present study provides detailed maps of the distribution and number of mesopontine cholinergic neurons in the normal human brain. Many non-cholinergic neurons are intermixed with the cholinergic pedunculopontine neurons. One region of the pedunculopontine nucleus pars dissipata containing few cholinergic neurons, located adjacent to the ventral border of the pedunculopontine nucleus pars compacta, may correspond to the midbrain-extrapyramidal area as defined previously in rodent and in non-human primate. These data will be useful for quantitative neuropathological studies concerning the role of both cholinergic and non-cholinergic mesopontine neurons in diseases proposed to affect these neurons, including Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia and progressive supranuclear palsy.
The present experiments examined the effects of direct intracortical microinjections of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid directly into the insular cortex of rats, before or immediately after training of conditioned taste aversion and the water maze spatial learning task. In the first series of experiments animals received bilateral injections of 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid prior to taste aversion conditioning or spatial training. A strong disruptive effect was found in the acquisition of training tasks. To determine the possible involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the early post-training processes taking place in the cortex during both learning paradigms, in a second series of experiments, animals received bilateral 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid microinjections 30, 60 or 120 min after the acquisition trial, and 15 min before the retention test. For spatial learning successive treatments were independently done either starting at the onset of the asymptotic phase of the learning curve, 0, 30 or 120 min after finishing the training session, as well as 15 min before the retention test trial. The conditioned taste aversion task remained sensitive to N-methyl-D-aspartate blockade during a period of at least 2 h after the first presentation of the gustatory stimulus, while in the case of the spatial learning task, a gradually decreasing effect was observed from the onset of the asymptotic phase onwards. Taken together, these results provide direct evidence for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor involvement in cortical regulation of memory formation. Furthermore, our results suggest that in the same cortical region, a different time-course for the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-dependent mechanisms occurs during the early formation of cortically mediated memories, depending on the particular behavioural task.
The hippocampus has long been known to be important for memory function. However, the involvement of hippocampal dopamine systems with memory has received little attention. In the current study, dopamine D1 and D2 hippocampal receptor system involvement with memory was assessed in female Sprague-Dawley rats by local infusion of D1 and D2 agonists and antagonists into the ventral hippocampus. Working memory performance was assessed on the radial-arm maze. Neither the D1 agonist dihydrexidine (1.1-10 microg/side) nor the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (0.19-1.67 microg/side) was effective in significantly altering radial-arm maze choice accuracy. In contrast, there were significant and opposite effects of D2 agonist and antagonist treatments. The D2 agonist quinpirole caused a significant (P&lt;0.05) dose-related improvement in choice accuracy over a dose range of 1.1-10 microg/side. In a complementary fashion, the D2 antagonist raclopride caused a significant (P&lt;0.05) dose-related choice accuracy deficit over a range of 0.19-1.67 microg/side. This study provides clear evidence that hippocampal D2 activity is positively related to working memory performance, while evidence for D1 systems is less compelling. Dopamine D2 receptors in the ventral hippocampus were shown to have important influences on spatial working memory. In a consistent pattern of effects ventral hippocampal infusion of the D2 agonist quinpirole improved working memory performance in the radial-arm maze, while ventral hippocampal infusion of the D2 antagonist raclopride impaired performance.
The effects of changes in extra- and intracellular pH (pHo and pHi, respectively) on potentials mediated by the influx of Ca2+ ions were investigated in intracellular &quot;current-clamp&quot; recordings from CA1 pyramidal neurons in rat hippocampal slices. In neurons which exhibited a &quot;regular-spiking&quot; discharge in response to depolarizing current injection at pH 7.3, perfusion with pH 7.7 medium led to the development of burst firing. Conversely, neurons which were &quot;burst-firing&quot; at pH 7.3 became regular spiking upon exposure to pH 6.9 medium. In addition, the rebound depolarization following a current-evoked hyperpolarization to &gt;- 60 mV, which in part reflects activation of a low-voltage-activated Ca2+ conductance, was reduced at pHo 6.9 and enhanced at pHo 7.7. Neither the burst firing pattern of discharge nor the augmented rebound depolarization observed during perfusion with pH 7.7 medium was due to the reduction in [Cl-]o consequent upon the increase in [HCO3-]o at a constant PCO2. The magnitudes of the fast afterhyperpolarization which follows a single depolarizing current-evoked action potential and the slow afterhyperpolarization which follows a train of action potentials were attenuated and enhanced, respectively, during perfusion with pH 6.9 and pH 7.7 media, compared to responses obtained at pH 7.3. Reducing pHi at a constant pHo (by exposure to pH 7.3 HCO3-/CO2-free medium buffered with 30 mM HEPES) also attenuated fast and slow afterhyperpolarizations. In tetrodotoxin- and tetraethylammonium-poisoned slices, perfusion with pH 6.9 and pH 7.7 media reduced and increased, respectively, the magnitude of current-evoked Ca2+-dependent depolarizing potentials and their associated slow afterhyperpolarizations, compared with responses obtained at pH 7.3. In contrast, reducing pHi at a constant pHo elicited only a small reduction in the magnitude of Ca2+ spikes but markedly attenuated the subsequent slow afterhyperpolarization. The results suggest that, in rat CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons, Ca2+-dependent depolarizing potentials mediated by the influx of Ca2+ ions through voltage-activated Ca2+ channels are sensitive to changes in pHo. These effects of changes in pHo are not dependent upon changes in pHi consequent upon the changes in pHo. Changes in pHo also affect the magnitudes of fast and slow afterhyperpolarizations mediated by Ca2+-dependent K+ conductances. In these cases, however, the effects of changes in pHo are mimicked by changes in pHi at a constant pHo, suggesting in turn that the effects of changes in pHo on fast and slow afterhyperpolarizations may be mediated both by changes in Ca2+ influx (reflecting mainly changes in pHo) and by direct effects of changes in pHi (consequent upon changes in pHo) on Ca2+-dependent K+ conductances.
Human mesial temporal lobe epilepsy is characterized by hippocampal seizures associated with pyramidal cell loss in the hippocampus and dispersion of dentate gyrus granule cells. A similar histological pattern was recently described in a model of extensive neuroplasticity in adult mice after injection of kainate into the dorsal hippocampus [Suzuki et al. (1995) Neuroscience 64, 665-674]. The aim of the present study was to determine whether (i) recurrent seizures develop in mice after intrahippocampal injection of kainate, and (ii) the electroencephalographic, histopathological and behavioural changes in such mice are similar to those in human mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Adult mice receiving a unilateral injection of kainate (0.2 microg; 50 nl) or saline into the dorsal hippocampus displayed recurrent paroxysmal discharges on the electroencephalographic recordings associated with immobility, staring and, occasionally, clonic components. These seizures started immediately after kainate injection and recurrid for up to eight months. Epileptiform activities occurred most often during sleep but occasionally while awake. The pattern of seizures did not change over time nor did they secondarily generalize. Glucose metabolic changes assessed by [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiography were restricted to the ipsilateral hippocampus for 30 days, but had spread to the thalamus by 120 days after kainate. Ipsilateral cell loss was prominent in hippocampal pyramidal cells and hilar neurons. An unusual pattern of progressive enlargement of the dentate gyrus was observed with a marked radial dispersion of the granule cells associated with reactive astrocytes. Mossy fibre sprouting occurred both in the supragranular molecular layer and infrapyramidal stratum oriens layer of CA3. The expression of the embryonic form of the neural cell adhesion molecule coincided over time with granule cell dispersion. Our data describe the first histological, electrophysiological and behavioural evidence suggesting that discrete excitotoxic lesions of the hippocampus in mice can be used as an isomorphic model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy.
Studies on the neurobiology of cocaine abuse suggest that cocaine directly modifies the activity of dopamine neurons projecting from the dopamine-synthesizing cells of the ventral tegmental area to the nucleus accumbens. The repeated use of cocaine produces persistent adaptations within the mesocorticolimbic system and the resulting changes in monoamine neurotransmission may lead to behavioral sensitization. The present series of experiments sought to determine the effects of the repeated, intermittent challenge that took place two days after discontinuation of the pretreatment regimen; (ii) the ex vivo levels of biogenic monoamines, choline and acetylcholine in the nucleus accumbens, the dorsolateral caudate nucleus, as well as the anterior cingulate, frontal motor, frontal somatosensory and pyriform cortices; and (iii) the degree of neurochemical relationship between the left and right hemispheres. The repeated administration of cocaine produced sensitized behavioral responses to a subsequent challenge. Neurochemical correlates of repeated cocaine administration were observed at the cortical level and included a significant decrease in serotonin levels in the left anterior cingulate and pyriform cortices and an increase in dopamine metabolism in the left pyriform cortex. Furthermore, a shift in the interhemispheric coupling coefficient matrix for dopamine neurotransmission was observed in both the pyriform cortex and nucleus accumbens of cocaine-sensitized animals suggesting that, in these structures, the two hemispheres are operating independently. These results demonstrate that cocaine produces alterations in specific dopaminergic and serotonergic pathways that arise from the mesencephalon and project towards both the anterior cingulate and pyriform cortices.
Food restriction of adult rodents increases lifespan, with commensurate attenuation of age-related pathological lesions in many organs, as well as attenuation of normal ageing changes that are distinct from gross lesions. Previous work showed that chronic food restriction attenuated age-associated astrocyte and microglial hyperactivity in the hippocampal hilus, as measured by expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein and major histocompatibility complex II antigen (OX6). Here, we examined other markers of astrocyte and microglial activation in gray and white matter regions of ad libitum-fed (Brown Norway x Fischer 344) F1 male rats aged three and 24 months and chronic food-restricted rats aged 24 months. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemical techniques evaluated glial expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein, apolipoprotein E, apolipoprotein J (clusterin), heme oxygenase-1, complement 3 receptor (OX42), OX6 and transforming growth factor-beta1. All markers were elevated in the corpus callosum during ageing and were attenuated by food restriction, but other regions showed marked dissociation of the extent and direction of changes. Astrocytic activation, as measured with glial fibrillary acidic protein expression (coding and intron-containing RNA, immunoreactivity), increased with age in the corpus callosum, basal ganglia and hippocampus. Generally, food restriction attenuated the age-related increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA and immunoreactivity. Food restriction also reduced the age-related increase in apolipoprotein J and E messenger RNA and heme oxygenase-1 immunoreactivity in the basal ganglia and corpus callosum. However, astrocytes in the hilus of the hippocampus showed an age-related decrease in apolipoprotein J and E messenger RNA, which was further intensified by food restriction. The age-associated microglial activation measured by OX6 and OX42 immunoreactivity was reduced by food restriction in most subregions. The localized subsets of glial age changes and effects of food restriction comprise a mosaic of ageing consistent with the regional heterogeneity of ageing changes reported by others. In particular, age has a differential effect on astrocytic and microglial hyperactivity in gray versus white matter areas. The evident mosaic of glial ageing and responses to food restriction suggests that multiple mechanisms are at work during ageing.
This study investigated the distribution of nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons in the cerebral cortex of individuals with Alzheimer's disease, and compared them with age-matched controls. Paraffin-embedded sections of the frontal (area 10), occipital (area 17) and entorhinal cortices (area 28), and hippocampal formation obtained from 13 autopsy cases were used in the study. Neurons expressing nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA and protein were identified, respectively, by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. Optical densities of nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons were assessed in 50 randomly selected fields of each of the above regions of the cortices, in each case by microscopic photometry. In the frontal cortex of the Alzheimer group, while a decrease in the number of nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons was evident, the nitric oxide synthase neurons, on the other hand, showed an increased optical density in layers II-IV when compared with those of normal ageing. In the occipital cortices, no significant differences in optical density were recorded between the normal ageing and Alzheimer specimens. In the entorhinal cortex, the optical densities of nitric oxide synthase neurons were again similar between the Alzheimer and age-matched control groups. In the hippocampar formation itself, there was an increase of nitric oxide synthase staining in the Alzheimer patients. These results show that (i) nitric oxide synthase neurons are abundant in the human cortex, (ii) the distribution of nitric oxide synthase neurons differs between different cortical regions, and (iii) there are differences between normal ageing and Alzheimer patients in the frontal cortex and the hippocampus.
A chronic single-unit study of motor cortical activity was undertaken in two monkeys trained to perform a bimanually coordinated task. The hypothesis was tested that the supplementary motor area plays a specific role in coordinating the two hands for common goal-oriented actions. With this objective, a special search was made for neurons that might exhibit properties exclusively related to bimanual task performance. Monkeys learned to reach for and to pull open a spring-loaded drawer with one hand, while the other hand reached out to grasp food from the drawer recess. The two hands were precisely coordinated for achievement of this goal. Monkeys also performed, in separate blocks of trials, only the pulling or grasping movements, using the same hands as in the bimanual task. Task-related activity of 348 neurons from the supplementary motor area and 341 neurons from the primary motor area, each examined in the bimanual and in both unimanual tasks, was recorded in the two hemispheres. Most neurons from the supplementary motor area were recorded within its caudal microexcitable portion. Contrary to expectation, the proportion of neurons with activity patterns related exclusively to the bimanual task was small, but somewhat higher in the supplementary motor area (5%) than in the primary motor cortex (2%). Another group of neurons that were equally modulated during the bimanual as well as to both unimanual task components might also contribute in controlling bimanual actions. Such &quot;task-dependent&quot; rather than &quot;effector-dependent&quot; activity patterns were more common in neurons of the supplementary motor area (19%) than of the primary motor cortex (5%). Bilateral receptive fields were also more numerous among the supplementary motor area neurons. However, a large majority of neurons from primary and supplementary motor areas had activity profiles clearly related only to contralateral hand movements (65% in the primary motor and 51% in the supplementary motor area). A similar group of neurons showed an additional slight modulation with ipsilateral movements; they were equally common in the two areas (14% and 16%, respectively) and their significance for bimanual coordination is questionable. Summed activity profiles of all neurons recorded in the primary and supplementary motor areas of the same hemisphere were compared. The modulations of the three histograms, corresponding to the two unimanual and the bimanual tasks, were similar for the two motor areas, i.e. prominent with bimanual and contralateral movements and weak with ipsilateral movements. It is concluded that the supplementary motor area is likely to contribute to bimanual coordination, perhaps more than the primary motor cortex, but that it is not a defining function for the former cortical area. Instead, it is suggested that the supplementary motor area is part of a callosally interconnected and distributed network of frontal and parietal cortical areas that together orchestrate bimanual coordination.
Insulin-like growth factor-1 has pleiotropic effects in the central nervous system and can act both as a survival and a differentiation factor. Insulin-like growth factor-1 can be proteolytically cleaved into des-N-(1-3)-insulin-like growth factor-1 and a N-terminal tripeptide fragment, glycine-proline-glutamate. Both insulin-like growth factor-1 and des-N-(1-3)-insulin-like growth factor-1 can improve neuronal survival after hypoxic-ischemic brain injury in vivo. The present study investigates the effects of glycine-proline-glutamate on different brain regions and neuronal populations after hypoxic-ischemic injury. Unilateral hypoxic-ischemic injury was induced in adult rats. Glycine-proline-glutamate (3 microg) was administered centrally 2 h after the injury and the extent of brain damage determined five days later. In a separate trial immunohistochemical techniques were used to determine the effects of glycine-proline-glutamate on specific populations of neurons in the striatum after the injury. Compared to the vehicle treatment, glycine-proline-glutamate (n=19) treatment reduced the extent of cortical damage and neuronal loss in the CA1-2 subregions of the hippocampus (P&lt;0.05). In the striatum, there was a trend towards a reduction in neuronal loss after glycine-proline-glutamate treatment (P=0.053) compared to the vehicle (n=21)-treated animals. In a separate study, glycine-proline-glutamate (n=8) treatment prevented the loss of choline acetyltransferase (P&lt;0.05), glutamate acid decarboxylase (P&lt;0.05) and somatostatin (P&lt;0.05) containing neurons in the ipsilateral striatum following hypoxic-ischemic brain injury and also increased the numbers of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (P&lt;0.05) containing neurons in the contralateral side. These studies suggest that in addition to neuroprotective effects, glycine-proline-glutamate can influence neuronal activity after hypoxic-ischemic injury.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, a member of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily, is a potent neurotrophic factor, which has a variety of biological activities that affect several types of neurons in both the central and peripheral nervous systems. In this study, we examined the effects of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor on delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 region of rats after transient forebrain ischemia. In the control rats pretreated with the vehicle, transient forebrain ischemia-induced delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 region was observed seven days after reperfusion. Pretreatment with glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (1.0 microg), which was directly microinjected into the right hippocampal CA1 region, gave significant protection against the delayed hippocampal neuronal death. On the contralateral side of the hippocampus, which was not injected with glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, delayed neuronal death similar to that seen in vehicle-treated control animals was observed. Intracerebroventricular glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (2.5 microg) injection also protected against delayed neuronal death. In addition, pretreatment with glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor gave significant protection against apoptotic cell death induced by brain ischemia in the hippocampal CA1 region, as determined by in situ staining for DNA fragmentation. These findings suggest that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor plays an important role in delayed neuronal death induced by brain ischemia.
The nucleus accumbens septi is the major target of mesolimbic dopamine neurons originating in the ventral tegmental area of the mesencephalon. Studies involving experimental manipulation of dopamine transmission by drugs and by lesions, as well as in vivo monitoring of extracellular dopamine concentrations, have provided evidence that the dopamine transmission of the nucleus accumbens plays an important role in behaviour motivated by conventional (e.g., food, sex) and drug reinforcers. Motivated behaviour is distinguished into an appetitive (preparatory/anticipatory) phase consisting of flexible response patterns intended to search and approach the reward itself, and a consummatory phase, consisting of fixed response patterns (eating, drinking, copulating, etc.) finalized to the utilization of the biological resources of the reward (caloric, metabolic, genetic, etc.). While some studies reported a stimulation of dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens in relation to appetitive as well as consummatory behaviour, other studies reported a relationship exclusively with consummatory behaviour. Therefore, the precise relationship between dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens and specific phases of motivated behaviour is debated. On the basis of topographical, histochemical and connectional evidence, the nucleus accumbens has been subdivided into two compartments, a medioventral &quot;shell&quot; and a laterodorsal &quot;core&quot;. This heterogeneity may be relevant to the current debate over the role of nucleus accumbens dopamine in behaviour. Thus, one might hypothesize that, depending on the specific compartment of the nucleus accumbens where dopamine transmission is monitored, a different relationship with specific stimuli which motivate behaviour is obtained. In order to verify this possibility we monitored by microdialysis the changes in dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens shell and core during appetitive and consummatory phases of behaviour motivated by food. As food we utilized a palatable snack food (Fonzies) whose consumption has been shown in previous studies from our laboratory to release dopamine in the nucleus accumbens shell and in the medial prefrontal cortex. Unpredicted consumption of Fonzies preferentially stimulated dopamine transmission in the shell as compared to the core. Appetitive food stimuli (perforated Fonzies-filled boxes) phasically stimulated dopamine transmission in the core but not in the shell and sensitized the dopamine response to feeding in the core but inhibited that in the shell. These clear-cut differences between nucleus accumbens shell and core suggest that phasic dopamine transmission in each compartment of the nucleus accumbens subserves different roles in motivated behaviour.
From a classical viewpoint, tolerance to analgesic effects of opiates refers to the decreased effectiveness of a given opiate following its repeated use. Despite much research, it has not been conclusively demonstrated in vivo that functional changes observed at the opioid receptor level in the responsiveness to opiates account for development of tolerance. An alternative hypothesis is that opioid receptors remain operative following repeated opiate administration but that opioid receptor activation rapidly induces a prolonged increase in pain sensitivity which opposes the predominant opiate analgesic effect following repeated opiate administration. We recently showed that a single heroin administration induces an enhanced pain sensitivity for several days, a phenomenon which is prevented by the non-competitive N-methyl-D aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801. Herein we report that repeated once-daily heroin injections induced a gradual lowering of the nociceptive threshold which progressively masked a sustained heroin analgesic functional effect. MK-801 prevented such opiate-induced allodynia and thereby prevented development of an apparent decrease in the effectiveness of heroin. These results indicate that intermittent heroin administration induced a persistent increase in the basal pain sensitivity which, if not taken into account gives the impression of less analgesia, i.e. apparent tolerance.
Various forms of synaptic long-term potentiation and depression have been studied in detail in hippocampus and neocortex. Each are produced by specific patterns of synaptic activation and rely on electrical stimulation of afferents for their induction. Few studies have explored the ability of activity produced by cortical networks themselves to generate similar long-term changes in synaptic efficacy. Experiments have shown that periods of synchronized network bursting in both slices and dissociated cultures of hippocampus can lead to persistent network discharges. Conversely, one study has reported that network discharging can disrupt the induction of long-term potentiation in hippocampus. Whether long-term depression can be induced by synchronous network discharging is unknown. In experiments reported here, we examined the long-term effects of synchronized activity within hippocampal CA3 networks on synaptic potentials produced by the converging perforant path. Prior to induction of network bursting, slices were incubated in a perfusate containing picrotoxin and elevated (4 mM) Ca2+ and Mg2+. To induce network discharges, the concentration of both divalent cations were reduced to normal levels (1.5 mM). Following 20 min of network bursting, perforant path synapses, that did not participate in network discharging, underwent a 30% non-decrementing long-term depression. At the same time, synchronized network discharges, that were absent prior to induction, persisted upon return to preinduction conditions. The antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, D(-)2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, blocked both long-term depression of perforant path excitatory postsynaptic potentials and persistent network discharging. Results suggest that activity generated by hippocampal networks is able to produce long-term depression of non-coincidentally active synapses.
When suitably stimulated, neurons in the striate visual cortex of cats fire in bursts at 20-60 Hz and the membrane potential oscillates rhythmically in the same frequency range and in phase. These oscillations reflect intrinsic properties of mammalian neurons, occur in coherent spatial patterns that depend on the segregation and stimulus selectivity of stimulated cells, and mediate in long-range synchronization across columns and over large cortical areas of cells responding to the same stimulus property/properties. The pool of activated neurons may be adequate in size to drive cellular oscillations into local fields and mass responses. Accordingly, stimulus-dependent oscillatory activity in the same frequency range was described in man after contrast stimulation. Our results describe oscillatory potentials at approximately 15.0-35.0 Hz that in man are (partly) independent from, and anticipate the occurrence of, the conventional low-frequency visual response evoked by transient, foveal stimulation with spatially-modulated patterns.
Patch-clamp recording was used to study rectifying K+ currents in myenteric neurons in short-term culture. In conditions that suppressed Ca2+ -activated K+ current, three kinds of voltage-activated K+ currents were identified by their voltage range of activation, inactivation, kinetics and pharmacology. These were A-type current, delayed outwardly rectifying current (I(K),dr) and inwardly rectifying current (I(K),ir). I(K),ir consisted of an instantaneous component followed by a time-dependent current that rapidly increased at potentials negative to -80 mV. Time-constant of activation was voltage-dependent with an e-fold decrease for a 31-mV hyperpolarization amounting to a decrease from 800 to 145 ms between -80 and -100 mV. I(K),ir did not inactivate. I(K),ir was abolished in K+ -free solution. Increases in external K+ increased I(K),ir conductance in direct relation to the square root of external K+ concentration. Activation kinetics were accelerated and the activation range shifted to more positive K+ equilibrium potentials. I(K),ir was suppressed by external Cs+ and Ba2+ in a concentration-dependent manner. Ca2+ and Mg+ were less effective than Ba2+. I(K),ir was unaffected by tetraethylammonium ions. I(K),dr was activated at membrane potentials positive to - 30 mV with an e-fold decrease in time-constant of activation from 145 to 16 ms between -20 and 30 mV. It was half-activated at 5 mV and fully activated at 50 mV. Inactivation was indiscernible during 2.5 s test pulses. I(K),dr was suppressed in a concentration-, but not voltage-dependent manner by either tetraethylammonium or 4-aminopyridine and was insensitive to Cs+. The results suggest that I(K),ir may be important in maintaining the high resting membrane potentials found in afterhyperpolarization-type enteric neurons. They also suggest importance of I(K),ir channels in augmentation of the large hyperpolarizing after-potentials in afterhyperpolarization-type neurons and the hyperpolarization associated with inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. I(K),dr in afterhyperpolarization-type enteric neurons has overall kinetics and voltage behaviour like delayed rectifier currents in other excitable cells where the currents can also be distinguished from A-type and Ca2+ -activated K+ current.
The ultrastructure of Mauthner cells of goldfish fry and adult xenotoca in intact state and after prolonged natural stimulation has been studied qualitatively and quantitatively. Additionally, Mauthner cells of intact adult goldfish and adult rotan Percottus glehni were investigated. In all adult fish the dendroplasm of the two major dendrites was shown to contain a regular network of smooth endoplasmic reticulum, with cisterns and tubules arranged transversally to the dendrite stem. In the Mauthner cells of intact goldfish fry, the reticulum was not clearly expressed, the transversal cisterns occurred occasionally. After stimulation, however, it became more developed probably due to proliferation of additional transversal cisterns. The periodicity of transversally oriented cisterns in the dendrites of Mauthner cells in each fish species studied was nearly the same. However, the number of transversal cisterns per unit of dendrite length, and the total length of cisterns and tubules per unit of cross-section area varied both within and among the species. These parameters increased after stimulation. It is suggested that the proliferation of the transversal cisterns in the endoplasmic reticulum and the extent of their development depend on the functional state of the afferent synapses and the plasticity of the smooth reticulum reflects the involvement of postsynaptic mechanisms in regulation of Mauthner cell stability presumably via the regulation of calcium homeostasis under varying conditions of functioning.
Although mature mammalian retinal ganglion cells normally fail to regrow injured axons, exposure to the molecular environment of the peripheral nervous system stimulates regenerative growth. The present study used dissociated rat retinal ganglion cells purified by immunopanning to identify peripheral nervous system-derived factors that promote axonal outgrowth. Of the multiple growth factors investigated, only ciliary neurotrophic factor and the related cytokine, leukemia inhibitory factor, had striking neuritogenic activity, with half-maximal effects at 1-2 ng/ml. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor stimulated retinal ganglion cell survival nearly as well as ciliary neurotrophic factor, but had only minor effects on outgrowth. Thus, the neuritogenic effects of ciliary neurotrophic factor are not a simple consequence of increased survival. Ciliary neurotrophic factor-stimulated outgrowth was correlated with increased expression of the growth-associated membrane phosphoprotein, GAP-43, a hallmark of optic nerve regeneration in vivo. A high molecular weight fraction from media conditioned by rat optic or sciatic nerve mimicked the effect of ciliary neurotrophic factor in inducing axonal outgrowth. Ciliary neurotrophic factor was detected in the conditioned media on western blots, and the biological activity of the conditioned media was neutralized with an anti-ciliary neurotrophic factor antibody. These results indicate that ciliary neurotrophic factor has specific effects on axon outgrowth in retinal ganglion cells that are dissociable from its effects on cell survival, and that ciliary neurotrophic factor accounts for most of the axon-promoting activity for retinal ganglion cells present in either the sciatic or optic nerve.
Recent evidence indicates that 17beta-estradiol may have neuroprotective and neuroregenerative properties. Estradiol is formed locally in neural tissue from precursor androgens. The expression of aromatase, the enzyme that catalyses the conversion of androgens to estrogens, is restricted, under normal circumstances, to specific neuronal populations. These neurons are located in brain areas in which local estrogen formation may be involved in neuroendocrine control and in the modulation of reproductive or sex dimorphic behaviours. In this study the distribution of aromatase immunoreactivity has been assessed in the brain of mice and rats after a neurotoxic lesion induced by the systemic administration of kainic acid. This treatment resulted in the induction of aromatase expression by reactive glia in the hippocampus and in other brain areas that are affected by kainic acid. The reactive glia were identified as astrocytes by co-localization of aromatase with glial fibrillary acidic protein and by ultrastructural analysis. No immunoreactive astrocytes were detected in control animals. The same result, the de novo induction of aromatase expression in reactive astrocytes on the hippocampus, was observed after a penetrating brain injury. Furthermore, using a 3H2O assay, aromatase activity was found to increase significantly in the injured hippocampus. These findings indicate that although astrocytes do not normally express aromatase, the enzyme expression is induced in these glial cells by different forms of brain injury. The results suggest a role for local astroglial estrogen formation in brain repair.
The excitatory amino acid analog, N-methyl-D-aspartate, was injected intracortically into nine-day-old rats. Resulting axon-sparing lesions in the developing sensorimotor cortex, which secondarily affect thalamic neurons that become deprived of cortical targets, provide an experimental model for the study of the glial response in distantly affected areas. The microglial/macrophage response was studied using tomato lectin histochemistry and major histocompatibility complex I and II immunocytochemistry. Blood-brain barrier integrity was evaluated. In the cortical lesion site, where blood-brain barrier breakdown occurs, the rapid microglial response was restricted to the degenerating area. Microglial changes were first seen at 4 h post-injection, peaking at days 3-5. Reactive microglia changed morphology, increased tomato lectin binding and expressed major histocompatibility complex I. Additionally, some cells expressed major histocompatibility complex II. In the secondarily affected thalamus, the microglial response was not as pronounced as in the cortex, was first seen at 10 h post-injection and peaked at days 3-5. Reactive microglia showed a bushy morphology, were intensely lectin positive and expressed major histocompatibility complex I. The exceptional response of the nine-day-old brain to cortical lesions makes this model an interesting tool for studying the implications of microglial major histocompatibility factor expression in still enigmatic processes such as wound healing and plasticity.
Interleukin-1beta plays an important role in mediating central components of the host response to peripheral infection such as fever and neuroendocrine activation by acting in the brain. The present study assessed whether interleukin-1beta produced in the brain is relevant to neuronal activation and the fever response induced by intraperitoneal injection of bacterial lipopolysaccharide. The distributions of Fos protein, interleukin-1beta protein and inducible nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA, used as an anatomical indicator of interleukin-1beta bioactivity, were compared in brains of animals killed 2, 4 or 8 h after lipopolysaccharide (250 microg/kg) or saline injection. Saline did not induce interleukin-1beta or Fos immunoreactivity in the brain. Interleukin-1beta positive cells were found 2 h after lipopolysaccharide injection in circumventricular organs. Fos immunoreactivity at this time-point was not found in circumventricular organs, but in parenchymal structures such as the nucleus of the solitary tract, paraventricular hypothalamus and ventromedial preoptic area. Fos expression did occur in circumventricular organs only 8 h after lipopolysaccharide injection. This late pattern of Fos expression coincided with the rise in body temperature and the induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA. These data show that after peripheral lipopolysaccharide administration interleukin-1beta is synthesized and bioactive in circumventricular organs. Interleukin-1beta may activate local neurons that induce fever and neuroendocrine activation via projections to the ventromedial preoptic area and the nucleus of the solitary tract.
Substance P is an important neuromediator in spinal synaptic transmission, particularly in processing nociceptive afferent information. The effects of substance P are mediated by activation of the neurokinin 1 receptor. Evidence has suggested that excitatory amino acids such as glutamate, and prostaglandins including prostaglandin E2 are involved in the enhanced spinal excitability and hyperalgesia produced by spinal substance P. In the present study, we have demonstrated that intrathecal injection of substance P (20 nmol) in rats chronically implanted with intrathecal dialysis catheters induced a decrease in thermal paw withdrawal latency (before: 10.4+/-0.3 s; after 7.6+/-0.6 s), which was accompanied by an increase in prostaglandin E2 (362+/-37% of baseline), glutamate (267+/-84%) and taurine (279+/-57%), but not glycine, glutamine, serine or asparagine. Intrathecal injection of artificial cerebrospinal fluid had no effect upon the behavior or release. Substance P-induced thermal hyperalgesia and prostaglandin E2 release were significantly attenuated by a selective neurokinin 1 receptor antagonist RP67580, but not by an enantiomer RP68651. However, substance P-induced release of glutamate and taurine was not reduced by treatment with RP67580. SR140333, another neurokinin 1 receptor antagonist, displayed the same effects as RP67580 (i.e. block of thermal hyperalgesia and prostaglandin E2 release, but not release of amino acids). These results provide direct evidence suggesting that the spinal substance P-induced thermal hyperalgesia is mediated by an increase in spinal prostaglandin E2 via activation of the neurokinin 1 receptor. These findings define an important linkage between small afferents, sensory neurotransmitter release and spinal prostanoids in the cascade of spinally-mediated hyperalgesia. The evoked release of glutamate is apparently not a result of activation of neurokinin 1 receptors. Accordingly, consistent with other pharmacological data, acute spinal glutamate release does not contribute to the hyperalgesia induced by activation of spinal neurokinin 1 receptors.
Arginine vasopressin peptide and messenger RNA expression were examined at the cellular level in the magnocellular and parvocellular neurons in the rat paraventricular nucleus after dehydration and rehydration, employing immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization histochemistry on the same tissue sections. Most magnocellular vasopressinergic neurons of control animals expressed both vasopressin-like immunoreactivity and messenger RNA. However, neurons negative for vasopressin-like immunoreactivity but expressing messenger RNA were also detected, and their number increased during dehydration. In contrast, almost all of the parvocellular vasopressinergic neurons of dehydrated animals expressed vasopressin messenger RNA alone, with continued increase in their number after rehydration, despite return of the number of magnocellular vasopressinergic neurons to the control level. Vasopressin messenger RNA and corticotropin releasing factor-like immunoreactivity were co-localized in the same parvocellular neurons, and vasopressin-immunoreactive nerve terminals were detected in the external zone of the median eminence. These findings suggest that magno- and parvocellular vasopressinergic neurons are differentially activated during dehydration/rehydration. Osmotic stimuli activate all magnocellular vasopressinergic neurons, but the effect is not simultaneous in all of these neurons. Parvocellular vasopressinergic neurons are also activated by the stress of dehydration which effect appears to last longer than in the magnocellular system.
To investigate the role of neurotrophins in the initial formation of striatal patch versus matrix, the spatial and temporal expression of trkB receptors was examined using immunohistochemistry. Polyclonal antibodies, against the C-terminus or the tyrosine kinase domain, revealed trkB-immunoreactive cells and fibers localized to patches beginning on embryonic day 19 in the rat, which co-localized with patchy dopamine fibers, substance P-immunoreactive neurons and glutamate receptors. Patchy striatal trkB expression was maintained after lesioning the nigrostriatal dopamine system. The patchy trkB distribution persisted through postnatal day 14, then became more homogeneous at the same time that nigrostriatal afferents become homogeneous. Later in development, trkB immunoreactivity was most intense in a subpopulation of large striatal cells that were similar in size and frequency to those immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase. The spatiotemporal expression of trkB receptor in phenotypically distinct striatal patches, as well as evidence that neurotrophins regulate expression of neuronal phenotypic markers during development, may indicate a convergence of neurotrophins and afferent innervation on to future patch cells that may regulate the establishment of striatal compartmentalization.
Administration of selective agonists of D1 dopamine receptors increases immediate early gene expression in striatal neurons, a response which is particularly robust in the dopamine-depleted striatum. Although interactions between dopamine and glutamate receptor-mediated responses in striatal neurons have been demonstrated in a number of experimental paradigms, our previous findings indicate that N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists do not block D1 receptor-mediated induction of immediate early genes in the dopamine-depleted striatum. In the present study, we therefore examined interactions between D1 dopamine receptors and the (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate/kainate subtypes of glutamate receptor by determining whether striatal infusion of the (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate/kainate antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione would block D1 receptor-mediated induction of the immediate early genes c-fos and zif268 in the dopamine-depleted striatum. Striatal infusion of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (1 mM) completely blocked (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate-induced c-fos and zif268 expression. However, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (1 microM-1 mM) did not significantly affect induction of c-fos and zif268 by D1 receptor stimulation (SKF 38393, 2 mg/kg, i.p.) in the dopamine-depleted striatum. To more generally block excitatory input, tetrodotoxin (10 microM) was infused into the striatum of rats receiving a D1 agonist. Local infusion of tetrodotoxin had minimal effect on induction of c-fos and zif268 in the dopamine-depleted striatum. In contrast, tetrodotoxin abolished induction of c-fos and zif268 messenger RNAs by the D2 antagonist eticlopride (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) in both intact rats and dopamine-depleted rats receiving continuous D2 agonist treatment (quinpirole, 0.5 mg/kg/day). The results indicate that D1 receptor-mediated induction of immediate early genes in the dopamine-depleted striatum occurs by mechanisms that are independent of excitatory input through (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate/kainate receptors.
The distribution of dopamine D1 and D2 receptor immunoreactivities in the nucleus accumbens and the olfactory tubercle of adult and postnatal male rats were compared with the distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine transporter immunoreactivities. An overall co-distribution of D1 and D2 receptor immunoreactivities with tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was found in the nucleus accumbens and the olfactory tubercle. However, the major finding in this study was, following a more detailed analysis in coronal sections of the shell part of the nucleus accumbens, the existence of nerve cell patches of strong D1 receptor immunoreactivity associated with low D2 receptor, dopamine transporter and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivities. These patches were mainly surrounded by areas of strong D2 receptor, tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine transporter immunoreactivities and could be found also in the olfactory tubercle. Similar observations were made in postnatal rats. Serial reconstructions of the patches of strong D1 receptor immunoreactivity in the rostrocaudal direction were made. The patches formed a continuous tubular nerve cell system in the shell part of the nucleus accumbens. Since this nerve cell system was found to be surrounded by a high density of dopamine terminals, it may represent a compartment where dopamine transmission mainly acts on D1 receptors via local diffusion (i.e. via volume transmission). However, it must be noted that the D1 receptor rich patches constitute only a small fraction of the nucleus accumbens and the overall density of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive terminals correlates with the density of both D1 and D2 receptors in the nucleus accumbens. In conclusion, the present paper gives new aspects on the chemical microarchitecture of the nucleus accumbens.
Asymmetrical spontaneous turning behavior or circling phenomena are often related to components of the dopaminergic system, particularly to an imbalance of nigrostriatal function. When a rotational preference is observed, it is typically in a direction away from the brain hemisphere with higher striatal dopaminergic transmission. We have recently described a rat mutant (ci) with spontaneous circling behavior and other signs of functional brain asymmetry. Neurochemical determinations showed that mutants of both genders have significantly lower concentrations of dopamine and dopamine metabolites in the striatum ipsilateral to the preferred direction of rotation. In the present study, we used immunohistochemical, neurochemical, and autoradiographic techniques to characterize the dopaminergic abnormalities of the ci rat mutant in more detail. Age-matched non-affected controls of the same strain were used for comparison. Immunohistochemical labeling of dopaminergic neurons and fibers in substantia nigra pars compacta, ventral tegmental area, and striatum did not indicate any significant neurodegeneration or asymmetry that could explain the lateralization in dopamine levels in striatum of ci rats. Neurochemical determinations substantiated that ci rats of both genders have a significant imbalance in striatal dopamine metabolism, but a similar significant lateralization was also seen in non-affected female controls. Comparison of dopamine, serotonin, noradrenaline and several monoamine metabolite levels in substantia nigra, striatum, nucleus accumbens and frontal cortex of ci rats and controls did not disclose any marked difference between affected and non-affected animals which was consistently found in both genders. Quantitative autoradiographic determination of binding densities of dopamine transporter and D1 and D2 receptors in several parts of the striatum and substantia nigra indicated that ci rats have a significantly higher binding density of dopamine transporter and receptors than controls. Taken together, ci mutant rats of both genders exhibit an asymmetry in striatal dopamine and metabolite levels and an enhanced dopamine transporter and receptor binding, but the link of these differences in dopaminergic parameters with the rotational behavior of the animals is not clear yet. The lack of any significant dopaminergic cell loss in the substantia nigra and the locomotor hyperactivity observed in the mutants clearly suggest that the ci rat is not suited as a model of Parkinsonism but rather constitutes a model of a hyperkinetic motor syndrome.
Sublethal cerebral anoxic/ischemic insults may &quot;precondition&quot; and thereby protect brain from subsequent anoxic/ischemic insults. We tested two hypotheses in hippocampal slices: (i) that short periods of anoxia, each followed by reoxygenation, precondition and thereby improve recovery of synaptic activity following &quot;lethal&quot; anoxic insults; and (ii) that the ATP-sensitive potassium channel [K+ ATP] or protein kinase C mediates anoxic preconditioning neuroprotection in hippocampal slices. Hippocampal slices were subjected to three short periods of anoxia, each separated by 10 min of reoxygenation. These anoxic insults were prolonged only until the onset of anoxic depolarization. Thirty minutes following these insults, slices underwent a &quot;test&quot; anoxic insult, which was characterized by an anoxic insult that lasted 1 min of anoxic depolarization. Recovery of evoked potential amplitudes was followed for 30 min of reoxygenation. The beneficial effects of preconditioning was shown by the significant recovery of evoked potentials after &quot;test&quot; anoxic insults in preconditioned slices, when compared to controls that only underwent a &quot;test&quot; anoxic insult. In control slices, transient superfusion with an ATP-sensitive potassium channel agonist (10 microM pinacidil) 30 min prior to &quot;test&quot; anoxia markedly improved evoked potential recovery. Administration of 5 microM of the sulfonylurea tolbutamide, an ATP-sensitive potassium channel antagonist during preconditioning insults, blocked the protection afforded by preconditioning. Transient superfusion of a protein kinase C activator (500 nM phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate) did not improve evoked potential recovery. Administration of 50 nM chelerythrine, a protein kinase C inhibitor during preconditioning insults did not block the protection afforded by preconditioning. These data support the hypothesis that the ATP-sensitive potassium channel is involved in the neuroprotection afforded by anoxic preconditioning in hippocampal slices. However, protein kinase C activation does not appear to play a role in this neuroprotection.
The transcription factors cyclic AMP responsive element-binding protein (CREB) and activating transcription factor-2 were studied in rat brains subjected to 15 min ischemia followed by varied periods of reperfusion using western blot and immunocytochemical analyses. The total amounts of both CREB and activating transcription factor-2 were not altered in the hippocampus after ischemia. In contrast, levels of the phosphorylated forms of both transcription factors decreased during ischemia but rebounded following reperfusion. The phospho-forms of CREB and activating transcription factor-2 showed regional and temporal differences in their expression. Phospho-CREB was increased relative to control levels at 30 min, and continued to increase for at least three days postischemia, mainly in dentate granule cells. The level of phospho-activating transcription factor-2 appeared to be higher in CAI pyramidal cells than in dentate granule cells after ischemia. The present findings suggest that the signaling pathways for phosphorylation of CREB may be neuroprotective for dentate cells, which are relatively resistant to ischemic insults. The increased phospho-activating transcription factor-2 may reflect increased stresses in these neurons. The more modest activation of CREB pathways in CA1 neurons may not be enough to overcome the increased stresses in these neurons, contributing to delayed neuronal death.
Glucocorticoids are toxic to hippocampal neurons. We report here that the steroid dehydroepiandrosterone protects neurons of primary hippocampal cultures against the toxic effects of corticosterone. Corticosterone (20-500 nM) added for 24h to primary cultures of embryonic day 18 rat hippocampus resulted in significant neurotoxicity. Dissociated cells were grown for at least 10 days, initially in serum-containing medium, but serum was removed before adding steroids for 24 h. Neurotoxicity was measured by counting the number of cells stained either for beta-tubulin III or glial fibrillary acidic protein. Corticosterone-induced toxicity was prevented by co-treatment of the cultures with dehydroepiandrosterone (20-500 nM). Dehydroepiandrosterone on its own had little effect, though the highest concentration used (500 nM) was mildly toxic. Immunohistochemical studies on the nuclear translocation of a range of stress-activated protein kinases showed that stress-activated protein kinases 1, 2, 3 and 4 were all translocated by 10 min exposure to corticosterone (100 nM). Dehydroepiandrosterone (100 nM) attenuated the translocation of stress-activated protein kinase 3, but not the others. These experiments show that dehydroepiandrosterone has potent anti-glucocorticoid actions on the brain, and can protect hippocampal neurons from glucocorticoid-induced neurotoxicity. This protective action may involve stress-activated protein kinase 3-related intracellular pathways, though direct evidence for this has still to be obtained.
Novel stimuli trigger a positive brain potential P300 or P3a in mammalian animals, which is considered to represent an orienting response. Drugs systemically administered showed that acetylcholine is involved in the generation of P3. However, it is not known in which structure acetylcholine interacts with other neuronal substances for P3 generation. In this study, we injected scopolamine, an acetylcholine antagonist, into the parietal cortex. After the injection the amplitude of P3 from the parietal electrode decreased, while P3 recorded from neighbouring cortex was preserved. The peak latency of it did not show any significant change after the injection. P3 did not show any significant change after injecting normal saline into the same area. The parietal cortex is an essential structure for local P3 generation Different cerebral cortical regions respond to novel stimuli in parallel, and muscarinic receptor activation is necessary for processing the information of novelty detection.
A number of molecular and hodological experiments have provided evidence that there is an early commitment of neocortical neurons to express features unique to a certain cortical area. However, the findings of several transplantation experiments have indicated that late embryonic cortical tissue heterotopically grafted into the neocortex of newborn rats receives a set of thalamic projections appropriate for the host cortical locus within which it develops. To provide further information on the extent to which neocortical neurons are predetermined to develop area-specific systems of connections, in this study we have compared the pattern of thalamic afferents to grafts of embryonic day 16 occipital or frontal neocortex transplanted into the occipital cortex of newborn rats. Two months after grafting, a retrograde neurotracer (cholera toxin, subunit b) was injected into the grafts to precisely assess the number of cells in the visual- and/or motor-related nuclei of the host thalamus projecting to each category of transplants (occipital-to-occipital or frontal-to-occipital). Transplants of embryonic occipital cortex received significant input from several visual-related thalamic nuclei, i.e. the lateral posterior and lateral dorsal nuclei, and no input from motor-related thalamic nuclei. However, only few labeled cells were found in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, which was systematically affected by a severe atrophy, probably in response to the lesion of the occipital cortex performed prior to the transplantation. By comparison, transplants of frontal origin received a substantial input from the ventrolateral and ventromedial thalamic nuclei, which normally project to the frontal cortex, but received a weak input from the lateral posterior and lateral dorsal nuclei. Neocortical neurons grafted heterotopically into the neocortex of newborn hosts are not only able to contact cortical and subcortical targets appropriate for their embryonic site of origin, but are also susceptible to derive thalamic inputs closely related to their embryonic origin.
Retrograde signals from axon terminal to cell body are known to regulate neuronal survival and differentiation during development. They are generally attributed to the uptake and transport of trophic factors, but there is recent evidence in the isthmo-optic nucleus for a remarkably fast-acting retrograde signal from the contralateral retina that is not mediated by the conventional trophic route. The isthmo-optic nucleus undergoes 55% neuron death between embryonic days 12 and 17, and becomes laminated at embryonic day 14 owing to dendritic re-organization. Blockade of retinal electrical activity just before day 14 reduces neuronal death and lamination in the isthmo-optic nucleus within as little as 6 h. We here investigate how action potentials initiate the fast-acting retrograde signal, and we provide evidence that the first step is calcium entry into the isthmo-optic axon terminals. Neuronal death and lamination are rapidly reduced in the isthmo-optic nucleus by intraocularly injected omega-conotoxin, a blocker of N-type calcium channels known to be located mainly on axon terminal. Similar effects occurred with two other calcium channel blockers (cadmium and alpha-bungarotoxin) believed to act on both the isthmo-optic terminals and their target cells, but not with nifedipine, a blocker of L-type (mainly somatic) channels, supporting a presynaptic initiation of the fast signal. Nevertheless postsynaptic events may also be involved because pharmacological destruction of the amacrine targets cells of the isthmo-optic nucleus reduced its cell death and lamination 9-12 h later.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei contain a circadian clock that drives rhythmicity in physiology and behavior. In mice, mutation of the Clock gene produces abnormal circadian behavior [Vitaterna M. H. et al. (1994) Science 264, 715-725]. The Clock gene encodes a protein containing basic helix-loop-helix and PAS (PER-ARNT-SIM) domains [King D. P. et al. (1997) Cell 89, 641-653]. The PAS domain may be an important structural feature of a subset of genes involved in photoreception and circadian rhythmicity. The expression and regulation of messenger RNAs encoding eight members of the basic helix-loop-helix/PAS protein superfamily were examined by in situ hybridization. Six of the genes studied (aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear transporter, aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear transporter-2, Clock, endothelial PAS-containing protein, hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha and steroid receptor coactivator-1) were expressed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of adult and neonatal mice. No evidence for rhythmicity of expression was observed when comparing brains collected early in the subjective day (circadian time 3) with those collected early in subjective night (circadian time 15). Neuronal PAS-containing protein-1 messenger RNA was expressed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of adult (but not neonatal) mice, and a low-amplitude rhythm of neuronal PAS-containing protein-1 gene expression was detected in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Neuronal PAS-containing protein-2 messenger RNA was not detected in adult or neonatal suprachiasmatic nucleus. Exposure to light at night (30 or 180 min of light, beginning at circadian time 15) did not alter the expression of any of the genes studied. The expression of multiple members of the basic helix-loop-helix/PAS family in the suprachiasmatic nucleus suggests a rich array of potential interactions relevant to the regulation of the suprachiasmatic circadian clock.
It was investigated whether grafts of the suprachiasmatic nucleus could re-instate circadian rhythmicity in the absence of its endogenous vasopressin production and whether the restored rhythm would have the long period length of the donor. Grafts of 17-days-old vasopressin-deficient homozygous Brattleboro rat fetuses, homotopically placed in arrhythmic suprachiasmatic nucleus-lesioned Wistar rats, re-instated circadian drinking rhythm within 20-50 days similar as seen for grafts of heterozygous control fetuses. Period length of the recovered rhythm revealed a similar difference (average 24.3 vs. 23.8 h) as reported for the rhythm between the adult Brattleboro genotypes. In all transplants, also those of the two-third non-recovery rats, a surviving suprachiasmatic nucleus was visible as a vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive neuronal cell cluster, whereas heterozygous transplants also revealed the complementary vasopressinergic cell part. Explanation of the absence of recovery failed since no undisputable correlation emerged between recovery of rhythm and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, vasopressin and/or somatostatin immunocytochemical characteristics of the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the transplant. Special focus on the somatostatinergic neurons revealed their presence only occasionally near or in between the vasoactive intestinal polypeptidergic and (in the case of heterozygous grafts) vasopressinergic cell cluster. However their aberrant cytoarchitectural position appeared not to have affected the possibility to restore drinking rhythm of the suprachiasmatic nucleus-lesioned arrhythmic rat. It was concluded that grafted Brattleboro fetal suprachiasmatic nucleus develop their intrinsic rhythm conform their genotype and that vasopressin is not a crucial component in the maintenance nor in the transfer of circadian activity of the biological clock for drinking activity. Vasopressin of the suprachiasmatic nucleus may instead serve modulation within the circadian system.
The impact of photoreceptor loss on the circadian system was examined by utilizing a transgenic mouse model (rdta) in which rod photoreceptors were specifically ablated. These mice were able to phase-shift their circadian locomotor behaviour in response to light, but features of this circadian behaviour were markedly altered. The amplitude of circadian responses to light were approximately 2.5 greater, the circadian period (tau) was reduced (c. 20 min) and the total duration of activity (alpha) was increased (c. 50 min) when compared to wild type (+/+) and rd/rd mice (retinal degeneration, mice which also lack rod photoreceptors) of the same genetic background. The pattern of Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (the site of the primary circadian clock in mammals) was indistinguishable between +/+ and rdta mice. However, Fos expression in the retina suggested that rod loss in rdta mice resulted in a functional reorganization of the retina and the constitutive activation of a population of retinal ganglion cells. Although it has been known for several years that the entraining photoreceptors of mammals are ocular, and that rod photoreceptors are not required for light regulation of the clock, these are the first data to show that features of the circadian phenotype (amplitude of the phase response curve, alpha, tau) can be influenced by photoreceptor ablation. These data support the hypothesis that the circadian phenotype of mammals is the product of an interaction between the suprachiasmatic nuclei and the retina. Thus, mammals which show an altered circadian behaviour can no longer be assumed to have defects associated only with specific clock genes; genes that affect photoreceptor survival may also modify circadian behaviour.
We present an ionic conductance model of chattering neurons in the neocortex, which fire fast rhythmic bursts in the gamma frequency range (approximately 40 Hz) in response to stimulation [Gray C. M. and McCormick D. A. (1996) Science 274, 109-113]. The bursting mechanism involves a &quot;ping-pong&quot; interplay between soma-to-dendrite back propagation of action potentials and an afterdepolarization generated by a persistent dendritic Na+ current and a somatic Na+ window current. The oscillation period is primarily determined by a slowly inactivating K+ channel and passive membrane properties. The model behavior is compared quantitatively with the experimental data. It is shown that the cholinergic muscarinic receptor activation can transform the model cell's firing pattern from tonic spiking to rapid bursting, as a possible pathway for acetylcholine to promote 40-Hz oscillations in the visual cortex. To explore possible functions of fast burst firing in the neocortex, a hypothetical neural pair is simulated, where a chattering cell is presynaptic to an inhibitory interneuron via stochastic synapses. For this purpose, we use a synapse model endowed with a low release probability, short-term facilitation and vesicle depletion. This synapse model reproduces the behavior of certain neocortical pyramid-to-interneuron synapses [Thomson A. M. et al. (1993) Neuroscience 54, 347-360]. We showed that the burstiness of cell firing is required for the rhythmicity to be reliably transmitted to the postsynaptic cell via unreliable synapses, and that fast burst firing of chattering neurons can provide an exceptionally powerful drive for recruiting feedback inhibition in cortical circuits. From these results, we propose that the fast rhythmic burst firing of neocortical chattering neurons is generated by a calcium-independent ionic mechanism. Our simulation results on the neural pair highlight the importance of characterizing the short-term plasticity of the synaptic connections made by chattering cells, in order to understand their putative pacemaker role in synchronized gamma oscillations of the visual cortex.
Neural signals can be generated or blocked by extracellular electrodes or magnetic coils. New results about artificial excitation are based on a compartmental model of a target neuron and its equivalent electrical network, as well as on the theory of the generalized activating function. The analysis shows that: (i) in most cases, the origin of artificial excitation is within the axon and the soma is much more difficult to excite; (ii) within the central nervous system, positive and negative threshold currents essentially depend on the position and orientation of the neurons relative to the applied electric field; (iii) in several cases, stimulation with positive currents is easier; and (iv) it should be possible to excite synaptic activity without the generation of propagating action potentials. Furthermore, the theory of the generalized activating function gives hints to understanding the blockage of neural activity.
The pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease include neurofibrillary tangles, neuropil threads and neuritic plaques. Neurofibrillary tangles and neuropil threads are comprised of paired helical filaments which are themselves composed of a hyperphosphorylated form of the microtubule-associated protein tau. Neuritic plaques are extracellular deposits of aggregated beta amyloid associated with neurites containing hyperphosphorylated tau. The mechanisms by which the neurofibrillary tangles and neuritic plaques develop in Alzhemier's disease are not clear but it is hypothesized that sulphated glycosaminoglycans are important in their formation. This impression is based on the finding that the glycosaminoglycan, heparan sulphate, is found associated with neurofibrillary tangles, neuritic plaques and neuropil threads while dermatan sulphate, chondroitin sulphate and keratan sulphate immunoreactivity is found around neuritic plaques in brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. Furthermore, in vitro studies demonstrate that sulphated glycosaminoglycans such as heparan sulphate and the closely related molecule heparin interact with tau and potentiate its phosphorylation by a number of serine/threonine kinases, reduce its ability to bind to microtubules and induce paired helical filament formation, all properties associated with tau isolated from Alzheimer's disease brain. Thus, we were interested to learn whether intracerebral injection of the sulphated glycosaminoglycan heparin would give rise to alterations in the cytoskeletal protein tau in the rat brain. Although no cytoskeletal changes were observed, to our considerable surprise we found that the intrahippocampal injection of heparin gave rise to seizures. We have investigated this unexpected effect further in vivo and by using in vitro electrophysiological techniques.
Studies in rats indicate that photic responses within the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus can be enhanced in response to stimuli known to induce negative emotional arousal. Little is known, however, about the effect of such stimuli on photic responses within primary visual cortex, the principal projection area of the dorsal lateral geniculate. Here, we examined the effect of unconditioned and conditioned aversive stimuli on photic responses within the primary visual cortex in rats using expression of the transcription factor Fos as a functional marker of neuronal activation. In previous studies carried out within the circadian visual system, we found that photic induction of Fos within the principal target area of the circadian visual pathway, the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus, was attenuated when the light stimulus was given concurrently with an aversive footshock or was made an aversive conditioned stimulus through previous pairings with footshock. In addition, we found that photic stimulation of Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus was attenuated in a context made aversive through previous pairings with footshock. We now report that in these same animals, unlike what was seen within the suprachiasmatic nucleus, Fos expression in the primary visual cortex is significantly elevated. These findings support the view that emotional arousal can enhance the response of cells in the visual cortex to photic input, and point to the differential effect of aversive emotional events on photic responses within pathways underlying visual perception and those involved in circadian regulation.
Endomorphin 1 and 2 are two tetrapeptides recently isolated from bovine as well as human brains and proposed to be the endogenous ligand for the mu-opiate receptor. Opioid compounds expressing mu-receptor preference are generally potent analgesics. The spinal cord dorsal horn is considered to be an important site for the processing of sensory information including pain. The discovery that endomorphins produced greater analgesia in mice upon intrathecal as compared to intracerebroventricular injections raises the possibility that dorsal horn neurons may represent the anatomic site upon which endomorphins exert their analgesic effects. We report here the detection of endomorphin 2-immunuoreactive fiber-like elements in superficial layers of the rat dorsal horn by immunohistochemical techniques. Whole-cell patch recordings from substantia gelatinosa neurons of cervical spinal cord slices revealed two conspicuous effects of exogenously applied endomorphin 1 and 2: (i) depression of excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by stimulation of dorsal root entry zone, and (ii) hyperpolarization of substantia gelatinosa neurons. These effects were reversed by the selective mu-opiate receptor antagonist beta-funaltrexamine. Collectively, the detection of endomorphin-like immunoreactivity in nerve fibers of the superficial layers and the inhibitory action of endomorphins on substantia gelatinosa neurons provide further support for a potential role of these two peptides in spinal nociception.
Nitric oxide is formed in the brain primarily by neurons containing neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), though some neurons may express endothelial NOS (eNOS), and inducible NOS (iNOS) only occurs in neurons following toxic stimuli. Mice with targeted disruption of nNOS (nNOS-) display distended stomachs with hypertrophied pyloric sphincters reflecting loss of nNOS in myenteric plexus neurons. nNOS- animals resist brain damage following middle cerebral artery occlusions consistent with evidence that excess release of nitric oxide mediates neurotoxicity in ischemic stroke. Neuronal NOS- mice have no grossly evident defects in locomotor activity, breeding long-term depression in the cerebellum, long-term potentiation in the hippocampus, and overall sensorimotor function. However, nNOS- animals display excessive, inappropriate sexual behavior and dramatic increases in aggression. Because the cerebellum possesses the greatest levels of nNOS neurons in the brain, it was surprising that presumed cerebellar functions such as balance and coordination were grossly normal in nNOS- mice. These previous studies were all conducted during the day (between 1400 and 1600, lights on at 0700). We now report striking, discrete abnormalities in balance and motor coordination in nNOS-mice reflected selectively at night.
The liberation of calcitonin gene-related peptide from rat skin in vitro induced by antidromic electrical stimulation of unmyelinated units is demonstrated. Prostaglandin E2 was released concomitantly during C-fiber stimulation. A dose-dependent increase in prostaglandin E2 content of the eluate was also observed in response to stimulation with substance P (10(-7) to 10(-5) M) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (10(-6) and 10(-5) M). In contrast, prostaglandin E2 did not induce measurable release of neuropeptides. The amount of calcitonin gene-related peptide released during suprathreshold electrical stimulation increased with pulse frequency. Calcitonin gene-related peptide and prostaglandin release were completely inhibited in the presence of EMD 61753, a selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist. No significant release of substance P was observed. The data demonstrate a primary release of calcitonin gene-related peptide from unmyelinated but not myelinated primary afferents in the rat skin, which is accompanied by a secondary liberation of prostaglandin E2, connecting neurogenic inflammation to general mechanisms of inflammation.
In rats, rapid eye movement sleep can be induced by microinjection of either the cholinergic agonist carbachol or the neuropeptide vasoactive intestinal peptide into the oral pontine reticular nucleus. Possible involvement of cholinergic mechanisms in the effect of vasoactive intestinal peptide was investigated using muscarinic receptor ligands. Sleep-waking cycles were analysed after infusion into the oral pontine reticular nucleus of vasoactive intestinal peptide (10 ng in 0.1 microl), carbachol (20 ng), atropine (200 ng) and pirenzepine (50, 100 ng), performed separately or in combination at 15-min intervals. The increase in rapid eye movement sleep due to the combined infusion of vasoactive intestinal peptide and carbachol (+58.7+/-4.6% for 8 h, P&lt;0.05) was not significantly different from that induced by each compound separately. The enhancement of rapid eye movement sleep by vasoactive intestinal peptide was totally prevented by infusion of atropine, but not pirenzepine, a relatively selective M1 antagonist. On their own, none of the latter two compounds affected the sleep-waking cycle. Quantitative autoradiographic studies using [3H]quinuclidinyl benzylate (1 nM) and pirenzepine (0.5 microM) indicated that muscarinic receptors correspond to pirenzepine-insensitive binding sites in the oral pontine reticular nucleus. In vitro, vasoactive intestinal peptide (1-100 nM) significantly increased (+30-40%) the specific binding of [3H]quinuclidinyl benzylate to the oral pontine reticular nucleus in rat brain sections. This effect appeared to be due to an increased density, with no change in affinity, of pirenzepine-insensitive binding sites in this area. These data suggest that pirenzepine-insensitive muscarinic binding sites are involved in the induction of rapid eye movement sleep by vasoactive intestinal peptide at the pontine level in the rat.
Current electrophysiological and imaging methods have begun to target the subcellular structure and function of single CNS neurons. Although physiological imaging methods now permit the resolution of activity of single presynaptic and postsynaptic elements, it has not been possible to unequivocally examine the array of proteins expressed at these same structures. This problem arises from the inability of current immunocytochemical techniques to differentiate between a process of the neuron of interest and the surrounding neuropil belonging to other cells. Thus, we have sought to develop an antibody staining method which would restrict reactivity to only a single neuron. Our assay involves preloading a single neuron with the coupling reagent biocytin. Following fixation, the injected biocytin is then complexed with avidin-linked glucose oxidase, providing a means of locally generating hydrogen peroxide within a cell of interest which catalyses the peroxidase-mediated (coupled to primary antibody) staining reaction. We have used this method successfully with antibodies to a number of neuronal markers (neuron-specific enolase, neurofilament, microtubule-associated protein and the glutamate receptor GluR2/3). Our staining method enables subcellular resolution of immunocytochemical markers within a single neuron without confounding staining of neighboring cells. We anticipate that this approach will facilitate the study of neuronal phenotype in fine dendritic processes in electrophysiologically characterized neurons in specimens with a complex neuropil, such as brain slices or high-density cultures.
It is widely hypothesized that ovarian steroids act on serotonin neurons to modulate mood and alter neuroendocrine function in women. However, information is needed on the molecular consequences of estrogen and progesterone action in serotonin neurons. This study examined the effect of estrogen, with and without progesterone, on the expression of messenger RNA for the serotonin-1A autoreceptor in monkeys using in situ hybridization and a 432-bp serotonin-1A probe generated with polymerase chain reaction. Monkeys were spayed/ovariectomized (control; n=4), estrogen treated (28 days, n=4) and estrogen+progesterone treated (14 days estrogen+14 days estrogen+progesterone, n=4). Perfusion-fixed midbrain sections containing the dorsal raphe (10 microm) were hybridized at 60 degrees C with 35S antisense complementary RNA. After a final wash in 0.1 x standard saline citrate at 70 degrees C, sections were apposed to betamax film for four days and then emulsion fixed. Adjacent sections were immunostained for serotonin to confirm the location of the dorsal raphe. Densitometric analysis of autoradiographs with gray level thresholding was performed at five levels of the dorsal raphe. The number of pixels exceeding background in defined areas was obtained (pixel number), as well as the mean optical density. In the estrogen- and the estrogen+progesterone-treated groups compared to the control group, there was a 38% and 43% decrease in serotonin-1A messenger RNA signal, respectively, represented by pixel number (P&lt;0.05). Mean optical density for serotonin-1A was significantly decreased by estrogen treatment (21%; P&lt;0.05) and then further decreased with the addition of progesterone treatment (45%; P&lt;0.01). Also, the number of positive cells and the grains/cell were counted. There were significantly fewer serotonin-1A messenger RNA-positive cells in the serotonergic neurons of the dorsal raphe in estrogen- and estrogen+progesterone-treated groups (P&lt;0.001) than controls. There were significantly lower single-cell levels of serotonin-1A messenger RNA in serotonergic neurons of the dorsal raphe only in the estrogen+progesterone-treated group (P&lt;0.05). These results suggest that estrogen reduces serotonin-1A gene expression and that the addition of progesterone further reduces serotonin-1A gene expression in non-human primates. If the changes in gene expression are manifested by alterations in protein expression, then, together, these actions of estrogen and progesterone could increase serotonin neurotransmission, thereby elevating mood and/or altering neuroendocrine functions.
A growing body of evidence suggests that serotonin plays an important role in the early development of both neural and non-neural tissues from vertebrate and invertebrate species. Serotonin is removed from the extracellular space by the cocaine- and antidepressant-sensitive serotonin transporter, thereby limiting its action on receptors. In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to delineate serotonin transporter messenger RNA expression during rat embryonic development. Serotonin transporter messenger RNA was widely expressed beginning prior to organogenesis and throughout the second half of gestation. Strikingly, serotonin transporter messenger RNA was detected in neural crest cells, some of which respond to serotonin in vitro, and neural crest-derived tissues, such as autonomic ganglia, tooth primordia, adrenal medulla, chondrocytes and neuroepithelial cells, in the skin, heart, intestine and lung. Within the peripheral sensory pathways, two major cells types were serotonin transporter messenger RNA-positive: (i) sensory ganglionic neurons and (ii) neuroepithelial cells which serve as targets for the outgrowing sensory neurons. Several sensory organs (cochlear and retinal ganglionic cells, taste buds, whisker and hair follicles) contained serotonin transporter messenger RNA by late gestation. The expression of serotonin transporter messenger RNA throughout the sensory pathways from central nervous system relay stations [Hansson S. R. et al. (1997) Neuroscience 83, 1185-1201; Lebrand C. et al. (1996) Neuron 17, 823-835] to sensory nerves and target organs as shown in this study suggests that serotonin may regulate peripheral synaptogenesis, and thereby influence later processing of sensory stimuli. If the early detection of serotonin transporter messenger RNA in skin and gastrointestinal and airway epithelia correlates with protein activity, it may permit establishment of a serotonin concentration gradient across epithelia, either from serotonin in the amniotic fluid or from neuronal enteric serotonin, as a developmental cue. Our results demonstrating serotonin transporter messenger RNA in the craniofacial and cardiac areas identify this gene product as the transporter most likely responsible for the previously identified accumulation of serotonin in skin and tooth germ [Lauder J. M. and Zimmerman E. F. (1988) J. craniofac. Genet. devl Biol. 8, 265-276], and the fluoxetine-sensitive effects on craniofacial [Lauder J. M. et al. (1988) Development 102, 709-720; Shuey D. L. et al. (1992) Teratology 46, 367-378; Shuey D. L. et al. (1993) Anat. Embryol., Berlin 187, 75-85] and cardiac [Kirby M. L. and Waldo K. L. (1995) Circulation Res. 77, 211-215; Yavarone M. S. et al. (1993) Teratology 47, 573-584] malformations. Serotonin transporter messenger RNA was detected in several neural crest cell lineages and may be useful as an early marker for the sensory lineage in particular. The distribution of serotonin transporter messenger RNA in early development supports the hypothesis that serotonin may play a role in neural crest cell migration and differentiation [Lauder J. M. (1993) Trends Neurosci. 16, 233-240], and that the morphogenetic actions of serotonin may be regulated by transport. The striking pattern of serotonin transporter messenger RNA throughout developing sensory pathways suggests that serotonin may play a role in establishing patterns of connectivity critical to processing sensory stimuli. As a target for drugs, such as cocaine, amphetamine derivatives and antidepressants, expression of serotonin transporter during development may reflect critical periods of vulnerability for fetal drug exposure. The widespread distribution of serotonin transporter messenger RNA during ontogeny suggests a previously unappreciated role of serotonin in diverse physiological systems during embryonic development.
In this study, the dopamine turnover in the mediobasal hypothalamus, the key compartment of the neuroendocrine regulation of reproduction, was evaluated in fetal male and female rats. High-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection was used to measure 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the mediobasal hypothalamus of fetuses on the 21st day of intrauterine development and in primary cell culture (cell extracts and culture medium) of the same brain region, explanted at the 17th fetal day and maintained for seven days. The same technique was applied to determine dopamine release from fetal neurons of the mediobasal hypothalamus in response to an excess of K+ in the perifusion system or in culture. L-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine, dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid were detected both ex vivo and in culture. The ratios of the concentrations of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine/dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine were significantly higher in vitro than ex vivo, showing a lower rate of dopamine production and a higher rate of its degradation in the experiments in vitro. Moreover, it has been demonstrated that an excess of K+, i.e. a membrane depolarization, resulted in a highly increased release of dopamine in the perifusion system and in culture. The dopaminergic activity in the developing mediobasal hypothalamus showed sexual dimorphism that was manifested in a greater concentration of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine and dopamine, at least in cell extracts of cultures, as well as in a higher rate of dopamine release, both in the perifusion system and in culture in males compared to females. Thus, dopamine is synthesized and released in response to a membrane depolarization in the mediobasal hypothalamus of rats as early as the end of intrauterine development, suggesting its contribution to the inhibitory control of pituitary prolactin secretion.
The neuromodulatory actions of dopamine in the striatum and nucleus accumbens are likely to depend on the distribution of dopamine receptors on individual postsynaptic cells. To address this, we have visualized D1- and D2-like receptors on living medium-spiny GABAergic neurons in cultures from the striatum and nucleus accumbens using receptor antagonist fluoroprobes. We labeled D1-like receptors with rhodamine-SCH23390, D2-like receptors with rhodamine-N-(p-aminophenethyl)spiperone and synaptic sites with K+-stimulated uptake of the activity-dependent endocytic tracer FM-143. The fluoroprobes were applied in sequence to assess co-localization. We found that D1- or D2-like receptors were present on about two-thirds of the cells, and co-localized on 22+/-3% (mean +/- S.E.M.) of striatal and 38+/-6% of nucleus accumbens cells. On either D1 or D2 labeled cells, postsynaptic labeling continuously outlined the cell body membrane and extended to proximal dendrites, but not axons. About two-thirds of synaptic varicosities showed D1 or D2 labeling. D1- and D2-like receptors were co-localized on 21+/-4% of striatal and 27+/-3% of nucleus accumbens varicosities. Presynaptic labeling was typically more intense than postsynaptic labeling. The distribution of presynaptic dopamine receptors contrasted with that of postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors, which were clustered in longer patches on neighboring postsynaptic membranes. The extensive presence of D1- and D2-like receptors on presynaptic varicosities of medium-spiny neurons suggests that the receptors are likely to play an important and interacting role in the presynaptic modulation of inhibitory synaptic transmission in the striatum and nucleus accumbens. The significant overlap in labeling suggests that D1-D2 interactions, which occur at the level of individual postsynaptic cells, the circuit level and the systems level, may also be mediated at the presynaptic level. Finally, the ability to visualize dopamine, as well as GABA(A), receptors on the individual synapses of living neurons now makes possible physiological studies of individual mesolimbic system synapses with known receptor expression.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors in the substantia nigra pars compacta regulate the activity of dopamine neurons. We have used dual-label immunofluoresence and confocal laser microscopy to study the localization of subunits of two types of ionotropic receptors within the substantia nigra pars compacta of the rat. Immunostaining for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 1 and glutamate receptor 2/3 was prominent in the soma and proximal dendrites of all tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive cells, while only low amounts of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 2A and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 2B were present. Selective antibodies were used to determine the isoforms of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 1 present. Immunostaining for the N1, C1 and C2 variably spliced segments of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 1 were scarce in the substantia nigra pars compacta, while immunoreactivity for the alternative C2' terminus of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 1 was quite abundant. Staining for glutamate receptor 1 was heterogeneous; about half of the tyrosine hydroxylase immunopositive cells stained intensely, while the other half were immunonegative. The glutamate receptor 1-stained cells were concentrated in the ventral tier of the substantia nigra pars compacta. Glutamate receptor 4 was not found in tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive cells within the substantia nigra pars compacta. Together, these data demonstrate that dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta express primarily glutamate receptor 1, glutamate receptor 2/3 and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 1 isoforms containing the alternative C2' terminus.
Neurons exhibiting D2 receptor-like immunoreactivity were investigated in the substantia nigra pars compacta of weaver mice at the light and electron microscope levels using immunocytochemical techniques. At the light microscope level, there was significant loss of D2-like immunoreactive cells in weaver mice and the remaining labeled cells exhibited less intense immunoreactivity. At the ultrastructural level, there was a decrease in the number of immunoreactive profiles and fewer synapses were observed abutting labeled dendritic profiles. In addition, degenerative changes were noted in some of the D2 receptor-like immunoreactive profiles. Double labeling with D2 and tyrosine hydroxylase indicated that the majority of the labeled profiles were double labeled. Eight-week-old homozygous weavers were paired with wild-type littermates as controls and perfused with a buffered solution of acrolein/paraformadehyde. Midbrain sections were reacted immunocytochemically either with an antiserum to D2 or with antisera to D2 and tyrosine hydroxylase, using a double-labeling technique. Sections were processed for light and electron microscopy by standard methods. The results of this study confirm the autoreceptor-like activity of D2 receptors on nigral dopamine neurons. The cell degeneration, down-regulation of D2 receptors, and decreased dendritic and synaptic components in the neuropil suggest that the synaptic integrity of the substantia nigra has been compromised, which in turn would affect the functional efficacy of the basal ganglia circuitry. This altered circuity is expressed in the Parkinson-like symptoms displayed by this mutant mouse.
Melanocortin peptides (alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, adrenocorticotropin and fragments thereof) have been shown to have numerous effects on the central nervous system, including recovery from nerve injury and retention of learned behaviour, but the mechanism of action of these peptides is unknown. A family of five melanocortin receptors have recently been discovered, two of which (melanocortin-3 and melanocortin-4 receptors) have been mapped in the rat brain. We have tested the hypothesis that the expression of one or more of the messenger RNAs for three melanocortin receptors (melanocortin-3, melanocortin-4 and melanocortin-5 receptors) would be altered in rat brain following unilateral transient hypoxic-ischaemic brain injury. In this study, using in situ hybridization, we show that melanocortin-4 receptor messenger RNA was up-regulated in the striatum in the non-damaged hemisphere within 24 h after severe hypoxic-ischaemic injury compared with control brains (P&lt;0.05). In a small group of animals, this induction was not blocked by treatment with the anticonvulsant, carbamazepine. Expression of melanocortin-3 receptor messenger RNA in the brain was not altered in this hypoxic-ischaemic injury model and melanocortin-5 receptor messenger RNA was not detected in either control or hypoxic-ischaemic injured rat brains. We hypothesize that the up-regulation of melanocortin-4 receptor messenger RNA expression in the contralateral striatum may be involved in transfer of function to the uninjured hemisphere following unilateral brain injury.
Some studies have provided evidence that delayed death of hippocampal CA1 neurons in transient global ischemia occurs by classical apoptosis. Recently, translocation of synaptic zinc has been shown to play a key role in ischemic CA1 neuronal death. With these two lines of evidence, we examined in mouse cortical cultures the possibility that zinc neurotoxicity, slowly triggered over a day, may occur by classical apoptosis. Exposure of cortical cultures to 30-35 microM zinc for 24 h resulted in slowly evolving death of neurons only, while exposure to zinc at higher concentrations ( &gt; or = 40 microM) produced near-complete death of both neurons and glia. DNA agarose gel electrophoresis revealed internucleosomal DNA fragmentation, and the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling method revealed DNA breaks in degenerating neurons after 24 h exposure to 30-35 microM zinc, suggesting that the death may occur by apoptosis. However, electron-microscopic examinations revealed ultrastructural changes clearly indicative of necrosis, such as marked swelling of intracellular organelles and disruption of cell membranes amid relatively intact nuclear membranes. Furthermore, the slowly triggered zinc neurotoxicity was not attenuated by cycloheximide, neurotrophins (brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, neurotrophin-4/5) or high potassium, all of which effectively reduced several forms of apoptosis in our cortical cultures. Interestingly, a vitamin E analogue trolox almost completely blocked slowly triggered zinc neurotoxicity, indicating that free radical injury is the main mechanism of zinc neurotoxicity. Consistently, exposure to zinc increased membrane lipid peroxidation assessed by the thiobarbituric acid reactive substance assay. Although zinc-induced neuronal death, slowly triggered over a day, is associated with DNA fragmentation, overall it exhibited features more typical of necrosis. This neuronal death is probably mediated by free radical injury. Further studies appear warranted to investigate the mechanistic link between toxic zinc influx and free radical generation and the possibility that selective neuronal death in transient global ischemia also occurs by zinc-triggered neuronal death exhibiting features of both apoptosis and necrosis.
In a model of self-sustaining status epilepticus induced in rats by 30 min intermittent stimulation of the perforant path through chronically implanted electrodes, a decrease in dynorphin-like immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus and CA3 was observed 3 h and 24 h after the induction of status epilepticus. Enkephalin-like immunoreactivity decreased 3 h but not 24 h after perforant path stimulation. Injection into the hilus of the dentate gyrus 10 min prior to stimulation of the kappa-receptor agonist dynorphin-A(1-13), the delta-receptor antagonists ICI-174864 and naltrindole, as well as i.p. injection of naloxone prevented the development of status epilepticus. Perihilar administration of the delta-agonist [D-Ser2]Leu-enkephalin-Thr6 or the kappa-antagonist nor-Binaltorphimine, but not of the mu-agonist [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly-ol5]-Enkephalin, facilitated the establishment of self-sustaining status epilepticus. Injection into the hilus of dynorphin-A(1-13) after the end of perforant path stimulation, stopped established status epilepticus, while administration of naloxone, naltrindole and ICI-174864 were ineffective. We conclude that kappa-opioids in the hippocampus counteract initiation and maintenance of status epilepticus, while delta-opioids promote initiation, but not maintenance of seizure activity. These data are important for the understanding the mechanisms which underlie initiation and maintenance of status epilepticus and for the development of new approaches for its effective management.
Stress, which can precipitate and exacerbate depression, causes atrophy and in severe cases death of hippocampal neurons. Atrophy of the hippocampus has also been observed in patients suffering from recurrent major depression. The present study examines the influence of electroconvulsive seizures, one of the most effective treatments for depression, on the morphology and survival of hippocampal neurons. The results demonstrate that chronic administration of electroconvulsive seizures induces sprouting of the granule cell mossy fiber pathway in the hippocampus. This sprouting is dependent on repeated administration of electroconvulsive seizures, reaches a maximum 12 days after the last treatment and is long lasting (i.e. up to six months). Electroconvulsive seizure-induced sprouting occurs in the absence of neuronal loss, indicating that sprouting is not a compensatory response to cell death. This is different from the sprouting induced by kindling or excitotoxin treatment, which induce cell death along with recurrent seizures. Electroconvulsive seizure-induced sprouting is significantly diminished in brain-derived neurotrophic factor heterozygote knockout mice, indicating that this neurotrophic factor contributes to mossy fiber sprouting. However, infusion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor into the hippocampus does not induce sprouting of the mossy fiber pathway. The results demonstrate that chronic administration of electroconvulsive seizures induces mossy fiber sprouting and suggest that increased expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor is necessary, but not sufficient for the induction of this sprouting. Although the functional consequences remain unclear, sprouting of the mossy fiber pathway would appear to oppose the actions of stress and could thereby contribute to the therapeutic actions of electroconvulsive seizure therapy.
Brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide is the fragmental 13-mer peptide of the novel neurotrophic factor which was extracted and purified from Sponge Gelform made of gelatin implanted at the mechanically-induced injury site in neonatal rat brains. Brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide supports survival of septal cholinergic and mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons in culture, and rescues hippocampal neurons in culture from glutamate neurotoxicity. Here we studied the binding characteristics of brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide to synaptosomes from normal adult rat brains and neurons in culture from neonatal rat brains. [125I]Asp-[Tyr11]-brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide binding to rat brain synaptosomes was specific and saturable. Equilibrium binding studies revealed that [125I]Asp-[Tyr11]-brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide bound to 1.1 pmol/mg protein with a Kd (dissociation constant) of 0.17 microM in hippocampal synaptosomes and to 2.0 pmol/mg protein with a Kd of 0.38 microM in septal synaptosomes. [125I]Asp-[Tyr11]-brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide could bind to a subpopulation of hippocampal neurons in culture from embryonic rat brains. Affinity cross-linking with the carboxyl-reactive cross-linking reagent 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-carbodiimide-HCl and [125I]Asp-[Tyr11]-brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide produced radiolabeled bands corresponding to 100,000, 50,000 and 40,000 mol. wt molecules on hippocampal neurons in culture. These results suggest that the 13-mer sequence of brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide plays a crucial role in expressing the neurotrophic properties of the factor.
Interleukin-1 receptor type I and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist were found in magnocellular neurons of the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of the rat hypothalamus by immunohistochemical detection. Double-labelling experiments revealed that both proteins occurred in vasopressin-containing neurons. A similar distribution pattern was observed in a group of vasopressin-positive accessory magnocellular neurons. Axons emanating from the interleukin-1 receptor type I- and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist-immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies could be seen within the hypothalamic nuclei, and varicosities expressing interleukin-1 receptor antagonist immunoreactivity were observed in the internal zone of the median eminence, as well as in the hypothalamo-pituitary projection. The co-localization of interleukin-1 receptor type I with vasopressin is in agreement with findings that interleukin-1 has a stimulatory effect on vasopressin synthesis and release. The hypothalamic neurons may serve as a source of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist to balance the effects of interleukin-1.
The cytokine interleukin-6 is produced at elevated levels within the central nervous system in a number of neurological diseases and has been proposed to contribute to the histopathologic, pathophysiologic, and cognitive deficits associated with such disorders. In order to determine the effects of chronic exposure of interleukin-6 on the physiology of central neurons, we compared the firing properties of cerebellar Purkinje neurons from control mice and transgenic mice that chronically express interleukin-6 within the central nervous system. Extracellular recordings from cerebellar slices revealed that the mean firing rate of spontaneously active Purkinje neurons was significantly reduced in slices from transgenic mice compared to control mice. In addition, a significantly greater proportion of Purkinje neurons from transgenic slices exhibited an oscillatory pattern of spontaneous firing than neurons in control slices. Orthodromic stimulation of climbing fiber afferents evoked similar excitatory synaptic responses (complex spikes) in Purkinje neurons of both transgenic and control mice. However, the inhibitory period following the complex spike (climbing fiber pause) was significantly longer in slices from transgenic mice. Using immunohistochemistry, we also showed that Purkinje neurons express high levels of both the interleukin-6 receptor and its intracellular signaling subunit, gp130, indicating that interleukin-6 could act directly on Purkinje neurons to alter their physiological properties. The interleukin-6 expressing transgenic mice have been shown previously to exhibit a number of histopathological changes in the central nervous system including injury and loss of cerebellar Purkinje neurons. The present data show that these transgenic mice also have altered physiology of cerebellar Purkinje neurons, potentially through a direct activation of interleukin-6 receptors expressed by this neuronal type. Interleukin-6 induced alterations of Purkinje neuron physiology would ultimately affect the flow of information out of the cerebellum, and could thus contribute to the motor deficits observed in the transgenic mice.
Responses to glutamate receptor agonists were recorded from identified relay neurons in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the rat, using the nystatin-perforated patch-clamp technique. Rapid application of glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) and kainate induced inward currents at a holding potential of -44 mV. The responses to low concentrations of each agonist were composed only of steady-state currents, but the responses to high concentrations were additionally composed of a rapid transient peak component except in the kainate-induced current. The currents induced by 10(-3)M N-methyl-D-aspartate in the external solution containing 0 mM Mg2+ and 10(-6)M glycine were reduced in amplitude when the external solution contained 1 mM Mg2+, and were abolished when the solution contained no glycine. The currents induced by a neurotransmitter candidate at retinogeniculate synapses, N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate, were markedly reduced in amplitude when the solution contained 1 mM Mg2+ or 10(-4)M DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. The current abolished in the Mg2+-containing, glycine-free solution (N-methyl-D-aspartate component) and the current remaining in the same solution (non-N-methyl-D-aspartate component) of the N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate response were both increased in a concentration-dependent manner, as the N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate concentration was increased. The current-voltage relationship of the currents induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate was characterized by Mg2+-dependent block at hyperpolarized potentials. The inward currents induced by 3 x 10(-4)M AMPA and 3 x 10(-4)M glutamate were markedly potentiated by 10(-4)M cyclothiazide, but the currents induced by 3 x 10(-4)M kainate and 10(-3)M N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (non-N-methyl-D-aspartate component) were little affected. The currents induced by any agonist were not affected by 3 x 10(-4)g/ml concanavalin A. The current induced by 10(-4)M kainate was markedly suppressed by pretreatment with 10(-4)M AMPA or 10(-4)M glutamate, but only weakly by 10(-3)M N-acetyl-aspartylglutamate. The Ca2+ permeability (PCa/PCs) of the N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors was 9.57 and 0.16, respectively. These results suggest that dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus relay neurons of the rat possessed both Ca2+-permeable N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and less permeable non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (presumably AMPA) receptors, and that N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate mainly acts at N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors with a weak kainate-like action on non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
