We describe a simple, rapid, and semiautomated method of MR analysis based on mathematical modeling of MR pixel intensity histograms. The method is shown to be accurate and reliable for regional analysis of brain, central, and subarachnoid CSF volumes. Application of the method to five young and six older subjects revealed significant age-related changes in regional brain volumes whereas no difference was found for traced central CSF volumes or subarachnoid CSF volumes. We conclude that this is a simple method that can be applied to further studies of quantification of brain structure in healthy aging and brain disease.
Genetic polymorphism in a mucin of the human milk fat globule arises from variable numbers of a tandemly repeated amino acid sequence. As a consequence, the gene from each parent expresses a variable-sized protein. This is manifest on SDS gels in the form of either one or, more often, two protein bands, which differ among individuals in mobility. Evidence of such polymorphism in the bovine mucin, PAS-I, was first obtained from Holstein milk samples. The objective of this study was to evaluate the other major dairy breeds for polymorphism of their PAS-I. Milk samples from individual Jerseys, Guernseys, Ayrshires, and Brown Swiss were analyzed by SDS-PAGE. Bands of the mucin varying in number and mobility were seen in samples from all four breeds. In three of the breeds (Ayrshire, Brown Swiss, and Jersey), there was evidence that two alleles for PAS-I may have become predominant, possibly through degeneration in the structure of their tandem repeats, one that gives rise to a faster moving mucin (relative molecular weight 170,000) and the other to a slower form (relative molecular weight 200,000). In contrast, the PAS-I band patterns on SDS gels for both Guernseys and Holsteins were characterized in nearly 50% of samples by two close bands near the 205,000-molecular weight marker. This pattern was never seen in the other three breeds. The findings suggest a genetic kinship among the Ayrshire, Brown Swiss, and Jersey, on the one hand, and between the Holstein and Guernsey, on the other.
We introduce a one-step histochemical method with cobalt as the precipitating agent for ferrocyanide for the light microscopic demonstration of acetylcholinesterase activity. This method was used to demonstrate acetylcholinesterase in normal cortical fibers and neurons, as well as pathological elements such as plaques and tangles. This procedure can also be easily combined with immunohistochemical methods that use diaminobenzidine as a chromogen.
A 30-month study of intravenous cannulation performed by I.V. team and non-I.V. team personnel demonstrates a significant and unpredictable benefit of an I.V. team. Beneficial effects include decreased volume and severity of phlebitis after infusion. The benefit appears to be most consistent on Medicine and Neuroscience services, inconsistent on Surgery and Obstetric/Gynecologic services, and not perceivable in Intensive Care Unit. The primary benefit appears to occur on those services that require the largest volume of venipunctures; these units account for approximately one half of all venipunctures performed. I.V. team benefit correlates well with increased team activity and, in contrast to other reports, does not correlate well with increasing incidence of phlebitis or cannula dwell time. A cost savings of approximately $17,000 per year related to a reduction in intravenous-related phlebitis due to I.V. team activity was demonstrated.
This study was designed to explore whether schizophrenic patients who are able to maintain their gaze with adequate persistence could competently lip-read. Four lipreading tests, designed to assess recognition of syllables, words, and overlearned sentences, were administered to 15 schizophrenic and 15 normal subjects matched for age, sex, and educational level. The patients proved to be competent lip-readers susceptible to the blend illusion and were inferior only in lipreading of overlearned sentences. The latter difficulty may tentatively be attributed to the inadequacy of the patient's premorbid social network for establishing contextual cues that aid in the recognition of overlearned sentences.
The transfer coefficients (Kin) for the uptake of gallium-67 (67Ga) into brain and CSF were determined in unanesthetized male Fischer-344 rats fed either a normal or a low-Ca diet. Kin for 67Ga was also compared with transfer coefficients for the uptake of iron-55 (55Fe) and 125I-albumin in control animals. The value of CSF 67Ga Kin was 3 x 10(-7) ml.g-1.s-1 and was 50% larger in low-Ca animals. Brain regional Kin values for 67Ga were 3-9 x 10(-7) ml.g-1.s-1 with no differences in Kin between normal and low-Ca rats. CSF Kin values for 55Fe were 40% and those for albumin were 15% of Kin for 67Ga. For brain, Kin values for 55Fe were 15-40% smaller than for 67Ga, but for albumin the Kin values were 85% less than for 67Ga. 67Ga was found to be 99% bound to plasma proteins, whereas 55Fe was 99.9% bound. The results indicate that metals that are primarily bound to transferrin enter the CSF and brain very slowly. Uptake of both metals was faster than albumin, which may indicate that metal bound to small chelates contributes significantly to brain uptake. In addition, Ca deficiency does not enhance entry of Ga into the brain.
We have examined PC12 cells for the localization of binding sites for vesamicol [l-2-(4-phenylpiperidino) cyclohexanol], a compound that has previously been shown to bind to cholinergic vesicles and to inhibit the uptake of acetylcholine. Initial studies presented in this article demonstrate the existence of a specific, saturable vesamicol binding site in PC12 cells. Subsequent experiments show that these binding sites reside in a membrane population that is distinct from catecholamine-containing compartments with respect to density and antigenic composition. In particular, vesamicol binding compartments have a lower density than catecholaminergic vesicles and, unlike these latter vesicles, do not appear to contain the vesicle-specific proteins synaptophysin and SV2 as part of the same membrane. These results suggest that vesicular transport proteins for acetylcholine and catecholamines are differentially sorted to distinct membrane compartments in PC12 cells.
The structure and distribution of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors in the rat brain were studied using subunit-specific antibodies that recognize the receptor subunit GluR1. The GluR1 protein, a 106-kDa glycoprotein, appears predominantly in synaptic plasma membranes, where it is highly enriched in the postsynaptic densities. When synaptic plasma membranes are solubilized with the detergent 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate, high-affinity alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) binding and GluR1 immunoreactivity comigrate at a native Mr of 610,000. GluR1 is enriched in the hippocampus and cerebellar cortex but is present throughout the CNS. It is found on neuronal cell bodies and processes within most regions of the brain; within the cerebellum, however, it is localized to the Bergmann glia. These data suggest that the GluR1 protein is a subunit of multimeric AMPA-preferring glutamate receptors present on neurons and on specialized glia.
The rat olfactory epithelium and the amino acid-sensitive catfish olfactory system have been used as models to study the molecular mechanisms of olfactory transduction. Here we report the functional expression of rat and catfish olfactory receptors in Xenopus oocytes injected with mRNA isolated from the respective tissues. Application of odor ligands to injected oocytes, monitored by two-electrode voltage clamp, activates stimulus-dependent transmembrane currents that reverse direction at about the chloride equilibrium potential. The currents show characteristic secondary oscillations that are presumed to reflect underlying Ca2+ oscillations. Similar ligand-activated membrane currents induced in oocytes after injection of other mRNAs have been shown to be due to activation of endogenous Ca(2+)-activated chloride channels. In summary, our results demonstrate the usefulness of the Xenopus oocyte expression system for cloning and characterization of olfactory receptors in both fish and mammalian species.
Astrocyte-enriched primary glial cultures (AGC) from C57BL/6 mice were found to be highly susceptible to infection with the replication competent components of LP-BM5, consisting of the ecotropic and mink cell focus-inducing (MCF) helper murine leukemia viruses (MuLVs). The presence in infected AGC of defective LP-BM5 MuLV genome, a critical component for induction of the disease referred to as murine AIDS, was confirmed by Southern blot hybridization using a probe reactive with the p12 gag sequence of the 4.9 kb defective genome. Electron microscopic studies demonstrated C-type retrovirus particles in both astrocytes and microglial cells. In vivo studies demonstrated that the ecotropic MuLVs and the defective genome could be detected within AGC obtained form either 14-day-old mice following intraperitoneal inoculation or 7-day-old mice following intracranial inoculation. These findings suggest that: (1) the central nervous system (CNS) infection is present at an early stage in murine AIDS, (2) both astrocytes and microglial cells are possible CNS targets in which helper MuLVs replicate, and (3) these cells can harbor the defective genome that is a critical component for disease induction.
Sera from five of 11 patients with neuropathy associated with IgM paraproteinemia (NAIgMPP) and reactivity against myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) also had elevated levels of IgM against sulfatide. Although three patients had anti-sulfatide IgM titers of less than or equal to 1:1000, two patients had titers of greater than or equal to 1:50,000. Absorption of patient serum with sulfatide revealed that anti-MAG IgM paraproteins in two patients with high titer anti-sulfatide IgM crossreacted with sulfatide. Our study is the first to show that some anti-MAG IgM paraproteins crossreact with sulfatide, a major acidic glycolipid of myelin. Moreover, some patients with NAIgMPP have polyclonal anti-sulfatide IgM in addition to anti-MAG IgM paraproteins. Therefore, sulfatide may be a target antigen in some patients with NAIgMPP.
The neuroscience curriculum should take account of the needs of patients and families and both undergraduate and postgraduate education should be guided by three criteria for quality of medical care--clinical competence, communication (and teamwork), and professional values. The assessment and management of neurological disability requires specific knowledge, skills and attitudes which can be supported by medical education. Suggestions are given on some of the elements which might be included in a curriculum relevant to neurological disability. The implementation of appropriate programmes is discussed.
Neurological disability may be prevented, or it may be alleviated if prevention is impossible or ineffective. Research into prevention and alleviation can be &quot;laboratory&quot; or &quot;clinical&quot;, the latter being no less scientific than the former. All proposed treatments must be properly evaluated to ensure that effective interventions are widely adopted and ineffective ones abandoned. Unless an intervention has a major effect on outcome (which most do not), the most efficient assessment is by random allocation of patients to the new intervention versus the old. Although there were, and still are, forces opposed to the proper evaluation of treatment, there are strong economic clinical arguments in its favour, which will lead to appropriate targeting of scarce health resources.

1. The molecular specificities of single mitral cells and their locations in the rabbit olfactory bulb were studied using extracellular recordings of single-unit spike discharges and oscillatory local field potentials. A panel of carboxylic acid molecules including a homologous series of fatty acids was used as odor stimuli. 2. Mitral cells showing excitatory responses to fatty acid molecules of different hydrocarbon chain length were localized near each other in a region in the dorsomedial part of the olfactory bulb. 3. Individual mitral cells in the dorsomedial region tended to respond to subsets of fatty acid odor molecules having similar hydrocarbon chain length or structure. Mitral cells responding to subsets of fatty acids of different chain length were distributed with partially shifted overlaps in this region. 4. The results show that stereochemical features of odor molecules are encoded by individual bulbar neurons.
1. Movements of the visual scene evoke short-latency ocular following responses. To study the neural mediation of the ocular following responses, we investigated neurons in the dorsolateral pontine nucleus (DLPN) of behaving monkeys. The neurons discharged during brief, sudden movements of a large-field visual stimulus, eliciting ocular following. Most of them (100/112) responded to movements of a large-field visual stimulus with directional selectivity. 2. Response amplitude was measured in two components of the neural response: an initial transient component and a late sustained component. Most direction-selective DLPN neurons showed their strongest responses at high stimulus speeds (80-160 degrees/s), whether their response components were initial (63/87, 72%) or sustained (63/87, 72%). The average firing rates of 87 DLPN neurons increased as a linear function of the logarithm of stimulus speed up to 40 degrees/s for both initial and sustained responses. 3. Not only the magnitude but also the latency of the neural and ocular responses were dependent on stimulus speed. The latencies of both neural and ocular responses were inversely related to the stimulus speed. As a result, the time difference between the response latencies for neural and ocular responses did not vary much with changes of stimulus speed. 4. Response latency was measured when a large-field random dot pattern was moved in the preferred direction and at the preferred speed of each neuron. Seventy-three percent (56/77) of the neurons were activated less than 50 ms after the onset of the stimulus motion. In most cases (67/77, 87%), their increase of firing rate started before the eye movements, and 34% of them (26/77) started greater than 10 ms before the eye movements. 5. Blurring of the random dot pattern by interposing a sheet of ground glass increased the latency of both neural responses and eye movements. On the other hand, the blurred images did not change the timing of the effect of blanking the visual scene on the responses of the neurons or eye movements. 6. When a check pattern was used instead of random dots, both neural and ocular responses began to decrease rapidly when the temporal frequency of the visual stimulus exceeded 20 Hz. When the temporal frequency of the visual stimulus approached 40 Hz, the neurons showed a distinctive burst-and-pause firing pattern. The eye movements recorded at the same time showed signs of oscillation, and their temporal patterns were closely correlated to those of the firing rate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. To investigate the neural substrate of vestibulospinal reflexes in decerebrate cats, we studied the responses of pontomedullary reticulospinal neurons to natural stimulation of the labyrinth in vertical planes. Our principal aim was to determine whether reticulospinal neurons that terminate in, or are likely to give off collaterals to, the upper cervical segments had properties similar to those of the vestibulocollic reflex (VCR). 2. Antidromic stimulation was used to determine whether the neurons projected to the neck, lower cervical, thoracic, or lumbar levels. Dynamics of the responses of spontaneously firing neurons were studied with sinusoidal stimuli delivered at 0.05-1 Hz and aligned to the plane of body rotation, that produced maximal modulation of the neuron (response vector orientation). Each neuron was assigned a vestibular input classification of otolith, vertical canal, otolith + canal, or spatial-temporal convergence (STC). 3. We found, in agreement with previous studies, that the largest fraction of pontomedullary reticulospinal neurons projected to the lumbar cord, and that only a small number ended in the neck segments. Neurons projecting to all levels of the spinal cord had similar responses to labyrinth stimulation. 4. Reticulospinal neurons that received only vertical canal inputs were rare (1 of 67 units). Most reticulospinal neurons (48%) received predominant otolith inputs, 18% received otolith + canal input, and only 9% had STC behavior. These data are in sharp contrast to the results of our previous studies of vestibulospinal neurons. A considerable portion of vestibulospinal neurons receives vertical canal input (38%), fewer receive predominantly otolith input (22%), whereas the proportion that have otolith + canal input or STC behavior is similar to our present reticulospinal data. 5. The response vector orientations of our reticulospinal neurons, particularly those with canal inputs (canal, otolith + canal, STC) were predominantly in the roll quadrants. There was no evidence of convergence of inputs from like canals across the midline (e.g., right anterior + left anterior). 6. Two characteristics of the VCR, STC behavior and bilateral input from symmetric vertical canals (in some muscles), cannot be accounted for by the reticulospinal neurons that we studied. Because these characteristics are also not seen in vestibulocollic neurons, they are likely to be the result of the appropriate convergence of vestibular signals in the spinal cord. 7. Pontomedullary reticulospinal neurons seem particularly well suited to play a role in gravity-dependent postural reflexes of neck and limbs.
1. Our goal was to discriminate between two classes of models for pursuit eye movements. The monkey's pursuit system and both classes of model exhibit oscillations around target velocity during tracking of ramp target motion. However, the mechanisms that determine the frequency of oscillations differ in the two classes of model. In &quot;internal feedback&quot; models, oscillations are controlled by internal feedback loops, and the frequency of oscillation does not depend strongly on the delay in visual feedback. In &quot;image motion&quot; models, oscillations are controlled by visual feedback, and the frequency of oscillation does depend on the delay in visual feedback. 2. We measured the frequency of oscillation during pursuit of ramp target motion as a function of the total delay for visual feedback. For the shortest feedback delays of approximately 70 ms, the frequency of oscillation was between 6 and 7 Hz. Increases in feedback delay caused decreases in the frequency of oscillation. The effect of increasing feedback delay was similar, whether the increases were produced naturally by dimming and decreasing the size of the tracking target or artificially with the computer. We conclude that the oscillations in eye velocity during pursuit of ramp target motion are controlled by visual inputs, as suggested by the image motion class of models. 3. Previous experiments had suggested that the visuomotor pathways for pursuit are unable to respond well to frequencies as high as the 6-7 Hz at which eye velocity oscillates in monkeys. We therefore tested the response to target vibration at an amplitude of +/- 8 degrees/s and frequencies as high as 15 Hz. For target vibration at 6 Hz, the gain of pursuit, defined as the amplitude of eye velocity divided by the amplitude of target velocity, was as high as 0.65. We conclude that the visuomotor pathways for pursuit are capable of processing image motion at high temporal frequencies. 4. The gain of pursuit was much larger when the target vibrated around a constant speed of 15 degrees/s than when it vibrated around a stationary position. This suggests that the pursuit pathways contain a switch that must be closed to allow the visuomotor pathways for pursuit to operate at their full gain. The switch apparently remains open for target vibration around a stationary position. 5. The responses to target vibration revealed a frequency at which eye velocity lagged target velocity by 180 degrees and at which one monkey showed a local peak in the gain of pursuit.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Sensitization of the responses of dorsal horn neurons to mechanical stimulation may play a role in the generation of hyperalgesia. Intradermal injection of capsaicin (CAP) provides a model of experimental hyperalgesia that possesses a component of allodynia. This hyperalgesia is produced by chemical stimulation of C-fibers, leading to sensitization of dorsal horn neurons, including spinothalamic tract (STT) cells. The changes in the physiological responses of STT neurons following intradermal CAP in monkeys parallel the acute pain and hyperalgesia produced by intradermal CAP in humans. The present study addresses the role that excitatory amino acids (EAAs) may play in the sensitization of STT neurons by intradermal CAP. Our results show that the background discharge rate and the responses of STT cells to mechanical stimulation increase following intradermal CAP. In addition, the responses of the sensitized cells to one or more iontophoretically released EAA agonists, including NMDA, glutamate, aspartate, kainate, DL-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazoleproprionic acid, and/or quisqualate, increase following intradermal CAP. It is proposed that an increase in the responses of STT neurons to EAAs contributes to the hyperalgesia produced by this noxious chemical stimulus.
Growing axons use environmental cues to guide them to their targets. One class of cues is thought to be adhesion molecules on cells and in the extracellular matrix that axons interact with as they grow to their targets. In choosing between two possible pathways, the relative adhesiveness of the two substrates could be an important factor in controlling neurite growth. We conducted experiments in vitro to study how naturally occurring adhesion molecules influence neurite growth. Neurite growth rates, the degree of neurite fasciculation, the choices neurites make between two substrates, and the relative adhesiveness of different substrates were examined. We found that the relative adhesiveness of a substrate was a poor predictor of either axon growth rate or the degree of fasciculation. Furthermore, neurites showed little selectivity between three different naturally occurring substrates, L1, N-cadherin, and laminin. These results suggest that some adhesion molecules may serve as permissive substrates in that they can define axonal pathways but they do not provide information about which path to take at a choice point or about which direction to go along the path. Finally, these results suggest that substrates in vivo may not exert their effects on axon guidance principally via relative adhesiveness.
Increasing evidence implicates glutamate receptor over-stimulation in the neurotoxicity associated with a host of metabolic insults, including seizures and hypoxia-ischemia. To begin to understand more completely the role of energy metabolism in the mechanism of neuron death following excitatory amino acid exposure, we investigated the effects of kainic acid exposure on metabolic rate in cultured hippocampal cells using a recently developed silicon microphysiometer. The device gives a continual real-time measure of metabolism in relatively small numbers of cells, as assessed by efflux of protons generated at least in part by ATP hydrolysis and lactic acid production. In the first half of this report, we characterize the feasibility of using this device for measuring cellular metabolism in hippocampal cultures. Metabolic rate in both astrocytes and neurons was readily detectable, with a high signal-to-noise ratio. The rate was proportional to the number of cells and was sensitive to metabolic enhancement or depression. We then utilized this device to study metabolic responses to the excitotoxin kainic acid. We observed a receptor-mediated, dose-dependent increase in metabolic rate upon stimulation by kainic acid, with an EC50 of approximately 100 microM. Exposure to toxic levels of kainic acid for 10 min produced an initial elevation (for 2 hr) in metabolic rate and then a gradual decline in metabolism over the next 8 hr that preceded a measurable loss of cell viability. This study further delineates a time window for the onset of kainic acid-induced damage. The results clearly show the feasibility of using silicon microphysiometry for assessing metabolism of brain cultures and for exploring the relationship between metabolism and synaptic activation.
The presence of polyribosomes within dendrites suggests a capability for local dendritic protein synthesis. However, local synthesis is difficult to evaluate because of rapid somatodendritic protein transport. The present study describes a two-surfaced culture system that allowed the separation of living axons and dendrites from their cell bodies of origin. Because this system eliminates the transport of proteins produced in the cell body, it was possible to study the extent of dendritic protein synthesis directly. Hippocampal neurons were plated on a Nucleopore polycarbonate membrane that was mounted on a thick matrix of proteins (Matrigel) fixed on a coverslip. As the neurons grew, axons and dendrites grew through the membrane into the Matrigel. To evaluate local protein synthesis within dendrites, the membrane with the cell bodies was removed, leaving a dense array of transected dendrites and axons on the coverslip with few contaminant cell bodies. Absence of cell bodies was confirmed by staining with the nuclear stain Hoechst 33258. Coverslips with isolated neurites were pulse labeled with 3H-leucine for 30 min, and fixed for autoradiography to identify sites of protein synthesis. Autoradiographic analyses revealed that isolated dendrites (immunochemically identified using antibodies against MAP2) became heavily labeled, whereas axons exhibited little if any labeling. The labeling was essentially eliminated when the neurites were pulse labeled with 3H-leucine in the presence of puromycin, whereas labeling was affected only minimally by chloramphenicol. The puromycin-sensitive incorporation of 3H-leucine in dendrites demonstrates that the polyribosomes previously described are active in protein synthesis. This system will allow a characterization of synthetic activity within isolated neurites and provide a new approach to identifying proteins that are produced within dendrites.
Individual neurons synthesize different peptide neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. In general, specificity is achieved by transcriptional regulation of neuropeptide-encoding genes. In Lymnaea, the FMRFamide and GDP/SDPFLRFamide neuropeptides are encoded by separate exons. Here we provide evidence that the two exons are part of the same gene and that in neurons expressing the gene the two exons are spliced onto a common upstream exon encoding a hydrophobic leader sequence. In addition, in situ hybridization data show that there is mutually exclusive cytoplasmic expression of each of the neuropeptide-encoding exons. Thus, differential neuropeptide synthesis is likely to be regulated by an alternative splicing mechanism. The cellular specificity of these splicing events is remarkable and suggests that cell-specific alternative splicing may be of major importance in establishing neuronal diversity in this system.
We show that calmodulin-dependent phosphodiesterase (CAM-PDE) is selectively expressed in mature olfactory receptor neurons within the olfactory mucosa. Immunocytochemical staining reveals neuronal immunoreactivity that is most pronounced within cilia, dendritic knobs, and axon bundles. Neither sustentacular cells nor basal cells display immunoreactivity. The extent of loss of neuronal immunoreactivity following bulbectomy resembles loss of the neuronal population. High-affinity CAM-PDE activity in olfactory cilia is fivefold greater than in brain, when assayed at low micromolar cAMP. This activity is depleted in turbinates following bulbectomy. Olfactory mucosal PDE activity is composed of a minimum of two major forms. In the absence of Ca(2+), rolipram-sensitive PDE comprises 65% of total activity. Following stimulation by Ca2+, CAM-PDE activity is elevated sixfold to become the predominant form, thereby increasing total activity 300%, with half-maximal effect at 1 microM Ca2+. We propose that Ca2+ stimulation of CAM-PDE may be necessary for termination of olfactory signals.
Miniature endplate potentials (MEPPs) with slow rising phase can be attributed either to burst of transmitter releases or to distortion of conduction from remote releasing sites. The spontaneous activity of neuromuscular junctions recorded extracellularly at mouse diaphragms using sharp electrodes was analyzed to test these two hypotheses. The miniature junctional potentials (MEJPs) frequencies observed intracellularly as compared to MEPP frequency measured intracellularly in controls indicate that most events recorded extracellularly are induced by the presence of the electrode. All types of MEPPs (bell-MEPPs, skew-MEPPs, slow-, and giant MEPPs) previously described with intracellular recording methods (Vautrin and Kriebel, Neuroscience 41:71-88, 1991) were observed extracellularly and showed similar characteristics. This means that the presynaptic and postsynaptic zones that generate these synaptic events are restricted within areas of a few micrometers squared of synaptic contact. Long rise times of extracellularly recorded synaptic spontaneous events may be explained by multiple transmitter releases at intervals shorter than the rise time of individual events, which postsynaptic responses fuse into a single peak.
The question of iron regulation in the brain is the subject of increasing interest as the evidence continues to accumulate that a loss of brain iron homeostasis plays a significant role in some neurodegenerative diseases. Most cells acquire iron through a specific receptor mediated process involving transferrin, the iron mobilization protein. It appears that in the brain, endothelial cells, neurons, and oligodendrocytes express the transferrin receptor. This study uses a strain of rats (myelin deficient, md) in which oligodendrocytes fail to mature, and examines the consequences of this genetic defect on the expression of the transferrin receptor in the brain. The affinity of transferrin for its receptor is similar between the cerebral cortex and cerebellum in both the normal and myelin deficient rats (Kd = 7.8-10.6 nM). The transferrin receptor density is normally 2-3 times higher in the cerebellum than in the cerebral cortex. In the myelin deficient rat strain, the density of the transferrin receptor is decreased in both the cerebrum (56%) and cerebellum (70%) compared to the littermate control animals. Because oligodendrocytes are the only cell type affected in this mutant, the results suggest that these cells are responsible for a considerable amount of the transferrin receptors that are expressed in the brain (excluding the endothelial cell contributions). These observations are consistent with the existing literature stating that oligodendrocytes are responsible for the majority of transferrin and transferrin mRNA which is expressed in the brain, and support the working hypothesis that imbalances in brain iron homeostasis, particularly during development, are associated with myelin disorders.
Raised intracranial pressure (ICP) occurs at some time in 50-75% of severely head injured patients. Measurement of ICP alone is not sufficient. Arterial pressure must also be monitored: the important physiological variable is cerebral perfusion pressure. Detailed analysis of the ICP recording yields valuable information on the nature and cause of ICP, with implications for appropriate therapy. Additional measurements of importance include brain electrical activity, arterial and jugular venous oxygen saturation, and blood flow velocity in major intracranial arteries measured by transcranial Doppler sonography. These assessments not only add information about the cause of intracranial hypertension (vascular vs. nonvascular) but also help to regulate therapy, providing early warning that a treatment for reducing the ICP is actually producing global brain ischemia. In the management of raised ICP, all correctable factors must first of all be dealt with, then a choice made between hypnotic drugs and osmotic therapy according to whether the cause of raised ICP is, respectively, vascular or nonvascular.
The central mechanism(s) whereby peripherally administered nicotine (N) stimulates prolactin secretion has not been clarified. The current studies showed that an i.c.v. injection of N into the fourth ventricle (IV) produced a significant dose-dependent elevation of plasma prolactin [buffer less than N 0.125 micrograms = N 0.25 micrograms (P less than .05) less than N 0.5 micrograms = N 2.5 micrograms (P less than .01)]. Injecting the nicotinic cholinergic (NAch) antagonist, mecamylamine, into the IV (20 or 40 micrograms) or i.v. (0.5 mg/kg b.wt.) before the administration of N by the alternate route indicated that nicotine was activating NAch receptors accessible from the IV. Because brain stem catecholaminergic cell groups, adjacent to the IV, project to hypothalamic regions involved in modulating prolactin release, the involvement of IV catecholaminergic neurons in N-stimulated prolactin release was investigated. Ablation of central catecholaminergic neurons by 6-hydroxydopamine abolished the prolactin response to N injected i.c.v. (1 or 2.5 micrograms; P less than .05) or i.v. (0.03 or 0.05 mg/kg b.wt.; P less than .05). To assess the role of norepinephrine and epinephrine, LY 10853, an inhibitor of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, was given i.p. 4 h before i.v. nicotine; the prolactin response was attenuated (P less than .01). Selective inhibitors of epinephrine synthesis, SKF 64139 or 2,3-dichloro-alpha-methylbenzylamine, administered on the same schedule, reduced (P less than .01) the prolactin response to N without altering responsiveness to the dopamine receptor antagonist, domperidone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Several novel cocaine analogs, previously shown to be very potent in in vitro binding studies, have been examined for their stimulatory effects on locomotor activity and for their ability to displace [3H]WIN 35,428 binding in vivo in mice. These compounds, like WIN 35,428, lack an ester link between the phenyl group and the tropane ring and have para-substitutions on the phenyl ring. They were much more potent than (-)-cocaine in producing increases in locomotor activity. In addition, they were more potent than (-)-cocaine in inhibiting [3H]WIN 35,428 binding in vivo in mouse striatum. Thus, these compounds demonstrate similar high potency in behavioral tests and in receptor binding assays, both in vivo and in vitro. Results support the hypothesis of a relationship between binding at the dopamine transporter and the behavioral effects of cocaine-like drugs. Further, assuming that maximal occupancy occurs with total displacement of [3H]WIN 35,428 binding in vivo, the data suggest that maximal locomotor effects occur with near total occupancy of transporter binding sites.
Using radiolabeled microspheres, spinal cord blood flow was measured after spinal subarachnoid injections of 3.1- to 12.5-nmol doses of somatostatin through either indwelling i.t. catheters or acutely inserted intervertebral needles. With either injection technique, somatostatin caused significant dose-dependent reductions in thoracic and lumbosacral blood flow that could be partially blocked by a 5-min preinjection of the somatostatin receptor antagonist cyclo[7-aminoheptanoyl-Phe-D-Trp-Lys-Thr(Bzl)], which has previously been shown to block the hindlimb flaccidity produced by these doses of somatostatin in conscious rats. The duration of these blood flow changes were appreciably less in the rats injected through indwelling i.t. catheters. Somatostatin-induced reductions in spinal cord perfusion were accompanied by transient pressor responses, reduced cardiac output, 3-fold increases in spinal cord cerebrospinal fluid lactic acid concentrations and breakdown of the blood-spinal cord barrier, as reflected by significantly increased extravasation of [125I]bovine serum albumin. By 24 hr postinjection, a 12.5-nmol dose of somatostatin caused appreciable spinal cord cellular injury, as evidenced by significant elevations in cerebrospinal fluid concentrations of lactate dehydrogenase. After topical application to exposed pial vessels of the parietal cortex, comparable doses of somatostatin caused immediate intense dose-related arteriolar vasospasm and subsequent extravasation of the visible macromolecular tracer Evans blue dye. We conclude that somatostatin has significant vasoconstrictory effects on the blood vessels of the brain and spinal cord of the rat that must be recognized and appreciated when studying its neuropharmacological actions in vivo.
1. Magnetic stimulation was applied over the motor cortex in forty-five normal human subjects and peristimulus time histograms (PSTHs) of the discharges of single motor units were used to record changes in the firing probability of individual spinal motoneurones of contralateral upper limb muscles. Recordings were obtained from 153 motor units from fourteen upper limb muscles. 2. For the majority of motor units the initial effect was a short latency facilitation. The estimated central conduction velocities and the rise times of the underlying excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) were compatible with monosynaptic facilitation by a fast corticospinal pathway. In some motor units the initial effect was a short latency inhibition. Other units showed no statistically significant changes in firing probability. The proportion of the tested motor units in each of these categories depended on the muscle. All of the sampled units of first dorsal interosseous (1DI) showed short latency facilitation, as did the majority of units in the forearm and the biceps brachii. More than half of the sampled motor units of triceps brachii and deltoid showed either no effect or were inhibited. 3. To compare the net short latency actions of the neurones activated by magnetic stimulation on various motoneurone pools, the magnitude of the short latency facilitation or inhibition in a given motor unit was normalized to the magnitude of the short latency facilitation in the 1DI motor unit of the same subject at the same stimulus intensity, and these data were pooled for a number of subjects. 4. 1DI motoneurones received strong net facilitation (estimated mean EPSP amplitude 2.9 +/- 0.2 mV), the motoneurones of forearm muscles and biceps brachii received weaker net facilitation and triceps brachii and deltoid received no net effect. 5. It is concluded that the short latency corticospinal projections to upper limb motoneurones in humans have a distinct pattern which is similar to that in other primates.
1. The confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM) was used in conjunction with the calcium indicator dye Fluo-3 to record changes in free intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) in cultured hippocampal neurons in response to superfusion of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). 2. NMDA caused a rapid rise in [Ca2+]i in all parts of the neuron. The rise in [Ca2+]i was dependent on activation of an NMDA receptor, was enhanced by the removal of Mg2+ and addition of glycine to the superfusion medium, and was dependent on normal [Ca2+]o. 3. The rise of [Ca2+]i was seen first near the membrane. A wave of elevated [Ca2+]i moved centripetally at a rate of 117 microns/s. 4. Dantrolene pre-incubation caused a significant reduction in the efficacy of the NMDA-induced rise in [Ca2+]i, indicating that at least part of the rise is caused by intracellular release of calcium. 5. The replacement of calcium by barium caused a reduction in the response to NMDA, but a significant response was still present in these cells, supporting the assumption that NMDA causes release of calcium from intracellular stores. 6. The removal of sodium from the superfusion medium prolonged the [Ca2+]i rise in response to NMDA indicating that the Na-Ca antiporter is instrumental in reducing [Ca2+]i. 7. These studies demonstrate the multiplicity of regulating mechanisms of [Ca2+]i following activation of NMDA receptors.
Eighteen cases of lacunar infarction are presented. Six of these cases had a purely motor clinical deficit. All the cases were studied by serial high resolution SPECT (single photon emission computerized tomography) using 99Tcm HMPAO. The degree and extent of the changes in cerebral perfusion consistent with diaschisis were noted and these compared with the severity of the clinical deficit at presentation and over time. No significant correlation between diaschisis and the clinical state was found at any stage. The nature, aetiology and importance of diaschisis are discussed and it is suggested that caution should be exercised in attributing clinical features to diaschisis simply because it may be present.
Release of results of a clinical study to the public press prior to dissemination in a professional journal is a substantive issue which must undergo continued scrutiny. This report analyzes the second National Acute Spinal Cord Injury Study (NASCIS-2) and its subsequent reportage. NASCIS-2 was an elaborate protocol consisting of the randomized blinded use of methylprednisolone (MP), naloxone or placebo in 487 patients within 12 hours of spinal cord injury. Analysis of the entire population failed to show a significant clinical difference among treatments although data stratification revealed a significant change in patients with a complete loss of function who received MP within 8 hours of injury. The administration of MP was associated with a 7.1% incidence of wound infection. While these results suggested clinical benefit, incomplete data and statistical descriptions reduced assertions. Discrepancies in the report included lack of radiological data or descriptions of time-dependent surgical manipulations and extent of rehabilitative therapy. Justification for the broad 8-hour stratum and multiple hypothesis testing was unclear; incomplete design details included level of statistical significance, study power, stopping rules, trial duration and odds ratio data. The hypothesis that press release prior to publication in a professional journal would result in rapid therapy remained unproven. Reasons for pre-release, including limited peer review, physician familiarity with drug and dosage, and lack of alternative treatment or treatment complications were either unjustified or problematic. Early disclosure to the press resulted in da ta misinterpretation and oversimplification, failure to recognize exclusion or appropriate legal ramifications,and lack of communication to appropriate physicians.
We have previously demonstrated that glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) containing intermediate filaments in retinal Mller cells undergo both quantitative induction and subcellular reorganization as a response to long-term retinal detachment (an induced CNS degeneration wherein the Mller cells form a multicellular scar). This study demonstrates by RNA blotting analysis that normal retina expresses a low basal level of GFAP mRNA, which is induced approximately 500% within 3 days of retinal detachment. At the cellular level, electron microscopic in situ hybridization analysis readily detects GFAP mRNA in Mller cells of detached retinas, but not in normal retinas. On the other hand, GFAP mRNA was readily detected in retinal astrocytes (which appear to express GFAP mRNA at high, constitutive levels). In both cell types, the ultrastructural localization of GFAP mRNA was the same. In the nuclei, the GFAP mRNA was associated with amorphous, electron-dense regions within the euchromatin. In the cytoplasm, the GFAP mRNA was associated with intermediate filaments near the nuclear pores, along the filaments when no other structures were apparent, and when the filaments appeared to be associated with ribosomes and polysomes. The ultrastructural location of the GFAP mRNA (especially along the intermediate filaments) may be unique to this mRNA or may represent a more generalized mRNA phenomenon.



Previous neuropathological and morphometric studies of the cerebral cortex of patients with human immunodeficiency virus encephalitis (HIVE) have shown a decrease in the population of large neurons, moderate loss in synaptophysin immunoreactivity, and pathological changes in dendrites. To further characterize and quantify alterations in the dendritic tree of neocortical pyramidal neurons, we performed a modified Golgi impregnation technique on Formalin fixed blocks from the frontal cortex of 5 HIVE cases, 5 human immunodeficiency virus seropositive control cases without encephalitis, and 5 human immunodeficiency virus seronegative controls. Apical dendrites of HIVE cases were dilated, vacuolated, and tortuous with decreased length and branching. Basal and oblique dendrites also showed these alterations, but to a lesser extent. Some dendrites presented lacunae and filopodia consistent with remodeling. Computer aided quantification of HIVE cases showed a 40-60% decrease in spine density throughout the entire length of dendrites. Laser confocal imaging of Golgi impregnated sections displayed aberrant spines in regions of abnormal second order dendritic branches. These observations support the role of primary dendritic damage in HIVE in contrast to other neurodegenerative disorders where the primary pathology is presynaptic.
The possibility that vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) may facilitate the nicotine-mediated induction of adrenal medullary tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) was investigated with primary cultures (5-7 days in vitro) of bovine adrenal chromaffin (BAC) cells. Exposure of BAC cells to 100 microM nicotine led to only a marginal increase in the amount of TH mRNA, TH protein, and TH activity. VIP, alone or in the presence of a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, produced a marked increase in TH mRNA, TH protein, and TH activity. Moreover, VIP together with nicotine, at concentrations that alone were devoid of effect, increased the amount of TH mRNA and TH activity. A synergistic effect of VIP and nicotine on cAMP accumulation in BAC cells was also apparent. The marginal effects of large doses of nicotine on both cAMP accumulation and TH induction were blocked completely by hexamethonium but were also partially inhibited by the VIP antagonist [p-chloro-D-Phe6,Leu17]-VIP. Nicotine may, therefore, stimulate the release of VIP from cultured BAC cells and VIP, in turn, by increasing cAMP, may synergize with nicotine to enhance TH gene expression.
Conduction velocity (CV) of single alpha-motor fibers was measured using a combination of microneurographic and spike-triggered averaging techniques on 7 healthy subjects (aged 25 to 42). Two tungsten microelectrodes were inserted percutaneously into the median nerve at the wrist and 4 to 6 cm more proximally. Motor unit activities recorded from thenar muscles during voluntary isometric contraction with a third microelectrode, were isolated with a window discriminator, and used to trigger an averager. CVs were calculated by dividing the interelectrode distance by the conduction time between unitary activities in the proximally and distally averaged neurograms. The CVs of 100 units ranged between 34 and 66 m/s, with the peak at around 50 m/s. The relationship between CVs and recruitment orders was compared within sets of 2 or 3 units recorded simultaneously. Statistical analysis using a chi 2 test revealed that slower motor units tended to be recruited earlier than faster units (P less than 0.001).
We previously reported that the freely moving male Fischer-344 rat provides a useful model to demonstrate the progressive impairment of eyeblink conditioning associated with aging. However, because the youngest F-344 rats only performed at 60% of maximum, we ran the same experiment with hybrid rats and discovered most (i.e., those age 9-24 months) learned rapidly and exhibited conditioned responses on greater than 80% of trials by the end of two training sessions. In contrast, the aged rats (36 months) exhibited significantly fewer CRs on all four training days. However, unlike all ages of F-344 rats (3-30 months) which were run in our last study, these aged hybrid rats exhibited considerable improvement with extra training. These data indicate clear differences in the rate of learning between the two strains and suggest that even young F-344 rats may have deficits in the neural circuits which mediate eyeblink conditioning. Other anecdotal findings on differences between the two strains are noted.

In brain areas enriched of dopaminergic nerve terminals presynaptic dopamine (DA) autoreceptors control the state of activation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) by regulating the extent of phosphorylation of the enzyme. Evidence is presented indicating that this autoinhibitory control may involve a decrease in the cyclic AMP-dependent activation of TH through an inhibitory coupling of presynaptic DA autoreceptors to adenylate cyclase. As indicated by the insensitivity of the DA inhibition of TH to changes in the extracellular concentrations of Ca++, to the addition of the Ca++ ionophore A 23187 and of different K+ channel blockers, a reduction of Ca++ influx and an increase in the K+ channel activity do not seem to be involved in the presynaptic regulation of TH activity by DA autoreceptors at least under basal conditions.


The developmental characteristics of D1 and D2 dopamine receptor mRNA levels were determined by Northern blot analyses. Striatal D1 and D2 receptor mRNAs of male Fischer 344 rats were about 60% of adults levels at postnatal day 1 and reached their highest measured levels at day 30 (126-139% adults levels) and then decreased by day 120 (100%). D1 and D2 receptor densities at day 30 were about 8-fold higher than at day 1, while mRNA levels showed only a 2-fold increase. The highest level of D2 receptor mRNA in midbrain as reached at day 14 (195% adult level) while levels at day 1 were 31% higher than dose at day 120. Treatment with selective D2 receptor antagonist, haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg/day, s.c., for 2 h, 7, 14, 21 days or 21 days + 3 days withdrawal) had no effect on Sprague-Dawley rat striatal D2 receptor mRNA levels in spite of significant increases in receptor density at the later time points. However, the selective D1 receptor antagonist, SCH 23390 (0.5 mg/kg/day, s.c.) produced increases in striatal D1 receptors and mRNA levels after treatments of 7, 14 and 21 days + 3 days withdrawal.

A68930, [1R, 3S] 1-aminomethyl-5,6-dihydroxy-3-phenylisochroman HCl, is a potent, partial agonist in the dopamine-sensitive adenylate cyclase model of the D1 dopamine receptor in fish retina. In the rat caudate-putamen model of the D1 dopamine receptor, A68930 is a potent (EC50 2.1 nM) full agonist. In contrast, A68930 is a much weaker (EC50 = 3,920 nM) full agonist in a biochemical model of the D2 dopamine receptor. A68930 also displays weak 2 agonist activity but the molecule is virtually inactive at the 1 and beta-adrenoceptors. When tested in rats bearing a unilateral 6-OHDA lesion of the nigro-neostriatal neurons, A68930 elicits prolonged (&gt; 20 hr) contralateral turning.
Sleep deprivation induced by the platform technique is considered to be a heavy stressful situation in rats. At the end of the sleep deprivation period (72 h) the rat displayed particular behavior characterized by wakefulness, a high degree of motor and exploratory activity, increased alertness and reactivity to environmental stimuli. Our previous results indicated that this behavior was potently antagonized by the administration of the D1 selective antagonist SCH 23390 and by the opioid antagonist naloxone. In this paper we show that concomitantly to this behavior, an increased number of D1 receptors associated with an increased dopamine-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity is present in the limbic system but not in the striatum of these animals. On the contrary, a decreased Bmax of mu and delta opioid receptors was found in the same brain area. These data suggest an active role of limbic dopamine and opioid systems in the generation of arousal and insomnia related to sleep deprivation-induced stress.

The present review summarizes findings in our continuing study of the use of low-power laser irradiation (LPLI) in the treatment of severely injured peripheral (PNS) and central nervous systems (CNS). The radiation method was proposed by Rochkind and has been modified over the last 13 years. LPLI in specific wavelengths and energy density maintains the electrophysiological activity of severely injured peripheral nerve in rats, preventing scar formation (at injury site) as well as degenerative changes in the corresponding motor neurons of the spinal cord, thus accelerating regeneration of the injured nerve. Laser irradiation applied to the spinal cord of dogs following severe spinal cord injury and implantation of a segment of the peripheral nerve into the injured area diminished glial scar formation, induced axonal sprouting in the injured area and restoration of locomotor function. The use of laser irradiation in mammalian CNS transplantation shows that laser therapy prevents extensive glial scar formation (a limiting factor in CNS regeneration) between a neural transplant and the host brain or spinal cord. Abundant capillaries developed in the laser-irradiated transplants, and was of crucial importance in their survival. Intraoperative clinical use of laser therapy following surgical treatment of the tethered spinal cord (resulting from myelomeningocele, lipomyelomeningocele, thickened filum terminale or fibrous scar) increases functional activity of the irradiated spinal cord. In a previous experimental work, we showed that direct laser treatment on nerve tissue promotes restoration of the electrophysiological activity of the severely injured peripheral nerve, prevents degenerative changes in neurons of the spinal cord and induces proliferation of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. This suggested a higher metabolism in neurons and improved ability for myelin production under the influence of laser treatment. The tethering of the spinal cord causes mechanical damage to neuronal cell membranes leading to metabolic disturbances in the neurons. For this reason, we believe that using LPLI may improve neuronal metabolism, prevent neuronal degeneration and promote improved spinal cord function and repair. The possible mechanism of LPLI is investigated. Using electron paramagnetic resonance in cell culture models, we found that at low radiation doses, singlet oxygen is produced by energy transfer from porphyrin (not cytochrome as commonly assumed) which is known to be present in the cell. At low concentration, singlet oxygen can modulate biochemical processes taking place in the cell and trigger accelerated cell division. On the other hand, at high concentration, singlet oxygen damages the cell.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We studied 40 MELAS patients (21 male and 19 female) to characterize the clinical features and biochemical and muscle biopsy findings related to the mtDNA mutation at the nucleotide position of 3,243, the most common genetic defect in MELAS. The most frequent symptom was episodic sudden headache with vomiting and convulsions, which commonly affected patients aged 5 to 15 years (80%). Biochemical defects in the muscle were variable; 13 patients had complex I, seven complex IV, and four complexes I + IV deficiencies. In four muscle biopsies without ragged-red fibers or any enzyme defect, we based the diagnosis on the identification of strongly SDH-reactive blood vessels, which occurred in 87.5% of the biopsies. The mtDNA mutation was present in 32 of 40 patients (80%). We conclude that there are no clinical and pathologic differences between the patients with and without this mtDNA mutation.
Using a cDNA library prepared from circumvallate papillae of rat tongue, we have identified, cloned, and sequenced a novel K+ channel, designated cdrk. The cdrk channel appears to be a member of the Shab subfamily, most closely resembling drk1. Electrophysiologic analysis of expressed cdrk channels reveals delayed rectifier properties similar to those of drk1 channels. Localizations of cdrk mRNA in rat brain and peripheral tissues, assessed by in situ hybridization and Northern blot analysis, differ from any other reported K+ channels. In the brain cdrk mRNA is most concentrated in granule cells of the olfactory bulb and cerebellum. In peripheral tissues, mRNAs for cdrk and drk1 are reciprocally localized, indicating that the K+ channel properties contributed by mammalian Shab homologs may be important in a variety of excitable tissues.
The development of the neural retina follows a stereotyped time course that begins with an undifferentiated neuroepithelium populated by multipotential progenitor cells and ends with a highly differentiated tissue containing diverse cell types. The identities of the factors that guide this differentiation have remained elusive; a likely location for such factors, however, is the extracellular environment. Here, we show that the extracellular matrix component s-laminin is present in the neural retina, that s-laminin expression parallels the differentiation of rod photoreceptors, that photoreceptors interact with s-laminin in vitro, and that antibodies to s-laminin profoundly reduce the appearance of cells that express rhodopsin in vitro. These data suggest that s-laminin plays a role in the differentiation of the neural retina and provide evidence that the composition of the extracellular matrix may be an important determinant of retinal differentiation.
We have investigated the possible role of synapsin I, a nerve terminal-specific protein, in the maturation of neuromuscular synapses in Xenopus cell cultures. Purified synapsin I was loaded into embryonic spinal neurons by injection of the protein into one of the early blastomeres of a Xenopus embryo. At synapses made by synapsin I-loaded neurons, spontaneous synaptic currents occurred with higher frequency and amplitude, and the amplitude exhibited an earlier appearance of a bell-shaped distribution. These characteristics are indicative of more mature quantal secretion. Impulse-evoked synaptic currents also showed a significant increase in amplitude. Using cell manipulation techniques, enhanced transmitter release from synapsin I-loaded neurons was shown to occur at the onset of synaptogenesis, suggesting a presynaptic developmental action of synapsin I prior to synaptic contact. Taken together, these results suggest that endogenous synapsin I may participate in the functional maturation of synapses.
Neurogenic causes of pruritus and a rash are uncommon. We report a patient with dermatomal pruritus and a rash who had a cervicothoracic syrinx and a thoracic spinal cord tumor. We believe the syrinx interrupted fibers subserving itch, resulting in dermatomal pruritus with secondary scratching and a rash.
This study is an overview of 2,515 consecutive autopsies on newborn infants who died during the first 28 days of life at the Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, during the period 1970-1989. The infants were grouped into 2 categories according to their gestational age and then subdivided into the groups of early (0-6 days) and late (7-28 days) neonatal deaths. In this overview trends in the occurrence of neuropathological observation were documented. In each 5-year time period and each gestational group the following diagnoses were recorded; hypoxic-ischemic neuronal changes, periventricular leukomalacia, infarction, kernicterus, meningitis, and hemorrhage (subependymal, parenchymal, choroidal). In these 20 years, the mortality in preterm infants has decreased due to a fall in the incidence of subependymal/intraventricular hemorrhage, kernicterus and meningitis. In contrast, the rate of mortality in term infants has increased due to a higher frequency of hypoxic-ischemic neuronal necrosis and choroid plexus hemorrhage.
Reeler, an autosomal recessive mutation in mice, is characterized by abnormal positioning of the neurons in the cerebral cortex. We performed a descriptive analysis on the arborization of dendritic processes of large pyramidal neurons in the motor cortex (hindlimb area) of normal and reeler mice, as seen in the Golgi preparations. In the normal mouse, somata of large pyramidal neurons were located in the layer V, and their apical dendrites ascend vertically to the pial surfaces. Their basal dendrites proceed horizontally or inferiorly. In the reeler mouse, typical large pyramidal neurons with a normal (upright) apical dendrite and a variety of atypical large pyramidal neurons with a disoriented apical dendrite were radially scattered within the motor cortex. Typical large pyramidal neurons occupied the lower half of the motor cortex, whereas atypical large pyramidal neurons were predominantly observed in the upper half of the motor cortex. Atypical large pyramidal neurons were further divided into inverted, tumbled, V-shaped, bipolar and superficial polymorphic cells, as previously reported (Terashima et al., J. Comp. Neurol. 218:314-326, 1983). Superficial polymorphic cells localized in the layer of polymorphic cells and the layer of the large pyramidal cells were characterized by the extremely poor dendritic arborizations and the smooth surface of the dendrites, which suggests development of dendrites of these neurons was deranged by the reeler genetic locus.

The neuropathology of a 6-year-old boy with maple syrup urine disease revealed spongy appearance of the white matter and marked edema of the brainstem. Golgi studies demonstrated aberrant orientation of neurons together with abnormalities of dendrites and dendritic spines. Similar changes were observed in a patient with dihydropteridine reductase deficiency. Disorders of amino acid metabolism may be associated with alterations in the terminal stages of neuronal migration and maturation.
Injections of the GABA agonist muscimol into the median raphe nucleus (MR) have been shown to result in an acceleration of dopamine metabolism within the nucleus accumbens. To examine whether serotonergic mechanisms play a role in this effect, muscimol or its vehicle was injected into the MR of either control subjects or of rats that had received prior injections of the serotonin-depleting agent p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA). Although PCPA treatments produced massive depletions of forebrain serotonin, they failed to alter the effect of muscimol infusions on dopamine metabolism. This finding suggests that the effects of intra-MR injections of muscimol on accumbens dopamine turnover do not result entirely from an interaction between serotonergic and dopaminergic systems.
Sympathetic neurons in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) of adult rats depend on target-derived nerve growth factor (NGF) for maintenance of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) levels and the noradrenergic neurotransmitter system. Axotomy of a SCG results in NGF deprivation, causing a decline in TH activity; continuous local application of NGF can prevent this decline in TH activity. We now report that injection of a defective herpes simplex virus 1 vector that expresses NGF (pHSVngf) into a SCG can prevent the decline in TH activity that follows axotomy. SCG of adult rats were injected with either pHSVngf virus or pNFlac virus, which expresses Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase. Analysis of RNA from pHSVngf-infected SCG indicated that the NGF gene was efficiently transcribed and processed. Furthermore, 4 days after pHSVngf injection animals underwent axotomy of the virus-injected SCG. After another 10 days, animals were sacrificed and both the injected-axotomized and contralateral control ganglia were assayed for TH activity. Axotomy of SCG injected with pNFlac virus produced a 50% decline in TH activity relative to control ganglia (P = 0.02). In contrast, SCG injected with pHSVngf virus did not show a decline in TH activity following axotomy; instead, these ganglia manifested an 18% increase in TH levels relative to control ganglia. These data demonstrate that herpes simplex virus 1 vectors can be used to modify neuronal physiology in vivo; specifically, expression of a critical gene product by neural cells that do not normally produce it has potential applications for gene therapy.
1. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infects cells in both the immune system and the brain, but these effects are not independent. 2. Research funded by the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) has been directed at identifying some of the mechanisms by which HIV-1 infects the brain, produces pathology, causes behavioral changes, and alters immune responses. 3. HIV-1-associated peptides have been shown to produce immunological changes without active virus present and there is also evidence that neurological damage may result not from direct viral action, by via excitotoxin production. 4. Rhesus macaque monkeys infected with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) are proving to be a useful model of the neurological and behavioral changes identified in human AIDS patients; behavioral changes observed in monkeys are similar to those seen in humans infected with HIV-1. 5. Studies examining the relationship between the brain and immune system are identifying the role that the macrophage cytokine interleukin-1 may play in suppressing T-lymphocyte activity by two pathways, both mediated by corticotropin releasing factor (CRF). 6. One pathway involves the pituitary-adrenal axis and release of glucocorticoids while the other involves direct interaction with the sympathetic noradrenergic nervous system, which has been shown to innervate T-lymphocytes in the spleen and thymus. 7. These observations are relevant because macrophages infected with HIV-1 infiltrate the brain and may release substances that damage the brain. 8. Stress may affect these pathways via the CRF-mediated release of glucocorticoids; a model of stress has also demonstrated that stress can suppress the cellular immune response.
This study investigated the effect of food ingestion on motion sickness severity and its physiological mechanisms. Forty-six fasted subjects were assigned either to a meal group or to a no-meal group. Electrogastrographic (EGG) indices (normal 3 cpm activity and abnormal 4-9 cpm tachyarrhythmia) and respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) were measured before and after a meal and during a subsequent exposure to a rotating drum in which illusory self-motion was induced. The results indicated that food intake enhanced cardiac parasympathetic tone (RSA) and increased gastric 3 cpm activity. Postprandial effects on motion sickness severity remain equivocal due to group differences in RSA baseline levels. During drum rotation, dysrhythmic activity of the stomach (tachyarrhythmia) and vagal withdrawal were observed. Furthermore, high levels of vagal tone prior to drum rotation predicted a low incidence of motion sickness symptoms, and were associated positively with gastric 3 cpm activity and negatively with tachyarrhythmia. These data suggest that enhanced levels of parasympathetic activity can alleviate motion sickness symptoms by suppressing, in part, its dysrhythmic gastric underpinnings.



Cerebral deposition of fibrils formed from the beta/A4 amyloid protein is an invariable feature of Alzheimer's disease. Evidence suggests that generation of such fibrils may be involved in the etiology of this disease, since mutations in the coding region of the beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene segregate with familial cerebral amyloidoses, including familial Alzheimer's disease. Transgenic models of cerebral amyloidosis have been produced, and some progress has been made in elucidating the cell biology of amyloidogenesis. For example, agents that alter protein phosphorylation are potent modulators of the expression and proteolytic processing of APP. Sam Gandy and Paul Greengard review these recent studies, and discuss those that may provide rational therapeutic opportunities.


The location and nature of the changes underlying long-term potentiation (LTP) remain controversial issues. In this study, we tested the possibility that changes in binding properties of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA/quisqualate and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors are associated with LTP. LTP was elicited in vivo by stimulation of the perforant pathway in anesthetized rats. One hour following stimulation the animals were sacrificed. We performed quantitative ligand binding autoradiography on frozen brain sections using [3H]AMPA and [3H]N-(1-(2-thienyl)cyclohexyl)-3,4-piperidine ([3H]TCP) to label the AMPA/quisqualate and the NMDA receptors, respectively. No changes in [3H]TCP binding were detected in any of the treatment groups. However, increases in [3H]AMPA binding were observed only in animals that exhibited LTP. These increases were bilateral and present in several subfields of the hippocampus and cortical areas. Administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist, ketamine, prior to tetanic stimulation prevented both the increase in binding and the induction of LTP. These results suggest that changes in the characteristics of AMPA/quisqualate receptors are a biochemical correlate of LTP.
The pituitary is a rich source of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM). This bifunctional protein contains peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM) and peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase (PAL) catalytic domains necessary for the two-step formation of alpha-amidated peptides from their peptidylglycine precursors. In addition to the four forms of PAM mRNA identified previously, three novel forms of PAM mRNA were identified by examining anterior and neurointermediate pituitary cDNA libraries. None of the PAM cDNAs found in pituitary cDNA libraries contained exon A, the 315-nucleotide (nt) segment situated between the PHM and PAL domains and present in rPAM-1 but absent from rPAM-2. Although mRNAs of the rPAM-3a and -3b type encode bifunctional PAM precursors, the proteins differ significantly. rPAM-3b lacks a 54-nt segment encoding an 18-amino acid peptide predicted to occur in the cytoplasmic domain of this integral membrane protein; rPAM-3a lacks a 204-nt segment including the transmembrane domain and encodes a soluble protein. rPAM-5 is identical to rPAM-1 through nt 1217 in the PHM domain; alternative splicing generates a novel 3'-region encoding a COOH-terminal pentapeptide followed by 1.1 kb of 3'-untranslated region. The soluble rPAM-5 protein lacks PAL, transmembrane, and cytoplasmic domains. These three forms of PAM mRNA can be generated by alternative splicing. The major forms of PAM mRNA in both lobes of the pituitary are rPAM-3b and rPAM-2. Despite the fact that anterior and neurointermediate pituitary contain a similar distribution of forms of PAM mRNA, the distribution of PAM proteins in the two lobes of the pituitary is quite different. Although integral membrane proteins similar to rPAM-2 and rPAM-3b are major components of anterior pituitary granules, the PAM proteins in the neurointermediate lobe have undergone more extensive endoproteolytic processing, and a 75-kDa protein containing both PHM and PAL domains predominates. The bifunctional PAM precursor undergoes tissue-specific endoproteolytic cleavage reminiscent of the processing of prohormones.

The [14C]2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) method was used to identify those structures in the central visual system of Rana pipiens showing increased metabolic activity during binocular and monocular optokinetic stimulation at two pattern velocities (2 deg/sec and 9 deg/sec). Analysis of autoradiograms made with computer-assisted microdensitometry and pseudocolor image-enhancement techniques revealed that the greatest uptake of 2-DG occurred in the pretectal region, which included the large-celled nucleus lentiformis mesencephali (nLM), nucleus pretectalis, and pretectal gray. Both temporal-to-nasal (T-N) and nasal to temporal (N-T) directions of pattern motion were correlated with high levels of 2-DG uptake. However, the nucleus of the basal optic root (nBOR) showed the greatest uptake of 2-DG for the N-T direction, which evokes little or no optokinetic (OKN) response in this species. These results suggest that the major efferent projection from nBOR to nLM may exert its greatest effect upon the ipsilateral pretectum during N-T stimulation. Other regions showing substantial 2-DG uptake included a large region of the ventral thalamus, for all stimulus conditions tested, including those cell groups associated with the retinorecipient neuropil, corpus geniculatum. The pattern of uptake was less closely associated with specific parameters of optokinetic stimulation than was observed in the pretectum and accessory optic nucleus. Like nBOR, the auricular lobe of the cerebellum also showed greatest uptake of 2-DG for the N-T, monocular stimulus condition. The neural circuitry that underlies OKN and its directional asymmetry during monocular stimulation appears to involve a number of structures whose functional interrelationships are yet to be described.
The expression of 72-kDa heat shock protein (HSP72) in cultured mouse oligodendrocytes and astrocytes exposed to heat shock was investigated by double immunolabelling with anti-HSP72 monoclonal antibody (C92F3B-1) and antibodies against galactocerebroside (GalC) or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). After 3 h recovery from heat shock, an intermediate level of HSP72 immunolabelling was localized in the nucleolus and cytoplasm of astrocytes (less than 25%) and to a lesser extent in oligodendrocytes (less than 2%). After 8-48 h, HSP72 was expressed intensely in the cytoplasm and nuclear matrix of oligodendrocytes (20-40%), while weak/intermediate immunostaining was detectable in astrocytes (5-15%). The levels of HSP72 expressed in oligodendrocytes and astrocytes decreased around 72-120 h, but a few oligodendrocytes (4%) remained intensely immunolabelled. These results indicate that heat shock induces HSP72 in both oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. However, this response is heterogeneous.
Neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) are pathological cytoskeletal structures composed of paired helical filaments (PHF), and are found in neurons of patients afflicted with many neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). We previously found that an antiserum against casein kinase II (CK-II) stained NFT intensely in the brain tissue of AD patients. In the current study, we found that the anti-CK-II antiserum stains NFT and neuronal inclusions in many other neurodegenerative diseases as well, including Guam-Parkinson dementia complex, chromosome 18 deletion syndrome, progressive supranuclear palsy, Kufs' disease, and Pick's disease. This antiserum reacted, in crude brain homogenates, with both a doublet of Mr 43,000 and a Mr 27,000 Da protein which could correspond to the alpha, alpha', and beta chains of CK-II. The staining of these bands was adsorbed by preincubating anti-CK-II antiserum with purified CK-II. Preincubation of brain sections with purified CK-II strongly intensified the immunostaining of NFT with anti-CK-II, suggesting that NFT may bind CK-II. In the AD brain homogenates, the particulate CK-II levels are increased whereas the cytosolic levels are decreased without a change in total CK-II levels, consistent with the idea that CK-II binds to the particulate PHF, a major constituent of NFT. In accord with these findings, purified PHF bound CK-II, but purified PHF did not contain CK-II as its component. These results suggest that CK-II might be an extraneously deposited component of NFT. Thus, the altered CK-II compartmentalization might have significant consequences in the pathogenesis of AD.
The efficacy of nicotinic transmission in the rat superior cervical ganglion in vitro (24-26 degrees C) was estimated by extracellular recording of the postganglionic compound action potential response to stimulation of the preganglionic nerve at a slow rate (one shock every 60 s). Atropine (2 microM) was included to block muscarinic transmission, and hexamethonium (200-250 microM) was used to produce a submaximal response sensitive to potentiation and inhibition of nicotinic transmission. Upon exposure to 1-100 microM 8-bromo-guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-Br-cGMP), nicotinic transmission was potentiated by 6 +/- 1% (n = 4) to 89 +/- 5% (n = 5) in a dose-dependent manner. 8-Bromo-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-Br-cAMP, 10-100 microM) also potentiated nicotinic transmission (3.8 +/- 0.3% (n = 3) to 43 +/- 4% (n = 3)). However, 8-Br-cGMP was at least 2-fold more effective than 8-Br-cAMP. Sodium nitroprusside (0.1 microM to 1 mM) and sodium azide (0.1-100 microM) were used to stimulate the formation of endogenous cGMP52. Nicotinic transmission was potentiated by these substances also. The response was increased by 3.4 +/- 0.7% (n = 4) to 32 +/- 2% (n = 5) upon exposure to 0.1-100 microM sodium nitroprusside, and by 5.5 +/- 0.9% (n = 3) to 18 +/- 4% (n = 4) upon exposure to 0.1-100 microM sodium azide. Ferricyanide ion (10-100 microM) appeared to be ineffective, as would be expected if the effect of nitroprusside was due to the nitric oxide rather than the cyanide or ferric moieties.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Caveolae have been implicated in the transcytosis of macromolecules across endothelial cells and in the receptor-mediated uptake of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate. Structural studies indicate that caveolae are decorated on their cytoplasmic surface by a unique array of filaments or strands that form striated coatings. To understand how these nonclathrin-coated pits function, we performed structural analysis of the striated coat and searched for the molecular component(s) of the coat material. The coat cannot be removed by washing with high salt; however, exposure of membranes to cholesterol-binding drugs caused invaginated caveolae to flatten and the striated coat to disassemble. Antibodies directed against a 22 kd substrate for v-src tyrosine kinase in virus-transformed chick embryo fibroblasts decorated the filaments, suggesting that this molecule is a component of the coat. We have named the molecule caveolin. Caveolae represent a third type of coated membrane specialization that is involved in molecular transport.

The blood-brain barrier (BBB) limits the ability of many hydrophilic solutes to pass from the circulatory system into the nervous system and significantly restricts brain drug delivery. This study examined brain uptake of liposomal formulations in rats. Radiolabeled liposomes less than 1 micron in diameter, prepared from phosphatidylcholine, cholesterol and containing p-aminophenyl-alpha-mannopyranoside or sulfatide, or covalently linked to cationized albumin were injected into the right carotid arteries of rats and organ distribution determined 10 min and 1 h after injection. In all formulations, liposomal retention in brain did not exceed one-tenth of 1% of the injected dose. It seems unlikely that liposomes can significantly bind to or cross the BBB; however, apparent brain uptake could result from liposomal entrapment in the small capillaries of the brain by liposomes larger than 1 micron in diameter.
Chronic treatment of rats with haloperidol (1 mg/kg twice daily for 4 weeks) induced repetitive vacuous chewing movements (VC), that persisted for over 72 h after haloperidol withdrawal. Haloperidol-induced VC were inhibited by the s.c. administration of the specific dopamine D1, receptor antagonist, SCH 23390 (0.025-0.100 mg/kg), in a dose-dependent manner, and were totally suppressed by an acute challenge with haloperidol (2 mg/kg i.p.) and by the dopamine synthesis inhibitor, alpha-methyl-tyrosine (AMT) (200 mg/kg i.p.). In AMT-treated rats, VC were reinstated by the administration of the selective D1 agonist, SKF 38393. The results support the hypothesis that chronic haloperidol-induced VC are mediated by dopamine acting selectively upon D1 receptors.

Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a cytokine with pleiotropic effects upon cell growth, inflammation and immunologic responsiveness. High-affinity TNF receptors (TNFRs) of 55 and 75 kDa are found in many cell types. Using an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-based mammalian expression library, we have isolated a clone from human lymphoblastoid transfectants that induces overexpression of the TNFR-encoding gene (TNFR). Transfectants overproducing the TNFR were isolated by multiple rounds of sorting on a fluorescence-activated cell sorter using fluorescent TNF ligand binding as the selection procedure. Among the sorted transfectants were cells producing approx. 150,000 receptors per cell (Kd of approx. 1 nM). These cells have multiple copies of the TNFR gene present as extrachromosomal plasmids. These cells also overproduced the mRNA for TNFR. Low-Mr EBV episomes were isolated from these overproducing cells and used to transform Escherichia coli. One of the colonies isolated contained a plasmid encoding a portion of the noncoding region of the TNFR gene. Transfection of human lymphoblastoid cells with this DNA gave rise to high-level production of TNFR. Fluorescent TNF bound to these transfectants is fully and specifically displaced by an excess of TNF. The rescued clone contains approx. 10 kb of human genomic DNA including the 3'-untranslated region of TNFR and several Alu sequences; apparently during the selection procedure in human cells, recombination occurred to rescue a portion of the TNFR gene. Transient transfection was used to narrow down the region responsible for TNFR induction to 5.2 kb. The mechanism by which this clone induces TNFR expression has not been determined.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-like immunoreactivity is present at low levels in the superior cervical ganglion of the adult rat, where immunostained neural processes, but only an occasional immunostained cell body, are found. However, when ganglia are maintained for 24 or 48 hr in organ culture, their content of VIP-like immunoreactivity increases 6- or 31-fold, respectively. When examined at 24 hr, the increase in VIP-like immunoreactivity is totally blocked by an inhibitor of RNA or protein synthesis. Many neuronal cell bodies and processes with immunoreactivity for VIP and the related peptide histidine isoleucine amide (PHI) are seen in cultured ganglia. In addition, VIP/PHI mRNA is abundant in cultured ganglia but only barely detectable in ganglia prior to culture. Under the same culture conditions, neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity increases to a small extent, and tyrosine hydroxylase activity and total ganglion protein remain unchanged. These results support the idea that adult sympathetic neurons exhibit plasticity in neuropeptide expression and that this plasticity, in the case of VIP, depends on changes in gene expression.
Nascent translation products of PI-G-anchored membrane proteins contain both NH2- and COOH-terminal signal sequences of approximately 15-30 residues that are removed during processing. Removal of the latter occurs concomitant with the addition of the PI-G moiety to the newly formed COOH terminus. In human placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP) the COOH-terminal signal peptide contains 29 residues. An engineered form of PLAP, miniPLAP 208, containing the same NH2- and COOH-terminal signal peptides as PLAP, was used as a substrate for cell-free processing. A comparison was made with mutants (delta 202, delta 197, delta 184, and delta 179) truncated at the COOH terminus. Intact preprominiPLAP 208 and truncated delta 202 were processed to yield the same mature product which, by size and distribution between Triton X-114 and water before and after treatment with inositol-specific phospholipases, indicates that it contained the PI-G moiety. Mutants that were further truncated at the COOH terminus, miniPLAPs delta 197, delta 184, and delta 179, were processed only at their NH2 termini. Those portions of the COOH-terminal sequence in miniPLAPs delta 197 and delta 1984 that extended beyond residue 179 were not removed during processing.
The Drosophila central nervous system comprises an enormous diversity of neurons that are originated from neuronal stem cells, neuroblasts. They generate a specific series of ganglion mother cells, each of which is once cleaved into a pair of neurons. Among genes known to control neurogenesis, prospero (pros) was recently identified as a gene required for gene expression specifying properties of some identified neurons. Here we report that pros encodes a nuclear protein containing a homeodomain-like sequence. In neuronal lineages of the central nervous system, pros protein is specifically detected in ganglion mother cells, although their parental neuroblasts have begun expressing a significant level of pros transcripts, suggesting a post-transcriptional control of pros expression. Our results provoke that in neuronal cell differentiation ganglion mother cells might play a pivotal role associating with the pros function.
Nicotinic cholinergic receptor proteins purified from rat brain by immunoaffinity chromatography were characterized using the anti-S3 polyclonal antibody vs. the anti-idiotypic monoclonal antibody 422F11 (generated against an antibody to nicotine). Anti-S3 IgG was purified to homogeneity; anti-S3-Sepharose 4B and 422F11-Sepharose 4B each depleted 3H-nicotine binding sites from brain. Nicotinic receptors isolated from both immunoaffinity columns showed major bands (silver-stained) at 55K and 70K. Using anti-S3 serum as probe, Western blots of nicotinic receptors isolated by the two immunoaffinity gels also showed major bands at 55 and 70K. However, Western blots of fresh brain extracts revealed a major band at 80K and minor bands at 55K and 70K. These results show similar nicotinic cholinergic receptor proteins isolated by the anti-S3 and 422F11 anti-idiotypic antibodies; 80K was dominant only when fresh brain extract was subjected to Western blotting without prior immunoaffinity purification.
Among magnocellular neurosecretory neurons (MNCs), the frequency of dye coupling, and thus also of electrotonic coupling, is reduced in male rats following castration. Testosterone replacement prevented this reduction suggesting a modulatory role for gonadal steroids. To determine whether gonadal steroids in females influenced coupling incidence, Lucifer yellow CH injections were made in MNCs in slices taken from ovariectomized rats, either untreated or implanted with capsules containing estradiol-17 beta or estradiol-17 alpha, or from sham operated rats. In groups without biologically active estradiol, incidence of dye coupling was increased by 138-169% over those with normal plasma levels, as measured by radioimmunoassay. We conclude that estradiol and testosterone have opposite effects on coupling frequency among MNCs and that the facilitatory effects of testosterone in males are unlikely to be via its aromatization to estrogen.
The distribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the normal human brainstem has been investigated using MK-801. Specific [3H]MK-801 binding showed a heterogeneous distribution, the greatest density of binding sites being found in the substantia nigra, locus coeruleus, and the hypoglossal and inferior olivary nuclei. Brainstem motor nuclei subserving eye movements, which tend to be spared in motor neuron disease (MND), had significantly lower densities of binding compared to other cranial nerve motor nuclei (V, VII, X, XII) which tend to be affected. The anatomical distribution of NMDA receptors may be one factor determining selective vulnerability to excitotoxic injury.
The uptake of [3H]glycine by rat hippocampal tissue in vitro has been characterized. [3H]Glycine transport into a crude synaptosomal (P2) fraction was resolved into two components. The high affinity component (Km = 21 +/- 5.4 microM, Vmax = 490 +/- 234 pmol/3 min/mg protein) was almost completely sodium dependent whereas the low affinity component (Km = 2.214 +/- 0.958 mM, Vmax = 13.9 +/- 0.5 nmol/3 min/mg protein) was partially dependent on sodium ions. Amongst a range of amino acids, only L-serine, L-glutamate, L-proline, histidine and glycine itself inhibited [3H]glycine uptake at 1 mM. The autoradiographic localization of [3H]glycine uptake in rat hippocampal slices revealed a general pattern of labeling in dendritic regions with a sparing of pyramidal and granule neuron cell bodies. However, a laminar distribution was apparent since the amino acid was preferentially accumulated in the hilus of the dentate gyrus, in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare, in the alveus and in the molecular layer of the lower blade of the dentate gyrus. A diffuse pattern of accumulation was apparent in these areas along with dense clusters of silver grains. The clusters were associated with small cell bodies and might represent glycine uptake into astrocytes. Glycine transport mechanisms may influence the modulatory effects of this amino acid on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated neurotransmission in the hippocampus.
An aminopeptidase was found in canine cerebrospinal fluid via the presence of two products: Y, which has an [M + H]+ ion at m/z 182; and GGFM, which has an [M + H]+ ion at m/z 411. The linked scan at a constant ratio of the magnetic field to the electric field of the GGFM [M + H]+ ion at m/z 411 generates product ions at m/z 120, 150, 266, 297, 354, 357, and 411. That aminopeptidase was bestatin-sensitive (BSAP = bestatin-sensitive aminopeptidase), and had a half-time for disappearance of 60 min, maximum velocity of 1.08 nmol ml-1 min-1, and Michaelis constant of 0.26 nM.
[3H] N-Methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) binds with a fully reversible, high affinity process to a population of sites mainly localized in the mouse striatum (Bmax = 168 +/- 15 fmol/mg protein, KD = 1.4 +/- 0.4 nM). The majority of specifically-bound radioactivity was localized in the synaptosomal fraction. Unilateral, striatal denervation with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) markedly (by 65-70%) decreased the number of [3H]MPP+ sites. Besides dopamine, the vesicular markers tyramine, tetrabenazine and reserpine inhibited [3H]MPP+, while mazindol was a poor displacer. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and Mg(2+)-ions did not affect [3H]MPP+ binding. It is concluded that these sites may represent a marker of striatal storage vesicles for dopamine.
We previously showed that chronic administration of the clinically atypical and clinically superior antipsychotic drug clozapine selectively reduces dopamine (DA) release in the nucleus accumbens but not neostriatum, and that this effect appears mediated by anatomically selective mesolimbic DA depolarization blockade. The present study extends that research to another mesocorticolimbic DA locus, the medial prefrontal cortex. Acute clozapine challenge (5-40 mg/kg i.p.) produced dose-dependent increased extracellular levels of DA and its metabolites, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA), in the medial prefrontal cortex of awake, free-moving rats as measured by in vivo brain microdialysis. Chronic clozapine treatment (20 mg/kg/day for 21 days) did not significantly change basal extracellular levels of DA, DOPAC or HVA. Acute clozapine challenge on day 22 in the chronic clozapine-treated animals produced no significant differences in medial prefrontal cortex DA, DOPAC or HVA as compared to chronic vehicle-treated animals, indicating that tolerance to clozapine does not develop in the mesocortical DA system, in contrast to the mesolimbic system. The DA agonist apomorphine (100 micrograms/kg) produced decreased basal extracellular levels of DA, DOPAC and HVA in medial prefrontal cortex of both chronic clozapine-treated and chronic vehicle-treated rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In order to investigate the role of Na+,K(+)-ATPase in the development of neuronal necrosis following cerebral ischemia, ischemia was induced in gerbils by occluding the common carotid artery unilaterally for 10 min. A time-course analysis revealed that significant reductions of the Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus were manifested at 15 min, 30 min, and 1 h, and returned to the control level one day following recirculation. No apparent alterations of the Mg(2+)-ATPase activity, on the other hand, were obtained throughout the experimental period. Furthermore, Scatchard analyses of [3H]ouabain binding to the cerebral cortex membranes disclosed that the Bmax values invariably decreased without any change of Kd values following ischemia. It has also been shown that treatment of the animals with an agent known to mitigate ischemic neuronal necrosis, i.e. BY-1949, significantly reversed such derangements. These results suggest that the recovery of decreased Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity shortly after ischemia exerts a protective effect against ischemic brain damage.
Studies in Trembler and control mice demonstrated that myelinating Schwann cells exert a profound influence on axons. Extensive contacts between myelin and axons have been considered structural. However, demyelination decreases neurofilament phosphorylation, slow axonal transport, and axonal diameter, as well as significantly increasing neurofilament density. In control sciatic nerves with grafted Trembler nerve segments, these changes were spatially restricted: they were confined to axon segments without normal myelination. Adjacent regions of the same axons had normal diameters, neurofilament phosphorylation, cytoskeletal organization, and axonal transport rates. Close intercellular contacts between myelinating Schwann cells and axons modulate a kinase-phosphatase system acting on neurofilaments and possibly other substrates. Myelination by Schwann cells sculpts the axon-altering functional architecture, electrical properties, and neuronal morphologies.
Highly sulfated proteoglycans are correlated with axon boundaries in the developing central nervous system which suggests that these molecules affect neural pattern formation. In the developing mammalian retina, gradual regression of chondroitin sulfate may help control the onset of ganglion cell differentiation and initial direction of their axons. Changes induced by the removal of chondroitin sulfate from intact retinas in culture confirm the function of chondroitin sulfate in retinal histogenesis.
The secreted form of Alzheimer amyloid beta/A4 protein precursor (APP) has been shown to be involved in cell growth regulation (Saitoh, T., Sundsmo, M., Roch, J.-M., Kimura, N., Cole, G., Schubert, D., Oltersdorf, T., and Schenk, D.B. (1989) Cell 58, 615-622). Using a strong prokaryotic expression system, we expressed, in Escherichia coli, peptide fragments covering different regions of the secreted form of APP-695. The longest of these fragments (KB75, 572 amino acids from Val-20 to Ile-591), which contained neither the Kunitz-type protease inhibitor (KPI) domain nor the amyloid beta/A4-protein domain, was purified and shown to be biologically active in terms of growth regulation. Two other APP fragments (KB48, 316 amino acids from Val-20 to Met-335; and RB17, 150 amino acids from Thr-296 to Pro-445), overlapping by only 40 amino acids at a close site C-terminal to the KPI insertion site, were also active. Furthermore, a chemically synthesized 40-residue peptide corresponding to this region of overlap also stimulated the growth of A-1 fibroblasts. These results establish the presence of growth-promoting activity in the secreted form of APP-695 and suggest that the site of this activity of APP-695 lies within a 40-amino acid domain next to the KPI insertion site.
Synchronized Ca2+ transients in cultured hippocampal neurons reflect the pattern of underlying electrical activity. Here we demonstrate a similar synchronization of cerebral cortical neurons in culture, and show that this functional coupling is correlated to the appearance of morphologically identified synapses using electron microscopy. During screening of a series of drugs for inhibition of in vitro synaptogenesis, the continuous presence of a protein kinase inhibitor (K-252b) in the culture medium was found to block the synchronous firing and to decrease significantly the number of morphologically identifiable synapses. Since K-252b does not permeate the cell membrane, the results strongly suggest that phosphorylation of cell surface protein(s) by a K-252b sensitive-protein kinase is an essential process in synapse formation.
The elderly patient may present to the critical care unit with neurologic deficits such as acute confusion, loss of consciousness, or signs of a cerebrovascular accident. Recognizing the normal age-related changes that occur in the nervous system enables the critical care nurse to evaluate the patient's response to neurologic disorders. The normal neurologic changes associated with aging provide implications for assessment, response to the critical care environment, and the time needed for education and rehabilitation. Other changes, especially decreased immunity, malnutrition, and pulmonary and cardiac pathology, significantly increase the risk for morbidity and mortality after an acute neurologic event. Changes in pharmacokinetics and the likelihood of polypharmacy in the older patient greatly increase the risk for complications and side effects of the commonly used treatments. Important elements of nursing management for the elderly neuroscience patient include performing an accurate neurologic assessment, including noting changes in cognition, observing for adverse drug reactions, optimizing ventilation, and maximizing mobility and nutritional status. This article focuses on these aspects of nursing care for the elderly neuroscience patient.
The authors discuss the two major classifications of mood disorders in detail and make specific recommendations for diagnosis, medical evaluation, differentiation from other disorders, and psychopharmacologic treatment of adolescent mood disorders.
Previous studies have shown altered casein kinase II (CK-II) in Alzheimer's disease (AD). For the present study, the authors analyzed CK-II immunoreactivity at various stages of tangle formation using quantitative laser confocal microscopy and immunoelectron microscopy. AD hippocampal pyramidal cells without neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) displayed 15% more anti-tau immunoreactivity (P less than 0.01) and 43% more anti-CKII immunolabeling than controls (P less than 0.001). In AD, tangle-bearing hippocampal neurons with strong anti-tau immunoreactivity (threefold increase from controls) showed a significant 22% increase in anti-CKII immunolabeling (P less than 0.01), compared with those without NFTs. Neurons with early neurofibrillary changes showed diffuse anti-CKII immunostaining in their cytoplasm and cell processes. In tangle-bearing neurons, in which a higher level of tau immunoreactivity was detected, anti-CKII immunolabeling was distributed along a fibrillar meshwork in cell bodies and processes. Linear regression analysis of anti-CKII and anti-tau immunoreactivity in AD showed a positive correlation (r = 0.53, P less than 0.001). At the ultrastructural level, anti-CKII was immunolocalized to the paired helical filaments (PHF) of the tangle-bearing neurons, as well as to PHF in neuropil threads and some dystrophic neurites in plaques. These results suggest a possible role for CK-II in tangle formation.
To determine whether the blood-nerve barrier of the rat peripheral nerve transports manganese(II) (Mn) by a saturable mechanism similar to that found at the blood-brain barrier, we measured the uptake of 54Mn from blood into desheathed sciatic nerve and into cerebral cortex of awake rats at different plasma concentrations of unlabeled Mn using an intravenous infusion technique. The unidirectional influx (Jin) of Mn into sciatic nerve was facilitated and saturable, when steady-state plasma Mn ranged from 4 to 4,312 ng/ml (0.073-78.4 microM), as was the unidirectional influx of Mn into the cerebral cortex. Michaelis-Menten constants (Km and Vmax) and the passive diffusion constant (Kd), determined by nonlinear least squares, were as follows: for the blood-nerve barrier (sciatic nerve) Km = 4.7 microM, Vmax = 0.56 x 10(-3) nmol.s-1.g wet wt-1, and Kd = 6.3 x 10(-6) ml.s-1.g wet wt-1; for the blood-brain barrier (cerebral cortex) Km = 1.0 microM, Vmax = 0.40 x 10(-3) nmol.s-1.g wet wt-1, and Kd = 0.3 x 10(-6) ml.s-1.g wet wt-1. The results demonstrate facilitated concentration-dependent mechanisms of transport of Mn at the blood-nerve and blood-brain barriers.
Microinjections of cyanide (300 pmol) into the cardiovascular portion of the rostral ventrolateral reticular nucleus (RVL) of anesthetized rats (paralyzed and ventilated) produced a pressor response (26.5 +/- 1.6 mmHg, n = 7) and a transient depression of phrenic nerve discharge (90 +/- 8%, n = 5). Microiontophoretic applications of cyanide (less than or equal to 100 nA, 5-40 s) excited the RVL-spinal sympathoexcitatory neurons (31 out of 31). The response was dose dependent, reversible, independent of the baroreflex input to these neurons, and different from the responses of units with spontaneous discharge synchronized with the lung inflation or with unidentified function. The cyanide-induced excitation of the RVL-spinal sympathoexcitatory neurons was reversibly abolished by CO2+, applied iontophoretically at a dose at which the baroreflex inhibition of these neurons was not markedly affected whereas iontophoretic applications of kynurenic acid, a glutamate receptor antagonist, did not alter the response of the RVL-spinal sympathoexcitatory neurons to cyanide. It was concluded that cyanide induces a rapid Ca(2+)-dependent response of the RVL-spinal sympathoexcitatory neurons, which may underlie the cellular mechanism of these neurons in responding to ischemia-hypoxia.
In vivo voltammetry was used in freely moving rats to study the processes whereby striatal dopamine (DA) release is regulated by corticostriatal glutamatergic neurons. Electrical stimulation of the cerebral cortex was found to markedly increase the striatal DA-related voltammetric signal amplitude. Similar enhancements have been observed after intracerebroventricular administration of 10nmoles glutamate, quisqualate and AMPA, whereas NMDA was found to decrease the amplitude of the striatal signals. The NMDA receptor antagonist APV did not significantly affect the voltammetric signal but prevented the NMDA-induced depression of the DA-related signals. These data are in agreement with those obtained in numerous previous studies suggesting that the glutamatergic corticostriatal neurons exert activatory effects on the striatal DA release via non-NMDA receptors. The mechanism involved might be of a presynaptic nature. The role of the NMDA receptors may however consist of modulating the dopaminergic transmission phasically and in a depressive way, which would be consistent with behavioural data suggesting the existence of a functional antagonism between the activity of the corticostriatal glutamatergic and nigrostriatal dopaminergic systems.
Neuropeptides are the most abundant chemical messengers in the brain and their major role seems to be the modulation of amine and amino acid neurotransmission. This appears to be achieved at many sites by the co-release of peptide with the primary transmitter. The presynaptic biochemistry and physiology of neuropeptides ensure that neuromodulation is highly plastic with almost infinite adaptive potential. The recent development of novel drugs (termed peptoids) that mimic or block neuropeptide function have opened up new clinical approaches to a number of conditions. Thus high efficacy kappa opioid-receptor agonists such as CI-977 (enadoline) have potential for the treatment of pain and stroke whilst the development of highly selective and bioavailable cholecystokinin B (CCK-B) antagonists such as CI-988 ([R-(R*,R*)]-4-[[2-[[3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-methyl-1-ox6-2- [[tricyclo[3.3.1.1.3.1]dec-2-yloxy)carbonyl]amino]propyl]ami no]-1-phenethyl]amino-4-oxobutanoic acid) have offered new insights into the mechanisms underlying and the treatment of anxiety disorders and drug abuse. In general it appears that peptoids may offer a greater selectivity of drug action when compared to amino acid/amine based compounds. Peptoid antagonists appear to be relatively free of side effects possibly because neuropeptide systems are only activated under very selective conditions. Peptoid agonists on the other hand can exert extremely powerful actions on brain function and this may be related to the key position neuropeptide receptors occupy in the hierarchy of chemical communication in the brain.
Disconjugate eye torsion in hypo- and hypergravity of parabolic flight was examined in four former astronauts and four previously tested ex-astronauts to replicate an earlier study and to further test the asymmetry hypothesis of otolith function. Results in the new subjects supported the asymmetry hypothesis and confirmed previous findings that those with low scores of torsional disconjugacy on the KC-135 did not suffer space motion sickness in their prior Shuttle missions while those with high scores did. Tilting subjects with high disconjugacy scores slightly to one side and the other failed to find a position that decreased disconjugacy in hypergravity, leading to the conclusion that a simple planar asymmetry about the y-axis was probably not the cause of the observed torsional differences in the two eyes. Disconjugacy increased at 0 G with increasing parabolas, much more so in subjects who had suffered SMS. Because of this, 10 to 20 parabolas were deemed to be a more certain discriminator than a fewer number.

Calsequestrin is a high-capacity Ca(2+)-binding protein and a major constituent of the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) of both skeletal and cardiac muscle. Two isoforms of calsequestrin, cardiac and skeletal muscle forms, have been described which are products of separate genes. Purified forms of the two prototypical calsequestrin isoforms, dog cardiac and rabbit fast-twitch skeletal muscle calsequestrins, serve as excellent substrates for casein kinase II and are phosphorylated on distinct sites (Cala, S.E. and Jones, L.R. (1991) J. Biol. Chem 266, 391-398). Dog cardiac calsequestrin is phosphorylated at a 50 to 100-fold greater rate than is rabbit skeletal muscle calsequestrin, and only the dog cardiac isoform contains endogenous Pi on casein kinase II phosphorylation sites. In this study, we identified and examined both calsequestrin isoforms in rat muscle cultures and homogenates to demonstrate that the cardiac isoform of calsequestrin in rat skeletal muscle was phosphorylated in vivo on sites which are phosphorylated by casein kinase II in vitro. Phosphorylation of rat skeletal muscle calsequestrin was not detected. In tissue homogenates, cardiac and skeletal muscle calsequestrin isoforms were both found to be prominent substrates for endogenous casein kinase II activity with cardiac calsequestrin the preferred substrate. In addition, these studies revealed that the cardiac isoform of calsequestrin was the predominant form expressed in skeletal muscle of fetal rats and cultured myotubes.
Several components of the extracellular matrix in the molecular weight range of 220 kDa to 150 kDa were purified by preparative electrophoresis on 2.5% Pro-Sieve agarose gels. These high molecular weight glycoproteins, separated under reducing conditions, were recovered in solution by extraction of individual agarose gel slices and analyzed on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gels and Western blots. This simple method permitted the separation and recovery of the laminin B chains (220 kDa and 205 kDa) and entactin (150 kDa) and may prove useful for the purification of other high molecular weight species.
The effect of the intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of pertussis toxin on penile erection and yawning induced by apomorphine and oxytocin was studied in male rats. Pertussis toxin (2 micrograms ICV) prevented the above behavioral responses to apomorphine (80 micrograms/kg SC) and oxytocin (30 ng ICV) on day 3 and 4, but not on day 0 and 1 after treatment. Oxytocin and apomorphine responses were restored on day 6. Similar results were obtained by microinjecting pertussis toxin (0.5 microgram) in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the most sensitive brain area for the induction of penile erection and yawning by oxytocin and apomorphine. The results suggest that G proteins are involved in the expression of above responses to apomorphine and oxytocin.
The effects of intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of neuropeptide Y (NPY) on parameters of dopamine (DA), glutamate (Glu) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) activities were investigated in the rat striatum. NPY (1.17-4.70 nmol) induced a dose-dependent increase in the striatal endogenous DA release monitored in freely moving animals by means of a voltammetric method. Maximal increase was observed about one hour after the peptide injection. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that NPY may influence striatal DA turnover in a facilitatory manner by activating DA release. DA, DOPAC, Glu and GABA endogenous contents as well as 3H-Glu and 3H-GABA synaptosomal high affinity uptakes were examined one hour after NPY ICV administration at the same dose range in chloral hydrate-anesthetized animals. Depending on the NPY dose injected, opposite changes in Glu uptake were observed, suggesting that NPY has a bimodal influence on glutamatergic transmission. The Glu uptake rate increased markedly at 1.17 nmol NPY and decreased at 4.70 nmol, which may reflect an activation and an inhibition of the striatal Glu transmission, respectively. In parallel, the GABA uptake was found to decrease slightly at the higher doses of NPY tested, whereas no significant alteration of the striatal concentrations of either DA, DOPAC, Glu or GABA was observed. These results indicate that NPY may be involved in regulating the activity of nigral dopaminergic and cortical glutamatergic afferent pathways and that of intrinsic GABA neurons in the rat striatum.
This study analyzed the projection neurons of the anterior subdivision of the rat basolateral amygdaloid nucleus (BLa) by correlating the morphology of Golgi-stained neurons with the morphology of neurons that were retrogradely labeled by injections into the main terminal fields of BLa. In each animal multiple injections of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) and wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated HRP were made into the prefrontal cortex and rostral striatum. These injections labeled approximately 85% of BLa neurons. The great majority of labeled neurons were the same shape and relative size as the pyramidal (class I) neurons described in previous Golgi studies. The unlabeled neurons appeared to correspond to the nonpyramidal (class II and class III) neurons described in Golgi studies. Thus this investigation provides experimental evidence that the pyramidal neurons are the main projection neurons of BL, whereas most of the nonpyramidal cells are local circuit neurons.
The acute effects of 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG)-induced glucoprivic feeding on the anorectic drug recognition site and Na+K(+)-ATPase in the brain were examined in adult rats and in lean and genetically obese mice. The marked hyperglycemia and the induction of feeding caused by the administration of 2-DG to satiated rats and lean mice were associated with significant increases in Na+K(+)-ATPase activity, and in [3H]ouabain binding and [3H]mazindol binding to the anorectic drug recognition site in hypothalamic membranes. Basal and 2-DG-stimulated levels of blood glucose were significantly correlated to the levels of hypothalamic [3H]ouabain (r = + .91, p less than 0.01) and [3H]mazindol (r = + .87, p less than 0.01) binding. A significant correlation (r = .74, p less than 0.05) was also observed between [3H]mazindol binding and [3H]ouabain binding supporting the hypothesis that these hypothalamic binding sites are functionally coupled in their response to circulating glucose. Following the intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of the diabetogenic drug alloxan, 2-DG did not stimulate feeding or increase [3H]mazindol and [3H]ouabain binding sites in the hypothalamic paraventricular area. Since 2-DG still caused hyperglycemia in alloxan-treated rats, alloxan-induced inactivation of glucoreceptor mechanisms led to an uncoupling of the anorectic drug recognition site from a hypothalamic glucostat. In genetically obese mice (ob/ob), 2-DG also could not induce feeding or increase hypothalamic [3H]ouabain or [3H]mazindol binding, despite a significant hyperglycemic response. In contrast, 2-DG did increase feeding and the binding of [3H]ouabain and [3H]mazindol to the hypothalamus of lean littermates.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The expression of mRNAs encoding the alpha 3 and alpha 4 subunits of the gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA) receptor in the rat brain was investigated by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Both subunits showed a wide but uneven distribution, which did not coincide with the distribution of any other subunit so far reported. The cerebral cortex, anterior olfactory nucleus, lateral septum, subiculum, lateral and medial nuclei of the amygdaloid complex, anterior nuclei of the thalamus, pars compacta of the substantia nigra, trigeminal sensory nuclei, and cochlear nucleus were some of the areas where strong expression of mRNA for both the alpha 3 and alpha 4 subunits was detected. In the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb, the preoptic area and locus coeruleus, strong expression of only the alpha 3 subunit was detected. In the granular cell layer of the olfactory bulb, caudate-putamen, tenia tecta, pyramidal cell layer of the CA region and granular cell layer of the dentate gyrus in the hippocampal formation, dorsomedial and ventrolateral nuclei of the thalamus, dorsal part of the lateral geniculate body, preolivary nuclei and pontine nuclei, only the alpha 4 subunit showed strong expression. The diverse distribution of these two subunits is considered to indicate that each has a different role in the central nervous system.
Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) stimulates the proliferation and maturation of neuroglia in vitro. To further investigate its role in gliogenesis, in situ hybridization was utilized to determine whether IGF-1 mRNA was expressed in the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the postnatal mouse forebrain. The SVZ is a transient germinal zone and in the neonate is the principle source of oligodendroglia for myelinating fiber tracts of the forebrain. Strong hybridization signal was detected over cells in the SVZ at postnatal day (PND) 4, the earliest time point examined. Positive signal persisted in the SVZ at PND 8, however, the number of IGF-1-labeled cells declined rapidly during the second postnatal week. IGF-1 mRNA was not uniformly distributed throughout the SVZ and the majority of labeled cells were located within its so-called 'border' region. In contrast to the SVZ, IGF-1 mRNA-expressing cells were only rarely found in forebrain fiber tracts. IGF-1 transcripts were not detected in ependymal lining or choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. In light of its known gliotrophic activity, the localization of IGF-1 mRNA in the SVZ suggests that locally produced IGF-1 may act as a mitogen or differentiation-inducing agent during gliogenesis.
Deprenyl is a synthetic, selective inhibitor of the monoamine oxidase-B enzyme system. The mechanism of its beneficial effect in early and advanced Parkinson's disease is not settled. Increased striatal dopamine accumulation, sensitization of surviving dopamine neurons with increased dopamine production and reduced nigro-striatal toxicity may all contribute. The standard daily dose of deprenyl is 10 mg. Selectivity may be lost at higher doses. Deprenyl is especially indicated in untreated patients, improving up to 50 percent of patients with mild motor fluctuations. Major symptomatic benefit also occurs in occasional levodopa treated patients. Adverse effects are common, however. Increase dyskinesias, confusion and hallucinations, nausea and postural hypotension may necessitate drug withdrawal or the use of low dose regimens. Caution should be exercised with older patients, those with ulcer disease, which may be worsened by deprenyl, and individuals with active ischemic heart disease where the safety of this drug is not yet clear.
Superfusion of an invertebrate vasopressin structural analogue, conopressin G, over the abdominal ganglion of an in vitro preparation of Aplysia californica has significant neurophysiological and behavioral effects. Both the amplitude of the siphon-evoked gill withdrawal reflux and concomitant activity in gill motor neurons are reduced in the presence of conopressin G. Moreover, the frequency of spontaneous gill movements and their neural correlate, interneuron II activity, are increased. These behavioral modifications strongly resemble those that occur during the food-aroused behavioral state in intact Aplysia. In addition, conopressin G superfusion reduces both the excitability of gill motor neurons and the strength of gill contractions in response to gill motor neuron discharges elicited by direct depolarizing current. A role for conopressin G or a similar peptide in the modulation of gill behaviors associated with the food-aroused state is suggested.
Certain proteins are anchored to the outer plasma membrane by a phosphatidylinositol-glycan (PI-G) linker. Nascent forms of PI-G anchored proteins contain both NH2- and COOH-terminal signal peptides. The function and structural requirements of the COOH-terminal signal peptide as discussed and some studies on the cell-free processing of a nascent protein to its mature PI-G tailed form are presented.
It has been thought that motile structures within the cell are driven toward the plus and minus ends of microtubules by the ATPases, kinesin and dynein, respectively. Recently obtained data indicate that this model is far too simplistic. Kinesin is now understood to be one representative of a family of proteins. Another member of the kinesin family has been found to generate force toward the microtubule minus end. Evidence for either a bidirectional dynein, or closely related retrograde and anterograde forms of dynein has also received potent new support. The discovery of a third potential microtubule motor, the GTPase, 'dynamin', complicates matters further.
Recent studies have provided a significant advance in our understanding of motor axon pathfinding. In particular, sources of guidance cues and some of the mechanisms used by motor growth cones during pathfinding have been identified.
Developmental dyslexia has until recently been considered to belong solely in the domain of educational psychology. With the advent of better theories on language and reading, and better methods for assessing the structure and function of living human brains and for determining genetic transmission, dyslexia is now poised to become a focal concern of cognitive neuroscience and genetic research. Recent findings from neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, neuropsychology, and genetics research are reviewed.
A selection of the literature on vision published in the last 2 years from various neuroscience disciplines is reviewed. It is organized around the notion of independent processing mechanisms for sensory cues such as wavelength, intensity and orientation; these are subsequently integrated for the perception of colour, brightness and contours, for example, which then feed into higher order systems for visual recognition (words and objects) and visuospatial cognition. A strict hierarchical system is, however, not plausible. Apart from the physiological evidence against such a concept, the widespread observations of 'knowledge without awareness' suggest direct links between different levels, which by-pass conscious experience.
Randomized clinical trials provide the most reliable evidence of the risks and benefits of a treatment or management plan. Often it is necessary to have information from many thousands of patients in a clinical trial to know how to manage the next patient in the clinic. Recent trials in stroke prevention will change clinical practice by the more appropriate use of carotid endarterectomy and the use of anticoagulation in non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation. Other studies have indicated that modification of risk factors, such as decreased salt consumption, is important. Despite many new trials there is still no proven treatment for acute ischaemic stroke. To provide reliable evidence on the risks and benefits of treatment of acute stroke we need much larger randomized controlled trials.
Neural transplantation has emerged as a useful tool for neurobiologists to investigate basic mechanisms of brain function, as well as potential therapies for neurodegenerative diseases. At present, intracerebral grafting is not a therapy for Alzheimer's disease (AD) or dementia. However, recent developments using molecular biological methodologies in combination with grafting have opened new avenues to explore new therapeutic approaches and address questions of etiology.
Pluripotent neural crest cells are restricted progressively during development. The sequence of restrictions and the time(s) in early development at which such restrictions are imposed on crest-derived cells are largely unknown. We have used a human autoantibody (Anti-Hu) to characterize neurogenic populations of avian neural crest-derived cells. Anti-Hu binds specifically to neurons and neuroendocrine cells in older (greater than E4) quail embryos. Early in development, Anti-Hu also binds a subpopulation of neural crest-derived cells that lack neuronal morphology and do not express other neuronal traits. These cells may represent a putative neurogenic precursor subpopulation within the early crest cell lineage. To test this hypothesis, we have characterized Anti-Hu immunoreactivity within crest-derived populations known to have, or to lack, the ability to give rise to new neurons. We report that the presence of Anti-Hu+ nonneuronal cells is correlated with the neurogenic ability of a given cell population. Moreover, Anti-Hu+ nonneuronal cells are transient and appear to be replaced by Anti-Hu+ neuronal cells. We conclude that Anti-Hu is a very early indicator of neurogenesis among crest-derived cells and that Anti-Hu+ nonneuronal cells are either neurogenic precursors or immature neurons.
Prior to confluence, cultures of Madin Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells expressed gap junctional communication, as assessed by fluorescent dye transfer, as well as relatively high levels of an anti-connexin43 immunoreactive component referred to as connexin43 (Cx43). After confluence, dye coupling and levels of Cx43 were dramatically reduced. Immunofluorescence analysis of the distribution of Cx43 in subconfluent cultures showed punctate labeling on the plasma membrane at regions of cell apposition and a more diffuse labeling in perinuclear regions. Western blots of total cell homogenates showed that the dephosphorylated form of Cx43 was more abundant than the phosphorylated forms. Phosphorylation of Cx43 was not significantly affected by 8-Bromo-cAMP or 8-Bromo-cGMP. However, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) inhibited dye coupling and induced an increase in the amount of phosphorylated forms of Cx43 at the expense of the dephosphorylated form. This effect occurred as rapidly as 5 min after TPA treatment without apparent changes in distribution of Cx43 or cell morphology. These results suggest that second messenger pathways involving protein kinase C, but not cAMP- or cGMP-dependent protein kinase, led to changes in electrophoretic mobility of Cx43, revealed by Western blot, consistent with an alteration in the state of phosphorylation of the gap junction protein. Treatments with staurosporine, a protein kinase inhibitor, or okadaic acid, a protein phosphatase inhibitor, either alone or in combination with TPA, indicated that the abundance of the dephosphorylated form of Cx43 in MDCK cells was due to low kinase activity. It was also found that lowering the concentration of extracellular Ca2+, which reduced cell contact, did not affect the abundance, the state of phosphorylation, or the TPA-induced phosphorylation of Cx43. These results suggest that neither extracellular Ca2+ nor cell contact is required for basal or TPA-induced phosphorylation of Cx43.
Fucosidosis is a rare lysosomal storage disease resulting from a nearly complete deficiency of alpha-L-fucosidase enzyme activity. Previously, cDNA encoding human fucosidase was cloned and sequenced. Here we report the determination of the human fucosidase gene structure and sequence as well as the sequence of the fucosidase pseudogene. The gene encoding fucosidase is composed of eight exons spanning 23 kb of DNA. Analysis of the sequence 5' of the open reading frame indicates the presence of multiple transcription factor binding sites but no TATA box. Northern blot analysis has confirmed an mRNA size of 2.3 kb in human lymphoblasts, testis, and epithelial cells. We have also sequenced the processed pseudogene of fucosidase. The sequence of the pseudogene is 80% identical to that of fucosidase cDNA but does not contain an open reading frame.

Specific, high-affinity receptors for numerous drugs have recently been localized to mitochondrial membrane proteins. This review discusses the association of the mitochondrial receptor for benzodiazepines (mBzR) with the voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), indicating a possible auxiliary role for VDAC as a putative drug binding protein. The proposed subunit composition of the purified mBzR complex isolated from rat kidney mitochondria includes VDAC, which functions as a recognition site for benzodiazepines (e.g., flunitrazepam), the adenine nucleotide carrier (ADC), and an 18 kDa outer membrane protein identified by covalent labelling with the mBzR antagonists isoquinoline carboxamides (e.g., PK14105).
Early attempts to develop an animal model for anti-motion sickness drugs, using dogs and cats; were unsuccessful. Dogs did not show a beneficial effect of scopolamine (probably the best single anti-motion sickness drug for humans thus far) and the findings in cats were not definitive. The authors have developed an animal model using the squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus) of the Bolivian phenotype. Unrestrained monkeys in a small lucite cage were tested in an apparatus that induces motion sickness by combining vertical oscillation and horizontal rotation in a visually unrestricted laboratory environment. Signs of motion sickness were scored using a rating scale. Ten susceptible monkeys (weighing 800-1000 g) were given a total of five tests each, to establish the baseline susceptibility level. Based on the anticholinergic activity of scopolamine, the sensitivity of squirrel monkey to scopolamine was investigated, and the appropriate dose of scopolamine for this species was determined. Then various anti-motion sickness preparations were administered in subsequent tests: 100 ug scopolamine per monkey; 140 ug dexedrine; 50 ug scopolamine plus 70 ug dexedrine; 100 ug scopolamine plus 140 ug dexedrine; 3 mg promethazine; 3 mg promethazine plus 3 mg ephedrine. All these preparations were significantly effective in preventing motion sickness in the monkeys. Ephedrine, by itself, which is marginally effective in humans, was ineffective in the monkeys at the doses tried (0.3-6.0 mg). The squirrel monkey appears to be a good animal model for antimotion sickness drugs. Peripherally acting antihistamines such as astemizole and terfenadine were found to be ineffective, whereas flunarizine, and an arginine vasopressin V1 antagonist, showed significant activity in preventing motion sickness.
In the barn owl (Tyto alba), the posterior nucleus of the ventral lateral lemniscus (VLVp) is the first site of binaural convergence in the pathway that processes interaural level difference (ILD), an important sound-localization cue. The neurons of VLVp are sensitive to ILD because of an excitatory input from the contralateral ear and an inhibitory input from the ipsilateral ear. A previously described projection from the contralateral cochlear nucleus, can account for the excitation. The present study addresses the source of the inhibitory input. We demonstrate with standard axonal transport methods that the left and right VLVps are interconnected via fibers of the commissure of Probst. We further show that the anesthetization of one VLVp renders ineffective the inhibition that is normally evoked by stimulation of the ipsilateral ear. Thus, one cochlear nucleus (driven by the ipsilateral ear) appears to provide inhibition to the ipsilateral VLVp by exciting commissurally-projecting inhibitory neurons in the contralateral VLVp.

The metal contact method of rapid freezing is greatly improved by irradiating the specimen with microwaves at 2.45 GHz for a short period of time (50 ms), while pushing the specimen onto the surface of the copper block cooled by liquid N2. The microwave irradiation, together with two technical improvements (a light-mass plunger and a recently developed beta-gel shock absorber) for preventing bounce, produces a good freezing zone for squid retina, with high reproducibility for each experimental trial, extending from the contact surface to a depth of about 15 microns, which is comparable to the depth obtained by the metal contact method using liquid He in the absence of microwave irradiation. A good freezing zone was also experimentally demonstrated in specimens of rat liver and heart muscle. Microwave irradiation does not have appreciable effects on the ultrastructure of squid retina. The mechanism underlying the improvement in the rapid freezing under the microwave irradiation is discussed.
Incubation of 10 mM 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) with sonicated beef heart mitochondria caused an irreversible time-dependent decrease in NADH-ubiquinone-1 (CoQ1) reductase activity (52% inhibition after 1 h). Inclusion of glutathione, ascorbate, or catalase in the incubation mixture protected the NADH-CoQ1 reductase activity. These results suggest that the interaction of MPP+ with complex I induces free radical generation, which in turn leads to the irreversible inhibition of complex I activity. The generation of free radicals by neurotoxin-induced inhibition of complex I has important implications for our interpretation of the increased oxidative stress observed in Parkinson's disease substantia nigra and for our understanding of the cause(s) of dopaminergic cell death in this disorder.
Using antiphosphotyrosine antibodies, we have investigated protein phosphorylation in mouse brain during development in intact animals and in reaggregated cerebral cultures. Under basal conditions, in vivo and in vitro, the levels of two main phosphoproteins, of Mr 120,000 and 180,000 (pp180), increased with development, reaching a maximum in the early postnatal period and decreasing thereafter. In adult forebrain, pp180 was still highly phosphorylated, but it was not detected in cerebellum or in peripheral tissues. In reaggregated cortical cultures, epidermal growth factor (EGF), type I insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I), and insulin enhanced protein tyrosine phosphorylation of several proteins, which were specific for EGF or IGF-I/insulin. In highly enriched neuronal or astrocytic monolayer cultures, some proteins phosphorylated in basal conditions, or in response to EGF and IGF-I, were found in both types of culture, whereas others appeared cell type specific. In addition, in each cell type, some proteins were phosphorylated under the action of both growth factors. These results indicate that tyrosine protein phosphorylation is maximal in mouse brain during development and is regulated by growth factors in neurons as well as in astrocytes.
Introduction of the dephosphorylated from of synapsin I into rat brain synaptosomes using freeze-thaw (transient) permeabilization significantly decreased the K(+)-induced release of glutamate. In contrast, introduction of synapsin I that had been phosphorylated by Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II was without effect on glutamate release. Addition of dephosphosynapsin I after freeze-thaw treatment also had no effect. Thus, the action of synapsin I was dependent on the phosphorylation state of synapsin I and on its entry into the synaptosomes. Our results implicate synapsin I as an important component in the regulation of neurotransmitter release in the mammalian nervous system.
The effects of magnesium on the inhibition of phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis and the stimulation of [3H]norepinephrine release by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) in rat cortical slices were investigated. Removal of the magnesium from the buffer resulted in a small reduction of the inhibitory effect of 100 microM NMDA (34% inhibition in the absence of magnesium, compared with 51% for the control) when slices were coincubated with NMDA and carbachol. Addition of 10 mM Mg2+ also allowed the inhibitory effect of 100 microM NMDA on carbachol-stimulated PI hydrolysis to be expressed (44% inhibition) under these conditions. Concentration-effect curve analysis for the NMDA-induced inhibition of carbachol-stimulated PI hydrolysis indicated that the IC50 for NMDA was decreased from 14.9 microM for the control to 4.2 microM in the absence of magnesium. The absence of magnesium also had small effects on the concentration-effect curve for (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate reversal of the inhibitory effects of NMDA on carbachol-stimulated PI hydrolysis. The absence of magnesium also shifted slightly downward and flattened the NMDA concentration-effect curve if the cortical slices were pretreated with NMDA in the presence or absence of magnesium followed by removal of the NMDA and subsequent stimulation with carbachol. In contrast, cortical slices that had been prepared and treated similarly to the slices used in the PI experiments were very sensitive to the inhibitory effects of magnesium when using the NMDA stimulation of [3H]norepinephrine release assay in the presence or absence of carbachol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the rat, there is a marked but transient increase in hypothalamic aromatase activity during the last week of fetal life. The present study was undertaken to gain insight into the regulation of this developmental pattern. Hypothalamic fragments comprising the medial basal hypothalamus and the suprachiasmatic region (henceforth referred to as preoptic area) were explanted and cultured in serum-free medium for 2 to 5 days. Aromatase activity was measured by the formation of (3) H(2) O, utilizing either [1-(3) H]androstene-dione or [1-(3) H]testosterone as substrate. Maximal rates of activity were obtained at a saturating concentration of 0.3 M [1-(3) H]testosterone. Confirmation of the identity of the [(3) H]estradiol formed was demonstrated by recrystallization of the derivatized estradiol to constant specific activity following incubation with [1,2,6,7-(3) H]testosterone. In agreement with previous reports, in vivo hypothalamic aromatase activity was negligible before gestational day (GD) 16, increased strikingly by GD19 (&gt;5.0 pmol/h/mg protein) and decreased, thereafter, to low levels at GD22 (1.0 pmol/h/mg protein). Medial basal hypothalamus-preoptic area fragments explanted before GD17 failed to develop aromatase activity in vitro. If the tissue was explanted on GD17 or 18 (i.e. when the in vivo rate of activity was increasing), the enzyme activity did not continue to increase, but it was rather maintained for 2 days before decreasing in a manner that closely mimicked the decline observed in vivo. A similar, butimmediate decline was observed when the tissue was explanted on GD19 (i.e. at the time when theactivity peaks in vivo). Exposure of explants to either growth factors (insulin-like growth factor II, epidermal growth factor, and basic or acidic fibroblast growth factor), or steroids (estradiol-17, progesterone, testosterone, dihydrotestosterone and corticosterone) failed to either increase aromatase activity before the peak at GD19 or ameliorate its perinatal decline. Increase of Ca(2+) fluxes with the ionophore A23187 or activation of the cyclic AMP, cyclic GMP, or protein kinase C pathways were similarly ineffective, as was angiotensin II, a recently proposed stimulator of neural aromatase. In contrast, aromatase activity was suppressed 2- to 4-fold by activation of the cyclic AMP pathway (with either forskolin or 8-bromo-cyclic AMP) or by the androgens, testosterone and dihydrotestosterone. These results suggest that: 1) the appearance of aromatase activity in the rat hypothalamus before GD17 requires the unfolding of extrahypothalamic events, 2) the increase in aromatase activity that occurs before GD19 also requires extrahypothalamic inputs and does not involve any of the known intracellular signal transduction pathways, and 3) the decline in activity observed after GD19 is regulated within the hypothalamus, and appears to be determined, at least in part, by the activation of cyclic AMP formation. A potential role for androgens is discussed.
Cholinergic replacement therapy for Alzheimer's disease using existing cholinesterase inhibitors is compromised by short duration, meagre benefits restricted to subgroups of patients, and peripheral toxicity. Heptyl physostigmine is a lipophilic carbamate derivative of physostigmine. In rhesus monkeys, heptyl physostigmine (0.2-0.9 mg/kg i.m.) fully reversed a scopolamine-induced cognitive impairment. Following oral administration in squirrel monkeys, heptyl physostigmine (8 mg/kg) induced long-lasting hypothermia (greater than or equal to 4 h), a centrally-mediated cholinergic effect. Erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase activity was inhibited by 86% at the time of peak hypothermia (180 min). Clinical trials with heptyl physostigmine will enable a more rigorous evaluation of cholinomimetic therapy for dementia.
1. The present experiments investigated the effects of gamma-amino-butyric acidB (GABAB) receptor stimulation on the excitatory and inhibitory responses of neostriatal neurons evoked by stimulation of the subcortical white matter in a rat neostriatal slice preparation. 2. Intracellular recordings showed that single-impulse stimulation of the corpus callosum evoked monosynaptic, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX)-sensitive excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) that were attenuated by the GABAB receptor agonist, p-chlorophenyl-GABA (baclofen, 0.5-10 microM) in a concentration-dependent manner. Baclofen also blocked the GABAA-mediated inhibition of neostriatal cell responses, which were revealed by paired-impulse stimulation of the subcortical white matter. Both of these effects persisted in slices in which the anterior cortex was removed, indicating that the site of action for baclofen was intrinsic to the neostriatum. The GABAB antagonist 3-amino-2-hydroxy-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-propanesulfonic acid (saclofen, 250-500 microM) reversed the depressant actions of baclofen on both the excitatory and inhibitory responses of neostriatal cells. 3. Concentrations of baclofen as high as 100 microM, which markedly attenuated EPSP amplitude, did not exert direct effects on resting membrane potential, current-voltage relationship, input resistance, or spike threshold and thus appeared to have no postsynaptic effect on the population of neurons recorded. 4. These results indicate that, in contrast to other regions of the CNS, the depressant effects of baclofen on glutamate-dependent EPSPs are mediated exclusively through GABAB receptors located presynaptically on the terminals of glutamatergic afferents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) is a mitogenic polypeptide that is structurally homologous to epidermal growth factor (EGF) and appears to bind to the same receptor in all systems tested previously. In the present study, TGF alpha was found to enhance survival and neurite outgrowth of cultured neonatal rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in a dose-dependent manner. This effect was observed with TGF alpha concentrations as low as 17.8 pM. By contrast, EGF at concentrations up to 83 nM was ineffective. Moreover, EGF did not antagonize the TGF alpha survival-promoting effect unless present in large excess (500-fold the concentration for which TGF alpha is effective); even in this case, only partial antagonism was achieved. Survival of neurons from nodose, trigeminal, and sympathetic ganglia was not increased by TGF alpha. Both a subpopulation of DRG neurons and of macrophages in the cultures bound iodinated TGF alpha. This binding was inhibited by excess unlabeled TGF alpha but not EGF. Our data are consistent with the possibilities that the actions of TGF alpha on DRG neurons occur indirectly via unidentified neurotrophic molecules other than NGF as well as directly on the neurons themselves. Thus, TGF alpha, in contrast to EGF, may act as a survival or maintenance factor for a subset of rat sensory neurons. Mediation of this neurotrophic effect appears to occur via a new form of TGF alpha receptor.
We tested the color selectivity of neurons in the inferior temporal (IT) cortex of two awake macaque monkeys. A color stimulus was presented at the center of the visual field while the animal performed a fixation task. The responses of single units to various colors were recorded and were plotted in a color space. The color space was based on the CIE (Commission Internationale de l'Eclairage) chromaticity diagram. Quantitative analysis of the color selectivity was performed using a standard set of colors that were evenly distributed in the color space. Sixty-five neurons recorded from eight guide tubes implanted in anterior part of IT cortex were tested quantitatively, and their color selectivity was statistically evaluated. Forty-six of them (71%) were classified as color selective. Color-selective cells responded to some colors but not to others, and we called the responsive region in the color space the &quot;color field.&quot; The location and the size of a cell's color field were largely independent of the luminance of the stimulus. About 80% of the color-selective neurons had color fields consisting of a single responsive region that were restricted in some part of the color space, and the remaining cells had more than one responsive region within the color space. Preferred hues of the color-selective neurons differed from cell to cell. The population of cells together covered nearly all of the color space. There was a tendency for more color-selective cells to be less sensitive to white and desaturated cyans. Some of the cells with color fields that consisted of more than one responsive region were more sensitive to saturation of the stimulus than to its hue. Although previous electrophysiological studies in IT cortex emphasized the pattern selectivity of the neurons, our results suggest that color is an important factor in the role that IT cortex plays in the object recognition.
Conducting a literature review at the beginning and near the end of a research study is an important part of the research process. The researcher validates the existing body of knowledge, identifies how the proposed study extends knowledge on the topic and may uncover additional ideas for methods to incorporate into the proposed study. While the task may be time consuming, the researcher will emerge from the literature review with an extensive knowledge of the topic, a very strong position from which to conduct research.
It is well established that iron, which is of considerable importance for normal neurological function, is highly regulated in all organ systems. However, until recently, iron regulation in the nervous system has received little attention. This study quantitatively compares the levels of the major iron-regulatory proteins, transferrin and ferritin, and iron itself in three cerebral cortical regions of the human brain from material collected at autopsy. Three groups were studied: 1) normal adult (under 65 yr of age), 2) aged (greater than 65), and 3) Alzheimer's disease. Normally, transferrin is more abundant in white matter than in gray matter. Ferritin is approximately 10x more abundant than transferrin throughout the brain regions examined and is evenly distributed, as is iron, in the gray and white matter. In Alzheimer's disease transferrin is consistently decreased particularly in the white matter of the various cerebral cortical regions examined whereas the iron and ferritin changes are inconsistent. The observations in this study are consistent with our general hypothesis that iron homeostasis is disrupted in the aging brain and the alterations in iron-regulatory proteins are exacerbated in Alzheimer's disease. The decrease in transferrin levels could indicate a decreased mobility and subsequent utilization of iron in the brain. Such a decrease in iron availability could play a significant role in neuronal degeneration and increased peroxidative damage known to occur in Alzheimer's disease.
Intracellular recordings were made at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) of the mouse diaphragm to study alteration of miniature endplate potential (MEPP) amplitude and rise time after different treatments. Following either hyperosmotic shock or 3 to 5 min of incubation in 10 to 50 mM ammonium chloride (NH4Cl) (replacing NaCl, a treatment which is known to raise intracellular pH) MEPP frequencies increased and the amplitudes of MEPPs decreased. These treatments as well as type A botulinum toxin (BoTx) gradually prolonged the rising phase of some MEPPs, which increased their time-to-peak (slow-MEPPs; Vautrin and Kriebel: Neuroscience 41:71-88, 1991) and increased eventually their amplitude. Fasciculation after hyperosmotic shock or during NH4Cl challenge was blocked by D-tubocurarine and was due to large slow-MEPPs that reached threshold for the muscle fiber action potential. The development of fasciculation provided the time course for the development of giant-MEPPs. Increased frequency of giant MEPP is accompanied by a block of the nerve-evoked muscle contraction. Effects of BoTx on spontaneous release were functionally antagonized either by NH4Cl or hyperosmotic shock. NH4Cl delayed BoTx blockage of bell-MEPPs. Data suggest that BoTx alters the formation of transmitter packets gradually but similarly to other treatments which increase incidence of skew-MEPPs.
Dopaminergic afferents to the dorsal striatum, caudate-putamen nuclei, are known to modulate the levels and synthesis of endogenous opiate peptides (Leu5 and Met5-enkephalins). We examined the dual immunocytochemical localization of antisera raised against Leu5-enkephalin and the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), to determine the cellular substrates for these and/or other functional interactions. The antisera were identified by combined immunogold-silver and immunoperoxidase labeling in single coronal sections through the caudate-putamen nuclei of adult rats. These animals were given intraventricular injections of colchicine, and the brains were fixed by acrolein perfusion prior to immunocytochemical labeling. By light microscopy, perikarya and processes containing enkephalin-like immunoreactivity (ELI) were seen in close proximity to varicose processes immunoreactive for TH. Electron microscopy further demonstrated that the ELI was localized to perikarya, dendrites, and axon terminals, whereas the TH was exclusively in axons and terminals. The dendrites containing ELI were postsynaptic to terminals that were either (1) without detectable immunoreactivity, or (2) immunoreactive for TH or enkephalin. Nonsynaptic portions of the dendrites containing ELI were covered with astrocytic processes or were in direct apposition to unlabeled dendrites. Terminals containing ELI were densely immunoreactive and were in direct contact with (1) unlabeled and occasionally enkephalin-labeled proximal dendrites, and (2) TH-labeled and unlabeled terminals. In comparison with the opiate terminals, most catecholaminergic terminals were lightly immunoreactive for TH and usually contacted more distal unlabeled dendrites or spines and, more rarely, dendrites containing ELI. In a few favorable planes of section, the terminals containing ELI and those containing TH (1) converged on common unlabeled dendrites, or (2) formed dual contacts on two different labeled or unlabeled targets. Junctions formed by terminals containing ELI and TH were sometimes characterized by symmetric synaptic densities. However, numerous other dendritic and all axonal appositions were without recognized membrane densities. The findings of the study provide anatomical substrates for multilevel interactions between catecholamines, mostly dopamine, and enkephalin in rat dorsal striatum. These include (1) monosynaptic input from dopaminergic terminals to neurons containing enkephalin, (2) presynaptic modulation of transmitter release through axonal appositions, and (3) dual regulation of common targets through convergent input. In addition, the findings suggest that both enkephalin and dopamine may have similar modulatory roles in synchronizing the activity of dual targets postsynaptic to individual axon terminals. Alterations in any one of these multiple types of interactions could account for noted motor or sensory symptoms in neurological disorders characterized by depletion of dopamine or endogenous opiate peptides, or both.
Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was evaluated for its possible diagnostic application in determining the survival of fetal central nervous system tissue grafts in the injured spinal cord. Hemisection cavities were made at the T11-L1 level of eight adult female cats. Immediately thereafter, several pieces of tissue, either obtained from the fetal cat brain stem on embryonic Day 37 (E-37), from the fetal neocortex on E-37, or from the fetal spinal cord on E-23, were implanted into the cavities made in seven cats. The eighth cat served as a control for the effect of the lesion only. In another group of four animals, a static-load compression injury was made at the L-2 level. Seven weeks later, the lesion was resected in three cases and fragments of either fetal brain-stem or spinal cord tissue were introduced. A small cyst was observed in a fourth cat in the compression injury group and a suspension of dissociated E-23 brain-stem cells was injected into this region of cavitation without disturbing the surrounding leptomeninges. Five months to 2 years posttransplantation, MR imaging was performed with a 2.0-tesla VIS imaging spectrometer by acquiring multislice spin-echo images (TR 1000 msec, TE 30 msec) in both the transverse and sagittal planes. Collectively, these intermediate-weighted images revealed homogeneous, slightly hyperintense signals at the graft site relative to the neighboring host tissue in seven of the 11 graft recipients. Two of the remaining four cats exhibited signals from the graft site that were approximately isointense with the adjacent host spinal cord, and the final two cats and the lesion-only control presented with very hypointense transplant/resection regions. The hyperintense and isointense images were tentatively interpreted as representing viable graft tissue, whereas the hypointense transplant/resection sites were considered to be indicative of a lack of transplant survival or the absence of tissue in the lesion-only control animal. Postmortem gross inspection of fixed specimens and light microscopy verified the MR findings in the control animal in 10 of the 11 graft recipients by showing either transplants and/or cysts corresponding to the MR images obtained. In one cat in the hemisection group, histological analysis revealed a very small piece of graft tissue that was not detected on the MR images. Therefore, it is suggested that within certain spatial- and contrast-resolution limits, MR imaging can reliably detect the presence of transplanted neural tissue in both the hemisected and compression-injured spinal cord of living animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists ifenprodil and SL-82,0715 were examined for neuroprotective efficacy against glutamate toxicity of hippocampal neurons in culture. Hippocampal cells were grown on 96-well culture plates for 2 to 3 weeks and then exposed for a 15-min period to glutamate or NMDA. Neurodegeneration was quantified 24 hr after the excitotoxin exposure, by measuring the activity of lactate dehydrogenase leaked into the culture medium by the damaged cells. Glutamate induced a concentration-dependent increase in lactate dehydrogenase that reached 3-fold the activity of control cultures. The NMDA antagonists MK-801 and AP-7 blocked this neurotoxicity when added either during or after the glutamate exposure. Ifenprodil and SL-82,0715 blocked the neurotoxicity only when added during the excitotoxin exposure. Ifenprodil was 3 times more potent than SL-82,0715 in blocking glutamate or NMDA-induced neurotoxicity. Glycine did not reverse the neuroprotective effects of these antagonists. The neuroprotective effect of ifenprodil or SL-82,0715 did not appear to result from actions at alpha-1 adrenergic or sigma receptor sites because the alpha-1 adrenergic antagonist prazosin and the sigma ligands haloperidol, 3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-N-propylpiperidine) and 1,3-di-o-tolylguanidine) showed no neuroprotective activity. We conclude that ifenprodil and SL-82,0715 protect cultured hippocampal neurons from excitotoxic damage by antagonizing NMDA receptors.
1. The cellular mechanism by which acetylcholine (ACh) potentiates neuronal responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) was investigated in CA1 neurones of hippocampal slices using current- and voltage-clamp techniques. 2. Loading cells with 5'-guanylylimidodiphosphate (GppNHp) caused a gradual increase in response to NMDA. Pulses of ACh accelerated this increase. Guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) (GDP beta S) blocked the potentiating effect of ACh on responses to NMDA. 3. Acute LiCl caused a gradual decrease in the potentiating effect of ACh, while the potentiation was completely prevented by 3 day chronic 6 mequiv/kg (I.P.) LiCl treatment and restored by acute treatment with 10 mM-inositol. 4. Loading cells with a general protein kinase inhibitor, H-7, enhanced the potentiating effect of ACh on responses to NMDA and blocked the effect of ACh on the after-hyperpolarization (AHP). 5. Ultraviolet irradiation of cells loaded with a photolabile inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) caused a transient increase in responses to NMDA, while penetrating cells with active InsP3-containing pipettes caused a gradual BAPTA-sensitive increase in responses to NMDA. 6. Reducing the rate of InsP3 metabolism, with 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid (DPG), caused an increase and prolongation of the potentiating effect of ACh, while blocking the InsP3 receptor with heparin prevented the cholinergic potentiation. 7. NMDA, by itself, potentiated subsequent responses to NMDA, an effect that was blocked when [Ca2+]i was chelated with BAPTA. NMDA and ACh were also found to compete in potentiating responses to NMDA. Finally, the cholinergic potentiation was blocked when cells were loaded with BAPTA. 8. We propose that activation of the InsP3 branch of the phosphoinositide pathway potentiated responses to NMDA and that InsP3 exerted this effect by elevating [Ca2+]i.
1. The role of GABAA and GABAB receptors in presynaptic inhibition was studied by examining the effect of local application of antagonists by ionophoresis during intracellular recording of presynaptic inhibition of compound and unitary group Ia afferent excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in gastrocnemius motoneurones. 2. Ionophoresis of the GABAA antagonist bicuculline methochloride (BMC) was found to block presynaptic inhibition of both compound and unitary EPSPs by up to 85%. BMC also substantially reduced, and occasionally abolished, the late part of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP) evoked in motoneurones by the conditioning stimulation. The early part of this IPSP was found to be sensitive to ionophoresis of strychnine hydrochloride. 3. Ionophoresis of 2-OH-saclofen caused a reduction in presynaptic inhibition of compound EPSPs by 5-25% but had no effect on the IPSP evoked in motoneurones by the conditioning stimulation. 4. Ionophoresis of the GABAB antagonist (-)-baclofen reduced the amplitude of unconditioned EPSPs; however it had little effect on presynaptic inhibition. 5. It was concluded that at the Ia afferent-motoneurone synapse presynaptic inhibition is mediated primarily through the activation of GABAA receptors. The activation of GABAB receptors appears to play only a minor role in presynaptic inhibition at this synapse. This contrasts with the relative ease with which (-)-baclofen can reduce transmitter release from Ia afferent terminals and suggests that the receptors activated by (-)-baclofen are predominantly extrasynaptic.
In Ancient Greek medicine the heart instead of the brain was sometimes thought to be the organ co-ordinating sensory and motor activity. The history of the origin of this erroneous idea is outlined. The relative importance of observations and theory in early medical investigations is discussed, and the anatomical dissections leading to the establishment of the brain as the centre of sensory and motor function are described.
Congenital deficiency of the purine salvage enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) in humans results in a severe neurogenetic disorder known as the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome. Since little information concerning the precise localization of HPRT in the brain is currently available, we have used in situ hybridization to examine the expression of HPRT mRNA in the mouse brain. The results showed that HPRT mRNA is expressed in many regions of the normal mouse brain, with high levels in most, but not all neurons. In contrast, glial cells did not express detectable levels of HPRT mRNA. No HPRT mRNA was detected in the brains of mutant mice carrying a deletion in the HPRT gene.
Drugs that dissolve clots, such as streptokinase and rTPA, and drugs that promote vasodilation are undergoing clinical testing for the treatment of hyperacute stroke, but an adjuvant therapy that either prolongs temporal thresholds before irreversible injury occurs or actually protects the brain from ischemia would transform these trials. Mild hypothermia, either intraischemically or at the onset of reperfusion, provides us with a gold standard for cytoprotection against which new pharmacologic strategies can be measured. The cytoprotective effects of the voltage-sensitive calcium channel blockers and the NMDA antagonists have been relatively less compelling than more recent findings with non-NMDA or AMPA antagonists. Their ability to inhibit SINN or reduce neocortical infarction is remarkable. Future randomized clinical trials for both resuscitated cardiac arrest victims and patients sustaining embolic stroke are predicted by this major advance in the field of stroke medicine.

The role of cellular interactions in determining the fates of two identified motoneurons in the embryonic zebrafish was investigated by transplanting individual motoneurons from labeled donor embryos to unlabeled hosts. The results suggest that although these cells normally adopt different fates, they form an equivalence group in which one fate is primary and the other is secondary. Both cells are able to adopt the primary fate. A cell that has adopted the secondary fate can be induced to switch to the primary fate by ablating the cell that has adopted the primary fate, even many hours after axogenesis. Although interactions between the two cells appear to regulate which cell adopts the secondary fate, these interactions seem to be independent of neuromuscular activity.
Pressure-sensitive (P) neurons contacted by serotonergic Retzius (R) neurons of the leech in culture selectively reduce a protein kinase C (PKC)-dependent cation response to serotonin and are innervated by the inhibitory, Cl(-)-dependent synapse seen in vivo. We have examined whether the reduction of extrasynaptic cation channel modulation is due to changes in sensitivity of the channels to second messenger. In inside-out membrane patches from single, uncontacted P cells in culture, cation channel activity was increased by rat brain PKC and cofactors. In contrast, the activity of cation channels in patches isolated from P cells paired with R cells was unaffected by PKC. These results demonstrate the loss of extrasynaptic channel modulation by PKC during synapse formation.
The electrical properties of neurones within the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus of the rat were studied in an in vitro slice preparation, using conventional intracellular recording techniques. A detailed analysis of 36 intracellular recordings appeared to suggest 3 cell types, based on membrane capacitance and resistance characteristics, confirming previous reports of a diversity of cell types within this nucleus. The responsiveness of each cell type to exogenously-applied baclofen and somatostatin was also investigated. The inhibitory responses to both of these drugs were concentration-related (over the range 100 nM to 1 microM), tetrodotoxin-resistant and consisted of a membrane hyperpolarization (mean +/- SEM = 6.7 +/- 1 and 10.7 +/- 1 mV for 1 microM somatostatin and baclofen, respectively) and an associated reduction in the firing frequency of spontaneously active cells. These agonist-evoked responses probably represented direct postsynaptic actions but they were not restricted to any single type of cell. Evidence for an additional presynaptic effect of baclofen was also obtained. Responses to baclofen were extremely robust and readily quantifiable, whereas those to somatostatin showed pronounced long-lasting desensitization, which was particularly marked a larger concentrations. These data support previous contentions, based on in vivo studies, that somatostatin and GABA are likely to participate in the control of complex functions by the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus.
The generality of the observation that there is a lexicon present in the right hemisphere of callosotomy patients has been the subject of some dispute. In the series operated on at Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, only two patients have been shown to have a right hemisphere lexicon. This paper reports the existence of a visual and an auditory lexicon in a new patient D.R. and discusses its significance in understanding the role of the right hemisphere in normal and dysfunctional language.
In anaesthetized young mice, the fimbria was stimulated and field potentials were recorded ipsilaterally in the lateral septum (LS). Evoked responses were typically characterized by a two-component negative wave (N2 and N3) followed by a low amplitude positive wave. The amplitudes and latencies were highest and shortest respectively in the dorsal LS for the N3 component and in the ventral LS for the N2 component. Tetanic stimulation of the fimbria induced long-term potentiation (LTP) only in the case of the N3 component. The differential changes in N2 and N3 following tetanic fimbrial stimulation are discussed in the context that the dorsal LS appears to exhibit a higher density of LTP-mediating receptors.
A single injection of the Ca2+ channel antagonist verapamil (0.4 or 0.8 mg kg-1, i.m.) was given to adult guinea-pigs 1 h before a unilateral labyrinthectomy and the effects on the compensation of spontaneous ocular nystagmus (SN) were measured. At the 0.8 mg kg-1 dose, pre-treatment with verapamil significantly reduced SN frequency compared to saline controls; however, it also reduced the rate of SN compensation, resulting in no significant difference in the time required to reach maximal compensation. These results suggest the possibility that voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels may be involved in vestibular compensation.
Delayed neuronal death induced by transient forebrain ischemia in the rat hippocampus is preceded by a prominent microglial reaction which begins within minutes after the ischemic injury. In the present study we have examined the effect of the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 on microglial activation and neuronal survival. Using lectin histochemistry to detect microglia, we show that the systemic administration of MK-801 prior to ischemia prevents microglial activation, as well as delayed death of CA1 pyramidal neurons. The results demonstrate that early blockage of the glutamate cascade prevents microglial activation, and could suggest a role for microglia in mediating ischemic injury.
The binding of 21 lectins to the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) of the rat was examined by histochemistry. Two lectins [Bandeiraea simplicifolia lectin I (BSL-I) and Vicia villosa agglutinin (VVA)] bound specifically to the vomeronasal (VN) axons in the AOB. Seven lectins (Datura stramonium lectin, Erythrina cristagalli lectin, Lycoperisicon esculentum lectin, Ricinus communis agglutinin I, soybean agglutinin, Solanum tuberosum lectin, and Ulex europaeus agglutinin) bound to both VN axons in AOB and olfactory axons in the main olfactory bulb. BSL-I and VVA are useful as the marker of VN axons. This selective binding of lectins indicates the presence of specific glycoconjugates on the surface of VN axons.
The expression of and developmental changes in drebrin were studied in cat visual cortex using immunohistochemistry and immunoblot analysis. Drebrin is a developmentally regulated brain protein which in the chicken has characteristic changes in expression related to developmental stage. A monoclonal antibody (MAb M2F6) raised against drebrin, was found to label the neuropil of the kitten visual cortex in the early postnatal period. At 1-3 weeks of age, the staining was prominent in layer IV of the visual cortex. The immunoreactivity, however, was found to be dramatically decreased around the end of the sensitive period for ocular dominance plasticity (approximately 3 months of age). In the adult visual cortex, almost no immunostaining was observed. These developmental changes revealed by an immunohistochemical method were confirmed using immunoblot analysis. Upon immunoblot analysis after SDS-PAGE of protein from the kitten visual cortex, MAb M2F6 was found to recognize two protein bands with molecular weights of 130 kDa (drebrin E) and 140 kDa (drebrin A). The developmental profile of the intensity of the two bands of the drebin closely parallels in time the postnatal changes in cortical susceptibility to visual deprivation. These results indicate that the expression of drebrin in kitten visual cortex is restricted to the early postnatal period and suggest that it may play an important role in the experience-dependent modification of cortical circuitry during the sensitive period.
Aqueous extracts of the brains of 18-day-old white Leghorn chicken embryos contain several substances that stimulate proliferation of primary cultures of chick brain astrocytes. Most of the mitogens are peptides. Purification of one mitogenic fraction was obtained by centrifugation, passage through Amicon Diaflo membranes of nominal molecular weight cutoffs 30, 1 and 0.5 kDa, ion exchange chromatography and reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) using a Deltapak C18 column. The mitogenic fraction contained no amino acids. On the basis of its behaviour on thin layer chromatography, its ultraviolet absorption spectrum, its 1H and 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectra and its behaviour on positive and negative ion fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry, the mitogenic material was identified as adenosine-5'-monophosphate (AMP). Other adenosine compounds including adenosine, ADP and ATP also stimulated proliferation of and [3H]leucine incorporation into primary cultures of astrocytes. Nitrobenzylthyioinosine (NBTI), an inhibitor of nucleoside transport, did not prevent the stimulation of [3H]leucine incorporation into cultured astrocytes. Polyadenylic acid (Poly A), that mimics the effect of adenosine at adenosine receptors, also stimulated proliferation of the astrocytes. The effects of adenosine and Poly A were not inhibited by 1,3-dipropyl-8-(2-amino-4-chlorophenyl)xanthine (PACPX) but were inhibited by 1,3-dipropyl-7-methyl-xanthine (DPMX), indicating that adenosine and Poly A acted at the cell surface, likely through adenosine A2 receptors. The stimulatory effect of ATP was biphasic. The proliferative effect of low, but not of high, concentrations of ATP were abolished by DPMX. The purinergic P2 receptor agonist 2-methylthioATP and, at higher concentrations, the P2y agonist, alpha,beta-methyleneATP also stimulated incorporation of [3H]thymidine. These data indicate that high concentrations of ATP stimulate cell proliferation through at a P2, possibly a P2y receptor. These results have considerable biological significance. After brain injury, or when cells in brain die or become hypoxic, nucleotides and nucleosides are released from the cells. Their extracellular concentrations can exceed those required to stimulate astrocyte proliferation in vitro. Therefore they may be partly responsible for gliotic changes following cell death in brain.
The traditional surgical management of complex craniofacial injuries is performed in three stages: immediate craniotomy, orbitofacial repair in 7 to 10 days, and cranioplasty delayed 6 to 12 months because of the perceived risks of infection and prolonged anesthesia in the head-injured patient. Cosmetic considerations have always played a secondary role; however, there are reports that suggest that bone fragments and grafts can be safely placed even in contaminated wounds. In addition, advances in neuroanesthetic technique allow for prolonged administration of anesthesia without untoward effects on the patient. The purpose of this prospective study was to determine if early single-stage repair of complex craniofacial injuries could be accomplished with acceptable morbidity and mortality. In this study, 13 patients (9 men, 4 women) ranging in age from 3 to 53 years, with Glascow Coma Scale scores of 10 to 15, all had a combined single-stage repair of their complex craniofacial injuries within 24 hours of their trauma. After initial assessment and resuscitation, all patients were evaluated with computerized tomography of the face and head before surgery. Bicoronal skin flaps were used for maximum exposure for frontal sinus exenteration as well as dural repair, cortical debridement, and calvarial reconstruction. Dural grafts were necessary in 12 of 13 patients (92%), and supplementary bone grafting was required in 9 of 13 patients (69%), of which 3 of the 9 (33%) had iliac bone grafts, where split calvarial grafts were used in the other 6 of 9 (67%). No artificial cranioplasty material was used.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The ras gene product (p21) is thought to transduce signals from various growth and differentiation factors. p21 is a GTP-binding protein, and its activity is regulated by the bound GDP/GTP ratio. We analysed p21-bound nucleotides in cell lysates of rat pheochromocytoma cell line PC12 cells stimulated with various factors. Nerve growth factors (NGF) rapidly increased the relative amount of active p21-GTP complex to as much as 20% of the total amount of p21 within 2 min. The amount of p21-GTP then declined to 8% after 10 min, and this level was sustained for at least 2 h. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) also stimulated a rapid accumulation of p21-GTP to the same extent as seen with NGF, but the amount of p21-GTP declined to 5% after 10 min and gradually returned to the basal level within 60 min. In contrast, basic fibroblast growth factor, interleukin 6 and dibutyryl cAMP, which induce neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells, did not stimulate the accumulation of p21-GTP at any time point examined. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate also had no effect. Interestingly, the protein kinase inhibitor K-252a specifically suppressed the NGF-induced accumulation of p21-GTP, but did not suppress the EGF-induced response. These results strongly suggest that an active p21-GTP complex transduces the differentiation signal from NGF. It may also be suggested that the process of activating p21 is mediated by a K-252a-sensitive protein kinase(s).


The distribution of cholecystokinin binding sites has been visualized and quantified by quantitative autoradiography in the human hippocampus from post-mortem brains of 11 controls and 11 schizophrenics. CCK receptors were localized to subiculum and parahippocampal gyrus. In the cortical areas there was a particularly dense lamination of receptors. In the schizophrenic material a similar overall pattern was seen, but there were significant losses of receptors in CA1 subiculum and cortex. These findings confirm the distribution of CCK receptors in the retrohippocampal areas in man and also provide further support for earlier homogenate studies which have also shown a loss of CCK binding sites in schizophrenia. This effect was localized primarily to parahippocampal gyrus suggesting that CCK plays some role in the genesis of developmental abnormalities in this region.


Gap junction channels, now known to be formed of connexins, connect the interiors of apposed cells. These channels can be opened and closed by various physiological stimuli and experimental treatments. They are permeable to ions and neutral molecules up to a size of about 1 kDa or 1.5 nm diameter, including second messengers and metabolites. The processes of gating and of permeation are the subject of this review. Voltage is a readily applied stimulus, and transjunctional voltages, or those between cytoplasm and exterior, affect most junctions. Single channel transitions between open and closed states are rapid and presumably involve a charge movement as occurs with channels of electrically excitable channels of nerve and muscle. Identification of gating domains and charges by domain replacement and site-directed mutagenesis is being pursued. Raising cytoplasmic H+ or Ca2+ concentrations rapidly reduces junctional conductance, and this action is generally reversible, at least in part. A number of lipophilic alcohols, fatty acids and volatile anesthetics have similar actions. Phosphorylation also modulates junctional conductance, and in several cases, sites of phosphorylation are known. These gating processes appear similar to those induced by voltage. Permeability measurement indicates that the channel is aqueous and that permeation is by diffusion with only minor interactions with the channel wall. Differences among junctions are known, but further characterization of connexin and cell specificity is required.

A spatial cueing paradigm was used to (a) investigate the effects of attentional orienting on spatial and temporal parameters of saccadic eye movements and (b) examine hypotheses regarding the hierarchical programming of saccade direction and amplitude. On a given trial, the subjects were presented with one of three peripheral cues: a &quot;valid&quot; cue provided correct information, a &quot;neutral&quot; cue no information and an &quot;invalid&quot; cue incorrect information about the location of the subsequent target (the cue was valid on about 50% of the trials). 100 or 500 msec after the cue onset (stimulus onset asynchrony, SOA), the eye movement target was presented at one of six possible locations (from -11.25 degrees to +11.25 degrees, at 3.75 degrees spacing). The results showed a significant effect of cueing on saccade latencies at the 100 msec, but no effect at the 500 msec SOA. The cueing benefits were restricted to the cued location; no other locations within the cued or uncued hemi-field were facilitated. The invalid trial latencies showed: (a) no advantage for targets on the same side as the cue relative to the opposite side, (b) no advantage for targets more proximal to the cue and (c) no advantage for targets sharing the same eccentricity as the cue. In a second experiment, subjects responded to the target by giving a simple manual response [simple reaction time (RT)] while keeping the eyes stationary. The results showed a significant cueing effect on simple RTs both at the 100 msec and, in contrast to saccadic eye movements, the 500 msec SOA. There were specific benefits for targets at the cued location relative to other targets within the same and opposite hemi-fields. Further, in contrast to saccades, there was a general advantage for targets within the same (&quot;cued&quot;) hemi-field over targets in the opposite hemi-field. These findings suggest that, for saccadic eye movements (overt orienting), direction and amplitude are programmed holistically; whereas in covert orienting (with eyes stationary), motor parameters (e.g. for directed hand movements) are programmed in a more hierarchical fashion.
In this paper report the effects of peripheral (intraperitoneal, i.p.) and central (intracerebroventricular, i.c.v.) injection of selective cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor agonists on food intake in the rat. Stimulation of peripheral and central CCK-A receptors by the selective CCK-A receptor agonist A-71623 suppressed intakes of a liquid diet in both deprived and sated rats. In contrast, i.c.v., but not i.p., injections of the selective CCK-B receptor agonist A-63387, reduced food intakes, although on a molar basis the effect was much less than that seen with A-71623. Although these results stress the relative importance of the CCK-A receptor in the effects of exogenous CCK-8 administration on feeding, stimulation of the CCK-B receptor may still be involved in the control of feeding following the endogenous release of CCK.
The distribution of ryanodine receptor calcium-release channels over the terminal cisternae (TC) membrane of skeletal muscle fibres was examined by using immunogold electron microscopy. Two monoclonal antibodies (5C3 and 8E2) that bound to monomers of the ryanodine receptor protein on Western blots of SDS-polyacrylamide gels were used to locate calcium-release channels in longitudinal sections of rat sternomastoid and diaphragm fibres. Up to 21% of 5C3 binding on TC membranes was extra-junctional, compared with 46% for 8E2. Binding of 8E2 to the fibres was less than half that of 5C3, possibly because of steric shielding of the 8E2 antigenic site at the junction. The distances between neighbouring particles in clusters was 20-40 nm, i.e. the distance between subunits of the ryanodine receptor or between neighbouring foot structures. We suggest that, during activation, extra-junctional ryanodine receptors may release Ca2+ directly into the myoplasm, rather than into the restricted space of the triad junction.
Neuropathic pain remains a major complication of various forms of injury to peripheral nerves in humans. Recently, 2 models of peripheral mononeuropathy in the rat have been described which closely resemble the human condition. Bennett and Xie3 described one model induced by the placement of 4 loose ligatures around the entire sciatic nerve; Seltzer et al. have described a second model produced by the placement of a tight ligature around one-third to one-half of the sciatic nerve. It is the purpose of this work to compare the effect of these injuries on the time course and magnitude of hyperalgesia as measured by paw withdrawal latency to a radiant heat stimulus. In addition, to evaluate the hypothesis that neuropathic pain develops as a result of injury-associated discharges, some injuries were induced following anesthesia of the sciatic nerve. Our results show that the partial constriction neuropathy (PCN) described by Bennett and Xie3 develops in a faster time frame than that produced by the tight ligature, or partial transection neuropathy (PTN), described by Seltzer and co-workers. In addition, the PCN shows a reduction in both the duration and magnitude of behavioral hyperalgesia obtained for those animals in which local anesthetic (lidocaine) was applied to the sciatic nerve, while the PTN does not show this sensitivity. The data suggest that injury-related discharge is one important factor contributing to the generation of hyperalgesia in the PCN model. The mechanism(s) responsible for the generation of hyperalgesia in the early stages of the PTN model are not lidocaine-sensitive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In primary cultures of astrocytes and granule cells from neonatal rat cerebellum, the activity and function of nitric oxide (NO) synthase were measured by the conversion of [3H]arginine to [3H]citrulline and the accumulation of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), respectively. The glutamate receptor agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and the Ca2+ ionophore A23187 stimulated NO synthase activity in cerebellar granule cells but not in astrocytes. In granule cells, NMDA, A23187, and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) elicited an accumulation of cGMP, whereas only SNP was active in astrocytes. However, in astrocytes that were incubated together with granule cells, NMDA induced a more than 3-fold increase in the concentration of cGMP; this increase was blocked by both the NO synthase inhibitor NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (MeArg) and the allosteric NMDA receptor antagonist (+)5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzocyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801). Thus, cerebellar astrocytes do not appear to express NO synthase but do contain guanylate cyclase, which can be activated by an NO-like factor produced by cerebellar granule cells after stimulation by NMDA.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor is thought to play a critical role in neuronal development, differentiation and plasticity. A number of studies have shown an enhanced sensitivity to NMDA receptor ligands in neonatal animals. This study examined the ontogenetic changes in the glycinergic modulation of NMDA-coupled cation channels in the developing central nervous system of rat pups. The nonequilibrium binding of the specific channel ligand [3H]MK-801 was used as a measure of NMDA channel access. Glycine (10(-5) M) enhancement of [3H]MK-801 binding at 2 h in forebrain membranes from adult rats was significantly greater than that observed in tissues from 8- to 28-day-old rat pups. This difference was due to changes in the efficacy, but not potency of glycine. The observed ontogenetic changes in the efficacy of glycine-enhanced [3H]MK-801 binding were attributable to developmental changes in receptor site density, as determined by equilibrium [3H]MK-801 saturation isotherms. Kinetic studies revealed that glycine increased the association rate constants of [3H]MK-801 in 8-day and adult membranes by a similar magnitude (0.111 +/- 0.021 vs 0.094 +/- 0.009 nM-1 h-1, respectively). Similarly, the fractional amount of [3H]MK-801 bound (i.e., amount bound at time t normalized to amount bound at equilibrium) in the presence of glycine was relatively constant throughout neonatal development. These findings suggest that the allosteric modulation of the NMDA ionophore by glycine is similar in postnatal and adult rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The amine metabolites, namely homovanillic acid (HVA) and 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) were measured in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of depressives (n = 30) and controls (n = 30). Depressed patients had significantly lower HVA levels than controls. No significant differences were noted between the two groups in 5-HIAA levels. However, the differences between the groups for the CSF HVA/5-HIAA ratio were larger than those for the CSF HVA alone (p less than 0.01 versus p less than 0.025, respectively). HVA levels correlated positively with monoamine oxidase activity and adenosine deaminase activity.
The extracellularly recorded firing rate of rat ventromedial hypothalamic neurones in vitro was inhibited by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT), 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) and buspirone, 2-methyl-5-HT was relatively ineffective. At 1 microM, spiperone and cyanopindolol antagonised the 5-CT induced inhibition, MDL 72222 (10 microM) and ketanserin (1 microM) did not. Intracellular recordings with voltage-clamp revealed that 5-HT and 5-CT evoked a tetrodotoxin-resistant outward current with a reversal potential of ca. -100 mV. 5-HT1A receptors likely activate a potassium conductance on these neurones.
Structurally diverse compounds have been shown to possess high affinities for benzodiazepine receptors in their 'diazepam-sensitive' (DS) conformations. In contrast, only the imidazobenzodiazepinone Ro 15-4513 has been shown to exhibit a high affinity for the 'diazepam-insensitive' (DI) conformation of benzodiazepine receptors. We examined a series of 1,4-diazepines containing one or more annelated ring systems for their affinities at DI and DS benzodiazepine receptors, several 1,4-diazepinone carboxylates including Ro 19-4603, Ro 16-6028 and Ro 15-3505 were found to possess high affinities (Ki approximately 2.6-20 nM) for DI. Nonetheless, among the ligands examined, Ro 15-4513 was the only substance with a DI/DS potency ratio approximately 1; other substances had ratios ranging from 13 to greater than 1000. Ligands with high to moderate affinities at DI were previously classified as partial agonists, antagonists, or partial inverse agonists at DS benzodiazepine receptors, but behaved as 'GABA neutral' (antagonist) substances at DI. The identification of several additional high affinity ligands at DI benzodiazepine receptors may be helpful in elucidating the pharmacological and physiological importance of these sites.
Acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) enhances nerve growth factor (NGF) synthesis by astrocytes obtained from various brain regions. NGF secretion by fibrous-shaped astrocytes transformed by dibutyryl-cAMP (db-cAMP) pretreatment was less than that by untreated astrocytes. However, aFGF also enhanced NGF secretion by fibrous-shaped astrocytes. The effects of various kinds of intracellular signaling modulators on NGF synthesis were examined. None of the following second messenger effectors had an effect on NGF synthesis: protein kinase C (PKC) agonist (phorbol myristate acetate (PMA)) or antagonist (sphingosine (SP)). LiCl, and ionomycin (Iono). Further, increases of intracellular cAMP by forskolin (FK) or db-cAMP have no significant effect on NGF synthesis in astrocytes under a standard culture condition. However, NGF synthesis by astrocytes in the presence of aFGF was significantly enhanced by db-cAMP, but not by FK or sodium butyrate. These results indicate that an excessive amount of cAMP enhances the effect of aFGF on NGF synthesis in astrocytes. NGF synthesis in astrocytes was not affected by treatment with anti-aFGF or anti-bFGF neutralizing antibodies, indicating that FGFs are not involved in the autocrine regulation of NGF synthesis in astrocytes. Transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1), which inhibits some effects of FGFs, increased NGF synthesis in concert with aFGF. Furthermore, the highest NGF synthesis was observed when astrocytes were stimulated by all of the following cytokines: aFGF, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and TGF-beta 1. The mechanism regulating NGF synthesis in fibroblasts obtained from prenatal rat skin was also investigated. Acidic FGF, basic FGF (bFGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), TGF-beta 1, IL-1 beta, and TNF-alpha were found to be regulators of NGF synthesis in skin fibroblasts. Among these cytokines, aFGF is the most potent regulator of NGF synthesis in fibroblasts. NGF synthesis by skin fibroblasts, either in the presence or absence of aFGF, was not modified by any of the following: FK, PMA, SP, LiCl, and Iono. However, db-cAMP significantly enhanced NGF synthesis in both conditions. Sodium butyrate enhanced NGF synthesis in the presence of aFGF, but not in the absence of aFGF. These results suggest that an excessive amount of cAMP and butyrate moiety regulate NGF synthesis in skin fibroblasts in different ways.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Primary afferent projections from cutaneous afferents in the forelimb and hindlimb digits to the dorsal horn (DH) were examined using 4 tracers: (1) 25% free horseradish peroxidase (HRP), (2) 2.5% wheat-germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP), (3) a mixture of 25% free HRP and 2.5% WGA-HRP (WGA-HRP/HRP) or (4) 0.1% HRP conjugated to cholera toxin (B-HRP). The tracer was injected intracutaneously into the digits. Three to 4 days later, the rats were perfused transcardially, transverse sections (60-microns thick) were cut and the HRP was reacted using the tetramethyl benzidine (TMB) method. The location of the label was reconstructed by camera lucida drawings. In rats which received an injection of HRP alone, no label was detected in the DH. Rats injected with WGA-HRP had projection patterns similar to those injected with WGA-HRP/HRP. Patterns of labelling with WGA-HRP differed markedly from those with B-HRP. WGA-HRP labelled cutaneous afferents projecting to Rexed's laminae I-III, with the densest label in lamina II; in contrast, B-HRP labelled cutaneous afferents projecting to laminae II-V, with the densest label in laminae III-IV. These results indicate that, for cutaneous primary afferents projecting to the DH, WGA-HRP and B-HRP labelled different subpopulations of fibers, with the B-HRP-labelled subpopulation biased toward afferents of larger diameter. Rostrocaudally, the extent of the densest fiber projections, whether labelled by WGA-HRP or by B-HRP, was essentially the same, but the extent of the less densely labelled projections was much greater with B-HRP than with WGA-HRP. Comparisons of the projection maps from each of the five digits, using either WGA-HRP or B-HRP, indicated that, as seen in transverse sections through the DH, there was extensive overlapping among the labelled cutaneous afferent fibers from adjacent, or even non-adjacent digits.
N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase (NAALADase) is a membrane bound enzyme that cleaves glutamate from the endogenous neuropeptide N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (NAAG). We report the immunocytochemical localization of NAALADase in rat brain and kidney by using specific anti-NAALADase antiserum. NAALADase-immunoreactivity (NAALADase-IR) was widely distributed, abundant in neuropil, absent from neuronal cytoplasm, and displayed regional heterogeneity. Staining was selectively enriched in several structures previously reported to contain NAAG-immunoreactivity (NAAG-IR) including the amygdala, caudate-putamen, central gray, dorsal raphe, globus pallidus, hippocampus, hypothalamus, locus coerulus, medial and lateral geniculate, olfactory bulb, periaqueductal gray, solitary nucleus, spinal trigeminal nucleus, substantia nigra, superior colliculus, and thalamus. Staining within these structures was enriched in neuropil; no intracellular staining was detected, even after colchicine treatment. In addition, NAALADase-IR was observed in some NAAG-containing fiber tracts including the corpus callosum, fornix, habenular commissure, solitary tract, stria medularis, and stria terminalis. The co-localization of NAALADase-IR and NAAG-IR support the hypothesis that NAALADase is responsible for the catabolism of NAAG in vivo. NAALADase-IR was also detected in brain regions that, to date, have not revealed NAAG-IR, including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the median eminence. In addition, NAALADase-IR was detected in the rat kidney cortex, specifically in the brush border of the proximal convoluted tubules. The observation that NAALADase-IR was more widespread than NAAG-IR suggests that NAALADase may also be involved in the catabolism of other structurally related neural and renal peptides.
The nucleotide sequence and deduced polypeptide sequence of the Salmonella typhimurium leuB are reported, as well as a conserved region that might bind the enzyme substrate.
On Earth, the functional stretch reflex is an important component in the maintenance of posture and muscle tone. In parabolic flight experiments, we evaluated whether the functional stretch reflex, as reflected in the tonic vibration reflex, adjusts appropriately for changes in background gravitoinertial force level. Virtually immediate alterations of appropriate sign occurred.

Litters of female rat pups were handled daily from birth to weaning. When 12 days old the pups were ovariectomized or received sham surgery. At 70 days sham and ovariectomized animals were decapitated immediately or placed within a novel environment for 10, 20, or 40 min before decapitation. Basal plasma levels of androstenedione in ovariectomized animals were approximately half that of intact sham controls, and stress caused only a small rise in androstenedione in this group. Androstenedione levels in ovariectomized animals were consistently at or below the lower sensitivity of the radioimmunoassay, indicating that circulating levels of androstenedione in the female rat are primarily of ovarian origin. Basal ACTH and corticosterone levels did not differ significantly between the two groups. However, stress-induced levels of ACTH and corticosterone were significantly depressed in ovariectomized subjects compared to controls following exposure to the novel environment. Furthermore, while ACTH levels started to return to baseline by 40 min in controls, this effect was not observed in ovariectomized animals. These findings demonstrate that prepubertal removal of ovarian humoral factors can have a long-term impact on the responsiveness of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis to stress.
The rate of multiple births and the incidence of congenital anomalies in Tokyo Metropolitan Hospitals were studied during the period 1979-1990. The number of twins was 968 pairs (8.23 per 1,000 deliveries) and of triplets 18 sets (15.3 per 100,000 deliveries) among 117,672 deliveries including 1,587 stillbirths after 16 weeks gestation. Multiple birth rates increased yearly. Stillbirth rates in twins and triplets were 5.5% and 16.7% respectively, which were both significantly higher than that in singletons (1.3%). The number of congenital anomalies was 42 in 1,936 twins (2.17%), 2 in 54 triplets (3.7%) and 1721 in 116,686 singletons (1.47%). The most common defects in twins were those of the cardiovascular system (0.72% in twins vs 0.52% in singletons) and of the musculoskeletal system (0.72% in twins vs 0.50% in singletons), followed by upper respiratory tract and/or mouth conditions (0.67% in twins vs 0.35% in singletons), all of which had no significant difference in frequency between twins and singletons. Though some anomalies had a significantly higher frequency in twins than in singletons, the concordance rate in the like-sexed twins was very low.

The feline infusion model of brain edema was used to evaluate the role of bradykinin in the etiology and pathophysiology of vasogenic brain edema. Bradykinin (3 or 90 ug in 600 microL saline) did not alter normocapnic regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) nor induce specific changes in either the somatosensory (SEP) or motor (MEP) evoked potentials. The mean increases in ICP (from 4.5 to 16.1 mmHg) and peri-infusion white matter water content (from 69.4 to 79.8 ml/100 g tissue), mean decrease in lumped craniospinal compliance (from 0.040 to 0.014 ml/mmHg) and local histological changes were all similar to those after 600 microL saline infusion. The interstitial bradykinin infusion caused focal blood-brain-barrier (BBB) opening to Evans Blue dye and was chemotaxic for granulocytes. After the infusion there was a global loss of rCBF CO2 reactivity but there was no ischemia at normocapnia. These results show that bradykinin in brain edema fluid, at concentrations greater than those found in neuropathological conditions, can open the BBB of normal cerebral parenchymal capillaries and cause vascular dysregulation. In neuropathological conditions bradykinin may therefore potentiate formation of vasogenic brain edema but does not contribute to perilesional brain dysfunction.
The number of papers published in European neurosurgical journals during the last decade (1980-90) was analysed using online databases. Thirteen journals devoted to neurosurgery were published in Europe at that time. In five of them neurosurgery appears together with other specialties. Almost 50% of all European neurosurgical journals are written in English. They published 68% of all papers by neurosurgeons appearing in the European neurosurgical journals during the last decade. Together with the American neurosurgical journals English was used in about 80% of all neurosurgical publications. Other languages used are German and French (9% each), Russian (5%), Czech or Slovak (4%), Polish (3%), Rumanian (2%). Most papers by European neurosurgeons originate from England, followed by Germany, France, Italy and Sweden. Of the East-European countries Polish neurosurgeons contributed with 782 publications, followed by Czechoslovakia (568), Hungary (501), USSR (470) and East Germany (452). The proportion of papers published in neurosurgical journals by European neurosurgeons to those in the journals devoted to other neurosciences varied from 99% in the USSR to 12% in Austria with an average of 38%. Citation analysis indicates that only a few of the journals have a large impact on neurosurgical publications, while the others have a rather limited influence.
The surgical management of two cases of lateral ventricular subependymal giant cell astrocytoma, arising in the head of the Caudate nucleus, and causing hydrocephalus due to obstruction of the foramen of Monro is described. One lesion, in a patient with tuberous sclerosis, was resected using a transcallosal approach and the other, in a patient with no stigmata of tuberous sclerosis, using a frontal, trans-cortical transcystoventricular approach. The microsurgical aspects of excision and pathological anatomy of both tumours were very similar. Following tumour excision and pellucidotomy both patients had partial resolution of their hydrocephalus with complete resolution of their preoperative symptoms. The merits of transcallosal and transcortical approaches to these lesions are discussed.
In this paper the requirements of Neurophysiology and Neurotraumatology monitoring are analyzed. As a result a set of designated systems were developed by the authors a short description of which is given in the paper. Finally the future perspectives and problems to be faced are briefly described.
Precise and unbiased quantitation of the key element of nervous tissue has solved some long-standing problems in neuroscience and the new stereological methods are now very efficient tools for experimental testing of new (and old!) ideas and concepts. Technically, the &quot;zipless&quot; combination of new stereological methods with certain essential principles for observation and recognition is only beginning to be made.
We compared the morphologic characteristics of muscle fiber necrosis and subsequent regeneration after injury induced by intramuscular injections of bupivacaine hydrochloride (BPVC) and a variety of solutions at acid and alkaline pH (acetic anhydride, citric acid buffer, and sodium carbonate buffer). After BPVC injection the necrotic muscle fibers were rapidly invaded by phagocytic cells, followed by active regeneration and very little fibrous scar formation. The regenerating muscle fibers increased rapidly in size and attained complete fiber type differentiation and regained their initial fiber diameter within 1 month. Both alkaline and acid solutions induced muscle fiber necrosis followed by regeneration. Fiber necrosis induced by alkaline buffers and acetic anhydride solutions above pH 5.0 produced changes quite similar to that induced by BPVC. However, injection with 0.1 M acetic anhydride at pH below 4.0 resulted in coagulative necrosis of the injured muscle with very little phagocytic infiltration with poor regenerative activity and dense fibrous tissue scarring. Thus, pH 4.0 appears to be the critical pH determining the type of muscle injury and subsequent poor phagocytic and regenerative activities. This model of acidic acetic anhydride injury may lead to the identification of factors which interfere with regeneration and cause fibrous tissue scarring in human muscular dystrophy.
We have used monoclonal antibodies to desmin and titin, and a combination of immunofluorescence and immunogold labelling to study the disposition of these two proteins in normal human muscle fibres and in fibres at various stages of degeneration in dystrophic muscle. The normal pattern of desmin labelling, in particular the subsarcolemmal labelling, became disrupted at an early stage of fibre breakdown. There was a change from a transverse to a longitudinal orientation of the labelled intermediate filaments as the myofibrils sheared relative to one another. Thus, while it is probable that the desmin filaments are able to play a role in the mechanical integration of the myofibrils in healthy muscle, our results suggest that they cannot withstand the excessive forces generated by the hypercontraction and stretching of dystrophic muscle. However, small accumulations of desmin persisted between the damaged myofibrils until necrosis reached an advanced stage. In general, the degradation of titin appeared to occur before the degradation of desmin, and at the ultrastructural level, labelling with antibodies to epitopes from parts of the titin molecule close to the A-I-band junction was lost before labelling with an antibody to an epitope in the A-band. This suggests that different regions of the titin molecule break down at different stages in the breakdown of the fibre. We propose that lysis of titin in the I-band may underlie 'slippage', an abnormality often seen in dystrophic muscle, in which the A-band slips to one pole of the sarcomere such that it abuts onto the Z-line. Breakdown of the A-band section of titin may facilitate the disassembly of the A-filaments.
Immunocytochemistry and Western blotting were used to monitor the fate of dystrophin in the soleus muscle of the rat during a cycle of degeneration and regeneration induced by inoculation of the muscle with the venom of Notechis scutatus scutatus (the Australian tiger snake). In control muscle dystrophin was localised close to the plasma membrane. Dystrophin began to break down 3-6 h after venom inoculation, giving a characteristic discontinuous labelling pattern. At 12 h dystrophin was absent from the plasma membrane, and by 1 day the architecture of the muscle fibers had completely broken down. By 2 days post inoculation regeneration had commenced. The regenerating myofibres possessed well-organised myofibrils and the plasma membrane was intact. Dystrophin was detected by Western blot at 3 days, but was not seen in sections until regeneration of the muscle was well advanced, at 4 days post inoculation. The results suggested that although dystrophin was present in the myofibres at 3 days, it was not incorporated into the plasma membrane until 4 days post inoculation. This may be due to the influence of the functional reinnervation of the regenerating fibres, which occurs at 4-5 days, or to the growing fibres reaching a critical diameter.
Electron microscopical examination of devastated and reticular gliosis-replaced areas of two human brains revealed novel anchorage densities (ADs) associated with hemidesmosome-like structures (HDLSs) in perivascular astrocytes; the densities, 200-300 nm away from the cell membrane overlying the basal lamina, ran parallel to the membrane. The subplasmalemmal ADs usually received fibrils from the main stream of the deeply located glial fibrils, and sent isolated 13- to 16-nm fibrils roughly perpendicularly to the unusually prominent and frequently continuous HDLSs on the inner leaflet of the cell membrane, undercoated by a thickened basal lamina. The variable profiles of the ADs indicated that they were cell membrane-connected sheets or meshes that were virtually completely composed of bundles of glial fibrils intercrossing at variable angles or running roughly parallel to one another. All these findings suggest that the ADs may provide a significant support to the cell membrane facing the perivascular space.
The eye movement response to earth vertical axis rotation in the dark, a semicircular canal stimulus, can be altered by prior exposure to combined visual-vestibular stimuli. Such plasticity of the vestibulo-ocular reflex has not been described for earth horizontal axis rotation, a dynamic otolith stimulus. Twenty normal human subjects underwent one of two types of adaptation paradigms designed either to attenuate or enhance the gain of the semicircular canal-ocular reflex prior to undergoing otolith-ocular reflex testing with horizontal axis rotation. The adaptation paradigm paired a 0.2 Hz sinusoidal rotation about a vertical axis with a 0.2 Hz optokinetic stripe pattern that was deliberately mismatched in peak velocity. Pre- and post-adaptation horizontal axis rotations were at 60 degrees/s in the dark and produced a modulation in the slow component velocity of nystagmus having a frequency of 0.17 Hz due to putative stimulation of the otolith organs. Results showed that the magnitude of this modulation component response was altered in a manner similar to the alteration in semicircular canal-ocular responses. These results suggest that physiologic alteration of the vestibulo-ocular reflex using deliberately mismatched visual and semicircular canal stimuli induces changes in both canal-ocular and otolith-ocular responses. We postulate, therefore, that central nervous system pathways responsible for controlling the gains of canal-ocular and otolith-ocular reflexes are shared.
A number of studies suggest that the telencephalic limbic system modulates stress ulcer development. The amygdala is assumed to connect sensory experiences, including stressful stimuli, with the emotional reactions and gastrointestinal effects normally produce. The hippocampal formation (entorhinal cortex, dentate gyrus, hippocampus) is part of a gating system, modulating the organism's coping ability. Changes in transmission in this temporal brain region are linked to individual differences in stress ulcer severity. Interactions among &quot;classical&quot; transmitters and several neuropeptides mediate these differences.


The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-sensitive subtype of glutamate receptor, which gates Ca(2+)-permeable ion channels, is known for its role in learning and memory formation, in the induction of long-term potentiation, and also in seizure activity and neurotoxicity. In primary cultures of cerebellar neurons, agonists of NMDA receptors induce a dose-dependent release of [3H]arachidonic acid ([3H]AA), which is potentiated by activation of the glycine-positive modulatory site and inhibited by NMDA receptor antagonists. NMDA receptor-induced [3H]AA release is inhibited by quinacrine and partially depends on the presence of extracellular calcium. The [3H]AA release is not sensitive, however, to pretreatment with pertussis or cholera toxin, which suggests a Ca(2+)-dependent activation of phospholipase A2 not employing G proteins. Pretreatment of cultures with the natural and semisynthetic sphingolipids GT1b and PKS 3, respectively, inhibits NMDA receptor-mediated [3H]AA release. We also demonstrated glutamate-evoked [3H]AA release from rat hippocampal slices, which is NMDA receptor mediated, calcium dependent and sensitive to quinacrine. Arachidonic acid and its metabolites have been shown to play a role as second messengers and to modulate neuronal activity. Moreover, they are thought to act as transsynaptic modulators in the mechanism of NMDA receptor-induced long-term potentiation in the hippocampus. Their role in ischemic brain pathology has also been postulated. Our experiments on cultured cerebellar granule cells, incubated in a Mg(2+)-free medium deprived of glucose and oxygen, demonstrated a time-dependent stimulation of [3H]AA release. This release was inhibited by antagonists of NMDA receptors and by quinacrine. Stimulation of NMDA-sensitive glutamate receptors and the subsequent calcium-mediated activation of phospholipase A2 may play a role in the in vivo release of arachidonic acid during brain ischemia. This hypothesis is supported by the observation that the enhanced level of thromboxane B2 in the gerbil brain after 5 min of global ischemia is reduced by the systemic application of either the NMDA antagonist MK-801 or the ganglioside GM1.
After 18:3 omega 3 is obtained from the diet, it is accumulated by the liver, where it is esterified and temporarily stored as triacylglycerols. As it is required, 18:3 omega 3 is elongated and desaturated to 22:6 omega 3, then released into the circulation with lipoprotein carriers. RPE cells remove the 22:6 omega 3 from the choriocapillaris and subsequently release it to the retina proper. In the frog, all 22:6 omega 3 input to the photoreceptors occurs by way of the RPE cells. After passing through the interphotoreceptor matrix, it is selectively taken into the myoid region of photoreceptor cells where it is immediately activated and esterified onto position 2 (and sometimes also position 1) of a glycerol molecule. Some phospholipids are passed through the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, while others are not. Generally, transport to the outer segments seems to be independent of the Golgi apparatus. Addition to rod outer segments occurs in two ways: i) a general diffuse pathway, probably common to all fatty acids, which rapidly labels the entire outer segment; and ii) a specific dense pathway, utilized only by 22:6 omega 3-containing phospholipids, which become locked into the matrix of disc membranes along with opsin. There appears to be no exchange between these two forms of label. Accumulation of newly synthesized basal discs pushes older, 22:6 omega 3-laden discs apically until the outer segment tips, high in 22:6 omega 3-phospholipids (the dense form of outer segment label), are shed into the RPE cytoplasm. There, as the 22:6 omega 3 fatty acids are released from the disc membranes during degradation, a recycling mechanism immediately directs these essential fatty acids back into the interphotoreceptor matrix, thus conserving this molecule in the retina, and permitting it to be again selectively taken up by the photoreceptors for photomembrane synthesis. The process of 22:6 omega 3 handling and trafficking by the retina is specifically orchestrated around a conservation mechanism that is regulated by the RPE cells and that ensures, through a short feedback loop from the phagosomes to the interphotoreceptor matrix, adequate levels of 22:6 omega 3 for photoreceptors at all times.





The effect of prolonged ethanol exposure on ribosomal RNA activity and the content of RNA and protein in skeletal muscles of 15- and 22-25-month-old rats was evaluated. Experimental rats were fed a liquid diet containing 6.7% ethanol for 2, 4 and 6 months, and control rats were pair-fed an isocaloric diet. The in vivo incorporation of [3H]puromycin into nascent peptides on messenger RNA-ribosome complexes was determined to assess muscle ribosomal RNA activity. This activity was significantly reduced in extensor digitorum longus and soleus muscles of rats fed ethanol for 2 months. While the total RNA content of these muscles was unchanged after feeding ethanol for 2, 4 and 6 months, their messenger RNA content was decreased from 26-34%. The total protein content was reduced after ethanol was consumed for 6 months. Taken together, the results suggest that alterations in the transcriptional or posttranscriptional control of messenger RNA may contribute toward the development of alcoholic myopathy after prolonged ethanol consumption.
Acupuncture is based on neuroanatomy and neurophysiology. At each acupuncture point, there are peripheral nerves and terminals. Acupuncture will be useful for further understanding of the nervous system. A conceptual view of acupuncture's physiology is presented.
Sertraline was found to inhibit weight gain and decrease food intake without affecting locomotion in rats and genetically obese (ob/ob) mice. Doses of 10, 17.8, and 32 mg/kg, administered intraperitoneally, (bid) significantly reduced the time rats spent in contact with their feeders and body weight in a dose-related manner. During a 5-d bid treatment regimen, vehicle-treated rats gained 37 +/- 3 g (mean +/- SEM), whereas animals treated with 32 mg sertraline/kg lost 34 +/- 4 g. The effects of sertraline on feeding and body weight in rats appeared to be specific because locomotor activity was not altered. In ob/ob mice, sertraline (44 mg/kg, ip, bid) lowered body weight relative to vehicle-treated controls for the duration of a 12-d study. There was no evidence for tolerance to the hypophagic and weight-loss effects of sertraline during either of the chronic dosing studies. These results suggest a potential role for sertraline in the treatment of human obesity.

In this study we explored the possibility of suppressing pathological tremors using closed-loop functional electrical stimulation (FES) to activate the tremorogenic muscles out-of-phase. A displacement signal monitored with a transducer was filtered so as to be &quot;tuned&quot; to the tremor frequency at the wrist or elbow. The filtered signal was used to amplitude-modulate the electrical stimulation. The design process was based on measurements of the open-loop frequency response characteristics of the forearm and hand to stimulation of the elbow and wrist flexors and extensors in a number of subjects. These data allowed us to identify closed-loop configurations, which attenuated 2-5 Hz tremors substantially, while only minimally attenuating functional movements in the 0-1 Hz range. There was a fairly delicate balance between efficacy and the risk of instability. However, designs were identified that offered enough tremor suppression and adequate immunity to muscle/load variations for the technique to be considered seriously for clinical application.
The Akaike minimum information criterion provides a means to determine the appropriate number of lags in a linear autoregressive model of a time series. We show that the Akaike criterion is closely related to the reliability estimates of successively determined parameters of a linear autoregressive (LAR) model. A similar criterion may be applied to determine whether the addition of a nonlinear term to an LAR model provides a statistically significant improvement in the description of the time series. As an example, we use this method to identify quadratic contributions to a nonlinear autoregressive characterization of a typical 3/s spike and wave seizure discharge.
A new manufacturing technique has been developed for creating silicon-based, penetrating electrode arrays intended for implantation into cerebral cortex. The arrays consist of a 4.2 mm x 4.2 mm glass/silicon composite base, from which project 100 silicon needle-type electrodes in a 10 x 10 array. Each needle is approximately 1,500 microns long, 80 microns in diameter at the base, and tapers to a sharp point at the metalized tip. The technique used to manufacture these arrays differs from our previous method in that a glass dielectric, rather than a p-n-p junction, provides electrical isolation between the individual electrodes in the array. The new electrode arrays exhibit superior electrical properties to those described previously. We have measured interelectrode impedances of at least 10(13) omega, and interelectrode capacitances of approximately 50 fF for the new arrays. In this paper, we describe the manufacturing techniques used to create the arrays, focusing on the dielectric isolation technique, and discuss the electrical and mechanical characteristics of these arrays.
The goal of this research was to find a practical means by which an array of 100 needle-shaped electrodes could be implanted into the cerebral cortex with minimal brain tissue trauma. It was found that insertion of these structures into cortical tissues could only be performed using high insertion speeds. A pneumatically actuated impact insertion system has been developed that is capable of inserting an electrode array into feline brain tissue at speeds from about 1 to 11 m/s. We found that a minimum array insertion speed of 8.3 m/s was necessary for a complete, safe insertion of all 100 electrodes in the array to a depth of 1.5 mm into feline cortex. The performance of the impact insertion system is discussed in terms of a simplified representation of cortical tissue.

Despite recognition that iron is important for normal neurological function, the proteins involved in maintaining iron homeostasis within the brain have until recently received little attention. In the past few years, studies aimed at determining both general and cellular control of iron in the brain have increased. Histological studies indicate that maintenance of iron homeostasis in the brain is the responsibility of neuroglia and possibly the choroid plexus. Transferrin, the iron transport protein, has been found predominantly in oligodendrocytes in the brain and in myelinating Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system. The messenger RNA for transferrin is located in the brain in oligodendrocytes and the choroid plexus. Most of the transferrin protein and transcript expression in the brain is dependent on the presence of a mature population of oligodendrocytes. Transferrin is also involved in the transport of iron across the blood-brain barrier via transferrin receptors on brain capillary endothelial cells. The transferrin receptor is also present on cells within the brain. Ferritin, the iron storage protein, and iron are found in the brain in oligodendrocytes and microglia. Additional cells in which iron and ferritin are found are tanycytes, which are associated with the third ventricle. This latter observation raises interesting possibilities regarding the transport of iron from cerebrospinal fluid into the brain. The high iron requirement of the brain coupled with the high susceptibility of the brain to iron-generated peroxidative damage requires stringent regulation of the availability of iron. Consequently, the iron regulatory proteins are central to understanding mechanisms controlling iron-dependent activity at the cellular level, as well as protection of the brain from oxidative damage. The behavior of brain iron regulatory proteins will be a significant factor in future studies of the neurological diseases resulting from brain iron imbalance. We review the contributions of our laboratory to this field over the past 6 years, discuss current projects, and suggest future directions for study.
There is increasing evidence for a defect of mitochondrial respiratory chain function in Parkinson's disease. Specific NADH CoQ1 reductase (complex I) deficiency has been identified in the substantia nigra. Available evidence suggests that this defect is confined to the substantia nigra and is not present elsewhere in the parkinsonian brain. The absence of a detectable mitochondrial abnormality in the substantia nigra of patients with multiple system atrophy also suggests that the complex I deficiency in Parkinson's disease is not simply due to an artifact of neuronal degeneration. Evidence for abnormal mitochondrial function in skeletal muscle is conflicting; two studies showed multiple respiratory chain defects and one study was unable to demonstrate any deficiency. A severe deficiency of complex I activity has been found in platelet mitochondria from parkinsonian patients. This finding has not as yet been confirmed. Platelet homogenates do not show the complex I deficiency, however, suggesting that such a preparation may be too insensitive to detect the defect. The role of complex I deficiency in the events that culminate in dopaminergic cell death in Parkinson's disease remains unresolved. It is likely that if this mitochondrial defect is confirmed, it will be related to a number of other factors, including environmental agents, oxidative stress, and genetic predisposition.


In the last decade or so, there has been rapid movement toward the use of more complex stimuli in the study of perceptual function related to the hand. This review has focused on the neural mechanisms of form and texture perception. Evidence from neurophysiological and psychophysical studies in which static touch, scanning touch, and the Optacon were used indicate that the spatial acuity of the RA system may be as much as three times poorer than the SAI system, evidence that suggests that form perception is dominated by the SAI system. Pattern recognition behavior in a tactual letter recognition task appears to be directly related to the response properties of SAI afferent fibers. Psychophysical studies of roughness perception show that roughness magnitude is related to surface structure in an orderly manner. Because roughness varies along an intensive continuum, mean impulse rate in one or more of the afferent systems is the most obvious coding possibility. No satisfactory relationship between mean impulse rate and roughness has been observed, however. The strongest hypothesis is that tactual roughness perception is based on spatial variation in the SAI population response. The combined evidence from studies reviewed here suggests complementary roles for each of the afferent systems, which are presented as working hypotheses: The SAI system is the primary spatial system and is responsible for tactual form and roughness perception when the fingers contact a surface directly and for the perception of external events through the distribution of forces across the skin surface. The PC system is responsible for the perception of external events that are manifested through transmitted high-frequency vibrations of the kind that are critical in the use of objects as tools. The RA system is responsible for the detection and representation of localized movement between skin and a surface as well as for surface form and texture when surface variation is too small to activate the SAI afferents effectively.




Although NMDA-R-dep LTP in the hippocampus has received much attention, it is clear that many types of LTP do not involve NMDA receptors. While early studies of NMDA-R-indep LTP were done in invertebrates, an NMDA-R-indep LTP is also seen in at least three excitatory pathways of the hippocampus. There would appear to be quite diverse mechanisms of induction of NMDA-R-indep LTP, although in most cases there is evidence, or at least a suggestion, that Ca2+ is involved. At the hippocampal CA3 MF synapse, activation of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels has been proposed as a trigger for LTP induction, and this may also be the case for certain types of LTP at the SC synapse in CA1 (25, 40). The modulation of both MF LTP and Ca2+ channels by beta-adrenoreceptor and muscarinic agonists suggests that specifically the L-type channel is critical for MF LTP induction. L-type Ca2+ channels may also be involved in NMDA-R-indep LTP at SC synapses (6, 40). Clearly more work is needed to test these possibilities. In addition, it will be interesting to discover whether voltage-gated Ca2+ channels play a role in LTP in other areas of the brain such as the cerebral cortex and amygdala (24).

High resolution two-dimensional electrophoresis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from 10 schizophrenic patients demonstrated a 21% average difference in the number of proteins which could be detected in patients undergoing haloperidol therapy when compared with CSF from the same patients after withdrawal from neuroleptic treatment. Proteins affected were trace proteins, as we found no significant variation in either the total CSF protein content or the integrated protein density on each electrophoretic gel. Three mechanisms which might account for these observations are: (1) a small change in liver protein synthesis or degradation would have little if any visible effect on the concentration of major blood or CSF proteins, such as albumin, but it could significantly alter trace proteins, such as alpha 2-haptoglobin, since their concentrations are orders of magnitude less than that of the major proteins, (2) haloperidol might alter the blood-CSF protein filtration system which could affect the visibility of the trace proteins, and (3) proteins synthesized in the Central Nervous System (CNS) or enhanced in the CSF could be differentially affected by haloperidol. While additional research will be required to determine the basis for the effects of haloperidol on CSF proteins, the current studies provide information which may be helpful in delineating disease specific protein alterations from those induced by drug therapy.
A 41-year-old male homosexual with AIDS was hospitalized for temperature elevation to 40 degrees C with confusion. Neurologic evaluation found psychomotor slowing and temporospatial disorientation with no focal signs. The CD4 count was 100/mm3. CSF analysis and the CT scan were normal. Despite antiviral treatment the patient died fifteen days after admission. Gross appearance of the brain was normal. Histologic examination disclosed multiple, small foci of demyelination characteristic of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. These foci were disseminated among the U fibers. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemical studies demonstrated papovavirus particles in oligodendrocytes and a few astrocytes. This case shows that papovavirus infection in AIDS patients may be responsible for a diffuse febrile encephalopathy with normal CT scan findings and a rapidly progressive course.
The binding activities of prostaglandins (PGs) D2 and E2 were measured after deglycosylation of P2 membranes prepared from the porcine temporal cortex in order to investigate the role of carbohydrate moieties in the receptor binding. PGD2 and PGE2 binding activities were significantly decreased by pretreatment with various exoglycosidases, such as neuraminidase for PGE2 binding, alpha-mannosidase and beta-galactosidase for PGD2 binding, and beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase for both. Further, peptide N-glycohydrolase F and endo-alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase, which are specific for the cleavage of N-glycan and O-glycan linkages, respectively, in glycoproteins were used. Pretreatment with either of them also reduced both PGD2 and PGE2 binding activities. The reduction was dependent on the pretreatment time and enzyme concentration. The time courses of the reduction were typically characterized by a marked increase in the nonspecific bindings. Scatchard plot analysis revealed that the reduction was caused by a decrease in the affinity rather than one in the maximal binding capacity. The specificity of the binding sites thereby shifted to be more nonspecific without affecting the order of the relative affinities among PGs for the binding sites. These results suggest that the carbohydrate moieties on PG receptor proteins of the brain are essential for the expression of their binding activities.
Cytomegalovirus infection has a number of features that suggest a possible association between congenital infection and schizophrenia. Previous studies have investigated anticytomegalovirus antibody titers or attempted directly to identify viral antigens in body fluids or brain tissue from schizophrenic subjects but have been limited by the sensitivity of the available methods. The highly sensitive polymerase chain reaction, a newly developed technique for gene amplification, was used to search for cytomegalovirus in the DNA extracted from postmortem temporal cortex samples of eight schizophrenic subjects, eight nonschizophrenic suicide victims, and eight normal controls. Cytomegalovirus-specific DNA amplification was not detected in any of the samples. The implications of this finding for the viral hypothesis of schizophrenia are discussed.
Cerebral monoaminergic neurotransmitters and their metabolites show various concentration changes in gerbils following bilateral carotid ligation. The present study evaluated the effect of chronic administrations of lisuride hydrogen maleate (lisuride) on these changes. Lisuride (0.01 mg/kg or 0.05 mg/kg) or vehicle was intraperitoneally administered to gerbils for 14 consecutive days before the induction of a 30 min ischemia by bilateral carotid ligation. Animals were sacrified immediately and the levels of dopamine, DOPAC, homovanillic acid, noradrenaline, serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid determined by HPLC in the striatum, cortex, hippocampus and diencephalon/midbrain. Lisuride itself had no effect on any compound determined in any region. In the carotid-ligated gerbil brain, however, lisuride corrected the reduction of dopamine in the striatum, normalized or reduced increases in the (DOPAC+homovanillic acid)/dopamine ratio in the striatum, hippocampus and diencephalon/midbrain, and increased the levels of serotonin in all four regions. The present study, together with previous reports, indicate that lisuride may interfere with ischemia-induced cerebrovascular disturbances and, in such a way, improve some pathological sequelae of cerebrovascular disease.
Over a 22-month period, we investigated optic and otic toxicity accompanying intra-arterial cisplatin therapy. Baseline and serial neurologic and ophthalmologic examinations, visual evoked potentials, and brain-stem auditory evoked potentials were performed in six patients, aged 37 to 53 years. Patients received infraophthalmic intra-arterial cisplatin (60 mg/m2) every month for three to 10 treatments (mean, six treatments). Five of the six patients had progressive optic toxicity. In two patients, the visual evoked potential prolongation preceded acuity loss by at least 4 months. Two patients had evidence of otic toxicity by either brain-stem auditory evoked potential or click threshold and brain-stem auditory evoked potential. Intra-arterial cisplatin neurotoxicity may be significant in patients with already limited survival. Visual evoked potential and brain-stem auditory evoked potential should be used to monitor patients receiving potentially neurotoxic therapy.

The accumulation of desialylated radiolabelled normal spleen cells and non-neuroantigen specific CD4 T-lymphocytes was measured in the lumbosacral spinal cord of Lewis rats with autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced with myelin basic protein in Freund's adjuvant. The labelled cells were preincubated with sialidase and thoroughly washed prior to intravenous injection into rats exhibiting early clinical signs of EAE. Four hours later, the rats were killed and blood and spinal cord samples were radioassayed. Compared with untreated cells, desialylation markedly reduced the accumulation of both normal spleen cells and memory T-lymphocytes in the spinal cord, despite similar levels of cells being present in the blood. In another experiment, the accumulation of desialylated, macrophage-depleted spleen lymphocytes was measured during the onset, recovery and short-term &quot;relapse&quot; phases of acute EAE. Again, compared with controls the accumulation of desialylated lymphocytes was always significantly less, despite similar numbers of cells in the circulation. Lastly, intravenous injections of sialidase produced delayed onset of both clinical and histological signs in rats with passively-transferred EAE. These data confirm and extend previous findings, using a different animal model, that sialyl residues on the lymphocyte surface are important to the accumulation of such cells at inflammatory sites in the central nervous system. The possible relevance of these findings to human demyelinating disease is discussed.
Treatment of acute motion sickness induced by parabolic flight with a preparation of scopolamine placed in the buccal pouch was investigated. Twenty-one subjects flew aboard a KC-135 aircraft operated by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) which performed parabolic maneuvers resulting in periods of 0-g, 1-g, and 1.8-g. Each subject flew once with a tablet containing scopolamine and once with a placebo in a random order, crossover design. Signs and symptoms of motion sickness were systematically recorded during each parabola by an investigator who was blind to the content of the tablet. Compared with flights using placebo, flights with buccal scopolamine resulted in significantly lower scores for nausea (31%-35% reduction) and vomiting (50% reduction in number of parabolas with vomiting). Side effects of the drug during flight were negligible. We conclude that buccal scopolamine is more effective than a placebo in treating ongoing motion sickness.
Callosal agenesics and callosotomized epileptics manifest markedly increasing simple visual reaction time (SVRT) from conditions of ipsilateral to contralateral stimulus-response relation (SRR). In the contralateral SRR, a response is presumed possible because of presence of other commissures (anterior, intercollicular). The SRR effect is prolonged presumably because the remaining commissures are less efficient than the corpus callosum in relaying necessary visual or motor information. Consequently, the SRR effect is believed to correspond to callosal relay time (CRT) in the normal subject. However, both callosal agenesics and callosotomy patients manifest general slowing of SVRT in addition to a prolonged SRR effect. These patients have massive extra-callosal damage which could plausibly cause both the SVRT and the CUD prolongation. If such were the case, the CRT inference would be in jeopardy. A test of the CRT inference is therefore required where patients with massive diffuse extra-callosal brain damage and normal callosi would show marked general SVRT prolongation and a normal SRR effect. Four trisomy-21 (T21) males were compared to age and sex-matched normal controls. General SVRT was highly significantly prolonged in T21, but the CUD was nearly identical in both groups.
When a rate histogram is used to represent the firing pattern of a neuron there is the potential for serious error due to aliasing, and because of this the rate histogram is a very poor way to represent neural activity. It is theoretically possible to encode a signal in a spike train and decode it without error by filtering and sampling. There is no natural optimal filter design for this problem, but it is possible to specify the characteristics of a good rate estimating filter heuristically and design a filter with these characteristics. Two rate estimating filters are described here. Their performance has been tested, and compared to the rate histogram and the French-Holden rate estimating algorithm, by measuring their ability to recover signals encoded as impulse sequences by Integral Pulse Frequency Modulation (IPFM). These filters are simple to implement and perform well. They should be used in preference to the rate histogram.
Quantitative study of the static and dynamic response properties of some otolith-sensitive neurons has been difficult in the past partly because their responses to different linear acceleration vectors exhibited no &quot;null&quot; plane and a dependence of phase on stimulus orientation. The theoretical formulation of the response ellipse provides a quantitative way to estimate the spatio-temporal properties of such neurons. Its semi-major axis gives the direction of the polarization vector (i.e., direction of maximal sensitivity) and it estimates the neuronal response for stimulation along that direction. In addition, the semi-minor axis of the ellipse provides an estimate of the neuron's maximal sensitivity in the &quot;null&quot; plane. In this paper, extracellular recordings from otolith-sensitive vestibular nuclei neurons in decerebrate rats were used to demonstrate the practical application of the method. The experimentally observed gain and phase dependence on the orientation angle of the acceleration vector in a head-horizontal plane was described and satisfactorily fit by the response ellipse model. In addition, the model satisfactorily fits neuronal responses in three-dimensions and unequivocally demonstrates that the response ellipse formulation is the general approach to describe quantitatively the spatial properties of vestibular neurons.
We describe a general diffusion model for analyzing the efficacy of individual synaptic inputs to threshold neurons. A formal expression is obtained for the system propagator which, when given an arbitrary initial state for the cell, yields the conditional probability distribution for the state at all later times. The propagator for a cell with a finite threshold is written as a series expansion, such that each term in the series depends only on the infinite threshold propagator, which in the diffusion limit reduces to a Gaussian form. This procedure admits a graphical representation in terms of an infinite sequence of diagrams. To connect the theory to experiment, we construct an analytical expression for the primary correlation kernel (PCK) which profiles the change in the instantaneous firing rate produced by a single postsynaptic potential (PSP). Explicit solutions are obtained in the diffusion limit to first order in perturbation theory. Our approximate expression resembles the PCK obtained by computer simulation, with the accuracy depending strongly on the mode of firing. The theory is most accurate when the synaptic input drives the membrane potential to a mean level more than one standard deviation below the firing threshold, making such cells highly sensitive to synchronous synaptic input.
The origin of the mammalian neocortex in usually considered as an improvement in the structure of the brain. Alternatively, I suggest that the mammalian neocortex arose as a consequence of contingent adaptations in which there was no specific selection for more elaborate cognitive abilities. In primitive mammals, the adaptation to nocturnal life produced a reduction of the optic tectum (superior colliculus). In addition, the development of the olfactory system triggered the development of the cerebral cortex. It is proposed that, since both the optic tectum and the cerebral cortex are laminar structures, the growing cortex replaced the tectum in many integratory functions. When mammals reinvaded diurnal niches, the optic tectum did not redevelop, and the cerebral cortex remained the main integratory and perceptual system. This is a case of irreversible reduction of an organ. In reptiles and especially in birds, although there was also an increase in brain size (associated with higher cognitive capacities), the optic tectum grew in size and complexity and the forebrain grew largely as a nonlaminar structure (except the Wulst in birds). Therefore, the origin of the cerebral cortex resulted from the combination of adaptations to nocturnality and the development of olfactory-driven behavior, and its origin is not directly related to higher cognitive capacities.
Neuromass, the mass of central nervous tissue per unit area, is suggested as a new parameter for studying ecosystems. Its use is demonstrated with a comparison of biomass and neuromass distributions for a stream riffle ecosystem in the Huron River, southeastern Michigan. Biomass and neuromass were estimated for three animal groups: small invertebrates, crayfish, and fish. For small invertebrates the mass of the longitudinal nerve cord was estimated with histological sectioning and volumetric calculation. For crayfish and fish the central nervous system was dissected out and weighed. Total biomass was about 12 g dry wt/m2 and was dominated by small invertebrates that made up 76% of the total. Total neuromass was about 0.2 g wet wt/m2. Fish neuromass made up 93% of the total neuromass even though their biomass contribution was only 18% of the total. These results are discussed in relation to the potential of this approach for developing a view of information processing at the ecosystem level of organization.
The case of a 28-year-old woman who presented with focal sensory seizures and later developed mild sensory loss in the face and hand is described. An EEG, two contrast-enhanced CT and non-enhanced T1-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) scans were normal, but T2-weighted MR scans revealed a lesion measuring 3 x 2 cm in the mid-rolandic region. This lesion did not enlarge over a 6-month period. Resection of the abnormal gyrus was guided by electrocorticography and histology revealed an anaplastic astrocytoma. Although there was resolution of the facio-digital sensory loss postoperatively the frequency and pattern of the partial sensory seizures was unchanged. The neuroradiological and histological findings in this case highlight the difficulties concerning the indications for surgical intervention in adult patients who present with epilepsy and have lesions visualized only on magnetic resonance imagery.
A 24-year-old woman with neurofibromatosis presented with a 1.5-year history of pain in the neck, both shoulders and back, and a 4-month history of progressively increasing weakness of all the limbs and inability to walk. The limb weakness fluctuated and, at the height of the weakness, it was associated with hesitancy and retention of urine. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a fusiform enlargement of the upper cervical cord with obliteration of the subarachnoid space. Imaging after gadolinium-DTPA injection revealed inhomogeneous enhancement extending from the lower medulla down to the C4 cord level, and homogeneous enhancement at D3 to D4 and D6 to D8 cord levels. The spinal cord at the lower two levels appeared morphologically normal. At operation the fusiform enlargement of the cervical cord was confirmed. The tumour was partially removed. Histology revealed it to be a fibrillary astrocytoma.
An experimental study was performed to determine the effects of interstitial white mater oedema on the electroencephalogram (EEG). Using both rodent and feline infusion models of focal brain oedema no difference was found between the EEG waveforms recorded epidurally from the infused and control hemispheres. It is concluded that where focal slow-wave EEG abnormalities overlie oedematous brain the EEG abnormalities are not primarily related to the brain oedema but arise from either local biomechanical or other pathophysiological mechanisms.
Intra- and extracellular recordings were made from substantia nigra zona compacta neurones from an in vitro rat brain slice preparation. A subpopulation of dopamine-sensitive neurones were encountered which were potently excited by bath application of the NK3 receptor agonist, senktide. On these senktide-sensitive neurones, NK1 and NK2 receptor agonists were inactive. The excitatory action of senktide supports a role for tachykinins as putative neurotransmitters in the basal ganglia.
The ability of a selective cholecystokininB (CCKB) receptor antagonist, CI-988, to block benzodiazepine withdrawal effects was examined in mice. The discontinuation of twice daily administration of diazepam (1 mg kg-1, i.p.) induced withdrawal anxiogenesis and a proconvulsant effect. In contrast, no such effects were seen following withdrawal from similar administration of CI-988. However, CI-988 dose-dependently (0.001-1.0 mg kg-1, s.c.) antagonized both the anxiogenesis and the proconvulsant effect following diazepam-withdrawal.
Three 1-year surveys of head injury management spanning a 9-year period in a single regional centre are presented. There was a reduction in total numbers of head injury admissions after guidelines for admission and referral were implemented. More liberal use of computed tomography resulted in detection of a greater number of intracranial haematomas with the majority detected in non-comatose patients. The early mortality rate in severe head injury fell from 45 per cent to 34 per cent despite referral of large numbers of patients with multiple injuries and a substantial proportion (12 per cent) of patients aged more than 70 years in whom outcome did not improve. Total occupied bednights and bednights occupied per surviving patient with severe head injury fell over the period of study. Care for patients with significant head injury should be based on regional neurosurgical units associated with trauma services.

The connections of the lateral preglomerular nucleus were examined with the fluorescent tracer DiI in a cyprinid, a characin, a catfish and a gymnotoid species. In all of these taxa the lateral preglomerular nucleus receives inputs from the torus semicircularis and projects to the telencephalon. Cytoarchitectural and topological data further support the hypothesis that the lateral preglomerular nucleus is homologous among the species examined. A cladistic analysis of species differences, however, reveals that some connections of the lateral preglomerular nucleus have changed dramatically during the course of evolution. Some of the cell groups that are interconnected with the lateral preglomerular nucleus have increased in size, while others have decreased. Increases in the number of subdivisions of cell groups are frequently associated with size increases, but they may also be associated with size decreases. Some of the connections between cell groups have increased in strength, whereas others have decreased in strength, but these connectional changes bear no simple relationship to phylogenetic changes in the size of the cell groups. Phylogenetic increases in the number of subdivisions within a cell group may be associated with selective gains of connections, but they may be associated also with selective losses of connections or with no major changes in connections. Furthermore, several cell groups and connections appear to have evolved 'de novo', whereas others have disappeared during the course of evolution. Finally, the individual cell groups within this system of interconnected nuclei have changed largely independently of one another. These findings establish that brain evolution is not dominated by a single type of phylogenetic change.

Amniotic epithelial cells has been used for transplantation in patients with lysosomal storage diseases as an enzyme replacement therapy. But its clinical effect is still the question under debate. We performed amniotic tissue transplantation on patients with different lysosomal storage diseases: one with Tay-Sachs disease, one with juvenile Gaucher disease and one with juvenile metachromatic leukodystrophy. The patient having juvenile Gaucher disease received this grafting twice. Objective clinical improvement was observed in the first trial where this patient showed an increase of soluble beta-glucosidase one week after implantation. No clinical or biochemical changes were seen in the other patients. Although there are some advantages to amniotic tissue transplantation, original methods should be modified to cell transplantation in order to avoid graft-versus-host reaction which could happen in repeated implantation.
The early development of myelination was studied by means of myelin basic protein (MBP) and luxol fast blue (LFB) stainings of large sections of the cerebral hemispheres. Myelination first occurs in the globus pallidus, pallidothalamic fibers of the posterior internal capsule and the thalamus at 25 weeks, which may be related to the cellular maturation in the globus pallidus and thalamus. Then myelination is observed in the striatum, and precentral and postcentral gyri at 35 weeks, and the anterior internal capsule and optic radiation at 37 weeks. Immunoreactivity with MBP is observed earlier and more strongly in the early myelination period than that with LFB. Thus, MBP may play an important role in myelination and its delay. The macroscopic positivity as to MBP as well as LFB staining may be related to the development of high signal intensity observed in a T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging, which was observed 1 to 3 months after the first microscopic appearance of myelin.
Previous studies from our laboratory demonstrated that alpha 2-macroglobulin (alpha 2M) is one of the neurite-promoting factors in the conditioned medium of astroglia. In the present study, we further examined the de novo production of alpha 2M in cultured astroglia by determining the expression of alpha 2M mRNA, and the biosynthesis of [35S]methionine-labeled alpha 2M protein. We analyzed the mRNA of cultured astroglia by differential hybridization using specific probes to alpha 2M and its homologous protein, alpha 1-inhibitor 3 (alpha 1I3), after amplification of reverse-transcribed cDNA with the polymerase chain reaction. The result clearly showed that only alpha 2M mRNA is expressed in cultured astroglia. Northern blotting analysis revealed that alpha 2M mRNA is expressed mainly in the astroglia and is not detected in neurons, microglia and meningeal fibroblasts. Furthermore, the biosynthesis of alpha 2M protein in the astroglia was confirmed by an immunoprecipitation experiment after labeling of each type of cell with [35S]methionine. It was concluded that alpha 2M is produced in the cultured astroglia which is the major source of alpha 2M production among various types of cells in rat brain.
The nigrostriatal dopaminergic activity was pharmacologically changed to assess whether dopamine (DA) regulates cholecystokinin (CCK) mRNA steady state in rat striatum. Cocaine and benztropine, two dopaminergic agonists known to induce DA release and to block its re-uptake, produced a time dependent increase in CCK mRNA content in rat striatum. A significant increase in striatal CCK mRNA was observed 8 h after a single injection of cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or benztropine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) whereas a two-fold increase was observed after a daily treatment for one week with these two dopaminergic agonists. Cocaine and benztropine failed to change CCK mRNA content in the cerebral cortex. Haloperidol, a dopaminergic receptor blocker, injected at 1 mg/kg, i.p., daily for 7 days, decreased CCK mRNA content in striatum but not in the cerebral cortex. Moreover, haloperidol blocked the effect of cocaine and benztropine, suggesting that the stimulation of striatal dopaminergic receptors is necessary for the induction of CCK biosynthesis. The neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine injected into the medial forebrain bundle, elicited a 50% decrease in striatal CCK mRNA, supporting the hypothesis that DA tonically regulates CCK biosynthesis in postsynaptic neurons. To characterize the dopaminergic receptor subtype involved in this regulation, BHT 920, a specific D2 receptor agonist and SKF 38393, a specific D1 receptor agonist were used. While one week treatment with BHT 920 (1 mg/kg, i.p.) increases striatal CCK mRNA content, SKF 38393 (3 mg/kg, i.p.) failed to change this parameter. These data suggest that the increase of striatal CCK mRNA is mediated by the activation of the D2 receptor subtype.
The effect of administration of subtype selective dopamine (DA) agonists on the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion-induced increase of striatal preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA was examined by dot-blot hybridization. Eight days following a unilateral 6-OHDA lesion of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc), PPE mRNA levels in the ipsilateral striatum were increased approximately two-fold. Administration of the D2 DA agonist, quinpirole, dose-dependently attenuated the 6-OHDA lesion-induced increase in striatal PPE mRNA. The effect of quinpirole was blocked by coadministration of the D2 DA antagonist eticlopride. In contrast, administration of the D1 DA agonist, SKF 38393, either dose-dependently augmented or had no effect on the 6-OHDA lesion-induced increase in striatal PPE mRNA. In the contralateral striatum, administration of quinpirole decreased PPE mRNA, while administration of SKF 38393 increased PPE mRNA compared to sham lesioned control levels. These data suggest the action of DA at D1 and D2 DA receptors differentially regulates striatal PPE mRNA levels and the apparent inhibition of ENK biosynthesis by DA is mediated via an interaction with D2 DA receptors.
Electrical impedance tomography (EIT) is a recently developed technique which enables the internal impedance of an object to be imaged non-invasively. Images are at present reconstructed from measurements made at 51 kHz with a ring of sixteen electrodes placed around the subject. A minimum data set is acquired in 40 msec, and an image can be reconstructed in about 5 sec. The technique is rapid, safe, portable and inexpensive, and so is ideal for non-invasive continuous imaging at the bedside. It cannot be used at present to image changes in the brain with scalp electrodes, as the relative resistance of the skull is too great. It should be possible to use it in the near future with a ring of subdural electrodes to produce images of brain regions undergoing anoxic depolarization in conditions such as epilepsy or stroke. It may be possible to use it in the future to image impedance changes related either to blood flow or depolarization during functional activity. Images of depolarization could be produced with a temporal resolution of milliseconds and would form a substantial advance in neuroscience methodology.
Thermoencephaloscopy (TES) - a new method of functional imaging of the cerebral cortex by its infrared radiation was advanced and developed since 1984. Improved thermovision and image processing techniques allow 2D, contact-free, dynamic and non-invasive recording of background and evoked cortical activity through an unopened skull. Activated (heated) and deactivated (cooled) zones of the cerebral cortex are revealed. The temporal resolution of TES is 40 msec (25 maps/sec), the spatial resolution is up to 70 x 70 microns/pixel. The diameter of the smallest recordable active region of the cortex is 200-300 microns. The minimal time needed for a session used for averaging of 4-9 responses varied from 40 sec up to 18 min. TES allows to detect the position, size and sequence of operation of precisely located specific cortical zones, and to measure their dynamics before, during and after sensory and direct cortical stimulation, motor acts and conditioning (associative learning). TES-effects were recorded in rats, rabbits, cats, monkeys and humans. Waves were found spreading over the cortex with a speed of up to 30 mm/sec along trajectories specific for the sensory modality and the site of stimulation. Some pathological processes in the brain are detectable by TES: experimental tumours and epileptic foci. There are many sources for local heating: neural activity, local metabolism of units, local cerebral blood flow and thermoconductivity in the activated zones of the cortex. Thermoencephaloscopy is a dynamic, non-invasive, contact-free method with a relatively high temporal and spatial resolution and sensitivity. It can be a useful tool in basic neuroscience and medicine.
Functional imaging of electric brain activity requires specific models to transform the signals recorded at the surface of the human head into an image. Two categories of model are available: single-time-point and spatio-temporal methods. The instantaneous methods rely only on the few voltage differences measured at one sampling point. To create a spatial image from this limited information, they require strict assumptions that rarely conform with the underlying physiology. Spatio-temporal models create two kinds of images: first, a spatial image of discrete equivalent multiple dipoles or regional sources, and second, an image of source current waveforms that reflect the temporal dynamics of the brain activity in circumscribed areas. The accuracy of the spatial image is model dependent and limited, but it can be validated from the spatio-temporal data by the &quot;regional source imaging&quot; technique, introduced here. The source waveforms are linear combinations of the scalp waveforms, and thus, specific derivations which image local brain activities at a macroscopic level. Brain source imaging of somatosensory evoked potentials revealed temporally overlapping activities from the brainstem, thalamus and from multiple sources in the region of the contralateral somatosensory projection areas.
Equilibrium is ensured during forward or backward upper trunk movements by displacing the hip and knee simultaneously in opposite directions. When fast movements are performed, a muscle synergy characterized by the early activation of a set of trunk, thigh and leg muscles precedes the onset of the kinematic changes. The question which is addressed concerns the possibility that two levels of equilibrium control might exist during upper trunk movements: the strategy level, which is relatively invariant, is characterized by the displacement in opposite directions of the upper and low segments, and the muscle synergy level at which the strategy is implemented, which may be adaptable to the environmental constraints. When upper trunk movements are performed under microgravity with the subject's feet fixed to the floor of the space cabin, the displacement of upper and lower body segments in opposite directions still occurs, although this is no longer necessary to maintain the equilibrium. This kinematic strategy seems to be aimed at regulating the centre of inertia position with respect to the feet. The muscle synergies associated with these kinematic changes are modified, however, under microgravity. After returning to the ground, the previous synergies do not reappear immediately, but only after a few days. This suggests that a short period of learning is needed to change the synergy. These data are compatible with the hypothesis that two levels of equilibrium control actually exist during upper trunk movements, the strategy level, which is kinematic and invariant, and the synergy level, which is adaptable to the environmental constraints through a short learning process.
In response to a visual stimulation, &quot;replicated triplets&quot; of impulses may appear in many spike trains recorded from the cat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN). The number and the temporal structure of these triplets depend upon the general organization of the geniculate impulse trains. In this study, we show that a pharmacological blockade of the corticothalamic activity, obtained through microinjection of GABA into area 17, affects the replicated triplet production and leads to an increase in the dispersal of their structure. These results suggest that the corticothalamic pathway closely influences the fine temporal organization of the geniculate messages.
11 patients with frontal lobe lesions (F group), 9 patients with temporal lobe lesions (T group) and 18 normal control subjects (C group) were tested on two versions of the delayed non matching-to-sample task using either different pairs (DNMTS) or the same pairs of objects (RECURRENT) on successive test trials. The results revealed that the DNMTS task was sensitive to memory impairment but did not differentiate the two experimental groups. In contrast, the recurrent version of the task showed a dissociation between the two pathologies. Thus, whereas patients of group T exhibited an accelerated rate of forgetting as a function of the retention interval, patients of group F were impaired whatever the retention interval.
In the awake cat, characteristic electrocortical synchronized oscillations (beta rhythms) can develop on the parietal cortex in specific behavioural situations such as during attentive fixation of a target. These activities differ from other synchronized rhythms which accompany slow sleep (&quot;spindles&quot;) and are more widespread. It is shown here through single unit recording from the thalamic nucleus reticularis (RET), that the latter structure participates in spindles (as already postulated by other authors), but not in the beta rhythms which seem to depend on a more restricted thalamic focus in the posterior thalamic nucleus. These data thus support the idea that RET plays a role in slow-wave sleep but not in the cognitive operations involved in focussing attention.


The growth cone, a terminal structure on developing and regenerating axons, is specialized for motility and guidance functions. In vivo the growth cone responds to environmental cues to guide the axon to its appropriate target. These cues are thought to be responsible for position-specific morphological changes in the growth cone, but the molecules that control growth cone behavior are poorly characterized. We used scanning electron microscopy to analyze the morphology of retinal ganglion cell growth cones in vitro on different adhesion molecules that axons normally encounter in vivo. L1/8D9, N-cadherin, and laminin each induced distinctive morphological characteristics in growth cones. Growth cones elaborated lamellipodial structures in response to the cell adhesion molecules L1/8D9 and N-cadherin, whereas laminin supported filopodial growth cones with small veils. On L1/8D9, the growth cones were larger and produced more filopodia. Filopodial associations between adjacent growth cones and neurites were frequent on L1/8D9 but were uncommon on laminin or N-cadherin. These results demonstrate that different adhesion molecules have profoundly different effects on growth cone morphology. This is consistent with previous reports suggesting that changes in growth cone morphology in vivo occur in response to changes in substrate composition.
The family of molecular motors known as kinesin has been implicated in the translocation of membrane-bounded organelles along microtubules, but relatively little is known about the interaction of kinesin with organelles. In order to understand these interactions, we have examined the association of kinesin with a variety of organelles. Kinesin was detected in purified organelle fractions, including synaptic vesicles, mitochondria, and coated vesicles, using quantitative immunoblots and immunoelectron microscopy. In contrast, isolated Golgi membranes and nuclear fractions did not contain detectable levels of kinesin. These results demonstrate that the organelle binding capacity of kinesin is selective and specific. The ability to purify membrane-bounded organelles with associated kinesin indicates that at least a portion of the cellular kinesin has a relatively stable association with membrane-bounded organelles in the cell. In addition, immunoelectron microscopy of mitochondria revealed a patch-like pattern in the kinesin distribution, suggesting that the organization of the motor on the organelle membrane may play a role in regulating organelle motility.
The human neuronal cell-1 (HCN-1) line has recently been established. Under favorable conditions, these cells differentiate into mature neuronal phenotypes. Here we report on further characterization of these cells. Cultured HCN-1 cells express fibronectin immunoreactivity and grow well on fibronectin substrate but do not respond to human bFGF. In the undifferentiated state, some HCN-1 cells show MHC class I antigen expression. After differentiation, HCN-1 cells and their processes are MHC class I negative. On the other hand, interferon-gamma stimulation enhances MHC class I expression but does not induce MHC class II immunoreactivity. Our in vitro data indicate that HCN-1 cells express mixed characteristics, including both neuronal and mesenchymal markers, and are consistent with the suggestion that the HCN-1 cell line resembles an immature neuroepithelial cell precursor with a complex origin. One possible application of the use of the HCN-1 cells includes intracerebral transplantation. We also examined the survival of dissociated HCN-1 cells implanted into rat brain parenchyma. The host animals were not immunosuppressed. Despite expression of MHC class I antigens, small clusters of HCN-1 cells survived in the rat brain. These xenografts did not induce distinct immunological responses within the host brain tissue. Surviving HCN-1 cells demonstrated similar features to those observed in culture. Our preliminary results suggest that the HCN-1 cell line would be suitable for intracerebral transplantation in primates or humans. However, it may be that short-term host immunosuppression or addition of HCN-1 cell differentiation factors would be beneficial for enhanced cell survival.
Subpopulations of pyramidal neurons in the neocortex have been shown to contain nonphosphorylated neurofilament protein (NPNFP) and calbindin D28K (Morrison et al., 1987; Campbell and Morrison, 1989; Hof et al., 1990; Kobayashi et al., 1990; Hof and Morrison, 1991; Mesulam and Geula, 1991). However, it is not known what relations, if any, exist between the pyramidal neurons containing each of these proteins. In this study, the expression of NPNFP and calbindin immunoreactivity was compared in six regions of human neocortex. Characteristic laminar patterns of immunoreactivity for each protein were seen in most regions examined, and both NPNFP- and calbindin-labeled pyramidal neurons were found in layer III. However, the pyramidal neurons labeled with NPNFP and calbindin differed in several respects. First, the sublaminar distribution of NPNFP-labeled pyramids within layer III differed across regions, ranging from an even distribution throughout the layer in a visual association region (area 18) to a predominance of labeled neurons in the deep half of that layer in a higher association region (area 20). The distribution of calbindin-immunoreactive pyramidal neurons also varied regionally, but in a different manner than that of the NPNFP-labeled neurons. Second, in every region examined, the average size of NPNFP-labeled layer III pyramids was greater than that of calbindin-immunoreactive pyramids. However, there was substantial regional heterogeneity in the extent to which the size distributions of neurons in each of the two populations overlapped. Third, in the regions in which NPNFP- and calbindin-immunoreactive neurons were most similar in size, the amount of colocalization (as identified by double-labeling studies) was also greatest. Similarly, in the regions in which there was minimal overlap in the size of the NPNFP- and the calbindin-immunoreactive neurons, there was minimal colocalization. These regional characteristics of NPNFP- and calbindin-immunoreactive layer III pyramidal neurons have implications for the involvement of these neuronal populations in Alzheimer's disease.
3H-5-HT (serotonin) binding and its displacement by various specific subtype ligands and effects on the phosphoinositides (PI) turnover were studied in cultured C6 glioma and N2 neuroblastoma cells from rodents. Saturation analysis of 3H-5-HT binding to C6 cells revealed that its Kd and Bmax were 3.0 nM and 18.0 pmole/mg protein respectively. DOI.HCl (5-HT2 agonist) and ketanserin (5-HT2 antagonist) had the highest affinities in the drug-displacement of 3H-5-HT binding to C6 cells studied. The IC50 values for DOI-HCl and ketanserin were 7.5 x 10(-7) and 3.5 x 10(-8) M respectively. 5-HT also induced 3H-PI breakdown and generated 3H-IP. The EC50 values for 5-HT for this event were in the dose range between 0.5 to 1.5 microM, and this 5-HT-induced response could be blocked by 5-HT2 antagonist ketanserin more effectively than the 5-HT1 antagonist or 5-HT3 antagonist studied. 3H-5-HT binding to N2 cells revealed that its Kd and Bmax were 4.0 nM and 80 pmole/mg protein respectively in the saturation analysis study. The drug-displacement of this binding revealed that MDL 72222 (5-HT3 antagonist) had a higher affinity than ketanserin. The IC50 values for MDL 72222 and ketanserin were 10 nM and 10 microM respectively, when 3 nM of 3H-5-HT was used. Our results indicate that the predominant receptor subtype of 5-HT in C6 and N2 cells are 5-HT2, and 5-HT3 respectively, and that the PI turnover is linked to 5-HT2, but not 5-HT3 receptor activation.
One of the receptor-mediated events, cyclic nucleotide, i.e. cAMP and cGMP formation induced by bradykinin in guinea pig ileum was investigated in this report. Bradykinin, similar to acetylcholine, produced a rapid rise in the levels of cAMP and cGMP in the ileum. The absolute amount of these cyclic nucleotides induced by the same dosages (10(-8) to 10(-6) M) of bradykinin was greater in cAMP than in cGMP. This increase in cyclic nucleotides was dependent upon the presence of calcium in the medium. Addition of EGTA (0.1 mM) in a calcium free medium resulted in a significant reduction of the levels. The elevation of cAMP and cGMP levels induced by bradykinin in the ileum could not be blocked by either atropine (an anticholinergic agent) or propranolol (a beta-adrenergic blocker). Both of these blockers did not alter the basal levels of two cyclic nucleotides. However bradykinin-induced cAMP formation could be completely blocked by either indomethacin (a prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor) or dexamethasone (a phospholipase A2 inhibitor), This, however, was not true in the case of bradykinin induced cGMP formation. Additionally, both blockers did not create a significant change in the basal levels of these cyclic nucleotides. Bradykinin induced cAMP formation in the ileum was indicated by observed results to likely occur through an indirect process, i.e. the formation and release of prostaglandin in the cell, whereas bradykinin-induced cGMP formation did not. The elevation of these cyclic nucleotides in the cells was observed to be related to the movement of calcium ion across the cell membrane.
3H-substance P binding to the membranes of rat salivary glands was studied. The Kd and Bmax values were found to be 0.34 nM and 141 fmole/mg protein respectively using established natural occurring tachykinins to displace the binding. The rank order of potency was identified as substance P &gt; neurokinin A &gt; neurokinin B. These natural occurring tachykinins stimulate inositol phospholipid hydrolysis in slices of rat salivary glands, and the rank order of potency was also substance P &gt; neurokinin A &gt; neurokinin B. When salivation was induced by natural occurring tachykinins and acetylcholine (via i.v. route) in anesthetized rats with doses eliciting equivalent salivating responses, atropine blocks acetylcholine- as well as neurokinin B-, but not substance P- or neurokinin A-induced salivation. Based on the results mentioned above, we make a tentative conclusion that multiple receptor subtypes of neurokinins may exist in rat salivary glands. The neurokinins B receptor subtype is likely located presynaptically in the cholinergic nerve endings, whereas substance P and/or neurokinin A receptor subtypes may exist in the glandular tissue. The salivation induced by these neurokinins is likely through the activation of receptors, which are coupled to phosphatidylinositol turnover pathway.
The reinforcing properties of cocaine have been related to cocaine binding at the dopamine transporter in mesolimbocortical neurons. The molecular properties of the transporter have been studied in a number of laboratories. While this 'dopamine hypothesis' is strongly supported in animal studies of drug self-administration, the extent of its involvement in human drug dependence has not been fully elucidated.
Tuberculosis is still a major cause of serious illness in many parts of the world. CNS involvement has frequently been found secondary to tuberculosis elsewhere in the body, particularly the lungs. The disease manifests itself as meningitis, tuberculoma and/or spinal tuberculosis. The presence of tuberculosis elsewhere in the body favors the diagnosis although its absence does not exclude it. While tuberculous meningitis is a disease of childhood, tuberculomas and spinal tuberculosis are invariably an adult manifestation. The great majority of patients with neurotuberculosis are diagnosed and treated early because of characteristic clinical, imaging, and CSF findings. Clinical response to antituberculous therapy in all forms of neurotuberculosis is excellent if the diagnosis is made early before irreversible neurological deficit is established.







Significant progress has been made in the field of brain grafting over the last 15 years. Neurosurgeons have been involved directly in the preclinical and clinical efforts in this fascinating and promising field, along with their neuroscience colleagues. Through a better understanding of the complex mechanisms involved in response to transplants in the brain, new technologies and experimental strategies are being developed to improve the safety and efficacy of these procedures. The time is right for carrying out appropriate preclinical studies in rodents and nonhuman primates to answer one of the most basic questions: Is a tissue graft necessary for behavior improvement in degenerative diseases such as PD, HD, or AD? With available tools and technology and an open mind to new ideas, brain grafting has a tremendous potential in the neurosurgeon's armamentarium, both today and in the future.

Ten normal, wakeful, young (average age, 25.3 +/- 6.6 years) male subjects received positron emission tomographic (PET) scans 45 to 120 minutes after an infusion of D-[18 F]deoxyglucose in order to assess localized cerebral glucose metabolic rates during silent visual and other sensory imagery and cognitive mentation. The typescripts of the verbal reports, limited to 5 minutes, of this type of mentation (including free-associations to all the silent mental events), were blindly content-analyzed to provide objective measures of various kinds of anxiety and hostility. Many significant positive and negative correlations were found in medial cortical, lateral cortical, and subcortical gray matter, and white matter areas between the magnitude of the anxiety and hostility aroused in the silent mental processes and localized cerebral glucose metabolic rates. Clearly, energy consumption in the brain, as judged from localized glucose metabolic rates, is highly influenced by the quality and quantity of emotionally tinged private reveries and mental events occurring spontaneously within human subjects. Brain areas involved with the processing of language, sensation, cognition, memory, and emotional reactions appear to be involved especially in these significant correlations. The implications of such findings in the neurosciences and behavioral sciences are discussed.
Research into the identification and functional role of neuropeptides has taken a prominent place in the field of neurobiology within the past 15 years. The type of knowledge available concerning these compounds is, by necessity, limited by the experimental methods currently in use. In this manuscript, an overview is provided of several types of experimental procedures that have been used to study neuropeptide actions in the central nervous system (CNS) and details are presented of the specific application of these procedures as they have been used in the authors' laboratories to study the physiological role of the endogenous brain/gut tridecapeptide neurotensin. The methods were chosen to illustrate research strategies for examining various aspects of peptide neurobiology and include radioimmunoassay (peptide content), high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) (analysis of peptide and its fragments), protein phosphorylation (signal transduction), and behavior. Although by no means inclusive, it is the authors' hope that the reader may be able to apply these methods to their own research as well as gain an appreciation for the distance that yet remains on the journey into dissecting the function and physiology of CNS peptides.
The sense of taste is an oral chemical sense in mammals that is involved in the choice of foods. Initial transduction of taste stimuli occurs in taste buds, which are distributed in four discrete fields in the oral cavity. Medications can affect the taste buds and ion channels in taste-bud cell membranes involved in stimulus transduction. The sense of taste gradually declines with aging, with bitter taste most affected. Neural circuits that mediate taste in primates include cranial nerves VII, IX, and X, the solitary nucleus in the brain stem, the ventroposteromedial nucleus of the thalamus, and the insular-opercular cortex. The central taste pathways process taste information about sweet, salty, sour, and bitter stimuli serially and in parallel. Medications associated with &quot;metallic&quot; dysgeusia and taste losses affect the taste system via unknown mechanisms.


We are interested in identifying cell-cell adhesion molecules on the surface of Sertoli cells that mediate Sertoli cell-spermatogenic cell adhesion. Numerous cell-cell adhesion assays employ microscopic observation, photomicroscopy or radioactive isotopes for quantification. Previously, we developed an in vitro assay for testicular cell interactions. This assay was, however, time consuming using photography for analysis. We have now modified this system using laser cytometry to quantify adherent cells. Rat testicular epithelial cells are cultured for approximately 6 days before labelling with fluorescein diactetate (FDA) to assess confluency by image scanning so that spermatogenic cell binding can be normalized to available epithelial cell surface area. Rat spermatogenic cells are labeled with FDA before addition to epithelial cell monolayers. In some studies, purified spermatogenic cell populations were isolated to determine average cell size. We found that spermatocyte area varied between 225-500 microns2, spermatids were 100-225 microns2 and residual bodies were less than 100 microns2. Using these parameters, scanning cytometry allows the differential analysis of adhesion by individual germ cell sub-classes from mixed cell suspensions, saving time, animals, and major expense. The scanning laser assisted assay is faster, more reproducible and less subjective than earlier cell-cell adhesion assays using light microscopy or isotopes. This experimental approach should facilitate any cell-cell adhesion assay in which one cell type is adherent to a substrate.
The abdominal prolegs of Manduca sexta larvae are eliminated at the onset of metamorphosis. Previous work showed that the prepupal peak of ecdysteroids in the hemolymph causes the dendritic arbors of proleg motoneurons to regress and a stereotyped subset of the motoneurons to die. In the present study we investigated the parameters of ecdysteroid exposure that are important for eliciting these responses by directly infusing 20-hydroxyecdysone (20-HE) into the hemolymph of insects deprived of their own endocrine glands. Doses of 20-HE that were near threshold for evoking regression or death were consistently more effective when infused over a longer duration. Theoretical calculations of hemolymph hormone profiles produced by the infusions support a model of ecdysteroid action in which the hormone concentration must remain above a threshold level for a critical duration of time to be physiologically effective. We further found that segmental location can influence both the metamorphic fate and the hormonal sensitivity of Manduca motoneurons.
The nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptor is an integral membrane protein which mediates synaptic transmission at the skeletal neuromuscular junction. A key event in the development of the neuromuscular junction is the formation of high density aggregates of ACh receptors in the postsynaptic membrane. Receptor clustering has been attributed, in part, to their association with a peripheral membrane protein of Mr 43,000 (43K protein). We have addressed whether the association of the 43K protein can alter the single channel properties of the ACh receptor, and thus influence neuromuscular transmission at developing synapses, by expressing ACh receptors with and without the 43K protein in heterologous expression systems. We found that coexpression of the 43K protein with the receptor did not significantly alter either its single channel conductance or its mean channel open time. This was true in oocytes and also in COS cells where it was possible to localize 43K-induced clusters by fluorescence microscopy and to record from those clustered receptors. These data are in agreement with previous single channel studies which have shown that the properties of diffusely distributed and clustered receptors in native muscle cells from both mice and Xenopus do not differ.
Fibroblasts (NRK-49F) were transfected with human type 2 tyrosine hydroxylase (TH; EC 1.14.16.29) cDNA, to clarify the mechanism involved in amelioration of parkinsonism by intracerebral grafting of catecholaminergic neurons and to investigate its possible use as a donor material. These genetically manipulated fibroblasts did not develop into a mass of tissue, and survived well in the host striatum. Expression of the TH minigene in the cells was successful even when they were transplanted into the host brain. Intracerebral microdialysis revealed that a measurable amount of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) was not spontaneously released from the implanted cells into the host striatum. However, release of a large amount of L-DOPA from the cells was observed when (6R)-L-erythro-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) was perfused through a dialysis probe. Finally, we investigated whether these BH4-dependent L-DOPA-secreting fibroblasts are able to ameliorate the abnormal behavior of 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats. Apomorphine-induced rotating behavior was not reversed by the grafting alone, whereas a marked reduction in drug-induced circling was observed temporarily after BH4 was perfused around the implanted cells. These findings indicate that TH cDNA-transfected non-neuronal cells might be able to be used as donor material for intracerebral grafting and ameliorate the abnormal behavior of rats with experimental Parkinson's disease.
The mutant mouse tottering, (tg/tg), and the compound heterozygote mouse (tg/tg1a) exhibit three neurological disorders: ataxia, petit mal-like absence seizures and myoclonic intermittent movement disorders which are independent of the absence seizures. The tottering mouse carries an autosomal recessive single gene mutation on chromosome 8, and behavioral symptoms are first observed in the 3rd to 4th week of age. Using an additional genetic marker, Oligosyndactyly (Os), it is possible to distinguish tg/tg and tg/tg1a mice from wild-type mice at birth; nonaffected heterozygous littermates carry the Os mutation while tottering and compound heterozygous mice do not carry the Os gene. Similar to neurons found elsewhere in the brain, cerebellar Purkinje cells in both the wild-type and mutant mice were found to decrease in diameter with maturation. Forebrain weight, hindbrain weight, Purkinje cell dimensions and the thickness of the molecular layer in the paramedian lobule of the cerebellum in mutant mice were found to be reduced in mutants after, but not prior to the onset of behavioral symptoms.
The early lineages of the zebrafish are indeterminate and a single cell labeled before the late blastula period will contribute progeny to a variety of tissues. Therefore, early cell lineages in the zebrafish do not establish future cell fates and early blastomeres must necessarily remain pluripotent. Eventually, after a period of random cell mixing, individual cells do become tissue restricted according to their later position within the blastoderm. The elucidation of a fate map for the zebrafish gastrula (Kimmel et al., 1990), has made it possible to study the processes by which cellular identity is conferred and maintained in the zebrafish. In this chapter, I describe single cell transplantation experiments designed to test for the irreversible restriction or 'commitment' of embryonic blastomeres in the zebrafish embryo. These experiments support the hypothesis that cell fate in the vertebrate embryo is determined by cell position. Work on the spadetail mutation will also be reviewed; this mutation causes a subset of mesodermal precursors to mismigrate during gastrulation thereby leading to a change in their eventual cell identity.
A maximum length sequence (MLS) is a specially constructed pseudorandom binary sequence that can be used to control the presentation of sensory stimuli. The evoked potentials to such a sequence of stimuli can be analyzed to give the response to one stimulus in the sequence. This procedure allows auditory evoked potentials to be recorded at stimulus rates that would cause a confusing overlap of responses with regular averaging. The MLS technique can be used with auditory evoked potentials at all latencies although it is most effective for the brain-stem and middle-latency responses. By demonstrating different refractory periods for different parts of the response, the technique may help delineate the component structure of the evoked potential. As well, an MLS analysis can disentangle the auditory brain-stem response from overlapping middle-latency responses during evoked potential audiometry.
Neonatal seizures are a symptom of central nervous system disturbances. Neonatal seizures may be identified by direct clinical observation by the majority of electrographic seizures are clinically silent or subtle. Electrographic seizures in the newborn consist of periodic or rhythmic discharges that are distinctively different from normal background cerebral activity. Utilizing these differences, we have developed a technique to identify electrographic seizure activity. In this study, autocorrelation analysis was used to distinguish seizures from background electrocerebral activity. Autocorrelation data were scored to quantify the periodicity using a newly developed scoring system. This method, Scored Autocorrelation Moment (SAM) analysis, successfully distinguished epochs of EEGs with seizures from those without (N = 117 epochs, 58 with seizure and 59 without). SAM analysis showed a sensitivity of 84% and a specificity of 98%. SAM analysis of EEG may provide a method for monitoring electrographic seizures in high-risk newborns.

LH secretion from pituitary cell fractions separated by centrifugal elutriation was compared to learn whether any contributed to the LH surge. After plating (1 h) and stimulation with 0-10 nM [D-Lys6]GnRH (4 h), some fractions secreted levels that were out of proportion to their enrichment. Large cells from proestrous morning rats (3-fold enriched) secreted 4.3 times more LH, and medium-sized fractions (1.5-fold enriched) secreted 2-3.4 times more LH than unseparated cells during estrus or metestrus. Normalized data (nanograms per 20,000 cells) showed that basal levels reflected the enrichment in the fractions. Data were also normalized to nanograms of LH per 1,000 LH gonadotropes to focus on LH cell activity. Basal secretion in unseparated cultures (4-6 ng/ml/1,000 LH cells) was lower than that in small or large LH cells during all stages except proestrus, when small gonadotropes became as active as those in unseparated cultures, and large gonadotropes secreted 2-3 times more LH. Basal secretion from medium-sized gonadotropes was comparable to that in unseparated cultures. [D-Lys6]GnRH-mediated secretion from unseparated, small, and large LH cells was comparable during most stages. However, during proestrus, large gonadotropes secreted 2.2 times more LH than unseparated counterparts. Stimulated medium-sized LH cells were 1.3-2.3 times more active in most stages than those in unseparated cultures and 1.75-2.8 times more active than those in large cell fractions (from proestrous PM to metestrus). Whereas this enhanced secretion late in proestrus suggests that medium-sized LH cells may support the LH surge, it also may reflect the removal of regulatory factors from cells in other fractions. Studies of autocrine or paracrine interactions with gonadotropes are needed to test this hypothesis.
Small and medium-sized gonadotropes may enlarge and produce more LH in order to contribute to the proestrous surge. To test this hypothesis, dispersed pituitary cells from cycling female rats were separated by centrifugal elutriation into small, medium, and large fractions and labeled for LH beta antigens or mRNA (by in situ hybridization with a biotinylated oligonucleotide probe complementary to sequences encoding amino acids 28-40). The percentage of cells bearing LH beta mRNA in the pituitary cell population increased from 6 +/- 0.4% in the evening of diestrous day 2 to 16 +/- 0.7% in the morning of estrus (average +/- SEM). Over 80% of these labeled cells were large or small subtypes. The proportion of small gonadotropes labeled with LH beta mRNA declined from 43 +/- 3% at metestrus to 29 +/- 1% on the evening of proestrus as the proportion of medium-sized gonadotropes labeled for LH beta antigens (15 +/- 1%) or mRNA (17 +/- 1%) increased to 25 +/- 2% or 38 +/- 2%, respectively. Because the overall percentage of immunoreactive LH cells did not change after diestrus, small LH cells may have enlarged or increased their density to join the medium-sized pool. During proestrus, the proportion of large immunoreactive LH gonadotropes increased from 41 +/- 2% to 65 +/- 2% (by the morning of estrus) as the proportion of small or medium-sized LH cells declined to 17-18 +/- 1%, suggesting further increases in size or density. These data suggest that small or medium-sized gonadotropes are activated during early diestrus to enlarge and produce LH beta. They contribute to the increased number of cells in medium-sized and large fractions in proestrous or estrous rats. The predominance of the smaller subtypes during metestrus and diestrus suggests that LH gonadotropes may revert to a smaller or lighter subset to await activation during the next cycle.

gamma-Vinyl GABA (GVG, vigabatrin) is a GABA transaminase-inhibiting antiepileptic agent. In dogs, chronic GVG administration produces reversible microvacuolation (intramyelinic edema) in discrete brain regions and slowing in central afferent transmission as measured by somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs). Because this microvacuolation is especially prominent in the optic tract, this study tested the sensitivity of visual evoked potentials (VEPs) to GVG-induced changes in conduction. We also replicated the earlier SEP findings. Eight beagles received daily oral vigabatrin at the maximum tolerated dose (300 mg/kg/day); four were placebo controls. Cortical VEPs and SEPs were recorded using scalp needle electrodes at baseline and every 2 weeks throughout treatment. One treatment dog died at 2 weeks. The remainder showed an increase in central latencies beginning at 6 weeks, attaining significance (p &lt; 0.05) at 8 and 10 weeks for SEPs and VEPs, respectively. No changes occurred in peripheral or spinal conduction in treated dogs, or in any measure in control dogs. Three GVG and two control dogs were followed after drug was withdrawn; both VEP and SEP measures returned to baseline values within 5 weeks. These findings support the use of VEPs and SEPs to monitor patients receiving vigabatrin therapy.
Aphasia due to simple partial status epilepticus is rare, particularly in the absence of a seizure history. No previous report describes acute aphasia as the sole clinical manifestation of EEG-monitored status epilepticus, with prompt resolution with treatment. We report a 45-year-old man with a left temporal glioblastoma who acutely developed a global aphasia, during which an EEG revealed continual repetitive sharp waves emanating from the left hemisphere. After injection of i.v. diazepam, the EEG seizure activity ceased, and the patient's language output returned to preseizure levels.
We have employed a molecular biological approach to study the dynamic status of hippocampal opioid peptides in response to seizures elicited by different experimental models, such as electroconvulsive shocks (ECS) and amygdaloid kindling. Both ECS- and kindling-induced seizures triggered an initial large release of enkephalin and dynorphin, but produced opposite long-term effects on the biosynthesis of these two peptides, an increase of enkephalin, and a drastic decrease of dynorphin. Electrical stimulation of the perforant pathway produced differential changes of enkephalin and dynorphin, which were identical to those of ECS and kindling. This finding confirmed our hypothesis that the perforant pathway was responsible for the mediation of ECS- and kindling-induced changes in opioid peptide turnover. Strongest evidence indicating a role for opioid peptides in mediating the expression of seizure-related behaviors was found using the kainic acid model, where we saw that hippocampal enkephalin was essential to the expression of kainic acid-induced wet dog shakes (a preconvulsive shaking behavior). Furthermore, it was found that the granular-mossy fiber pathway of the ventral, but not the dorsal, hippocampus was essential for the expression of this shaking behavior. However, destruction of the granular-mossy fiber pathway potentiated the seizures and hippocampal cell loss induced by kainic acid. This unexpected, yet extremely interesting, finding not only distinguished the roles of the granular-mossy fiber pathway in mediating wet dog shakes vs. convulsive seizures, but also challenged the dogma that this granular-mossy fiber pathway is essential for the expression of limbic seizures.

In this chapter we review the physiological properties of granule cells in vivo and in vitro. We conclude from the literature that in intact rats granule cells fire rhythmic bursts of action potentials concurrent with exploration-associated theta waves. The population discharge of granule cells coincides with the maximum probability of firing of CA3 pyramidal cells on the positive phase of focally recorded theta waves. During consummatory behaviors, immobility and anesthesia the firing rate of granule cells substantially decreases. We propose that the conjoint activity of the discharging CA3 cells and tetanization of these same cells by mossy fibers during exploratory (theta) behavior will temporarily increase synaptic efficacy among the active CA3 neurons even after the termination of exploration. As a result, the very same CA3 cells that carried information during exploration now become the burst-initiator cells of the sharp-wave associated population bursts during consummatory behaviors and sleep. The creation of new burst-initiator neurons is hypothesized to be essential for memory trace formation. From this perspective the main physiological function of granule cells is to 'tetanize' CA3 pyramidal neurons during exploratory behaviors and induce a meaningful reorganization of the functional connectivity of the CA3 network.
Seizures are known to induce dramatic alterations in neuronal gene expression. These changes may play a role in the genesis of an epileptic state. The present report describes another consequence of seizures-a dramatic induction of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression in astrocytes. Using a hippocampal kindling model, we demonstrate that kindled seizures lead to many fold increases in mRNA for GFAP in structures which experience electrographic seizures. The increases can be detected 1 day following a single seizure. If seizures are induced repetitively (every other day for many days), levels of GFAP mRNA remain elevated. However, when kindled seizures are not induced, levels of GFAP mRNA return to near control levels within a few days. The increases in GFAP mRNA levels are not in response to decreases in neuronal activity (as a result of postictal depression), because GFAP mRNA levels are unaffected when neuronal activity is decreased by blocking afferent drive (with tetrodotoxin). The induction of GFAP expression by seizures may reflect the first step in a process in which seizures induce astrocytic hypertrophy. The changes in astrocytes could in turn modify the way in which astrocytes maintain homeostasis in the extracellular microenvironment in ways that could contribute to the development of an epileptic state.
The neurotransmitter norepinephrine (NE) has been implicated in both the normal expression of long-term neuronal plasticity and in development of epileptiform bursting. Our studies have focused on the modulatory role of NE in a number of epilepsy models, both acute and chronic. Acutely, reduction of extracellular Mg2+ concentration in in vitro brain slices induced spontaneous and evoked epileptiform activity in both the entorhinal cortex (EC) and dentate gyrus (DG), due largely to removal of the voltage-dependent Mg2+ blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Spontaneous ictal events are most prominent in the EC, suggesting an importance of this area in seizure generation. NE was found to exhibit differential modulation of epileptiform activity in the EC and DG. In the EC, NE, acting via alpha 1-receptors, completely blocked low Mg(2+)-induced epileptiform activity. In contrast, in the DG, NE exhibited a beta-receptor mediated prolongation of the low Mg(2+)-induced ictal events, and enhanced the stimulus-induced ionic and field potential changes. These complementary modulatory actions in the EC and DG, may serve to enhance signal transmission through the DG, while simultaneously reducing EC input noise and exerting a potent antiepileptic action in the EC. Chronically, actions of NE in the DG were examined before and after kindling-induced epilepsy, neuronal plasticity produced by daily high-frequency stimulation. NE, acting on beta 1-receptors, depolarized granule cells, increased input resistance, firing and influx of Ca2+ in response to repetitive stimulation, and elicited long-lasting potentiation of synaptic potentials. In addition, NE acting via alpha 1-receptors, attenuated Ca(2+)-dependent regenerative potentials. After kindling-induced plasticity, there were marked reductions in all these effects of NE on granule cells, changes likely to influence kindling-induced seizures, protecting against further enhancement of excitability once plasticity is in place.






In previous studies we have shown that aspiration lesions centred on lobule HVI in the cerebellar cortex of rabbits produce a profound loss of conditioned nictitating membrane (NM) responses. Because aspiration lesions of the cerebellar cortex cause retrograde degeneration in precerebellar nuclei we tested in rabbits whether excitotoxic lesions of the cerebellar cortex that spare these precerebellar nuclei also cause a loss of conditioned NM responses. Following discrete injections of kainic acid into HVI and rostral regions of the adjacent folia of crus I and crus II, we observed an immediate loss of conditioned NM responses. Following extensive retraining several subjects showed a gradual recovery of conditioned responses. But subjects with the most complete lesions never recovered more than a few conditioned responses. Kainic acid lesions did not change ipsilateral unconditioned reflex responses to a range of stimulus intensities. The kainic acid injections caused obvious degeneration of Purkinje and granule cells but not of the precerebellar nuclei. We conclude that HVI and parts of crus I and crus II are essential for normal retention of conditioned NM responses.
Prior studies with in vitro model systems have suggested that at least part of the neurological manifestations of AIDS may stem from neuronal injury involving the HIV-1 coat protein gp120. This form of neuronal damage is most probably mediated indirectly by a complex set of cellular interactions among macrophages, astrocytes, and neurons, resulting in a final common pathway of overstimulation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. We studied the neuroprotective effect from gp120-induced neuronal injury of an antagonist of the glycine site of the NMDA receptor, 7-chlorokynurenate. In identified rat retinal ganglion cells in culture, we found that 50 microM 7-chlorokynurenate significantly abrogated the injury engendered by 20 pM gp120. Addition of 300 microM exogenous glycine prevented this protective effect of 50 microM 7-chlorokynurenate. These data suggest that glycine site antagonists of the NMDA receptor may have therapeutic potential for ameliorating neuronal damage associated with gp120.
Naturally occurring cell loss in the retinal ganglion cell population of one eye can be interrupted by removal of the other eye in newborn rodents. Many of the rescued retinal ganglion cells which project ipsilaterally reside in the nasal retina, that part of the retina normally giving rise to primarily crossed optic axons. Their naturally occurring elimination has been attributed to their hypothesized late neurogenesis and the consequent delayed time of arrival of their axons in the target visual nuclei, thereby placing them at a competitive disadvantage with other, early arriving, optic axons. By combining the technique of tritiated thymidine autoradiography with the retrograde axonal transport of horseradish peroxidase in rats that had been enucleated on the day of birth, we report here that rescued cells in the nasal retina which project ipsilaterally are generated at the same time as their neighbours in the temporal retina. Time of genesis does not distinguish them; consequently, their axons should not differ in their arrival times within the target visual nuclei. Since their only obvious anomaly is one of pathway choice at the optic chiasm, their place of arrival, rather than their time, may ultimately determine their naturally occurring elimination.
The mutant mouse 'hyperspiny Purkinje cells' (hpc) has morphologically abnormal Purkinje cells and below normal intracerebellar calbindin-D28k, a calcium-binding protein that, in the cerebellum, is found only in the Purkinje cells. We counted the Purkinje cells on serial sections stained with thionin or labelled with anti-calbindin-D28k antibodies to investigate whether the depletion of the cerebellar content of calbindin-D28k was correlated with a reduced number of Purkinje cells. We also counted the inferior olivary neurons, as they are one of the major afferents of the Purkinje cells and also contain calbindin-D28k. The hpc mutant mice had 27% fewer cerebellar Purkinje cells and 12% fewer inferior olivary neurons than did controls. Their Purkinje cells were evenly immunostained but slightly atrophic. These data suggest that the depleted cerebellar calbindin-D28k content could be explained both by the loss of some Purkinje cells and the reduced size of the remaining ones.
The antibody microprobe technique was used to study the effect of baclofen on the release of immunoreactive substance P and immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide within the lower lumbar spinal cord of pentobarbitone-anaesthetized spinalized cats. Both peptides were released in the region of the substantia gelatinosa during ipsilateral noxious cutaneous stimulation or high-intensity electrical stimulation of a hind limb nerve. Intravenous administration of baclofen suppressed the excitation of lumbar dorsal horn neurons, but did not produce detectable alterations of the evoked release of immunoreactive substance P or immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide in the superficial grey matter dorsal to these neurons. The results suggest that the antinociceptive action of baclofen does not involve a reduction of the intraspinal release of substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide from the central terminals of nociceptive sensory fibres.
We have analysed the pathways through which somatosensory information from the face reaches the inferior olive and the cerebellum in rabbits. We used wheatgerm agglutinin - horseradish peroxidase (WGA - HRP) to trace projections from all parts of the somatosensory trigeminal system to the olive, cerebellar cortex, the cerebellar deep nuclei and the pontine nuclei. Projections to the cerebellar cortex and inferior olive were verified using retrograde transport of WGA - HRP. Two regions of the inferior olive-the medial dorsal accessory olive and the ventral leaf of the principal olive-receive inputs from pars interpolaris (Vi) and rostral pars caudalis (Vc) of the spinal trigeminal nucleus and from the principal trigeminal nucleus (Vp). Another area in the caudal medial accessory olive receives inputs from rostral Vo (pars oralis of the spinal trigeminal nucleus), caudal Vi and Vc. There are trigemino-olivo-cortical inputs to lobule HVI via all these olivary areas and to the paramedian lobe via the principal olive only. Cerebellar cortex-lobules HVI, crus I and II, paramedian lobe and IX-receives direct mossy fibre inputs from Vp, Vo and rostral Vi. The pontine nuclei receive an input only from rostral Vi. We saw no trigeminal projections to other precerebellar nuclei or to the deep cerebellar nuclei. The concentration of face somatosensory cortical inputs, via several pathways, upon lobule HVI may underlie its important role in the regulation of learned and unlearned eyeblinks.
The mechanism by which nerve - muscle contacts are reduced during postnatal development of the rat soleus muscle was investigated using electrophysiological methods. Between days 7 and 9 after birth, soleus muscle fibres lose 0.19 - 0.24 terminals per muscle fibre within 24 h. A much more rapid loss of contacts is seen when muscles are exposed in vitro to acetylcholine (10-3 g/ml). In this case 0.67 - 0.87 terminals per muscle fibre lose contact within 2 h. The loss of neuromuscular contacts induced by acetylcholine can be reduced by preincubating the muscles in solutions containing acetoxymethyl ester of 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxylethane-N,N1,N;N1-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA-AM), a Ca2+ chelating agent that enters cells and reduces the Ca2+ transients inside the cell. Treatment of muscles with nifedipine, which blocks dihydropyridine-sensitive (L-type) Ca2+ channels, also reduced the acetylcholinesterase-induced loss of neuromuscular contacts. The results indicate that transient increases in Ca2+ inside nerve terminals contribute to loss of neuromuscular contacts, and that these increases occur by Ca2+ entry through L-type channels.
Changes in striatal dopamine D2 receptor mRNA levels provoked by unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesion of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway were studied by in situ hybridization. The influence of embryonic dopaminergic neurons implanted into the dopamine-depleted striatum on the lesion-induced changes was also examined. Changes in D2 mRNA levels were compared with changes in D2 receptor densities measured in the same animals by receptor autoradiography using [3H]spiperone or [3H]SDZ 205-501 as ligands. The distribution of D2 mRNA in the striatum of control animals closely paralleled that of the D2 receptor itself, as assessed by autoradiography, and the highest density of D2 mRNA occurred in the lateral part of the striatum. One month after lesion, levels of D2 mRNA were 34% higher in the dorsolateral part of the dopamine-depleted striatum than in the corresponding region of the contralateral control striatum. D2 receptor density in this region was increased by 40% relative to the control level. No significant increases could be measured in the medial part of the striatum. The increases in the lateral part were similar at 7 months post-lesion; however, at this time the increase in both D2 mRNA and receptor levels had spread to the medial part of the striatum as well. In the graft-bearing striatum levels of both D2 mRNA and D2 receptors reverted to control levels. This study shows that the post-lesion increase in striatal dopamine receptor and mRNA level is a biphasic phenomenon with a late-occurring component in the medial striatum. It also shows that once the increase in striatal D2 receptor gene expression is accomplished, it is maintained unchanged for long periods, similar to that of D2 receptor levels themselves. Moreover, grafts of embryonic dopaminergic neurons are able to modulate the expression of the dopamine D2 receptor gene.
After unilateral destruction of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) in 3-month-old rats, which reduces cholinergic inputs to the ipsilateral frontoparietal neocortex, regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) of denervated cortex are initially reduced, but nearly normalize by 2 weeks. To examine functional reorganization of the brain after unilateral destruction of the NBM, a correlation analysis of rCMRglc was performed on two groups of 16 young rats 2 weeks after stereotaxic ablation of the right NBM with ibotenate or sham surgery. rCMRglc was measured in 117 brain regions of awake rats with the [14C]deoxyglucose method. For each region pair, a partial correlation coefficient was calculated for rCMRglc across animals. Most correlations between cholinergic nuclei of both left and right forebrain (medial septum and diagonal band) and right (66/72, mean increase 0.44) but not left (39/72) frontoparietal cortical regions were larger (P &lt; 0.001) in lesioned rats, as were those between most frontoparietal region pairs (516/630, P &lt; 0.001). These results suggest that, after unilateral NBM ablation, (1) functional interactions are established between the remaining cholinergic forebrain and the deafferented cortex, (2) the neocortex becomes more integrated, and (3) functional reorganization involves both cortical hemispheres. These changes do not correspond to those reported to occur in Alzheimer's disease.
Sensory nerve action potential (SNAP) amplitude should be abnormal in brachial plexopathies (BP) which cause axonal degeneration in distal segments. Fifty-six patients with BP were identified. In diffuse BP, 22/25 (88%) showed low amplitude or absent median or ulnar SNAP. Three of 5 patients with upper trunk BP had low amplitude or absent SNAP (1 median, 1 radial, 1 lateral antebrachial cutaneous). Seventy-five percent of patients with lower trunk/medial cord BP had low amplitude or absent SNAP (8/24 median, 18/24 ulnar). Overall, 82.5% of patients had low amplitude or absent SNAP when a sensory nerve in the distribution of signs was studied. Testing multiple sensory nerves to include symptomatic regions enhances the diagnostic yield of SNAP in BP.
Multiple-unit activity (MUA) was recorded from chronically implanted electrodes in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFCm) and the agranular insular cortex (Iag) in separate groups of rabbits during habituation training, followed by aversive Pavlovian conditioning and subsequent extinction training. Control animals received explicitly unpaired presentations of the tone conditioned stimulus (CS) and eye-shock unconditioned stimulus (US). Both the cardiac orientating reflex and the conditioned heart rate response (HR CR) consisted of bradycardia, whereas tone-evoked tachycardia was observed in animals that received unpaired stimuli. Short-latency (less than 20-60 ms), tone-evoked increases in PFCm MUA were observed during the initial trials of habituation training, with their magnitude declining predictably across repeated tone-alone presentations. Subsequent CS/US pairings, however, served systematically to reinstate and enhance this CS-evoked MUA, while both non-associative (unpaired CS/US) and extinction (CS alone) training resulted in significant attenuation of such activity. Unconditioned tone-evoked increases in MUA were also observed in the Iag during habituation; however, such unit responses appeared to be more variable than their PFCm counterparts and were of considerably lesser magnitude. Moreover, in striking contrast to the above PFCm findings, conditioning and non-associative training did not differentially affect overall mean evoked MUA in the Iag, although different post-tone patterns of activity were obtained with the two procedures. The contrasting training effects observed in animals with PFCm vs. Iag electrode placements did not appear to be attributable to differences in regional sensitivity to the US, since excitatory patterns of MUA were elicited by unsignalled presentations of eye-shock at most placements within each cortical field. Accordingly, the present findings are consistent with our previous lesion data in suggesting that, although training-induced changes in PFCm neuronal activity may contribute to the initial events in aversive Pavlovian conditioning, an involvement of the Iag in such processes, if any, remains to be demonstrated.
Rabbits with lesions of the anterior nucleus basalis of Meynert (nBM) were compared with animals with sham lesions or unoperated control animals on a classical conditioning task in which heart rate (HR) and eyeblink (EB) conditioned responses (CRs) were assessed. The nBM lesions impaired the magnitude of the decelerative HR CR, but had no effect on the EB CR. A second experiment, in which animals were lesioned after acquisition was complete, showed that anterior nBM lesions had no effect on retention of either the HR or EB CR. These data suggest that the anterior nBM may participate in the early stages of information processing in which stimuli are evaluated for their significance based on their association with a reinforcer. However, the anterior nBM is apparently not involved in the selection of a somatomotor response to deal effectively with such changing stimulus contingencies.
1. We studied saccades to briefly flashed targets in 8 human subjects. The target flash occurred (i) during smooth pursuit (&quot;ramp-flash&quot;), (ii) just before a saccade to another target (&quot;step-flash&quot;), or (iii) during steady fixation (&quot;flash only&quot;). All lights were extinguished after the target flash so that smooth pursuit or saccadic eye movements occurred during the interval of complete darkness between the target flash and the saccade to it. We compared these saccades to those made without intervening eye movement (flash only), and quantified the extent to which the saccadic system compensated for the change in eye position that occurred during the dark interval. 2. Saccades to control flashes were reasonably accurate (mean gain 0.87) and consistent. Compensation for the intervening eye movement in the ramp-flash and step-flash paradigms was highly variable from trial to trial. On average, subjects compensated for 27% of the intervening pursuit eye movement on ramp-flash trials and for 58% of intervening saccadic movement on step-flash trials. 3. Multiple regression analysis showed that the variability did not depend on factors such as variations in underlying saccadic gain, response latency, timing of stimuli or size of the required response. We conclude that this variability is intrinsic to saccadic responses that require the use of an eye position signal. 4. These results show that an eye position signal is available to the saccadic system but that this signal has low fidelity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The expression of specific calcium binding proteins is being used increasingly as a potential neuroanatomical marker for neurons with similar functions. In this study, the distribution of calbindin D28k in the superior colliculus (SC) of adult hamsters was examined by light and electron microscopy. Calbindin immunoreactivity was prominent in specific regions and laminae of the SC throughout its rostrocaudal extent, and was found to label horizontal, vertical and stellate cell types. In addition, calbindin label highlighted &quot;bridges&quot; of neuronal processes in the intermediate layers. The most frequent calbindin-immunoreactive profiles seen in the electron microscope were dendrites, some of which were post-synaptic to apparent retinal ganglion cell axon terminals. Labelled axons and axon terminals were less frequently encountered. There was considerable overlap between the size distribution of calbindin D28k-immunoreactive neurons and that of GABA-immunoreactive or Nissl stained neurons in the SC. However, using a double fluorescent labelling technique, and examination of the tissue with confocal laser microscopy, no neurons were observed in the hamster SC that showed immunoreactivity for both calbindin and GABA. In this regard, the SC is similar to the mammalian lateral geniculate nucleus and the pretectum, but differs from the neocortex, where calbindin and GABA are colocalized. The demonstration in the SC, as well as other parts of the nervous system, of sub-populations of neurons that contain distinct calcium-binding proteins suggests that these neurons have different functional properties. Correlative studies may clarify the relevance of these cytoplasmic components as cell markers, as well as their different patterns of association with neurotransmitters and peptides.
Normal human subjects grasped a 3-D isometric handle with an otherwise unrestrained, pronated hand and exerted forces continuously to draw circles, ellipses and lemniscates (figure-eights) in specified planes in the presence or absence of a 3-D visual force-feedback cursor and a visual template. Under any of these conditions and in all subjects, a significant positive correlation was observed between the instantaneous curvature and angular velocity, and between the instantaneous radius of curvature and tangential velocity; that is, when the force trajectory was most curved, the tangential velocity was lowest. This finding is similar to that obtained by Viviani and Terzuolo (1982) for 2-D drawing arm movements and supports the notion that central constraints give rise to the relation between geometric and kinematic parameters of the trajectory.
The intralaminar thalamus of anesthetized rats was explored for neurons activated by stimulation of the superior colliculus and responsive to sensory inputs. Neurons activated by stimulation of the intermediate and deep collicular layers were distributed throughout the intralaminar thalamus. Approximately one half of them responded to tectal as well as sensory inputs. The majority were nociceptive or had a more complex response pattern including responses to auditory stimulation. A small population of low threshold units had contralateral orofacial receptive fields and responded to light taps; these units were preferentially localized anteriorly in the central lateral and paracentral nuclei. Neurons responsive to tectal and sensory stimulation were randomly intermingled with other neurons which had no detectable sensory input. The results indicate that ascending projection neurons of the intermediate and deep layers of the superior colliculus provide an input to functionally diverse subpopulations of intralaminar thalamic neurons. In view of its projections to motor cortex and basal ganglia, the intralaminar thalamus appears directly implicated in basal ganglia and superior colliculus related mechanisms of attention, arousal and postural orienting.
1. In the isolated spinal cord and brainstem of the frog, stimulation of the brainstem (BS) with trains of 3-4 pulses at 60-400 Hz produced dorsal root potentials (DRPs). The lowest threshold sites eliciting DRPs were located at the level of the obex up to about 2.5 mm rostrally, 0.5-1.2 mm laterally, between 0.5 and 1.6 mm depth. This region corresponds to the bulbar reticular formation (RF). 2. Stimulation of the RF with strengths below those required to produce DRPs, very effectively inhibited the DRPs produced by stimulation of a neighboring dorsal root (DR-DRPs) as well as the DRPs produced by antidromic stimulation of the central end of motor nerves (VR-DRPs). The inhibition was detectable 20 ms after the first pulse of the conditioning train, attained maximal values between 50 and 100 ms and lasted more than 250 ms. 3. Stimulation of the bulbar RF increased the negative response (N1 response) produced in the motor pool by antidromic activation of motoneurons. The time course of the facilitation of the N1 response resembled that of the reticularly-induced inhibition of the VR-DRPs and DR-DRPs. 4. The present series of observations supports the existence of reticulo-spinal pathways that are able to inhibit the depolarization elicited in afferent fibers by stimulation of other afferent fibers or by antidromic activation of motor axons. This inhibition appears to be exerted on the PAD mediating interneurons and is envisaged as playing an important role in motor control.
Rotation of the eyes about the visual axis is known as ocular torsion. A lateral inclination (a &quot;roll&quot;) of the head induces ocular torsion in the opposite direction, a response known as ocular counterrolling. For six subjects, we recorded the static (head still) and dynamic (head in oscillatory roll motion) ocular torsion in normal 1 g condition and also during the microgravity and hypergravity periods of parabolic flight, using the electromagnetic scleral search coil technique. With the head still, the direction and magnitude of torsion that occurred in response to microgravity and hypergravity differed substantially from one individual to another, but there was a significant difference in torsional magnitude between the microgravity and hypergravity periods, for all static head positions including the upright position. Under normal 1 g conditions, counterrolling compensated for about 16% of (voluntary) static head roll, while dynamic counterroll was much larger, up to 36% of head roll at 0.55 Hz. With increasing frequency of head oscillation between 0.33 Hz and 0.55 Hz, the gain of counterrolling increased and there was no change in the phase relationship. The gain of dynamic counterroll (in response to voluntary head rolling) was not significantly less in hypogravity, suggesting that on the ground at these frequencies the contribution of gravity and gravity receptors to this reflex is redundant: this reflex is probably driven by the semicircular canals. In some subjects, the torsional displacement in microgravity is accompanied by micro-torsional oscillatory motion.
Activity of &quot;vestibular only&quot; (VO) and &quot;vestibular plus saccade&quot; (VPS) units was recorded in the rostral part of the medial vestibular nucleus and caudal part of the superior vestibular nucleus of alert rhesus monkeys. By estimating the &quot;null axes&quot; of recorded units (n = 79), the optimal plane of activation was approximately the mean plane of reciprocal semicircular canals, i.e., lateral canals, left anterior-right posterior (LARP) canals or right anterior-left posterior (RALP) canals. All units were excited by rotation in a direction that excited a corresponding ipsilateral semicircular canal. Thus, they all displayed a &quot;type I&quot; response. With the animal upright, there were rapid changes in firing rates of both VO and VPS units in response to steps of angular velocity about a vertical axis. The units were bidirectionally activated during vestibular nystagmus (VN), horizontal optokinetic nystagmus (OKN), optokinetic after-nystagmus (OKAN) and off-vertical axis rotation (OVAR). The rising and falling time constants of the responses to rotation indicated that they were closely linked to velocity storage. There were differences between VPS and VO neurons in that activity of VO units followed the expected time course in response to a stimulus even during periods of drowsiness, when eye velocity was reduced. Firing rates of VPS units, on the other hand, were significantly reduced in the drowsy state. Lateral canal-related units had average firing rates that were linearly related to the bias or steady state level of horizontal eye velocity during OVAR over a range of +/- 60 deg/s. These units could be further divided into two classes according to whether they were modulated during OVAR. Non-modulated units (n = 5) were VO types and all modulated units (n = 5) were VPS types. There was no significant difference between the bias level sensitivities relative to eye velocity of the units with and without modulation (P &gt; 0.05). The modulated units had no sustained change in firing rate in response to static head tilts and their phases relative to head position varied from unit to unit. The phase did not appear to be linked to the modulation of horizontal eye velocity during OVAR. The sensitivities of unit activity to eye velocity were similar during all stimulus modalities despite the different gains of eye velocity vs stimulus velocity during VN, OKN and OVAR. Therefore, VO and VPS units are likely to carry an eye velocity signal related to velocity storage.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Monocular deprivation (MD) of young kittens decreases the response of visual cortex cells to the deprived eye. In addition, it causes cell shrinkage in the layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) innervated by the deprived eye. To determine whether the shrinkage of LGN cells is dependent upon changes in the response of cortical cells, we compared LGN cell shrinkage in three groups of MD animals. Two were controls; the third received lesions of fibers bringing norepinephrine and acetylcholine to the visual cortex. This procedure greatly attenuated the effect of MD on the visual cortex. The amount of LGN cell shrinkage did not differ among the three groups. We conclude that LGN shrinkage after MD does not require a dramatic loss of cortical cell responses to the deprived eye.
Electrical stimulation of the vestibular nuclei (VN) and prepositus hypoglossi nuclei (PPH) of alert cynomolgus monkeys evoked nystagmus and eye deviation while they were in darkness. At some sites in VN, nystagmus and after-nystagmus were induced with characteristics suggesting that velocity storage had been excited. We analyzed these responses and compared them to the slow component of optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) and to optokinetic after-nystagmus (OKAN). We then recorded unit activity in VN and determined which types of nystagmus would be evoked from the sites of recording. Nystagmus and eye deviations were also elicited by electrical stimulation of PPH, and we characterized the responses where unit activity was recorded in PPH. Horizontal slow phase velocity of the VN &quot;storage&quot; responses was contralateral to the side of stimulation. The rising time constants and peak steady-state velocities were similar to those of OKN, and the falling time constants of the after-nystagmus and of OKAN were approximately equal. Both the induced after-nystagmus and OKAN were habituated by stimulation of the VN. When horizontal after-nystagmus was evoked with animals on their sides, it developed yaw and pitch components that tended to shift the vector of the slow phase velocity toward the spatial vertical. Similar &quot;cross-coupling&quot; occurs for horizontal OKAN or for vestibular post-rotatory nystagmus elicited in tilted positions. Thus, the storage component of nystagmus induced by VN stimulation had the same characteristics as the slow component of OKN and the VOR. Positive stimulus sites for inducing nystagmus with typical storage components were located in rostral portions of VN. They lay in caudal ventral superior vestibular nucleus (SVN), dorsal portions of central medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) caudal to the abducens nuclei and in adjacent lateral vestibular nucleus (LVN). More complex stimulus responses, but with contralateral after-nystagmus, were induced from surrounding regions of ventral MVN and LVN, rostral descending vestibular nucleus and the marginal zone between MVN and PPH. Vestibular-only (VO), vestibular plus saccade (VPS) and tonic vestibular pause (TVP) units were identified by extracellular recording. Stimulation near type I lateral and vertical canal-related VO units elicited typical &quot;storage&quot; responses with after-nystagmus in 23 of 29 tracks (79%). Stimulus responses were more complex from the region of neurons with oculomotor-related signals, i.e., TVP or VPS cells, although after-nystagmus was also elicited from these sites. Effects of vestibular nerve and nucleus stimulation were compared.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The neuronal response to tones as a function of intensity was topographically studied with multiple-unit recordings in the primary auditory cortex (AI) of barbiturate-anesthetized cats. The spatial distribution of the characteristics of rate/level functions was determined in each of three intensely studied cases and their relationship to the distribution of spectral parameters (sharpness of tuning and responses to broadband transients) in the same animals was determined. The growth of the high-intensity portion of rate/level functions was estimated by linear regression. Locations with monotonically growing high-intensity portions were spatially segregated from locations with nonmonotonic rate/level functions. Two noncontiguous areas with a high degree of nonmonotonicity were observed. One was located at the dorsoventral center of AI, and a second in the dorsal third of AI. The more ventral aggregate of high nonmonotonicity coincided with the region of sharp frequency tuning. The stimulus levels that produced the highest firing rate (strongest response level, SRL) at any sampled location ranged from 10 to 80 dB sound pressure level (SPL). Several spatial aggregates with either high or low SRLs were observed in AI. The region of sharpest tuning was always associated with a region of low SRLs. The response threshold to contralateral tones at the characteristic frequency (CF) ranged from -10 dB SPL to 85 dB SPL with the majority between 0 and 40 dB SPL. The spatial distribution of response thresholds indicated several segregated areas containing clusters with either higher or lower response thresholds. The correlation of response threshold with integrated bandwidth and transient responses was only weak. Low- and high-intensity tones of the same frequency are represented at different locations in AI as judged by the amount of evoked neuronal activity and are largely independent of the frequency organization. The spatial distribution of locations with high monotonicity and low strongest response levels were aligned with the organization of the integrated excitatory bandwidth and covaried with the response strength to broadband stimuli.
The influence of visual fixation position and stimulus size on the scalp-recorded &quot;vertex positive peak&quot; (VPP) evoked by images of faces was studied in three subjects. Responses were recorded, in turn, for line-drawn, frontal-view faces of approximately 8, 4, 2, and 1 deg length, fixated at the centre (bridge of the nose), and at points 1, 2, 3, and 4 deg to the left and right, and above and below, centre. The results showed that central fixation produced VPPs of similar, maximal amplitude for all face sizes. By comparison, &quot;on-face&quot; eccentric viewing yielded attenuated and delayed responses, and the degree of response attenuation as a function of eccentricity was directly related to the face size, with similar amplitude responses being evoked for corresponding fixation locations on each face. Very small or no VPPs were recorded for most &quot;off-face&quot; fixations. Similar results were observed for profile faces, except that the maximal VPP was recorded for fixations near the eyes and not in the centre of the head, and almost identical VPPs were evoked by a centrally fixated face presented with and without an adjacent face or object. These response properties, which correspond to the subjective perception of the facial stimuli, suggest that the VPP reflects brain mechanisms optimized to respond to single, fixated faces, irrespective both of facial image size and of the presence of neighbouring figures.
The influence of stimulus form on the scalp-recorded &quot;vertex positive peak&quot; (VPP) evoked by images of faces (Jeffreys 1989a) was studied in seven subjects. In separate experiments, we recorded the responses to 2D images of: (1) many different depictions of human faces; (2) the heads of several different species; (3) many familiar non-face objects; and (4) stimuli where the configuration of objects were modified to produce an &quot;illusory&quot; or &quot;non-contextual&quot; subjective impression of a face. The results showed that every facial representation, including the &quot;illusory&quot; stimuli, and most of the non-face objects, evoked a VPP of corresponding form and scalp distribution. The object-evoked VPPs, however, were always smaller and usually later than those evoked by the faces. VPPs of longer latency but often comparable amplitude were also recorded for impoverished compared to well-defined facial representations; and for most non-human compared to human faces. Very consistent responses were recorded to repeated presentations of the same stimulus for the same subject, but there was considerable variation in latency as well as amplitude (but not form) of the VPP evoked under identical experimental conditions for different subjects. These response properties of the VPP, suggest that its underlying physiological generators are sensitive to basic configural properties of the visual stimulus; and also the face- and object-related information are processed in the same brain area(s), although not necessarily by the same physiological mechanisms.
The hypothesis that long-latency reflex activity in human small hand muscles in response to stimulation of digital nerves involves a transcortical pathway was tested by combining digital nerve stimulation and magnetic stimulation over the motor cortex in 12 studies on nine normal subjects. Postsynaptic events in human single first dorsal interosseous (FDI) motoneurones were derived from changes in the firing probability of voluntarily activated single motor units. Electromagnetic stimulation over the contralateral motor cortex resulted in a short-latency, brief facilitation of FDI motor units considered to be due to the activation of &quot;fast&quot; corticospinal neurones making monosynaptic projections to motoneurones. Stimulation of the digital nerves of the index finger produced a period of reduced firing probability (I1), a period of increased firing probability (E2) and a further period of reduced firing probability (I2) in FDI motor units. When the two stimuli were given separately and then together, timed so that the magnetic stimulus occurred at the predicted transit time of the E2 through the cortex, the facilitation of FDI motoneurones by the combined stimulation was often less than the algebraic sum of the facilitations from each stimulus alone. Thus, in contrast to the results of similar studies on the late response to muscle stretch, there is no confirmation that the E2 from digital nerve stimulation is due to a transcortical reflex.
We habituated the dominant time constant of the horizontal vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) of rhesus and cynomolgus monkeys by repeated testing with steps of velocity about a vertical axis and adapted the gain of the VOR by altering visual input with magnifying and reducing lenses. After baseline values were established, the nodulus and ventral uvula of the vestibulocerebellum were ablated in two monkeys, and the effects of nodulouvulectomy and flocculectomy on VOR gain adaptation and habituation were compared. The VOR time constant decreased with repeated testing, rapidly at first and more slowly thereafter. The gain of the VOR was unaffected. Massed trials were more effective than distributed trials in producing habituation. Regardless of the schedule of testing, the VOR time constant never fell below the time constant of the semicircular canals (approximately 5 s). This finding indicates that only the slow component of the vestibular response, the component produced by velocity storage, was habituated. In agreement with this, the time constant of optokinetic after-nystagmus (OKAN) was habituated concurrently with the VOR. Average values for VOR habituation were obtained on a per session basis for six animals. The VOR gain was adapted by natural head movements in partially habituated monkeys while they wore x 2.2 magnifying or x 0.5 reducing lenses. Adaptation occurred rapidly and reached about +/- 30%, similar to values obtained using forced rotation. VOR gain adaptation did not cause additional habituation of the time constant. When the VOR gain was reduced in animals with a long VOR time constant, there were overshoots in eye velocity that peaked at about 6-8 s after the onset or end of constant-velocity rotation. These overshoots occurred at times when the velocity storage integrator would have been maximally activated by semicircular canal input. Since the activity generated in the canals is not altered by visual adaptation, this finding indicates that the gain element that controls rapid changes in eye velocity in the VOR is separate from that which couples afferent input to velocity storage. Nodulouvulectomy caused a prompt and permanent loss of habituation, returning VOR time constants to initial values. VOR gain adaptation, which is lost after flocculectomy, was unaffected by nodulouvulectomy. Flocculectomy did not alter habituation of the VOR or of OKAN. Using a simplified model of the VOR, the decrease in the duration of vestibular nystagmus due to habituation was related to a decrement in the dominant time constant of the velocity storage integrator (1/h0).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
During the course of an in vivo intracellular labeling study, a chandelier (axo-axonic) cell was completely filled with biocytin in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Chandelier cells are known to provide GABAergic terminals exclusively to the axon initial segment of pyramidal cells. The lateral extent and laminar distribution of the dendritic arborization of the chandelier cell was very similar to that of pyramidal cells; the numerous basal and apical dendrites reached the ventricular surface and the hippocampal fissure, respectively. The dendrites, however, had very few spines. The neuron had an asymmetric axonal arbor occupying an elliptical area of 600 by 850 microns in the pyramidal cell layer and stratum oriens, with over three-quarters of the axon projecting to the fimbrial side of the neuron. Counting all clusters of terminals, representing individually innervated axon initial segments, the chandelier cell was estimated to contact 1214 pyramidal cells, a number that exceeds previous estimations, based on Golgi studies, by several-fold. The findings support the view that chandelier cells may control the threshold and/or synchronize large populations of principal cells.
The purpose of the present series of experiments was to analyze, in anesthetized and paralyzed cats, the effects of (-)-baclofen and picrotoxin on the primary afferent depolarization (PAD) generated in single Ib afferent fibers by either intraspinal microstimulation or stimulation of the segmental and descending pathways. PAD was estimated by recording dorsal root potentials and by measuring the changes in the intraspinal activation threshold of single Ib muscle afferent fibers. The PAD elicited by stimulation of group I muscle or cutaneous afferents was readily depressed and often abolished 20-40 min after the intravenous injection of 1-2 mg/kg (-)-baclofen. In contrast, the same amounts of (-)-baclofen produced a relatively small depression of the PAD elicited by stimulation of the brainstem reticular formation (RF). The monosynaptic PAD produced in single Ib fibers by intraspinal microstimulation within the intermediate nucleus was depressed and sometimes abolished following the i.v. injections of 1-2 mg/kg (-)-baclofen. Twenty to forty minutes after the i.v. injection of picrotoxin (0.5-1 mg/kg), there was a strong depression of the PAD elicited by stimulation of muscle and cutaneous afferents as well as of the PAD produced by stimulation of the RF and the PAD produced by intraspinal microstimulation. The results obtained suggest that, in addition to its action on primary afferents, (-)-baclofen may depress impulse activity and/or transmitter release in a population of last-order GABAergic interneurons that mediate the PAD of Ib fibers. The existence of GABAb autoreceptors in last-order interneurons mediating the PAD may function as a self-limiting mechanism controlling the synaptic efficacy of these interneurons.
We have evaluated the use of visual information about the movement of a target in two tasks--tracking and interceptions--involving multi-joint reaching movements with the arm. Target velocity was either varied in a pseudorandom order (random condition) or was kept constant (predictable condition) across trials. Response latency decreased as target velocity increased in each condition. A simple model that assumes that latency is the sum of two components--the time taken for target motion to be detected, and a fixed processing time--provides a good fit to the data. Results from a step-ramp experiment, in which the target stepped a small distance immediately preceding the onset of the ramp motion, were consistent with this model. The characteristics of the first 100 ms of the response depended on the amount of information about target motion available to the subject. In the tracking task with randomly varied target velocities, the initial changes in hand velocity were largely independent of target velocity. In contrast, when the velocity was predictable the initial hand velocity depended on target velocity. Analogously, the initial changes in the direction of hand motion in the interception task were independent of target velocity in the random condition, but depended on target velocity in the predictable condition. The time course for development of response dependence was estimated by controlling the amount of visual information about target velocity available to the subject before the onset of limb movement. The results suggest that when target velocity was random, hand movement started before visual motion processing was complete. The response was subsequently adjusted after target velocity was computed. Subjects displayed idiosyncratic strategies during the catch-up phase in the tracking task. The peak hand velocity depended on target velocity and was similar for all subjects. The time at which the peak occurred, in contrast, varied substantially among subjects. In the interception task the hand paths were straighter in the predictable than in the random condition. This appeared to be the result of making adjustments in movement direction in the former condition to correct for initially inappropriate responses.

Several age-related phenomena observed at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) can be viewed as adaptations to cellular deficits. These compensatory mechanisms, which maintain functional and morphologic integrity, are those present in the adult animal. In the study of compensatory mechanisms with age, the choice of an appropriate animal model is important. Three adaptations are discussed: maintenance or increase of transmitter release despite reduced supply of synaptic vesicles; functional reactive sprouting after partial denervation despite reduced axonal transport; and maintenance of nerve terminal integrity in the face of increased outgrowth and retraction. In all cases, successful adaptation in old animals is obtained at the expense of a more fragile system. Either the compensations themselves or the resulting vulnerability may alter the reactions of the aging nervous system to changes in external and internal milieu.
Regeneration of vertebrate sensory cells can be seen as an extension and elaboration of the process of cellular repair and to understand repair requires knowledge of how cell division and cell fate are determined. To approach these problems, we have developed a slice culture for the teleost retina. Cells continue to divide in the same pattern in this slice culture as they do in vivo as demonstrated with [3H]thymidine labeling. Moreover, cells which divided in culture became retinal cell phenotypes as identified with monoclonal antibodies. Some presumptive rod progenitors in the outer nuclear layer in the center of the retina were also labeled cone-specific, possibly as a regeneration response. These data add to the evidence that cell fate is determined by the environment. This slice preparation will be a useful model system for analyzing putative environmental cues responsible for guiding cell proliferation and differentiation in the fish retina.
Embryonic rat inner ears were transplanted to the anterior chamber of the eyes of adult rats. While considerable development was evident, the structures present were limited to the vestibular division. We hypothesized that this selective survival could be due to the rate of vascularization. To test the effects of graft vascularization we made transplants in which the internal structures were exposed by removing the apex and base of the developing cochlea. The transplants were rapidly vascularized by the iris. Many of the soft labyrinthine structures of the cochlea from 1-day-old donors showed considerable development, including the spiral limbus, basilar membrane, and organ of Corti. To test the possibility that the cochlea requires inductive or trophic support beyond Embryonic Day 15 (E15), we cotransplanted the embryonic inner ear with developing brain stem. In these transplants, we observed improved development of the cochlea, with spiral ganglion cells and an organ of Corti possessing hair cells, Deiter's cells, and pillar cells. To further address the effect of developing CNS tissue on the development of grafted inner ear, we transplanted E15 inner ears to either the cortex or the brain stem of neonatal rats. In these experiments we have seen evidence of both vestibular and cochlear sensory surfaces. In the cochlea, an organ of Corti-like structure can be seen. The possibility of neural connections with the host brain has yet to be investigated.
Down's syndrome (DS) is a genetic disorder involving an excess of chromosome 21 (trisomy 21) in approximately 96% of the cases and comprises approximately 15% of the population with mental retardation (Heller, 1969). In addition to the constitutional mental deficiencies associated with the syndrome many DS patients develop dementia associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in their later years of life (Thase et al., 1984). The genetic locus for Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1), a key enzyme in free radical metabolism, is located on chromosome 21, and the activity level of this enzyme is elevated by approximately 50% in a variety of cells of DS patients (see Kedziora and Bartosz, 1988; Sinet, 1982). Because alterations in free radical metabolism may be involved in neuronal death and may be associated with a number of pathological manifestations of DS, it is important to understand the role of free radical metabolism in cognitive impairments of DS, the topic discussed in this chapter.
The sex, normality, intelligibility, rate, rhythm and intonation of 44 neoglottal, oesophageal and normal speakers have been judged by a panel of 10 trained listeners. It was found that the sex of the alaryngeal speakers was perceived correctly much less reliably than that of the normal speakers. Neoglottal speakers were rated more normal and intelligible than oesophageal speakers. The speaking rate of neoglottal speakers was judged not to be significantly different from that of normal speakers. Neoglottal speakers were considered more fluent and to have better intonation than the other alaryngeal speakers. Thus neoglottal speakers were found, on average, to be as good as or better than good oesophageal speakers in each of the respects of which judgements were made.
Astrocytes have been prepared from adult rat cortex, cerebellum, and striatum, using a modification of the McCarthy-DeVellis (J Cell Bio 85:890, 1980) method. The cultures consist of 99% type 1 polygonal astrocytes, which divide more slowly than cells from newborn animals. One day after preparing the cultures, 90% of the cells are glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive and 80% are vimentin-positive by immunohistochemical staining, suggesting that they are present de novo and not derived from precursor cells. The astrocytes from adult brain respond to an elevation of intracellular cyclic AMP, following treatment with forskolin, by becoming more stellate in shape and putting out fine ramified processes. They contain the same amount of GFAP per mg protein, measured by immunoblot, as cells from newborn animals. These cultures thus offer the possibility of comparing the biochemical properties of astrocytes derived from adult animals with those from newborn animals, or with cultures of reactive astrocytes isolated from lesioned brain.
The reflexlocomotion acc. to VOJTA is a neurophysiologic facilitation system for the whole CNS and neuromuscular apparatus. It consists of all components, in a reciprocal manner of locomotion: (i) automatic control of posture, (ii) uprighting, (iii) aimed movements. Consequently the indications for this type of kinesiologic facilitation are really extensive. In this article the following complete list of indications is described: CCD (central coordination disorder), CP (cerebral palsy), peripheral paresis, Spina bifida (MMC), Myopathies, congenital malformations, orthopaedic problems, traumatic cross sections, neuromuscular dysfunctions etc. Further the experiences of the treatment in each disease are discussed. Even EMG-detections have shown the effect of the therapy in peripheral and central damage. Therefore a good prognosis for improvement and rehabilitation can be given in a large number of disorders, irrespective of age.
The present study was carried out to assess electrophysiological and behavioral changes in Wistar rats caused by consuming a daily dose of lead acetate (400 micrograms lead/g body weight/day, given by gastric intubation, from second day of birth to 60 days of age. At 60 days of age, the lead treated rats showed in both wakeful and slow wave sleep stages, a statistically significant reduction in the delta, theta, alpha and beta band EEG spectral power in motor cortex (MC) and hippocampus (HI) with the exception of the delta and beta bands power of MC in wakeful state (WA). Lead administration was discontinued after that age for allowing rehabilitation for 40 days. Then, operant behavioral assessment was done. Results revealed that the lead treated animals took significantly more time and sessions than control normal animals in attaining criterion of learning. Hence exposure to lead in early age could result in a learning disability persisting even after discontinuation of exposure.
Seizure duration was estimated using a single channel EEG recording during ECT. Seizure endpoint was defined as the point of last spike. Three psychiatrists independently rated forty seven EEG records. Seizure endpoint could be reliably identified. The reliability coefficient between three raters was 0. 92, indicating high agreement among raters. Modal difference between any pair of raters as well as all three was 0.5 second or less. Operational definition of seizure endpoint improves the reliability of identifying the same and hence estimation of seizure duration from even a single channel EEG trace.
Based on the premise that scientists should periodically examine the history of their ideas and methodologies, this article focuses on the issue of continuity in the evolution of scientific knowledge about aging. Taking a twenty-five-year perspective, selected research questions and priorities in the biomedical, behavioral, and social domains of aging are used to exemplify the continuity of the gerontological knowledge base. This article concludes that there is considerable evidence of continuity, despite the strong influences of changing cohorts of people and external forces that have shaped new ideas and research questions in gerontology.


The impact of aging on cell loss in the human retina was examined in foveal and temporal equatorial regions in eyes from 35 donors with ages spanning a 78-yr period from the second to the ninth decade of life. Equatorial cones and retinal pigment epithelial cells (RPE) decreased at uniform rates from the second to the ninth decade, 16 and 14 cells/mm2/yr, respectively. Equatorial rods and cells in the ganglion cell layer (GCL) showed nonuniform rate decreases with age. The rates of rod and GCL cell loss were faster between the second and fourth decades (970 and 9 cells/mm2/yr, respectively) than between the fourth and ninth decades (570-330 and 6-3 cells/mm2/yr). The rod and GCL cell densities at the temporal equator maintained a constant ratio (rods-GCL cell ratio = 103 +/- 0.4, mean +/- standard deviation) and the same reduction slope ratio at different times during aging. Thus, the equatorial rod and GCL cell losses were correlated statistically. The ratio of equatorial photoreceptors to RPE cells showed no significant change with age, suggesting parallel loss of these closely apposed cells. At the foveal center, the variability of cone density between individuals in each decade grouping was large (1.7- to threefold). No significant differences were found in cone or RPE cell densities at the foveal center from the second to ninth decade, suggesting that the densities of foveal cones and RPE cells were stable throughout this period. Foveal RPE density was significantly higher than equatorial RPE density in each age group. No significant difference was found between the equatorial photoreceptor-RPE ratio and foveal cone-RPE ratio in any age group. Cells in the GCL in the fovea decreased by approximately 16% from the second to the sixth decade. These results indicated that (1) rod photoreceptors and cells in the GCL were more vulnerable to loss during aging than cones; (2) photoreceptors and RPE cells showed parallel changes during aging; and (3) the photoreceptor loss accompanying aging was less pronounced in the fovea than in the peripheral retina.
Since (a) obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) may involve serotonergic neural transmission abnormalities also though to be related to regulation of suicide and aggression, (b) comorbidity between OCD and depression is substantial, and (c) depression is a major risk factor for suicide, a comprehensive analysis of clinical trial data was undertaken to assess the potential association of fluoxetine, a serotonin uptake inhibitor, and suicidality (suicidal acts and ideation). Pooled data from clinical trials comparing fluoxetine (n = 266) and placebo (n = 89) in patients with DSM-IIIR OCD were analyzed retrospectively. No suicidal acts occurred during placebo lead-in or double-blind therapy. Mean Hamilton Depression Scale item 3 (suicide item) scores improved statistically significantly with fluoxetine compared with placebo. Worsening in suicidal ideation was statistically significantly more frequent with placebo than with fluoxetine. Emergence of substantial suicidal ideation (change in baseline item 3 score of 0 or 1 to 3 or 4) was numerically greater with placebo than with fluoxetine (3.6% vs. 1.7%; not statistically significant). The incidence of suicidality in fluoxetine-treated patients with OCD was low, compared favorably with rates in corresponding placebo-treated patients, and was well within the range of estimates in previous studies of patients with OCD. These controlled clinical trial results suggest no undue risk of suicidality in patients with OCD treated with fluoxetine.
Breuer and Freud's prepsychoanalytic cathartic treatment proved to be generally ineffective. Consequently, both the treatment and the theory adduced to support it were revised to accommodate the issue of wishes and their expression. But the new treatment, too, had only limited success, which resulted in a further revision of the supporting theory to emphasize the &quot;resistances,&quot; or the control and modulation of drives. There is an irony in these progressive shifts: as the therapy's limitations became more apparent, the theory became more expansive, and extended itself beyond its beginnings in neurotic symptoms, and into slips, dreams, character formation, and sociology. In short, it encompassed more of normal behavior as its expectations for the therapy of pathological behavior were increasingly called into question. The paper explores some implications of this historical turn for a scientific data base with opportunities to test and revise the various psychoanalytic hypotheses. One view would have it that psychoanalysis has been lamed by the physicalistic language of its metapsychology, by its isolation from the neurosciences and the cognitive sciences, and by a compartmentalization of practice and knowledge that has kept its practitioners focused on the worried well and unimpressed by the knowledge at its borders. Another view would propose that the restiveness of some current and past theorists to claim the mantle of &quot;science&quot; continues to lead to premature and awkward attempts to couple psychoanalysis with putative neighbors rather than stick to its last of shaping its own findings into a language reflecting a coherent theory capable of validation.
Converging developments in the cognitive- and neurosciences have brought Freud's hope of a bridge between psychoanalysis and psychophysiology nearer to hand. This paper concerns the relation between dream construction and memory in terms of these new developments. The neural network architecture of memory structures in the brain is described and illustrated with simple examples. We see how a network is connected and how connection weights vary with experience. The distributed representation stored by the network and its crucial properties for mental functioning are discussed. These concepts are used to explain how particular memories of past events are selected for inclusion in the dream. The properties of the neural network suggest that images of distinct past events are conflated at times during the selection process. The appearance of these conflated images may complicate the matching of day residues with representations of past events in the dream itself. Some likely implications for psychoanalytic theory are explored.
Membrane-membrane interactions between axons and Schwann cells are required for initial myelin formation in the peripheral nervous system. However, recent studies of double myelination in sympathetic nerve have indicated that myelin sheaths continue to exist after complete loss of axonal contact (Kidd, G. J., and J. W. Heath. 1988. J. Neurocytol. 17:245-261). This suggests that myelin maintenance may be regulated either by diffusible axonal factors or by nonaxonal mechanisms. To test these hypotheses, axons involved in double myelination in the rat superior cervical ganglion were destroyed by chronic guanethidine treatment. Guanethidine-induced sympathectomy resulted in a Wallerian-like pattern of myelin degeneration within 10 d. In doubly myelinated configurations the axon, inner myelin sheath (which lies in contact with the axon), and approximately 75% of outer myelin sheaths broke down by this time. Degenerating outer sheaths were not found at later periods. It is probably that outer sheaths that degenerated were only partially displaced from the axon at the commencement of guanethidine treatment. In contrast, analysis of serial sections showed that completely displaced outer internodes remained ultrastructurally intact. These internodes survived degeneration of the axon and inner sheath, and during the later time points (2-6 wk) they enclosed only connective tissue elements and reorganized Schwann cells/processes. Axonal regeneration was not observed within surviving outer internodes. We therefore conclude that myelin maintenance in the superior cervical ganglion is not dependent on direct axonal contact or diffusible axonal factors. In addition, physical association of Schwann cells with the degenerating axon may be an important factor in precipitating myelin breakdown during Wallerian degeneration.

Treatment with the alpha 2-adrenergic antagonist idazoxan (IDA) can provide protection from global cerebral ischemia. However, IDA also recognizes another class of receptors, termed imidazole (IM) receptors, which differ from alpha 2-adrenergic receptors and are responsible for the hypotensive actions of some centrally acting agents such as the oxazole rilmenidine (RIL). We therefore sought to determine whether RIL, an agent highly selective for IM receptors, offered protection from focal cerebral ischemia elicited in rat by ligation of the middle cerebral artery (MCA). We compared the effects of RIL with the effects of IDA and the selective non-IM alpha 2-antagonist SKF 86466 (SKF). In addition, we examined whether the neuroprotective effects of RIL and IDA could be attributed to changes in local CBF (LCBF). The MCA was occluded and animals either received immediate administration of drug while arterial pressure was maintained for 1 h or had local CBF increased to 200% of control for 1 h by hypercapnia or hypertension. RIL elicited a significant dose-dependent preservation of tissue to 33% of control at optimal dose (0.75 mg/kg). IDA (3 mg/kg) significantly reduced the size of ischemic infarction by 22%. In contrast, SKF (15 mg/kg) as well as doubling of LCBF did not preserve ischemic tissue. We conclude that both RIL and IDA can reduce focal ischemic infarction but that the mechanism does not appear secondary to antagonism of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors or elevation of LCBF. Occupation of IM receptors, either in the ischemic zone or at remote brain sites, may be responsible for neuroprotection of RIL and IDA.
Cognitive neuropsychology's domain of inquiry concerns the structure of normal perceptual, motor, and cognitive processes. As such, it constitutes a branch of cognitive science. Cognitive neuropsychology differs from other branches of cognitive science only by the type of observation that it uses in developing and evaluating theories of normal cognition. The data used in cognitive neuropsychology are the patterns of performance produced by brain-damged subjects. Because the basic data used in cognitive neuropsychology are the result of a biological manipulation-a brain lesion-these data will be relevant to claims about the functional organization of the brain. Hence, cognitive neuropsychology may also be considered to be a branch of cognitive neuroscience. However, in this paper I will be concerned with an assessment of research programs whose principal or only aim is to constrain theories of normal cognitive functioning through the analysis of acquired disorders of cognition. Following a brief discussion of the basic assumptions that motivate cognitive neuropsychological research, I consider Kosslyn and Van Kleeks (1990) claim that the study of brain-damaged subjects for the purpose of constraining theories of normal cognitive processing cannot lead to meaningful conclusions unless the theories are directly cast in terms of anatomical and physiological facts. I argue that these authors conflated criticisms that may apply to any empirical science with criticisms that may apply specifically to cognitive neuropsychology. Separate consideration of the criticisms specific to cognitive neuropsychology reveals that these are unfounded. The main point of this discussion is to emphasize the pragmatic character of the motivation for using impaired performance to constrain theories of normal cognition. The usefulness of cognitive neuropsychological research is illustrated through specific examples.
Poststimulus time histograms (PSTHs) of repetitively discharging motor units can be used to detect postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) in single human motoneurons. The present theoretical study explores the possibility of extending this technique to detect projections onto pools of interneurons upstream from motoneurons in humans. Convergence onto interneurons in the central nervous system of experimental animals can be tested by stimulating two afferent fiber systems separately and then together while recording intracellularly from an output neuron. Nonalgebraic summation of the postsynaptic potentials recorded in the output neuron implies convergence onto intervening interneurons. Can PSTHs of an output neuron be used for the same purpose? We modeled PSPs, their combination, and the PSTHs they would produce in a repetitively discharging neuron, in an attempt to predict the potential errors of such experiments. The model predicts that where the PSPs are exactly superimposed, peaks of increased firing probability in PSTHs summate algebraically. Under these circumstances, PSTHs could be used to test for convergence onto upstream interneurons. Where the PSPs are not exactly aligned, the PSTH peak from the combination of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) is smaller than expected. This could lead to a false impression that occlusion was occurring in a population of interneurons. This error is least with EPSPs having a short rise time. Where dissimilar EPSPs are superimposed, the error is less if the EPSP with the shortest rise time occurs later. EPSP-IPSP combinations can produce increases in firing probability that are greater than expected. This could lead to a false impression that facilitatory convergence was occurring in a population of interneurons. We conclude that, with an understanding of these potential errors, PSTHs can be used to detect nonalgebraic summation of PSPs and thus convergence onto interneurons in humans.

The measurement of acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity is an essential part of the investigation of patients with suspected defects of fatty acid oxidation, and recently the organometallic oxidant ferricenium hexafluorophosphate has been introduced as an electron acceptor for these assays. However, we show that when medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity was measured in cultured skin fibroblasts and platelets from patients with proven defects of this enzyme, there was considerable residual enzyme activity when this electron acceptor was used. The ferricenium assay is not as specific as the anaerobic ETF-linked assay in the biochemical diagnosis of medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency in fibroblasts, and therefore is of limited clinical applicability in its present form.

Saposins are a group of small glycoproteins derived from a single precursor protein, prosaposin. Each of the four saposins are involved in lysosomal hydrolysis of various sphingolipids. Our recent investigations have shown that saposins accumulate in tissues of several lysosomal storage diseases patients, including those with Tay-Sachs disease and Gaucher disease. To obtain insight into the mechanism of accumulation and its pathological role, the subcellular distribution of saposins in brain from Tay-Sachs disease and in spleen of Gaucher disease were compared with that of GM2 ganglioside and glucocerebroside, respectively. In both Tay-Sachs brain and Gaucher spleen, saposins were found predominantly in light-density fractions while most of the GM2 ganglioside and glucocerebroside, respectively, were found in heavy-density fractions. These studies indicate that saposins that accumulate in these pathological tissues are not tightly associated with GM2 ganglioside or glucocerebroside.
The biosynthesis of many peptides thought to have autocrine or paracrine effects on cell growth requires a series of enzymatic steps. The level of expression of two of these posttranslational processing enzymes was compared in several endocrine and non-neuroendocrine cell lines. Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM; EC 1.14.17.3) is a bifunctional copper- and ascorbate-dependent enzyme essential in the formation of alpha-amidated peptides. Carboxypeptidase H (CPH; EC 3.4.17.10) removes basic residues from the carboxyterminus of the products of endoproteolytic cleavage of prohormones and is generally essential in the formation of substrates for PAM. PAM messenger RNA (mRNA) and activity were detectable in both endocrine (AtT-20, GH3) and non-neuroendocrine (L, 3T3, COS, BRL, C127) cells. Except for BRL cells, CPH mRNA and enzymatic activity were detectable in all the cell lines. BRL cells contained no detectable CPH mRNA and had a different carboxypeptidase B-like activity. Thus, expression of secretory granule-associated processing enzymes is not limited to cells of a classic neuroendocrine phenotype.
Bifemelane hydrochloride (bifemelane), idebenone and indeloxazine hydrochloride (indeloxazine) are used clinically to reduce apathy and other emotional disturbances in patients with cerebrovascular disease. In gerbil brains, ischemia affects many monoaminergic neurotransmitters and their metabolites. In the present study, the effects of treatment with bifemelane, idebenone and indeloxazine on ischemia-induced changes in monoamines and their metabolites were studied in ischemic gerbil brains. Although these drugs had no effect on the monoaminergic neurotransmitters or their metabolites in sham-operated animals, in the ischemic brains both dopamine and serotonin turnovers were abnormal after idebenone or indeloxazine treatment. Bifemelane, in contrast, tended to correct the ischemia-induced changes in the dopaminergic and serotonergic systems in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and thalamus + midbrain. From the present results and those in previous reports, we conclude that bifemelane is more appropriate than idebenone or indeloxazine as a treatment for the ischemia-induced changes in monoaminergic neurotransmitter systems.
In homogenates of female rat anterior pituitary, the azepine derivative B-HT 920 inhibited the forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity with an EC50 value of 0.35 microM. In male rat anterior pituitary, B-HT 920 curtailed the stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity by vasoactive intestinal peptide with an EC50 of 0.20 microM. In synaptic plasma membranes of rat striatum, B-HT 920 significantly reduced basal adenylate cyclase activity with an EC50 of 0.68 microM. Both in pituitary and striatum, the B-HT 920 inhibition was counteracted by the dopamine (DA) D2 receptor antagonist 1-sulpiride, but not by the alpha 2-adrenergic antagonist yohimbine. These results indicate that B-HT 920 is capable of activating DA D2 receptors negatively coupled to adenylate cyclase activity.
Erythrocyte membrane Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity was studied in drug naive patients with bipolar (BP) mania (n = 62) and unipolar (UP) depression (n = 60) and normal controls (n = 66). Compared to controls there was a significantly decreased Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity in UP depressives but no change in BP manics. However, lithium treatment caused a significant increase in Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity although there was no correlation between plasma lithium levels and enzyme activity. Plasma cortisol correlated inversely with Na+,K(+)-ATPase in UP depressives. Interestingly, the lithium responders [less than 50% Beck Rafaelson's Mania Rating Scale (BRMS) score] showed a significant increase in Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity compared to lithium nonresponders (greater than 50% BRMS score). These observations indicate that monitoring of Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity during lithium therapy is useful to predict a therapeutic response.
Recent reports suggest that serotonin (5-HT)2 receptor-mediated second messenger systems are enhanced in platelets of affective disorders. To make the mechanism of the enhanced response clear, we investigated 5-HT2 and alpha (alpha) 2-adrenergic receptor-induced intracellular calcium (Ca2+) mobilization in platelets of healthy volunteers, using fura-2. 5-HT2 and alpha 2-adrenergic receptor-mediated Ca2+ mobilization was enhanced by prior exposure to the other type of agonist, so called &quot;heterologous supersensitization.&quot; The supersensitization was due to the enhancement of maximal response without change in agonist affinity. Chelating extracellular Ca2+ did not diminish the supersensitization. This enhancement of Ca2+ mobilization was not inhibited by H-7, an inhibitor of protein kinase C. However, this supersensitization was inhibited by pretreatment with sodium fluoride which directly activates guanine nucleotide binding regulatory proteins (G proteins). These results suggest that the supersensitization was caused from intracellular Ca2+ storage sites through a G protein-coupled pathway.
To clarify the interactions between dopamine receptors and muscarinic cholinergic receptors by which neurotransmitters may affect genetic responses, we studied the effects of the muscarinic cholinergic agonist, carbachol, and the muscarinic cholinergic antagonist, trihexyphenidyl, on levodopa-induced c-fos messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in rat striatum. Animals were administered levodopa (levodopa with one-tenth dosage of carbidopa), carbachol or thrihexyphenidyl alone or administered in combination as levodopa (100 mg/kg) + carbachol, or levodopa+trihexyphenidyl given as a single bolus. Levodopa given alone increase the expression of c-fos mRNA. Although carbachol or trihexyphenidyl alone was ineffective in inducing c-fos mRNA, the combination of levodopa and carbachol (&gt; or = to 0.1 mg/kg) significantly suppressed the induction of c-fos mRNA as compared with levodopa given alone. The combined administration of levodopa and trihexyphenidyl showed a trend toward an additive effect on the induction of c-fos mRNA vs levodopa alone. These findings suggest that the muscarinic cholinergic system may modulate the levodopa-induced c-fos mRNA expression which then regulates the expression of other mRNAs.
The rough handling with repeated saline administration (1.2 ml/kg s.c. for 7 days) enhanced cortical c-fos mRNA expression in the rat brain after a single saline stimulation (1.2 ml/kg s.c.) due to increasing baseline c-fos mRNA levels, whereas the gentle handling with repeated saline administration declined c-fos mRNA expression after a single injection due to decreasing the baseline of c-fos mRNA levels. These two types of handling with the repeated injection led to diametrically opposite results on c-fos mRNA expression after a single stimulation. Neither two types of handling with repeated saline injections affected the net increment of c-fos mRNA induction after a single stimulation, therefore, the effects of handling with repeated treatment on c-fos mRNA expression might be independent of the effects of a single saline stimulation. The present study suggests that c-fos mRNA induction after a single stimulation might be affected by the types or intensities of handling and that care must be taken to estimate c-fos mRNA induction.
The distribution and density of 3H-MPP+ binding sites were studied by in vitro quantitative autoradiography in the brain of the mouse, rat and monkey. The highest levels of 3H-MPP+ specific binding were observed in rat brain. The substantia nigra in rat and monkey, and the anterior caudate-putamen formation in mouse and monkey showed the lowest density of autoradiographic grains. The presence of a relatively high density of MPP+ sites in the hippocampus of all species studied could be of interest to explain some effects of MPTP administration on convulsions caused by chemoconvulsants. The finding of a 60-70% reduction of 3H-MPP+ binding sites in the rat caudate-putamen, on the side of quinolinic acid infusion and no changes after 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons suggests the presence of these sites mainly on striatal cells. The results suggest that the distribution of MPP+ binding sites in brain would not seem to be related to MPTP toxicity.
Antipsychotic drugs are known to block dopamine receptors soon after their administration, resulting in an increase in dopamine neuron firing and dopamine turnover. Nonetheless, antipsychotic drugs must be administered repeatedly to schizophrenics before therapeutic benefits are produced. Recordings from dopamine neurons in rats have revealed that chronic antipsychotic drug treatment results in the time-dependent inactivation of dopamine neuron firing via over-excitation, or depolarization block. Furthermore, the clinical profile of the response to antipsychotic drugs appears to correspond to the dopamine system affected: antipsychotic drugs that exert therapeutic actions in schizophrenics inactivate dopamine neuron firing in the limbic-related ventral tegmental area, whereas drugs that precipitate extrapyramidal side effects cause depolarization block of the motor-related substantia nigra dopamine cells. One factor that remains unresolved with regard to the actions of antipsychotic drugs is the relationship between dopamine turnover and depolarization block--i.e., why does a significant level of dopamine release or turnover remain after antipsychotic drug treatment if dopamine cells are no longer firing? We addressed this question using an acute model of neuroleptic-induced depolarization block. In this model, dopamine cells recorded in rats one month after partial dopamine lesions could be driven into depolarization block by the acute administration of moderate doses of haloperidol. However, similar doses of haloperidol, which were effective at increasing dopamine levels in the striatum of intact rats, failed to change dopamine levels in lesioned rats. This is consistent with a model in which neuroleptic drugs exert their therapeutic effects in schizophrenics by causing depolarization block in DA cells, thereby preventing further activation of dopamine neuron firing in response to external stimuli. Thus, attenuating the responsivity of the dopamine system to stimuli may be more relevant to the therapeutic actions of antipsychotic drugs than receptor blockade or decreases in absolute levels of dopamine, which could presumably be circumvented by homeostatic adaptations in this highly plastic system.
The glutamate receptor agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) stimulated a rapid, extracellular Ca(2+)-dependent conversion of [3H]arginine to [3H]citrulline in primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells, indicating receptor-mediated activation of nitric oxide (NO) synthase. The NMDA-induced formation of [3H]citrulline reached a plateau within 10 min. Subsequent addition of unlabeled L-arginine resulted in the disappearance of 3H from the citrulline pool, indicating a persistent activation of NO synthase after NMDA receptor stimulation. Glutamate, NMDA, and kainate, but not quisqualate, stimulated both the conversion of [3H]arginine to [3H]citrulline and cyclic GMP accumulation in a dose-dependent manner. Glutamate and NMDA showed similar potencies for the stimulation of [3H]citrulline formation and cyclic GMP synthesis, respectively, whereas kainate was more potent at inducing cyclic GMP accumulation than at stimulating [3H]citrulline formation. Both the [3H]arginine to [3H]citrulline conversion and cyclic GMP synthesis stimulated by NMDA were inhibited by the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 and by the inhibitors of NO synthase, NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (MeArg) and NG-nitro-L-arginine (NOArg). However, MeArg, in contrast to NOArg, also potently inhibited [3H]arginine uptake. Kainate (300 microM) stimulated 45Ca2+ influx to the same extent as 100 microM NMDA, but stimulated [3H]citrulline formation to a much lesser extent, which suggests that NO synthase is localized in subcellular compartments where the Ca2+ concentration is regulated mainly by the NMDA receptor.
Recombinant baculovirus was used to overexpress human Alzheimer beta/A4-amyloid precursor protein (APP) in Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9) cells. Lysates of these cells were then analyzed for the presence of carboxyl-terminal fragments of APP by an immunoblotting assay using either an antibody against the APP cytoplasmic domain (rabbit anti-human 695APP645-694) or an antibody against the amino terminus of beta/A4-amyloid (rabbit anti-human 695APP586-606). Anti-human 695APP645-694 identified APP holoprotein, a 25-kDa species, and a prominent group of carboxyl-terminal fragments of 17, 16, and 14 kDa, whereas anti-human 695APP586-606 identified APP holoprotein and a single prominent low-molecular-mass protein species comigrating with the 17-kDa carboxyl-terminal fragment identified by anti-human 695APP645-694. No immunoreactive species was detected at these molecular mass positions when either antibody was used for analysis of lysates of either uninfected Sf9 cells or Sf9 cells infected with wild-type Autographa californica baculovirus. For each antibody, specific immunoreactivity was abolished by preabsorption with the corresponding peptide immunogen. The incorporation of a beta/A4-amyloid amino-terminal epitope into a 17-kDa fragment of APP suggests that, in the baculoviral overexpression system, the electrophoretic microheterogeneity of APP carboxyl-terminal fragments is due, at least in part, to alternative proteolysis of APP. If such carboxyl-terminal fragments of APP containing an intact beta/A4-amyloid domain are produced in human brain, then they may represent intermediates in the conversion of APP to deposited beta/A4-amyloid.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have used microdialysis to measure the in vivo level of tyrosine hydroxylation in hippocampus of the freely moving rat. An inhibitor of aromatic amino acid decarboxylase, NSD-1015, was administered through the dialysis probe and the resulting accumulation of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) in extracellular fluid of hippocampus was quantified. Administration of the tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor, alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, decreased extracellular DOPA to undetectable level. In addition, both systemic and local application of clonidine, an alpha 2-adrenergic agonist, produced a decrease in extracellular DOPA. In response to acute tail shock, a significant increase in extracellular DOPA was observed. Thus, it appears that in vivo accumulation of DOPA after local administration of NSD-1015 provides a reliable index of hippocampal tyrosine hydroxylation. We have used this technique to investigate whether prior exposure to chronic stress alters the in vivo level of tyrosine hydroxylation in hippocampus under basal conditions as well as in response to a novel stressor. In rats previously exposed to chronic cold stress, the basal accumulation of extracellular DOPA did not differ from naive controls. Acute tail shock, however, produced a significantly greater and more prolonged elevation in extracellular DOPA of chronically stressed rats. These data suggest that enhanced biosynthetic capacity of noradrenergic terminals may be one mechanism underlying adaptation to chronic stress.
The wide-ranging neuronal actions of excitatory amino acids, such as glutamate, are thought to be mediated mainly by postsynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptors. We now report the existence of presynaptic glutamate receptors in isolated nerve terminals (synaptosomes) prepared from hippocampus, olfactory bulb, and cerebral cortex. Activation of these receptors by NMDA or non-NMDA agonists, in a concentration-dependent manner, resulted in Ca(2+)-dependent release of noradrenaline from vesicular transmitter stores. The NMDA-stimulated release was potentiated by glycine and was blocked by Mg2+ and selective NMDA antagonists. In contrast, release stimulated by selective non-NMDA agonists was blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3- dione, but not by Mg2+ or NMDA antagonists. Our data suggest that the presynaptic glutamate receptors can be classified pharmacologically as both the NMDA and non-NMDA types. These receptors, localized on nerve terminals of the locus ceruleus noradrenergic neurons, may play an important role in interactions between noradrenaline and glutamate.

Serum anti-GM1 IgA antibodies were detected in 15 of 53 (28%) patients with the acute Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) and in one of 26 (4%) patients with other neurological diseases. Although nine GBS patients had anti-GM1 IgA titers of 1:200 or less, six patients had titers of 1:800 or more. Some GBS patients with anti-GM1 IgA antibodies also had antibodies against GD1b or GM2 or both. The presence of markedly elevated anti-GM1 IgA was associated with a poor clinical outcome at 6 and 12 months following onset of the GBS. The possible pathogenetic role of anti-GM1 IgA antibodies remains to be established.
The authors' previous study with an eye camera revealed that when asked to mark the centre of a line patients with left unilateral spatial neglect persist in fixating a point on its right part and place the subjective midpoint there without searching leftwards. The present study examined the patterns of leftward search of nine patients with left unilateral spatial neglect when they were required to search for the left endpoint of the line after the bisection. The patients could search leftwards beyond the subjective midpoint to place the mark at the subjective left endpoint. The initial fixation in this search always fell near the point located to the left of the subjective midpoint by the distance between the subjective midpoint and the right endpoint of the line. In patients with severe neglect the search further to the left of this point was laborious and fell short of the true left endpoint in about 80% of the trials. Our results suggest that when asked to bisect a line patients with left unilateral spatial neglect subjectively see the line as it extends equally to either side of the point where they are going to mark the subjective midpoint.

A patient appeared to be in coma following pneumococcal meningitis, an intracerebral haemorrhage, and a cardiac arrest. Late in the course of his illness neurophysiological investigations confirmed a proposal that he also had a fulminant acute demyelinating polyneuropathy which, for a period of five days, rendered the patient completely unresponsive. The patient recovered and is now working without any disability.
Using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and a thin-layer chromatography-immunostaining procedure, we detected serum antibodies against acidic glycolipids in 36 of 53 patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) and 8 of 16 patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). Although we also found anti-acidic glycolipid antibodies in 4 of 13 patients with other neurological diseases; 2 of 10 patients with multiple sclerosis; 8 of 33 patients with inflammatory, infectious, allergic or autoimmune disorders and 3 of 32 healthy subjects, the levels of antibodies in these controls were much lower than in GBS patients. There were several patterns of reactivity of GBS sera including antibodies to LM1 and HexLM1, GM1 or GD1b or both, various other gangliosides, sulfated glycolipids, and as yet unidentified glycolipids. Sera from 30% of GBS patients had antibodies against two or more antigenically distinct acidic glycolipid antigens. Levels of anti-acidic glycolipid antibodies correlated with clinical symptoms in 9 of 11 GBS patients. While the increased incidence of antibodies to acidic glycolipids in patients with GBS (P less than 0.001) and CIDP (P less than 0.025) compared to controls could be an epiphenomenon, anti-acidic glycolipid antibodies may play a role in nerve injury in some GBS and CIDP patients.
When expressed in the Xenopus oocyte, the minK protein induces a slowly activating voltage-dependent potassium current (Isk). We studied the modulation of this current by altering intracellular cAMP levels and found that the amplitude of Isk is dramatically increased by treatments that raise cAMP levels and decreased by agents that lower cAMP levels. Preinjection of a protein inhibitor of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase blocked the effects of increased cAMP levels. There were no changes in the voltage dependence or kinetics of Isk. Mutations that eliminate a potential phosphorylation site on the minK protein did not block the effects of activating the kinase. In addition, the membrane capacitance of the oocyte increased and decreased in parallel with Isk. Our results fit a mechanism in which channel proteins are selectively inserted into and removed from the plasma membrane in response to changes in kinase activity.
Immunohistochemical and histochemical staining were performed on Alzheimer's diseased brain tissue obtained at autopsy. The iron-regulatory proteins transferrin and ferritin as well as iron are, in general, found predominantly in oligodendrocytes similar to that previously reported for normal brain tissue. However, in the vicinity of senile plaques, the staining pattern is altered for both proteins and iron. Transferrin is homogenously distributed around the senile plaques and is apparently extracellular. In addition, transferrin is found in astrocytes in the cerebral cortical white matter of the Alzheimer's tissue rather than its normal distribution in oligodendrocytes. A robust ferritin immunoreaction accompanies senile plaques and many blood vessels in the Alzheimer's brain tissue. Although many ferritin-positive oligodendrocytes are present in the Alzheimer's tissue, most of the ferritin-containing cells associated with senile plaques and blood vessels are microglia. Iron can also be demonstrated in the senile plaques. The iron reaction product is observed both diffusely in proximity of the plaques and in cells associated with the plaques. These data strongly suggest a disruption in brain iron homeostasis in Alzheimer's disease as demonstrated by alterations in the normal cellular distribution of iron and the proteins responsible for iron regulation. These data will contribute to understanding both the potential for oxidative damage and the potential for metal neurotoxicity in Alzheimer's disease.
Antagonists of excitatory amino acids appear to serve a neuroprotective role during ischemic conditions in a variety of in vivo and in vitro models. The usefulness of such agents in the clinical setting, however, may be limited by poor central nervous system (CNS) entry and intolerable side effects. The authors report high efficacy in reducing neurological damage and relatively limited side effects of LY233053, a novel competitive glutamate antagonist, in two models of experimental CNS ischemia in the rabbit.

Low (nanomolar) concentrations of opioid agonists prolong the calcium-dependent component of the action potential duration (APD) of many dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, whereas higher (micromolar) levels shorten the APD. Both effects are blocked by naloxone (1-10 nM). Opioid-induced APD prolongation appears to be mediated by excitatory opioid receptors that are positively coupled via a cholera toxin-A-sensitive Gs protein to adenylate cyclase/cyclic AMP-dependent ion conductances, whereas opioid-induced APD shortening is mediated by inhibitory receptors linked via pertussis toxin-sensitive Gi/Go proteins. Cholera toxin-B subunit, which binds to GM1 ganglioside, also selectively blocks opioid-induced APD prolongation. After brief treatment with GM1 ganglioside, the opioid agonists, dynorphin (1-13) or morphine, prolong the APD at femtomolar vs. the usual nanomolar concentrations, whereas no significant alterations were observed in the sensitivity of these GM1-treated cells to opioid inhibitory effects elicited by higher opioid concentrations. The present study shows that the opioid antagonists, naloxone or diprenorphine (1-30 nM), did not alter the APD of naive DRG neurons. In contrast, after GM1 treatment (1 microM, greater than 10 min), both opioid antagonists (but not (+)naloxone) unexpectedly prolonged the APD of most of the GM1-treated cells, but still continued to antagonize opioid-induced APD shortening. These results suggest that the supersensitivity of GM1-treated DRG neurons to the excitatory effects of opioid agonists and antagonists is due primarily to a remarkably increased efficacy of excitatory Gs-coupled opioid receptor functions, similar to the opioid excitatory supersensitivity that we have recently observed in chronic opioid-treated DRG neurons.
A series of 1-[1-(2-thienyl)cyclohexyl]piperidine (TCP) analogs were synthesized with the aim of developing a potent ligand for the N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor subtype. The piperidine moiety of TCP was substituted at the nitrogen position with aliphatic chains of different length or with various polar groups. A correlation between the decrease in the potency of displacement of [3H](+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo-[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-im ine maleate (MK-801) binding from bovine cortex membranes and the increase of length or polarity of the aliphatic chain was observed. Isonitrile, isothiocyanate and isoselenocyanate groups were substituted at position 4 of the thiophene ring, and the relative binding affinity and alkylating potencies of the derivatized compounds were studied. Among this set of compounds, the one carrying an isothiocyanate group at position 4 of the thiophene ring of the N-ethyl analog of TCP yielded the most efficient alkylating agent, demonstrated by its ability to irreversibly block up to 80% of the [3H]MK-801 binding sites. This affinity ligand did not significantly affect other ligand binding sites of the same N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex or of other receptor systems, further demonstrating its functional specificity as a potent alkylating probe for the TCP/MK-801 recognition site. Studies with a radiolabeled adduct of this isothiocyanate N-ethyl derivative, however, indicate that a substantial level of nonspecific covalent incorporation into the membranes occurs at concentrations as low as 10 nM, thereby obscuring any possibility of detecting a specifically labeled protein species.
To better understand opioid binding parameters found in situ, binding studies were conducted to mu-opioid receptors on intact SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells and compared with binding to SH-SY5Y membrane and guinea pig brain membrane preparations. The mu-selective peptide antagonist [3H]D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTOP) was used for the binding studies. The fact that CTOP is an antagonist and hydrophilic is important for binding to be achieved using intact cells. In intact cells, using a physiological buffer, there appears to be only a low affinity &quot;agonist&quot; conformation of the receptor. This is in contrast to binding in either brain or SH-SY5Y membranes in Tris buffer, in which high-affinity agonist binding was prevalent. As expected from the binding profiles, pertussis toxin treatment of cells has no effect on binding to intact cells, but significantly decreases affinity of agonists to cell membranes. In intact cells, binding appears to be to a single site and a single state of the mu receptor. Although in membrane preparations inhibition curves are shallow, with slope factors less than 1.0 for many agonists, on intact cells agonist inhibition curves are very steep, with slope factors slightly greater than 1.0.
Postsynaptic Ca2+ changes are involved in control of cellular excitability and induction of synaptic long-term changes. We monitored Ca2+ changes in dendrites and spines during synaptic and direct stimulation using high resolution microfluorometry of fura-2 injected into CA3 pyramidal neurons in guinea pig hippocampal slice. When driven by current injection from an intracellular electrode or with synaptic stimulation, postsynaptic Ca2+ accumulations were highest in the proximal dendrites with a pronounced fall-off towards the soma and some fall-off towards more distal dendrites. Muscarinic activation by low concentrations of carbachol strongly increased intradendritic Ca2+ accumulation during directly-evoked repetitive firing. This enhancement occurred in large part because muscarinic activation suppressed the normal Ca(2+)-dependent activation of K-channels that mediates adaptation of firing. Repetitive firing of cholinergic fibers in the slice reproduced the effects of carbachol. Inhibition of acetylcholine-esterase activity by eserine enhanced the effects of repetitive stimulation of chlolinergic fibers. All effects were reversible and were blocked by the muscarinic antagonist atropine. Ca2+ accumulations in postsynaptic spines might be the basis of specificity of synaptic plasticity. With selective stimulation of few associative/comissural fibers, Ca2+ accumulated in single postsynaptic spines but not in the parent dendrite. With strong stimulation, dendrite levels also increased but spine levels were considerably higher. The NMDA-receptor antagonist AP-5 blocked Ca(2+)-peaks in spines, but left Ca2+ changes in dendrite shafts largely unaffected. Sustained steep Ca2+ gradients between single spines and the parent dendrite, often lasting several minutes, developed with repeated stimulation. Our results demonstrate a spine entity that can act independent from the dendrite with respect to Ca(2+)-dependent processes. Muscarinic augmentation of dendritic Ca2+ levels might reduce diffusional loss of Ca2+ from hot spines into the parent dendrite, thus supporting cooperativity and associativity of synaptic plasticity.
Confocal imaging of intracellular Ca2+ brings a new level of resolution to the study of hormonal control of intracellular Ca2+ release. This approach has demonstrated the existence of pulsatile circular and spiral waves of Ca+ release induced by receptor activation. The data obtained by confocal imaging support a new framework for understanding intracellular Ca2+ signalling. The goal of this chapter is to review our data on the complexity of intracellular Ca2+ release in Xenopus oocytes, introduce the concept of Ca2+ excitability as a model for Ca2+ release and discuss the implications for encoding intracellular signal information.
We prospectively investigated the effects of a course of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) on neuroendocrine responses to serotonergic challenge in five depressed patients. Low dose intravenous chlorimipramine (CMI) challenge produced a modest release of prolactin and significant increases in plasma adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol. Interestingly, ECT did not alter the neuroendocrine responses to serotonergic challenge despite clinical response in four of the five patients. If anything, the modest prolactin (PRL) response to CMI, rather than being enhanced, appeared to be abolished following ECT. Using confidence intervals, we estimate that there is less than a 5% probability of a 78% increase in prolactin response to CMI after ECT. To detect this, a sample size of greater than 35 would be needed. These findings suggest that neither ECT nor the clinical response in severely depressed patients is likely to produce consistent changes in neuroendocrine response to the acute serotonergic effects of CMI infusion. The lack of effect of ECT on prolactin response to serotonergic challenge might be explained by simultaneous enhancement of both serotonergic and dopaminergic neurotransmission.
Pre-treatment of rats with chlormethiazole (35 mg/kg) or diphenylhydantoin (phenytoin: 40 mg/kg) markedly enhanced the behavioural syndrome which is induced by injection of tranylcypromine (10 mg/kg) followed by L-tryptophan (50 mg/kg). Phenobarbitone (35 mg/kg) pre-treatment was without effect on the syndrome. This enhancement apparently involved a pre-synaptic mechanism since pre-treatment with chlormethiazole or phenytoin did not result in enhancement of the behavioural syndrome when it was induced by injection of the 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-OH-DPAT (0.75 mg/kg). Pre-treatment of rats with chlormethiazole did not alter the rate of 5-HT synthesis as measured by the accumulation of 5-HT following tranylcypromine. The K(+)-evoked release of endogenous 5-HT from brain slices was unaltered by addition of chlormethiazole (100 M) to the medium while addition of phenytoin (100 M) caused a small decrease. Administration of chlormethiazole or phenytoin failed to alter either the 5-HT(2) receptor-mediated head twitch behaviour in mice induced by 5-hydroxytryptophan or the hypothermic response induced in mice by injection of 8-OH-DPAT (0.5 mg/kg s.c.). These data extend the original observation of enhancement of the 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated behavioural syndrome by phenytoin, using a lower dose of the drug, and show that chlormethiazole has a similar effect, apparently through a pre synaptic mechanism. Some similarities to the effect of administration of Ca(2+) antagonists and lithium are noted but no clear mechanism involving changes in ion flux have been identified to explain the mechanisms involved.

The ability of the opiate antagonist, naloxone, to block the anti-conflict effects of the benzodiazepines suggests endogenous opioid involvement in the mechanism of action of these drugs. However naloxone's ability to attenuate the effects of the benzodiazepines in animal conflict paradigms appears to be schedule specific. It is effective in acquisition of a differential reinforcement of low rates of response (DRL) schedule but not in acquisition of a non-reward successive discrimination schedule. We tested the effects of naloxone and chlordiazepoxide on acquisition of DRL and on acquisition of a version of the same schedule (signalled DRL) which was like successive discrimination in having an explicit visual signal of non-reward. Chlordiazepoxide (5 mg/kg i.p.) impaired DRL responding by increasing burst responding and premature responding close to the criterion interval. Naloxone (3 mg/kg i.p.) alone decreased burst and premature responding, it also blocked the effects of chlordiazepoxide. The signalled DRL schedule produced essentially similar drug effects. Clearly the critical schedule parameter determining whether naloxone will attenuate the anxiolytic actions of the benzodiazepines is not the presence or absence of an explicit signal of conflict.
Professors Salmon and Stanford are to be commended for their efforts in drawing attention to noradrenergic contributions to stress resistance and the potential importance of within-subject patterns of stress response. In commenting on their paper, I would like to develop the following points: (1) self-control over stress exposure strongly influences the noradrenergic response to stress; (2) -receptor regulation may reflect a lower sensitivity to stress under a carefully specified range of conditions; and (3) genetic and environmental factors may interact in a complex fashion that may not fit simple linear models based on -receptor function.

The author discusses the state of the art of psychotherapy at the brink of the new decade. The theme of the 1990s is rapprochement, the bridging of divisive aspects of the field. Four major manifestations of increased detente are explored: convergence of mind and brain, collaboration of research and public policy, coordination of economic constraints and ethical standards, and connection between psychopathology and therapeutic practice. Factors of major importance for the future of psychotherapy are the impact of the neurosciences on psychological phenomena, the role of the computer in human simulation, the socioeconomic influence of government and third-party payers on the direction of treatment, and the utilization of clinical practice in devising new diagnostic dimensions.
Subjects seated in a vertical axis rotation chair controlled their rotational velocity by adjusting a potentiometer. Their goal was to null out pseudorandom rotational perturbations in order to remain perceptually stationary. Most subjects showed a slow linear drift of velocity (a constant acceleration) to one side when they were deprived of an earth-fixed visual reference. The amplitude and direction of this drift can be considered a measure of a static bias in a subject's perception of rotation. The presence of a perceptual bias is consistent with a small, constant imbalance of vestibular function that could be of either central or peripheral origin. Deviations from perfect vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) symmetry are also assumed to be related to imbalances in either peripheral or central vestibular function. We looked for correlations between perceptual bias and various measures of vestibular reflex symmetry that might suggest a common source for both reflexive and perceptual imbalances. No correlations were found. Measurement errors could not account for these results since repeated tests in the same subjects of both perceptual bias and VOR symmetry were well correlated.

The developmental characteristics of D1A and D2 dopamine receptor mRNA levels were determined by Northern blot analyses. Striatal D1A and D2 dopamine receptor mRNAs of male Fischer 344 rats were about 60% of adult (day 120) levels at postnatal day 1 and reached their highest levels at day 30 (126 and 139% adult levels) and then decreased by day 120 (100%). D1 and D2 dopamine receptors showed much greater quantitative changes with densities at day 30 about 6- and 14-fold higher than at day 1, respectively, while mRNA levels showed only a 2-fold increase. The highest level of D2 dopamine receptor mRNA in the midbrain was reached at day 14 (195% of adult levels) while the level at day 1 was 31% higher than that at day 120. Striatal beta-actin mRNA levels decreased gradually as the rats developed with the level at postnatal day 1 almost twice that at day 120 postpartum. Treatment of adult rats with the selective D2 dopamine receptor antagonist, haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg/day, s.c., for 2 h, 7, 14, 21 days or 21 days + 3 days withdrawal) had no effect on striatal D2 dopamine receptor mRNA levels in spite of significant increases in dopamine receptor density at the later time points. However, 21 days following a 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway, striatal D2 dopamine receptor mRNA levels were increased by 53%.
The paper describes the effects of various regimens of lithium chloride treatment on dexamethasone-induced increases in brain polyamine metabolizing enzymes. In contrast to peripheral tissues where acute lithium treatment suppresses the increase in ornithine decarboxylase activity, in the brain only chronic treatment was effective in preventing this increase and also the increases in the activities of S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase and spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase. This findings indicate a novel brain target for lithium's action and in turn provide new avenues for exploring polyamine function in the brain.
Systemic hypoxia, produced in deeply anesthetized, paralyzed rats in which arterial chemoreceptors were denervated, elicited a decrease in arterial pressure (AP) averaging -47 mmHg. Systemic administration of NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NO2Arg), an inhibitor of nitric oxide (NO) synthase, attenuated the hypoxic depressor response by 79% and elevated AP by 21 mmHg. The effects of L-NO2Arg on the hypoxic depressor response and arterial pressure were reversed by systemic administration of L- but not D-arginine. Elevation of AP with arginine-vasopressin or reduction of AP with nitroprusside to the pre-L-NO2Arg levels did not modify the fall of AP to hypoxia. Endogenous NO synthesized in vivo from L-arginine, mediates most of the hypoxic depressor response.
This manuscript reviews state-of-the-art mass spectrometric (MS) methodology for the qualitative (amino acid sequence determination) and quantitative analysis of opioid neuropeptides in human pituitary tissue. Those analytical data are required for the elucidation of the basic molecular mechanisms involved in tumor formation and to test the hypothesis that metabolic defects in neuropeptidergic system processing is a contributing factor to human anterior pituitary tumor formation. Several different neuropeptide products that derive metabolically from the proenkephalin A and proopiomelanocortin (POMC) precursors have been analyzed separately and together in human pituitaries, including post-mortem controls and post-surgical tumors. The quantification, with optimal molecular specificity, of a peptide in a tissue is an important measurement because the amount of an endogenous peptide reflects the ratio of its synthesis to its degradation and thus, any defects in those processes may be reflected in the amount of a peptide.
We investigated the reason for the high mortality we had observed in hypophysectomized-orchidectomized Golden Syrian hamsters that were anesthetized with intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of chloral hydrate (CH). Intact male Golden Syrian hamsters were injected intraperitoneally with 0.1cc/100g BW of a 35% solution of CH, a 35% solution of sodium chloride, or double-distilled water. Equal numbers of hamsters in each group were injected on the right or left side of the abdomen. Within 10 days, 35% of the CH-injected hamsters were dead or had to be euthanized. Autopsy revealed severe peritonitis and adynamic ileus. CH-injected hamsters that survived gained weight at a rate similar to that of the controls. All surviving hamsters were killed 18 days after the injections. Among the surviving CH-injected hamsters, 84.6% had intra-abdominal adhesions, 61.5% had unilateral testicular atrophy, and 53.8% had a yellowish necrotic mass in the epididymal fat pad (EFP). All the lesions occurred on the side that was injected. The atrophied testes had been rendered cryptorchid due to involvement with intra-abdominal adhesions. In the water-treated controls, there were no abnormalities; whereas, in the saline controls, 75% had a mass in the EFP. Histology of the EFP mass was similar in hamsters injected with CH or hypertonic saline and suggested a diagnosis of fat necrosis. The results suggest that the mortality, the intra-abdominal adhesions, and the unilateral cryptorchidism were caused by a single i.p. injection of CH, but the fat necrosis in the EFP was probably caused by high concentrations of salt. The results further suggest that high concentrations of CH should not be injected intraperitoneally for anesthesia in chronic studies, particularly of the male reproductive system.
The partial glycine agonist d-cycloserine may be of therapeutic use as a cognitive enhancer. We examined the ability of d-cycloserine (3-14 mg/kg i.m.) to reverse cognitive impairments induced by scopolamine (0.03 mg/kg) or PCP (0.25 mg/kg). There was no evidence for a dose-related improvement in visuospatial memory using retention intervals of 2,10 or 20 sec. A possible explanation for these findings is that central glycine function cannot be adequately increased using systemic administration of d-cycloserine in this dose range.
A polyclonal antibody to dopamine D2 receptor (D2-receptor) has been used to examine the immuno-inhibition in the binding of a D2 antagonist, [3H]YM09151-2 and an agonist, PPHT-fluorescein to dopamine receptor DNA transfected mouse fibroblast cells. The specific activity of the [3H]YM09151-2 binding to transfected (Ltk-RGB) cells is 4-5 fold higher than untransfected (Ltk-) cells. The antibody is able to inhibit the [3H]YM09151-2 binding to the cell membranes from Ltk-RGB cells (Bmax 110.56 +/- 5.26 and 76.20 +/- 5.18 fmoles/mg protein in the presence of preimmune and immune sera, respectively, with no change in the Kd). The flow cytometric analysis of the PPHT-fluorescein labeled Ltk- and Ltk-RGB cells indicated that ligand specific fluorescence is associated only with small Ltk-RGB cells (second peak) and autofluorescence with large cells (first peak). Preincubation of the Ltk-RGB cells with antibody, reduced the fluorescence intensity of the PPHT-fluorescein by 20-25% without changing the auto-fluorescence. These results suggest that peptide antibody recognize D2-receptor in both membranes and in intact cells and interact at or near the ligand binding site of the receptor.
The property of D2 dopamine receptors in the rat brain was evaluated after long-term dietary manipulation. Groups of rats were pair-fed with equicaloric diet containing low protein (8%)-high carbohydrate, high protein (52%)-low carbohydrate and normal protein (20%) for 36 weeks. The low protein-high carbohydrate fed rats exhibited a significant decrease in the density (Bmax) of D2 dopamine receptor in the striatum (28%) and the mesolimbic regions (36%) with no apparent change in the receptor affinity (Kd). These findings suggest that long-term consumption of a low protein-high carbohydrate diet, by decreasing D2 dopamine receptor density, may be an important determinant of central dopaminergic function.
Ethanol inhibited the mitogen-induced initial increase in cytoplasmic free-calcium [Ca2+]i in mouse splenocytes. This effect was concentration-dependent, reversible, and observed at pharmacologically relevant concentrations (24-166mM). Other short-chain alcohols such as propanol, butanol, and pentanol also inhibited this mitogen-induced increase in [Ca2+]i. The potencies of these alcohols to produce this effect were highly correlated (r = 0.98, p less than 0.001) with their membrane/buffer partition coefficients. Analysis of mouse splenocyte subpopulations demonstrated that this effect was manifest in both B and T lymphocytes. Within T lymphocyte subpopulations, both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were affected. These results suggest that the inhibition of [Ca2+]i increase may be an early event mediating ethanol-induced immunosuppression and that this may be a predisposing factor to infection and malignancies associated with alcoholism.
An opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met5]-enkephalin, interacts with the zeta (zeta) opioid receptor to modulate development of eukaryotes. We have found that [Met5]-enkephalin, an endogenous opioid peptide serves to inhibit the growth of S. aureus. This effect on growth involves cell proliferative events and is under tonic control, since potent opioid antagonists accelerate cell replication. Both the OGF and zeta opioid receptor were associated with these microorganisms. Other opioid receptors (mu, delta and kappa) were not detected. OGF also controlled the growth of other bacteria: P. aeruginosa and S. marcesans. These results indicate that OGF and its receptor, known to be important in the regulation of mammalian development, also function in the growth of simple unicellular organisms. We suggest that the endogenous opioid system related to growth originated billions of years ago.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and peptide YY (PYY) are homologous 36 amino acid amidated peptides that often, but not always, exert similar actions and binding profiles. The present study of cultured cells confirms that both peptides as well as radioiodinated analogs, i.e. 125I-Bolton-Hunter-NPY (125I-BH-NPY) and 125I-peptide YY (125I-PYY), show high affinity to binding sites/receptors of the previously proposed Y1- and Y2-subtypes, selectively expressed by the human neuroblastoma cell lines, SK-N-MC and SK-N-BE(2), respectively. In contrast, bovine adrenal chromaffin cells did not bind 125I-PYY, while displaying high affinity 125I-BH-NPY sites, and may therefore represent a cell type expressing a recently proposed Y3-type of (NPY-preferring) receptors. Several non-labeled fragments/analogs have been used in displacement experiments to further characterize the structural requirements for Y1-, Y2-, and Y3-type binding. In every instance, specific binding was reduced by addition of 5'-guanylylimidodiphosphate [Gpp(NH)p], indicating that the three receptor subtypes belong to the G-protein-coupled superfamily of receptors. Moreover, in both neuroblastoma cell lines, the peptides elicited, with appropriate orders of potency, reduction of forskolin-stimulated adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) accumulation. Finally, NPY-evoked 45Ca2+ influx was observed in SK-N-MC and in chromaffin cells. A common dual coupling mechanism of NPY/PYY receptors, i.e. to reduction of cAMP and to Ca2+ elevation, is therefore suggested to exist, although both phenomena could not be demonstrated in every cell type.
Recombinant inbred (RI) mice were used to genetically map sequences of a 43-kDa protein, P40, that was originally identified as a high-affinity laminin receptor. More recent data have implicated this protein in development of the retina (Rabacchi et al. Development 109: 521-531, 1990), possibly via its proposed function in protein translation (G. Brawerman, personal communication). We have identified, in Southern blots, a set of P40-related sequences in BXD recombinant inbred mouse DNA. Ten restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) segregate among the RI strains and display strain distribution patterns (SDPs) which are linked in varying degrees to previously typed loci on Chromosomes (Chrs) 1, 3, 6, 9, 11, 14, and 19. An intronic DNA probe from an incompletely processed P40 mRNA transcript overlaps with two of these loci mapping near the cholecystokinin gene locus on the distal arm of Chr 9 and to another site on the distal arm of Chr 6, suggesting that functional genes probably reside at least at these two sites. These P40 loci comprise part of a multimember gene family that is well dispersed in the mouse genome.

We designed an assignment for first-year medical students that included instruction in writing and in computer use, two important subjects that are usually neglected in the traditional curriculum. As part of a neuroscience course, students wrote an essay using a word processor and submitted it to the instructor via the campus computer network. If requested by the instructor, the students submitted a revision of their essays without a grade penalty. As a result of completing the assignment, students learned the importance of revision and were stimulated to learn more about computers. With only slight modification of medical school courses, faculty can place more emphasis on writing skills and computer literacy.

Two approaches were taken to address the possible role of gamma-subunit prenylation in dictating the cellular distribution of guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory proteins. Prenylation of gamma subunits was prevented by site-directed mutagenesis or by inhibiting the synthesis of mevalonate, the precursor of cellular isoprenoids. When beta or gamma subunits were transiently expressed in COS-M6 simian kidney cells (COS) cells, the proteins were found in the membrane fraction by immunoblotting. Immunofluorescence experiments indicated that the proteins were distributed to intracellular structures in addition to plasma membranes. Replacement of Cys68 of gamma with Ser prevented prenylation of the mutant protein and association of the protein with the membrane fraction of COS cells. Immunoblotting results demonstrated that some of the beta subunits were found in the cytoplasm when coexpressed with the nonprenylated mutant gamma subunit. When Neuro 2A cells were treated with compactin to inhibit protein prenylation, a fraction of endogenous beta and gamma was distributed in the cytoplasm. It is concluded that prenylation facilitates association of gamma subunits with membranes, that the cellular location of gamma influences the distribution of beta, and that prenylation is not an absolute requirement for interaction of beta and gamma.

Immunocytochemical localization of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the nervous system and aggregate tissue cultures was performed employing an antibody to 6-OH-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-beta-carboline. A number of immunochemical and biochemical tests with the antigen and the antibody and some procedural changes in the methodology applied for immunolocalization revealed the anti-5-HT-like affinity of the antibody, if applied in paraformaldehyde-fixed tissues. Studies in the hypothalamus, striatum, brainstem, spinal cord, and pineal gland show the complexities of the serotoninergic system. Ultrastructural immunocytochemistry with the preembedding technique reveals that 5-HT synapses are of the asymmetric type. The presynaptic element contains clear, round, small vesicles, with some large dense-core vesicles. The contacts are made with the somata and primary, secondary dendrites or with spines of non-5-HT neurons. Presynaptic dendrites are found in the n. raphe dorsalis, contacting non-5-HT dendrites. Double immunocytochemical methods demonstrated contacts of 5-HT fibers on enkephalin containing neurons of the spinal trigeminal nucleus and on somatostatin containing neurons of the medullary reticular formation. In vitro studies of cultured mesencephalic neurons were performed with the method of aggregating cultures. Such development of a miniature organized nerve tissue was followed up to 35 d in culture. Organization of the neuropil and synaptogenesis was studied using standard electron microscopy. The differentiation of neurons and astrocytes was studied using antibodies to 5-HT and GFAP. Serotonin immunoreactivity could be observed in neuronal bodies and processes at light microscope level as early as the fourth day of culture.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Spermine potentiates the action of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) at micromolar concentrations but is less effective at millimolar concentrations. In cultured cortical neurons we demonstrate that spermine enhances NMDA receptor currents in a unique manner. At low concentrations (1-10 microM) spermine enhances NMDA receptor current by increasing channel opening frequency, and at higher concentrations (greater than 10 microM) it produces, in addition, a voltage-dependent decrease in channel amplitude and average open time that limits its enhancing action. It is likely that these two actions of spermine, due to differences in concentration and voltage dependence, are mediated by independent sites on the NMDA receptor complex.
We measured choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activities in the rat to determine the time course of development, maturity, and senescence of ChAT activity. Tissue was obtained from Sprague-Dawley rats ranging in age from embryonic day 14 through 23 months. Seven regions were examined, including the magnocellular preoptic/substantia innominata region, frontal cortex, medial septal region, hippocampus, diagnoal band, and medial and lateral striatum. ChAT and AChE activities were first detected as early as E18 in the medial septum, diagonal band and magnocellular preoptic area, all regions of cholinergic cell bodies. Enzyme activity subsequently developed in terminal fields of these cholinergic perikarya (hippocampus and frontal cortex) as well as in the striatum. For all regions, enzyme activity rose during the first four postnatal weeks. This increase in enzyme activity was transient and, in most instances, decreases were observed between postnatal days 30 and 60. Most dramatic were the decreases in enzyme activity in the magnocellular preoptic/substantia innominata and diagonal band regions. Age-related declines also occurred in the frontal cortex, hippocampus, magnocellular preoptic/substantia innominata region, and the striatum. Cholinergic systems undergo dynamic changes especially during development and adulthood.

A long period of experimental work has led to the conclusion that Na+/K(+)-ATPase is the enzymatic version of the Na+/K+ pump. This enzymatic system is in charge of various important cell functions. Among them cationic equilibrium and recovering of resting membrane potential in neurons is relevant. A tetrameric ensemble of peptides conform the system known as alpha and beta subunits. The alpha subunit is subdivided in alpha 1, alpha 2 and alpha 3, according to different location and properties. Regulatory factors intrinsic to the Na+/K(+)-ATPase system are: ATP, Na+ and Mg2+ concentrations inside the cell, and K+ outside. The enzyme activity is also regulated by extrinsic factors like some hormones (insulin and thyroxine). Induction of gene expression or post-translational modifications of the preexisting pool of the enzyme are the basic mechanisms of regulation proposed. Other extrinsic factors that seem to regulate the enzyme activity are some neurotransmitters. Among them the most extensively studied are catecholamines, mainly norepinephrine (NE) and lately serotonin (5-HT). The mechanism suggested for NE activation of the enzyme seems to involve specific receptors or a non-specific chelating action related to the catechol group that would relieve the inhibition by divalent cations. Another possibility is that NE removes an endogenous inhibitory factor present in the cytoplasm. The Na+/K(+)-ATPase is activated also by 5-HT. In vivo pharmacological and nutriological manipulations of brain 5-HT are accompanied by parallel responses of Na+/K(+)-ATPase activity. Serotonin agonists do activate the enzyme and antagonists neutralize the activation. In vitro there is a different dose dependent activation, according to the brain region. The mechanism involved seems to implicate a specific receptor system. Serotonin-Na+/K(+)-ATPase interaction in the rat brain is probably of functional relevance because it disappears in amygdaloid kindling. Also it seems to influence the ionic regulation of the pigment transport mechanism in crayfish photoreceptors. In relation to other neurotransmitters, a weak response to histamine was observed with acetylcholine, GABA and glutamic acid, the results were negative.
Fred Samson's career began in osteopathy and show business. After service as a medic during World War II, he earned a doctoral degree in physiology at the University of Chicago and joined the faculty of the University of Kansas in Lawrence in 1952. There he conducted pioneering research on cerebral energy metabolism and axoplasmic transport while inspiring a generation of students in the classroom and lab. During the mid 1960s, he began a fruitful and lasting collaboration with the Neurosciences Research Program and its founder, Francis O. Schmitt. In 1973 he became director of the Ralph Smith Mental Retardation Research Center in Kansas City, where he added metabolic mapping of the brain in relation to seizure activity and drug toxicity to his research accomplishments. He retired in 1989, still pursuing new problems and continuing to inspire colleagues with his enthusiasm for neurochemistry and the joy of science.

This work addresses the physiological regulation of skeletal muscle acetylcholinesterase (AChE) isoforms by examining endplate-enriched samples from adult rat gracilis muscles 48 h after: low-intensity treadmill exercise; obturator nerve transection; nerve impulse conduction blockade by tetrodotoxin; acetylcholine (ACh) receptor (AChR) inactivation by alpha-bungarotoxin; and, addition of obturator nerve extracts to muscles in organ culture. Results document the important role(s) of functional AChRs and ACh-AChR interactions in the differential control of individual AChE isoenzymes. A theoretical model based on these and other findings considers that: AChR activation by spontaneously released ACh is the only neural factor required for the maintenance of G1 + G2 AChE; the amount of A12 AChE is determined by the combined effects of ACh and another neurogenic substance; although mechanisms intrinsic to myofibers control normal levels of G4 AChE, enhanced production of this isoform is initiated through increasing the frequency of ACh-AChR interactions.
The hypothalamopituitary-adrenal axis exhibits a diurnal rhythm as witnessed by the daily excursion of corticosterone in plasma. The rhythm appears to be mediated largely by the stimulation of CRH neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus. In the present study, we investigated the effects of circadian influence on CRH mRNA levels in the paraventricular hypothalamus. Animals were sacrificed through a 24-hour period to establish a detailed time course of CRH mRNA fluctuations. Levels of both type I and type II corticosterone receptor mRNAs were also measured in this area to see whether changes correlate with that of CRH mRNA. Plasma levels of ACTH were quantified as an index for CRH peptide secretion. The results indicate that changes in ACTH closely paralleled alterations in corticosterone levels with an increasing trend starting at 1 PM, suggesting that the diurnal secretory drive commences around this time. The CRH mRNA rhythm as determined by RNase protection assays appeared to change in an anticipatory fashion to these endocrine fluctuations, increasing during the light phase and reaching maximal levels just prior to dark (5-6 PM). An abrupt decrease of 30% in the CRH mRNA content was detected in the hypothalamus within 2 h after dark (8 PM) and coincided with the peak of plasma corticosterone levels. However, other periodic variations in the CRH mRNA content were not accompanied by changes in plasma corticosterone. Neither types of corticosterone receptor mRNAs showed any diurnal change suggesting that the expression of steroid receptors in the hypothalamus is not regulated by circadian influences. We conclude that CRH mRNA levels fluctuate diurnally but are inversely related to corticosterone levels only in the early evening.
A study has been undertaken to ascertain the changes in mortality from motor neurone disease (MND) and from multiple sclerosis (MS) in England and Wales and in the Republic of Ireland. During the 20 years 1968-1987, 16,077 deaths were reported as being primarily due to MND in England and Wales with a male/female ratio of 1.22. There has been an increase in MND deaths from 3,185 in 1968-1972 to 5,241 in 1983-1987. The increase occurred in the death rates in both sexes and in all age groups, but particularly over the age of 65. In contrast, there was no increase in MS deaths and the MS death rates fell below the age of 55 but increased over this age, evidence that MS patients are living longer. A similar but more marked increase in MND mortality, and a considerable fall in MS mortality, occurred in the Republic of Ireland. The increase in MND mortality is not due to an increase in the number of neurologists, as there has been little increase in their numbers. The highest MND mortality was in Social Class IIIN males - skilled non-manual workers.

A transgenic mouse line containing a fos-lacZ fusion gene was derived in which beta-galactosidase activity identified cell populations expressing fos either constitutively or after stimulation. Seizures and light pulses induced nuclear lacZ activity in defined populations of neurons in vivo, and an array of neurotransmitters, including glutamate, induced the transgene in primary brain cultures. In unstimulated mice, the major sites of fos-lacZ expression were skin, hair follicle, and bone. fos-lacZ mice provide a new avenue for activity mapping studies based on gene expression.

Two properties were found to distinguish neuronal from muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). First, neuronal nAChRs have a greater Ca2+ permeability. The high Ca2+ flux through neuronal nAChRs activates a Ca(2+)-dependent Cl- conductance, and the Ca2+ to Cs+ permeability ratio (PCa/PCs) is 7 times greater for neuronal than for muscle nAChRs. A second difference between the receptor types is that neuronal nAChRs are potently modulated by physiological levels of external Ca2+. Neuronal nAChR currents are enhanced by external Ca2+ in a dose-dependent manner. The results indicate that changes in extracellular Ca2+ modulate neuronal nAChRs and may modulate cholinergic synapses in the CNS. Also, activation of neuronal nAChRs produces a significant influx of Ca2+ that could be an important intracellular signal.
Transfection of 5-HT2 receptor cDNA in 293 cells induced the expression of a protein binding domain, exhibiting the classical 5-HT2 receptor transduction mechanism. Both [3H]DOB and [3H]spiperone high affinity binding sites were present in membranes of sense but not of antisense, 5-HT2 receptor cDNA transfected cells. Addition of 1 microM 5-HT induced a time-dependent increase of phosphoinositide (PI) metabolism in sense but not in antisense, 5-HT2 receptor cDNA transfected cells. Graded concentrations of 5-HT and of different serotonergic agonists showed different potencies (DOI greater than 5-HT greater than quipazine greater than DOM greater than alpha-methyl-5-HT greater than 8-OH-DPAT greater than 2-methyl-5-HT greater than CGS-12066B) in stimulating turnover of PI in cells transfected with cDNA encoding for 5-HT2 receptors of the rat. The ability of different antagonists to inhibit 5-HT-stimulated turnover of PI bore a direct relationship with their potency to inhibit 5-HT2 receptor binding in cells transfected with 5-HT2 receptor cDNA (spiperone greater than ketanserin greater than ritanserin greater than mianserin greater than haloperidol). Preincubation of transfected 293 cells with pertussis toxin failed to modify either 5-HT- or DOI-induced activation of metabolism of PI. Pretreatment of transfected 293 cells with DOI (100 nM) for 2 hr or more, significantly reduced activation of turnover of PI elicited by graded doses of 5-HT. When the transfected 293 cells were exposed to DOI (100 nM) for 12 hr and the challenge was performed after a 2-hr wash-out period, the desensitization of the response to 5-HT was virtually abolished.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Seven anterior aphasics, 7 nonbrain-damaged subjects and 7 normal controls were tested for their visual evoked potentials. Aphasics showed an attenuation of the long latency positivity related to interest in the stimulus. The attenuation may indicate the subject's failure to signal communicative intention. Thus the attenuated positivity may be a physiological correlate of a behavioral state (aphasia) induced by brain lesions.
We have examined the effects of sulpiride, oxypertine and haloperidol on the behavioral and biochemical dopamine receptor function in the rat striatum. Although acute treatment with haloperidol or oxypertine induced catalepsy, tolerance to catalepsy developed following chronic treatment with haloperidol but not with oxypertine. Rats treated with acute or chronic sulpiride did not show signs of catalepsy. Intracerebroventricular administration of sulpiride, however, induced catalepsy and tolerance developed after chronic treatment. After chronic treatment with either of these three drugs, dopamine D2 receptors were up-regulated in the striatum. While acute administration of haloperidol, sulpiride or oxypertine increased the concentration of homovanillic acid in the striatum, the rate of increases was attenuated following chronic treatment with haloperidol or sulpiride, but not with oxypertine. While acute administration of sulpiride or oxypertine decreased dopamine, the decrease was attenuated following repeated administration of sulpiride but not of oxypertine. These results suggest that the unique pharmacological profile of oxypertine may be related to its therapeutic effect of activating apathetic patients, and that both sulpiride and oxypertine may cause tardive dyskinesia, as haloperidol does.
Simon and his colleagues have demonstrated that the location of a stimulus in the sensory field, even if it is irrelevant for the task, may critically affect reaction time. This so-called 'Simon effect' is a general phenomenon that encompasses all sensory modalities. The experiment reported here showed that the tactile version of the Simon effect was additive on reaction time with the respective effects of stimulus intensity and of the within-hand/between-hand composition of the repertoire of fingers devoted to the task. In light of recent theoretical developments, the present data suggest that the locus of the Simon effect is stimulus identification, a perceptual stage which follows stimulus encoding and precedes stimulus-response translation.
The effect of morphine administered systemically or into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) on penile erection and yawning induced either by oxytocin or by the dopaminergic agonist apomorphine was studied in male rats. Systemic morphine (0.5 to 5 mg/kg intraperitoneally [IP]) prevented in a dose-dependent manner penile erection and yawning induced by the intracerebroventricular injection (ICV) of oxytocin (30 ng) or by the subcutaneous (SC) administration of apomorphine (80 micrograms/kg). Morphine (0.1 to 5 micrograms), but not U-69,593 (5 micrograms), injected into the PVN 10 minutes before oxytocin or apomorphine, was found to be able to prevent penile erection and yawning induced by the unilateral PVN microinjection of oxytocin (10 ng) or apomorphine (50 ng). The morphine-induced prevention of these behavioral responses was abolished by pretreatment with naloxone (3 mg/kg IP) 15 minutes before morphine. The present results suggest that morphine prevents apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced penile erection and yawning by inhibiting the activity of oxytocinergic neurons through mu-type receptors in this hypothalamic nucleus.
Magnocellular neurosecretory cells of the supraoptic nucleus (SON) are thought to be endogenously resistant to glutamate toxicity. In this study, we sought physiological and morphological evidence of this resistance in rats that received multiple peri-nuclear injections of ibotenate. In this preparation, ibotenate produced a large necrotic zone encompassing the SON but not within the nucleus itself. Extracellular recordings in vivo from 68 'spared' SON neurons from lesioned rats revealed normal patterns of electrical activity. Intracellular analysis in vitro from 13 'spared' SON neurons indicated that their intrinsic membrane properties, osmosensitivity and spontaneous synaptic activity did not differ significantly from that of controls. We conclude that SON neurons retain both a morphological and a physiological resistance to glutamate neurotoxicity.
Crush injury to rat sciatic nerves results in a 10-fold increase in the post-translational arginylation of proteins. In other systems, N-terminal arginylation leads to ubiquitination and proteolysis of the arginylated proteins. In the present experiments, proteins obtained from the 150 kg supernatant of crushed sciatic nerves were posttranslationally modified by 3H-arginine. These arginine modified proteins formed aggregates (precipitated at 20 kg) which then partially separated by SDS-PAGE were immunoreactive to a monoclonal antibody to ubiquitin. The results indicate that following injury to sciatic nerves, certain proteins are arginylated and ubiquitinated, probably targeting them for degradation. It is likely that these reactions help to rid cells of proteins damaged by the crush which would otherwise be cytotoxic.
We have previously suggested that kainic acid (KA) increases the fluorescence of a fluoroprobe for Ca2+ via activation of the non-NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartic acid) receptor in cultured hippocampal cells. The present study provides further evidence to support this suggestion. KA and NMDA increased the fluorescence occasionally in different subcellular loci of a single cell for each agonist, excluding the possibility that KA activated the NMDA receptor. KA elevated fluorescence in the cell whose membrane was voltage-clamped, thus eliminating possible Ca2+ entry through voltage-dependent channels. A monophasic response to KA was found to occur in the cells identified immunochemically as neurons. Even when the cells were cultured at different embryonic stages, KA responsiveness reached a peak at a rather fixed timepoint through the total age of neurons, while NMDA responsiveness continued to increase. This suggests that the Ca(2+)-permeable non-NMDA receptor is expressed according to a genetic schedule, but not to an artifactual effect of cell culture.

The present experiments were designed to examine the hypothesis that the degeneration of cholinergic nucleus basalis is related to the cognitive and neurophysiological deficits found in old age. Aged (26 months) rats were impaired both in the acquisition of spatial (water-maze) task and retention of passive avoidance task. During aging, neocortical electroencephalographic fast activity was decreased and high-voltage spindles increased. Loss of choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons correlated with the high-voltage spindle incidence and passive avoidance retention deficit. Unilateral ibotenate nucleus basalis lesioning decreased choline acetyltransferase activity in the cortex and produced a large nonspecific subcortical cell loss in young rats. Ibotenate-lesioned rats were impaired in spatial learning and passive avoidance retention in young rats. Quisqualic acid produced a greater decrease in cortical choline acetyltransferase activity and smaller nonspecific subcortical cell loss than ibotenate lesioning. Spatial learning was not impaired, but passive avoidance performance was disrupted. Slow waves and high-voltage spindles were increased and beta activity decreased on the side of either quisqualate or ibotenate nucleus basalis lesioning. These results demonstrate that age-related neurophysiological and cognitive deficits result partially from the loss of cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis and that quisqualic acid nucleus basalis-lesioning in young rats may be used as a pharmacological model of the age-related cholinergic neuron loss.
Fetal striatal neurons were transplanted into the ibotenic acid-lesioned rat striatum. Three months after transplantation, the graft tissue was processed for choline acetyltransferase- and substance P-like immunoreactivity and was subsequently examined at the light and electron microscopic levels. The study demonstrated that choline acetyltransferase- and substance P-like-immunoreactive neurons were homogenously present throughout fetal striatal grafts, although in decreased numbers compared with those in the normal rat striatum. The majority of the choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons had fusiform, oval, or polygonal somata with somatic diameters greater than 20 microns and contained deeply invaginated nuclei surrounded by copious cytoplasm. In addition, choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons with somatic diameters between 10 and 20 microns were also demonstrated. The grafts' substance P-like-immunoreactive neurons, which had somatic diameters between 10 and 25 microns and had oval or polygonal perikarya, could be classified into two types based on their ultrastructural characteristics. Type I neurons contained an unindented nucleus which was surrounded by a thin rim or moderate amount of cytoplasm, whereas Type II immunoreactive neurons contained an indented nucleus which was surrounded by copious cytoplasm. Choline acetyltransferase- and substance P-like-immunoreactive dendrites in the grafts' neuropil were contacted by multiple unlabeled axon terminals. In addition, choline acetyltransferase- and substance P-like-immunoreactive axon terminals forming symmetric contacts with unlabeled dendrites were present within the graft. The study demonstrated that many of the neuroanatomical features of choline acetyltransferase- and substance P-like-immunoreactive elements found in the normal rat striatum are present in mature fetal striatal grafts.
Quantitative receptor autoradiography was used to determine the distribution of excitatory amino acid binding sites in the basal ganglia of rat brain. alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid, N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate, quisqualate-sensitive metabotropic and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate, non-kainate, non-quisqualate glutamate binding sites had their highest density in striatum, nucleus accumbens, and olfactory tubercle. Kainate binding was higher in the lateral striatum but there was no medial-lateral striatal gradient for other binding sites. N-Methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid binding sites were most dense in the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle. There was no dorsal-ventral gradient within the striatal complex for the other binding sites. Other regions of the basal ganglia had lower densities of ligand binding. To compare binding site density within non-striatal regions, binding for each ligand was normalized to the striatal binding density. When compared to the striatal complex, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid and metabotropic binding sites had higher relative density in the globus pallidus, ventral pallidum, and subthalamic nucleus than other binding sites. Metabotropic binding also had a high relative density in the substantia nigra. Non-N-methyl-D-aspartate, non-kainate, non-quisqualate glutamate binding sites had a high relative density in globus pallidus, ventral pallidum, and substantia nigra. N-Methyl-D-aspartate binding sites had a low relative density in pallidum, subthalamic nucleus, substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. Our data indicate heterogeneous distribution of excitatory amino acid binding sites within rat basal ganglia and suggest that the character of excitatory amino acid-mediated neurotransmission within the basal ganglia is also heterogeneous.
Insulin-like growth factors have a number of potent trophic effects on cultured neural tissue and most if not all of these effects appear to be mediated by the type-I insulin-like growth factor receptor. In order to establish the identity of cell types expressing this receptor in the rat central nervous system during development and maturity, we have used in situ hybridization to map sites of type-I insulin-like growth factor receptor mRNA synthesis in the developing and adult rat brain. In order to identify possible local sources of peptide ligands for this receptor, we have also mapped the sites of insulin-like growth factors I and II mRNA synthesis in parallel brain sections. From early development onward, there is a uniform and stable pattern of type-I insulin-like growth factor receptor gene expression in all neuroepithelial cell lineages, in which regional variations reflect primarily differences in cell density. In addition to this generalized pattern, during late postnatal development, high levels of type-I insulin-like growth factor receptor gene expression are found in specific sets of sensory and cerebellar projection neurons in conjunction with abundant insulin-like growth factor-I gene expression in these same neurons. While insulin-like growth factor-I expression is confined to the principal neurons in each system, receptor mRNA is also found in local interneurons. In the cerebral cortex and hippocampal formation, type-I insulin-like growth factor receptor mRNA and insulin-like growth factor-I are concentrated in different cell populations: receptor mRNA is abundant in pyramidal cells in Ammon's horn, in granule cells in the dentate gyrus, and in pyramidal cells in lamina VI of the cerebral cortex. Insulin-like growth factor-I mRNA is found in isolated medium- to large-sized cells which are rather irregularly distributed throughout the hippocampus and isocortex. In the hypothalamus, receptor mRNA is concentrated in the suprachiasmatic nucleus but is in low abundance elsewhere, including the median eminence, while insulin-like growth factor-I mRNA is not detected in this region at all. Type-I insulin-like growth factor receptor and insulin-like growth factor-II mRNAs are both abundant in choroid plexus, meninges and vascular sheaths from early development to maturity, but insulin-like growth factor-II mRNA is not detected in cells of neuroepithelial origin at any stage of development. This study provides evidence for two fundamentally different patterns of gene expression for the brain type-I insulin-like growth factor receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Interleukin-1-like immunoreactivity has earlier been demonstrated by immunohistochemistry in the noradrenaline-containing chromaffin cells of the rat adrenal gland [Schultzberg et al. (1989) Neuroscience 30, 805-810; Schultzberg et al. (1987) J. Neurosci. Res. 18, 184-189]. In this study, we examine the regulation, upon cholinergic stimulation, of the expression of the cytokine interleukin-1 alpha in the rat adrenal gland. Interleukin-1 alpha and interleukin-1 alpha mRNA levels in the adrenal gland are affected by systemic administration of the cholinergic agonists nicotine (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) and carbachol (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.). Both drugs cause an increase in interleukin-1 alpha mRNA levels. In contrast to the increased mRNA levels, nicotine and carbachol reduce the interleukin-1 alpha protein level measured in the rat adrenal gland: nicotine by approximately 30%, 60 min after injection, and carbachol by approximately 55%, 30 min after injection. The interleukin-1 alpha protein level returns to control level 90 min after nicotine injection, and 120 min after carbachol injection. We thus found a large, constitutively expressed and inducible pool of interleukin-1 alpha in the rat adrenal gland, which appears to be sensitive to cholinergic stimulation and which may be responsible for some of the local and systemic effects of interleukin-1 alpha. Experiments with Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide show that this substance, which induces interleukin-1 expression and secretion in macrophages, is also able to induce the expression of interleukin-1 alpha mRNA and interleukin-1 alpha in the adrenal gland when injected at the dose of 2 mg/kg, i.p.
Immunocytochemical staining within the forebrain of lactating rats revealed oxytocin-immunoreactive perikarya in a continuum running from the anterior parvocellular hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus through the anterior commissural nucleus and perifornical region. Beaded axons could be seen arising from these perikarya to enter the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis. In sections cut at a 45 degree angle to the parasagittal plane, much of this pathway could be maintained intact, and in vitro tissue slices prepared in this orientation were used for electrophysiological studies of oxytocinergic innervation of the bed nuclei. By extracellular recording, neurons of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis were tested for their response to exogenous oxytocin and to stimulation of the paraventricular hypothalamus. Both short latency (3-40 ms) orthodromic excitation (26/78 neurons) and longer latency (greater than 100 ms) excitation (12/78 neurons) were observed following paraventricular hypothalamic stimulation, possibly representing mono- and polysynaptic inputs, respectively. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ blocked these orthodromic responses (n = 6). Antidromic invasion was seen in a further 11/78 neurons with characteristics of constant latency (mean = 5.9 +/- 0.7 ms), high frequency following (40-80 Hz) and persistence in Ca(2+)-free medium. When tested for the effect of oxytocin (10(-7) M), none (0/11) of the antidromically activated neurons were excited, but nine of 34 of the orthodromically excited neurons (both short and long latency) responded with a marked increase in activity. In three of eight cases, the orthodromic synaptic excitation following hypothalamic stimulation could be reversibly attenuated by the receptor antagonist [d(CH2)5,D-Tyr(OEt)2,Val4,Cit8]-vasopressin (0.5 or 2.5 x 10(-6) M), further substantiating the involvement of oxytocin. These data provide anatomical and electrophysiological evidence for an oxytocinergic innervation of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis. This pathway is discussed in terms of possible involvement in mediating the facilitatory effect of oxytocin on the milk-ejection reflex of lactating rats which has been suggested to act through this part of the limbic system.
A monoclonal antibody, 115AD5, was raised against GABA coupled to bovine serum albumin. The monoclonal antibody 115AD5 also reacted with other GABA-protein conjugates. The specificity of the monoclonal antibody was corroborated by enzyme-linked immunoassay, dot-immunobinding experiments and immunostaining of rat cerebellum sections. The monoclonal antibody 115AD5 could successfully be applied on Vibratome and cryostat sections using either indirect immunofluorescence or peroxidase techniques. In rat cerebellar cortex the monoclonal antibody 115AD5 gave an intense immunoreaction in stellate cells, in Golgi neurons, and in basket cells and their processes around Purkinje cell bodies. Purkinje cell dendrites showed GABA immunoreactivity while the cell bodies were non-reactive or only weakly reactive. There was labelling in some nuclei of Purkinje cells. GABA immunoreactivity was also found in dot-like structures in the granular layer. A large population of sensory neurons in rat thoracic and lumbar spinal dorsal root ganglia presented an intense immunoreactivity for the monoclonal antibody 115AD5. Nerve bundles immunoreactive for GABA were also seen in these ganglia. In the trigeminal ganglion, a major population of sensory neurons and some of their processes presented immunoreactivity for GABA. In the sensory nodose ganglion of the vagus nerve, many neuronal cell bodies and some fibres were immunoreactive for GABA. Ligation of the vagus nerve caudal to the ganglion resulted in an increased GABA immunoreactivity in neuronal somata of the ganglion, as well as in nerve fibres on the ganglionic side of the ligature. The present results suggest that in the rat, a population of sensory neurons in thoracic and lumbar spinal dorsal root ganglia, as well as in the trigeminal and nodose ganglia contain GABA. The presence of GABA immunoreactivity in these neurons raises the possibility of a neurotransmitter or modulator role.
The distribution and staining pattern of gamma-aminobutyric acid immunoreactivity have been examined by both light and electron microscopy in the dorsal part of the lateral geniculate nucleus of three reptilian species: the turtle Chinemys reevesi, the lizard Ophisaurus apodus and the snake Vipera aspis. After perfusion of the animals with 1% paraformaldehyde and 1% glutaraldehyde and polyethyleneglycol embedding of the brains, the analysis of sections processed immunocytochemically with an anti-GABA antiserum has revealed a moderate-to-dense labeling of the neurons of the dorsal part of the lateral geniculate complex in these species. Labeled cell bodies are small-sized, either rounded or fusiform and the GABA-positive dendrites emerging from them are not preferentially oriented in any particular direction. Quantitative studies in Vipera indicate that GABA-positive neurons make up about 14% of the population of neurons of the dorsal part of the lateral geniculate nucleus. Electron microscopy of specimens treated by either pre- or post-embedding techniques has confirmed that these cells corresponded to neurons. No glial cells were ever observed to be immunopositive. These GABA-positive neurons, characterized by the presence of pleiomorphic synaptic vesicles localized either in their perikaryon or more often in presynaptic dendrites, established symmetrical synaptic contacts. In this case, the latter were involved both pre- and postsynaptically in serial and, more rarely, in triadic arrangements, a synaptic organization specific to interneurons. The involvement of such GABA-positive neurons in local circuits is discussed.
The goal of the present study was to identify the cells containing mRNA coding for the m2 subtype of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in the rat brain. In situ hybridization histochemistry was used, with oligonucleotides as hybridization probes. The distribution of cholinergic cells was examined in consecutive sections with probes complementary to choline acetyltransferase mRNA. Furthermore, the microscopic distribution of muscarinic cholinergic binding sites was examined with a non-selective ligand ([3H]N-methylscopolamine) and with ligands proposed to be M1-selective ([3H]pirenzepine) or M2-selective ([3H]oxotremorine-M). The majority of choline acetyltransferase mRNA-rich (i.e. cholinergic) cell groups (medial septum-diagonal band complex, nucleus basalis, pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei, nucleus parabigeminalis, several motor nuclei of the brainstem, motoneurons of the spinal cord), also contained m2 mRNA, strongly suggesting that at least a fraction of these receptors may be presynaptic autoreceptors. A few groups of cholinergic cells were an exception to this fact: the medial habenula and some cranial nerve nuclei (principal oculomotor, trochlear, abducens, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus). Furthermore, m2 mRNA was not restricted to cholinergic cells but was also present in many other cells throughout the rat brain. The distribution of m2 mRNA was in good, although not complete, agreement with that of binding sites for the M2 preferential agonist [3H]oxotremorine-M, but not with [3H]pirenzepine binding sites. Regions where the presence of [3H]oxotremorine-M binding sites was not correlated with that of m2 mRNA are the caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle and islands of Calleja. The present results strongly suggest that the M2 receptor is expressed by a majority of cholinergic cells, where it probably plays a role as autoreceptor. However, many non-cholinergic neurons also express this receptor, which would be, presumably, postsynaptically located. Finally, comparison between the distribution of m2 mRNA and that of the proposed M2-selective ligand [3H]oxotremorine-M indicates that this ligand, in addition to M2 receptors, may also recognize in certain brain areas other muscarinic receptor populations, particularly M4.
The framework of the equilibrium point hypothesis has been used to analyse motor control processes for single-joint movements. Virtual trajectories and joint stiffness were reconstructed for different movement speeds and distances when subjects were instructed either to move &quot;as fast as possible&quot; or to intentionally vary movement speed. These instructions are assumed to be associated with similar or different rates of change of hypothetical central control variables (corresponding to the speed-sensitive and speed-insensitive strategies). The subjects were trained to perform relatively slow, moderately fast and very fast (nominal movement times 800, 400 and 250 ms) single-joint elbow flexion movements against a constant extending torque bias. They were instructed to reproduce the motor command for a series of movements while ignoring possible changes in the external torque which could slowly and unpredictably increase, decrease, or remain constant. The total muscle torque was calculated as a sum of external and inertial components. Fast movements over different distances were made with the speed-insensitive strategy. They were characterized by an increase in joint stiffness near the midpoint of the movements which was relatively independent of movement amplitude. Their virtual trajectories had a non-monotonic N-shape. All three arms of the N-shape scaled with movement amplitude. Movements over one distance at different speeds were made with a speed-sensitive strategy. They demonstrated different patterns of virtual trajectories and joint stiffness that depended on movement speed. The N-shape became less apparent for moderately fast movements and virtually disappeared for the slow movements. Slow movements showed no visible increase in joint stiffness.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of scopolamine and atropine upon the increase in extracellular 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid induced by central injection of neurotensin was examined in the nucleus accumbens and the striatum of anaesthetized rats using in vivo differential pulse voltammetry with carbon fibre electrodes. Scopolamine (1 and 3 mg/kg, i.p.) and atropine (20 micrograms, i.c.v.) did not alter the 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid level in the nucleus accumbens or the striatum, measured for 60 min after administration. Neurotensin (10 micrograms, i.c.v.) increased the 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid peak height in both regions. Pretreatment with scopolamine (1 mg/kg) 15 min before neurotensin injection blocked the increase in extracellular 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the striatum but not in the nucleus accumbens whilst scopolamine (3 mg/kg) partially attenuated the effect of neurotensin in the nucleus accumbens and blocked the increase in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the striatum. Atropine partially attenuated the effect produced by neurotensin in the nucleus accumbens and blocked the increase in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid induced by the peptide in the striatum. However, the increase in extracellular 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid induced by haloperidol (1 mg/kg, s.c.) was not altered by scopolamine (1 mg/kg) or atropine. Also, the increase in dopamine metabolism in the nucleus accumbens and the striatum after centrally injected haloperidol (10 micrograms, i.c.v.) was not altered by atropine (20 micrograms, i.c.v.). Together, the results demonstrate a functional interaction between muscarinic antagonists and neurotensin on in vivo dopamine metabolism in the nucleus accumbens and the striatum but with a greater effect in the latter region.
The effect of a unilateral intrastriatal microinjection of pertussis toxin on the expression of proneurotensin and preproenkephalin A mRNAs in the adult rat neostriatum was investigated using a technique of non-radioactive in situ hybridization. Control sham microinjected animals received an equal volume of vehicle only and were processed in parallel with the pertussis toxin-treated rats. All rats were allowed to recover from the stereotaxic surgery for 22 h before being killed and their brains rapidly removed and processed for in situ hybridization using alkaline phosphatase-labelled oligonucleotide probes. In comparison to sham microinjected rats, a single intrastriatal microinjection of pertussis toxin (1 microgram) resulted in a significant increase in the amount of both proneurotensin and preproenkephalin A mRNAs in the ipsilateral neostriatum. For proneurotensin mRNA, this increase was reflected by a substantial increase in the number of mRNA-containing cells detected. Proneurotensin mRNA-containing cells detected in the nucleus accumbens appeared to be unaffected by the intrastriatal pertussis toxin microinjection. In contrast, the significant increase in preproenkephalin A mRNA, when compared to the contralateral uninjected striatum and the ipsilateral striatum of control sham injected rats, was reflected by an increase in the cellular amount of preproenkephalin A mRNA and not by an increase in the number of mRNA-containing cells detected. These results demonstrate that the expression of both proneurotensin mRNA and preproenkephalin A mRNA in the adult rat striatum are rapidly increased in vivo by an intrastriatal microinjection of pertussis toxin.
In situ hybridization techniques were used to analyse the spatiotemporal pattern of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA elevation associated with kainic acid-induced seizure activity in the rat. Pronounced increases in hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels were observed as early as 30 min following the onset of behavioral seizures. The greatest increase (10-fold) occurred in the dentate granule cell layer, while pyramidal layers CA1, CA3, and CA4 exhibited increases of two- to six-fold. Peak elevation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in CA1 hippocampal region was evident at 4 h in CA3, and in the dentate granule layer at 30 min postseizure. Elevations persisted in the dentate and hilar regions to four days, while the increases in CA1 and CA3 returned to control levels by 16 h following seizure. Significant increases in brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA were also observed in the superficial layers of cortex (II and III) and in the piriform cortex which reached peak elevations by 8 h. No detectable changes were observed in the dorsomedial thalamus. Although histologically defined pyramidal and granule cell layers displayed relatively uniform increases in brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in response to kainate, a closer examination of the labeling patterns using emulsion autoradiography revealed discrete areas of high grain densities overlapping uniform, moderate hybridization densities in the dentate granule cell layer and CA3, suggesting that the capacity to upregulate brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in these regions may differ among individual neurons. In conclusion, our studies revealed that brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA induction in response to systemic kainate administration differs in hippocampal and cortical areas, in magnitude, time of onset and duration. The observed temperospatial pattern does not correspond in a simple way to increases in metabolic or electrical activity associated with seizures or neuronal vulnerability coincident with the seizures.
The effects of stimulating the laterodorsal tegmental cholinergic nucleus upon inhibitory postsynaptic potentials recorded in relay cells of the anterior thalamic complex were studied in urethane-anesthetized cats. The inhibitory postsynaptic potentials induced in anterior thalamic relay cells by stimulating mammillary nuclei or retrosplenial cortex are generated by local-circuit inhibitory neurons since this nuclear complex is devoid of afferents from the other intrathalamic source of inhibition, the reticular thalamic nucleus. In a parallel study from this laboratory, it has been shown that cortical stimulation elicits a biphasic inhibitory postsynaptic potential consisting of two (A and B) components attributed to axonal firing of local interneurons, whereas mammillary stimulation elicits, in addition to the A-B sequence, an earlier component (a) presumably generated by presynaptic dendrites in thalamic glomeruli. In the present study, short pulse-trains applied to the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus diminished the amplitudes of A and B inhibitory components or completely suppressed them. The B component was more sensitive to the depressive effect. By contrast with the changes of the A and B components, the mammillary-evoked a inhibitory component was not reduced and, in many instances, was enhanced following laterodorsal tegmental stimulation. The effects of laterodorsal tegmental stimulation survived monoamine depletion by reserpine. We suggest that mesopontine cholinergic depressive actions on A and B inhibitory postsynaptic potentials may be due to an increased conductance in thalamocortical cells during the short-lasting nicotinic action combined with a somatic hyperpolarization of local-circuit cells, whereas the enhancement of the earliest (a) inhibitory postsynaptic potential reflects a concomitant potentiating action at the level of intraglomerular presynaptic dendrites.
The effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced lesions of the basal forebrain were studied on performance of a series of visual discrimination tests that examined a range of cognitive functions in the marmoset. These included the ability to attend to the various dimensional properties of stimuli and to use just one of these properties in order to solve a discrimination (intra-dimensional shift); to switch attention from one dimension to another (extra-dimensional shift); to learn the reinforcement value of specific exemplars within a dimension (new learning); and to relearn their reinforcement value following reversal of the reward contingencies (serial reversals). Lesions of the basal forebrain did not impair the ability either to attend selectively to the dimensional properties of the stimuli or to switch attention from one dimension to the other. However, the lesion did affect various aspects of associative learning including a transient impairment of new learning and a marked disruption of serial reversal learning. The reversal deficit could be characterised as a tendency to perseverate on the previously correct stimulus and as a failure to to show the formation of a reversal learning set. In addition, the lesion prevented disruption of performance of a well-learned discrimination when novel exemplars from the irrelevant dimension were introduced (probe test). It is suggested that the functional effects of the basal forebrain lesion reflect impaired learning of stimulus-reward associations and behavioural rigidity. The finding, however, that there was no effect of the lesion on attentional set-shifting suggests that any loss of inhibitory control was specific to the level of stimulus-response or stimulus-reward associations, inhibitory control at the level of attentional selection remaining intact. The similarity of the effects of damage to the basal forebrain to those seen following damage to the orbitofrontal cortex and the amygdala are discussed in the context of the close anatomical and functional relationships that exist among these three structures.
Since both perivascular nerves and the endothelium are involved in the control of the tone of smooth muscle in the wall of blood vessels, we decided to test whether electrical stimulation of perivascular nerves might lead to structural and immunocytochemical changes in the vascular endothelium. Long-term electrical stimulation in vivo of perivascular nerves of the rabbit central ear artery was applied. The results indicate that chronic stimulation of perivascular nerves for 10 days induced structural changes and the appearance of calcitonin gene-related peptide- and neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity in a subpopulation of endothelial cells.
Stimulation of somatic or visceral nociceptors causes changes in gastrointestinal motor activity and blood pressure. The present study examined the possible participation of capsaicin-sensitive afferent and noradrenergic efferent neurons in the blood pressure and gastric motor responses to laparotomy and intraperitoneal injection of capsaicin or hydrochloric acid in the rat. Gastric motor activity was measured by recording the intragastric pressure of phenobarbital-anaesthetized rats via an oesophageal catheter. Laparotomy as well as intraperitoneal injection of capsaicin (33 and 330 microM) or hydrochloric acid (30 mM) caused a transient reduction of gastric motor activity stimulated by intravenous infusion of bombesin (200 pmol/min) and a brief fall of blood pressure (depressor effect). The depressor effect of laparotomy was followed by prolonged hypertension. Defunctionalization of capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons by systemic pretreatment of rats with capsaicin (0.4 mmol/kg) prevented the depressor effect and gastric motor inhibition elicited by laparotomy, intraperitoneal capsaicin (33 microM) or intraperitoneal hydrochloric acid (30 mM). However, the effects of 330 microM capsaicin on blood pressure and gastric motility were only partially reduced by capsaicin pretreatment. Blockade of noradrenergic sympathetic neurons by pretreating rats with guanethidine (0.225 mmol/kg) prevented the gastric motor inhibition and depressor effects of laparotomy and intraperitoneal injection of hydrochloric acid (30 mM). The inhibition of gastric motility caused by capsaicin (33 and 330 microM) was only partially reduced by guanethidine pretreatment. The secondary hypertension following the depressor effect of intraperitoneal capsaicin or hydrochloric acid was enhanced in guanethidine-pretreated rats whereas the prolonged hypertension induced by laparotomy was left unchanged.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Our electrophysiological studies in female mice have demonstrated that electrical stimulation of the accessory olfactory bulb excites tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic arcuate neurons via the amygdala-stria terminalis route. This study shows that the medial preoptic area is identified as an additional relay for the excitatory transmission by examining the effectiveness of locally infused lignocaine anaesthetic in blocking the transmission and that of electrical stimulation in evoking a shorter latency response. Based on the known immunohistochemical findings, further attention is focused on a transmitter mediating synaptic transmission in the medial preoptic area. The cholecystokinin-B type receptor antagonist L-365,260 (0.3, 0.6, 0.9 pmol), but not the A type receptor antagonist L-364,718 (0.9 pmol), infused into the medial preoptic area, blocked the excitation of tuberoinfundibular arcuate neurons in a dose-dependent manner. Conversely, cholecystokinin octapeptide (0.6 pmol) increased firing activity in such neurons. The antagonizing effect of L-365,260 was reproduced in the context of the olfactory block to pregnancy: bilateral infusions of this drug into the medical preoptic area of recently mated females immediately before exposures to strange males' pheromones prevented them from inducing pregnancy block. These findings implicate cholecystokinin acting on cholecystokinin-B receptors in the medial preoptic area as a mediator of olfactory influences on reproductive physiology.
Mobilisable intracellular Ca2+ stores are highly enriched in the cerebellum, particularly in Purkinje cells. We have detected, by light and electron microscopy, striking morphological changes in the presumed Ca2+ stores of Purkinje cells when slices of eight-day-old rat cerebellum were incubated in Ca(2+)-deficient media. After 30 min under these conditions, the endoplasmic reticulum became thinned and elongated. By 2 h, it was transformed into multilamellar, whorl-like inclusions with electron-dense cores. These changes were reversed on reintroduction of Ca2+. Analogous changes in other neurons were not observed. The results suggest that Ca2+ storage sites within Purkinje cells are capable of dramatic morphological change depending on the availability of Ca2+. The transformations may reflect, initially, depletion of Ca2+ from the stores and then homeostatic alterations in their capacity.
Thymopoietin, a 48-49-amino acid polypeptide present in the thymus gland, was investigated as a potential ligand for the neuronal nicotinic alpha-bungarotoxin binding site in rat brain. Binding of [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin to whole rat brain sections was inhibited by thymopoietin in a concentration-dependent manner with an IC50 of 30.0 +/- 8.2 nM as compared to 1.1 +/- 0.3 nM for alpha-bungarotoxin. However, at concentrations of thymopoietin of up to 1 microM, [3H]nicotine binding to high affinity sites was not inhibited. Thysplenin, a polypeptide with considerable homology to thymopoietin did not affect [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding. These results suggest that thymopoietin selectively interacts with the nicotinic alpha-bungarotoxin binding site labelled by [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin rather than the neuronal nicotinic receptor(s) labelled by [3H]nicotine. Autoradiographic studies revealed that 1 microM thymopoietin almost completely inhibited [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding in all brain regions. Computer-assisted image analysis of displacement curves was performed on various brain areas rich in alpha-bungarotoxin binding, such as the dorsal endopiriform nucleus, fields 1 and 2 of Ammon's horn, the polymorph cell layer of the dentate gyrus and cortical layers 4 and 5. Thymopoietin inhibited [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding with similar potency in all these regions, suggesting that it interacted at the same site in the different brain areas. The IC50 values averaged over the six regions were 24.6 +/- 2.8 nM for thymopoietin and 1.2 +/- 0.2 nM for alpha-bungarotoxin. These results show that thymopoietin specifically interacted with the alpha-bungarotoxin site with a similar potency in different brain regions. It is suggested that thymopoietin represents a selective ligand for alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites in brain.
The potent reinforcing effects of cocaine can readily become associated with salient environmental stimuli that acquire secondary reinforcing properties. This phenomenon is of considerable significance as intense craving can be evoked by stimuli previously associated with the effects of cocaine. It has been proposed that the reinforcing properties of these conditional stimuli are due to their ability to elicit neural events that are similar to those produced by the drug itself. Given the large body of evidence that implicates the mesolimbic dopaminergic projection in the unconditioned behavioural properties of cocaine, the present study used in vivo microdialysis to determine whether stimuli paired with cocaine elicit increases in interstitial dopamine in the nucleus accumbens that are similar to the unconditioned effects of this drug. When administered acutely, cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) produced a potent unconditioned increase in interstitial dopamine concentrations (300% of basal values) in the nucleus accumbens. The results from two separate experiments indicate that the administration of cocaine (10 mg/kg for seven days) in association with a specific environment produced significant locomotion in that environment. Compared to subjects that received saline in both settings, rats that received cocaine in their home cage (pseudoconditioned group) did not exhibit increased locomotion on the test day. Although repeated pairing of cocaine with a specific environment produced conditioned locomotion, there was no concomitant conditional increase in dopamine release. Specifically, the modest increase in dopamine (10-15% above basal values) observed after exposure to the conditional environment was equal in the conditioned and pseudoconditioned groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The rostral ventromedial medulla is part of a neural network through which systemically administered morphine produces antinociception. Two physiologically characterized classes of presumed nociceptive modulating neurons that respond differentially to systemically administered morphine have been identified in this region: the firing of &quot;on-cells&quot; is depressed, whereas &quot;off-cells&quot; become continuously active. On-cells have been proposed to permit or facilitate, and off-cells to inhibit, nociceptive transmission. Because local application of morphine in the rostral ventromedial medulla itself is sufficient to produce antinociception, it is important to determine whether systemically administered morphine exerts its effects on neurons in this region by a direct action. Thus, activity of physiologically characterized neurons was studied before, during and after ionotophoretic administration of morphine. As with systemic administration, iontophoretic application of morphine depresses the activity of on-cells, an effect that is reversed by iontophoretic as well as by systemic administration of naloxone. In contrast, no reliable changes in the firing of off-cells are produced by iontophoretic administration of morphine. Cells of a third class, &quot;neutral cells&quot;, are not affected by systemic morphine administration, nor do they respond to iontophoretic application of the drug. The present experiments demonstrate that direct opioid responsiveness in the rostral ventromedial medulla is limited to a single physiologically characterized class of presumed nociceptive modulatory neuron, the on-cell. This implies that the antinociceptive effect exerted by systemically administered morphine involves at least two components within the rostral ventromedial medulla: a direct inhibition of on-cells, and an indirect activation of off-cells. Each of these actions is likely to have a net hypoalgesic effect.
A noxious mechanical or chemical stimulus to the ventral skin of one hindpaw induced the expression of FOS proteins ipsilaterally in the spinal dorsal horn neurons in the rat. The number of FOS-labelled cells reached a maximum at 2-3 h, and decayed to basal levels within 6 h after the stimulus. When a first noxious stimulus was applied to the contralateral hindpaw 1-1.5 h prior to this stimulus, the number of FOS-labelled cells increased, over all laminae, to 153% (mechanical) and 164% (chemical) compared to the number produced by a single stimulus. This effect of a prior stimulus in increasing the number of FOS-labelled cells produced by a contralateral stimulus persisted for several hours after the first stimulus. The results are interpreted as a sensitization of dorsal horn neurons induced by peripheral noxious stimuli, which is manifest at the molecular biological level.
Our previous studies indicate that endogenous opioids (primarily beta-endorphin) released during stressful stimuli can interact with peripheral opioid receptors to inhibit nociception in inflamed tissue of rats. This study sought to localize opioid precursor mRNAs and opioid peptides deriving therefrom in inflamed tissue, identify opioid containing cells and demonstrate their functional significance in the inhibition of nociception. In rats with Freund's adjuvant-induced unilateral hindpaw inflammation we show that: (i) pro-opiomelanocortin and proenkephalin-mRNAs (but not prodynorphin mRNA) are abundant in cells of inflamed, but absent in non-inflamed tissue; (ii) numerous cells infiltrating the inflamed subcutaneous tissue are stained intensely with beta-endorphin and [Met]enkephalin (but only few scattered cells with dynorphin) antibodies; (iii) beta-endorphin is present in T- and B-lymphocytes, monocytes and macrophages; and (iv) whole-body irradiation suppresses stress-induced antinociception in the inflamed paw. Taken together, these data suggest that endogenous opioid peptides are synthesized and processed within various types of immune cells at the site of inflammation. Immunosuppression abolishes the intrinsic antinociception in inflammatory tissue confirming the functional significance of these cells.
Using light and electron microscopy, a study has been made of the changes of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity in rat lumbar spinal cord motoneurons during cell body response to sciatic nerve injury. At light microscopy level, calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity was evaluated using an indirect immunofluorescence technique combined with Fast Blue retrograde tracing and a peroxidase-antiperoxidase procedure. The calcitonin gene-related peptide changes to sciatic nerve transection and crushing were compared. Calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity was transiently increased after the peripheral nerve lesion, but the response was sustained for a longer period when the peripheral nerve was transected and nerve regeneration prevented. The first changes in calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity were detected four days after nerve crush or transection. In animal spinal cords to which nerve crush had been applied, the maximal enhancement of immunoreactivity was found 11 days after lesion. This was followed by a gradual decline, normal levels being attained 45 days after nerve crushing. When the nerve was transected, the response was similar, but the maximal calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity was maintained over a period of between 11 and 30 days. As with crushing, an important decrease was observed after 45 days. The ultrastructural compartmentation of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity was studied using either peroxidase-antiperoxidase method or immunogold labelling. Calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immuno-reactivity was located in restricted sacs of the Golgi complex, multivesicular bodies, small vesicles and tubulo-vesicular structures. Large, strongly labelled vesicles resembling secretory granules were also observed in neuronal bodies. Our results reveal that the increase of calcitonin gene-related peptide in motoneurons is a relevant change the cell body undergoes in response to peripheral injury. The ultrastructural location of the peptide distribution suggests specific compartmentation on tubulo-vesicular structures connected with the Golgi complex which form a network in the neuronal cytoplasm. The distribution pattern observed may be related to the sorting and delivery of calcitonin gene-related peptide to secretory vesicles.
In situ hybridization histochemistry and in vivo microdialysis were combined to study the effect of amphetamine on the expression of choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase67 mRNA and in vivo release of acetylcholine and GABA in rat medial nucleus accumbens. Differential effects on acetylcholine and GABA neurons by a single challenge injection of amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg, s.c.) were apparent in saline-pretreated and amphetamine-pretreated (same dose, twice daily for the previous seven days) rats. Extracellular acetylcholine levels were increased up to 50% over a prolonged period following both single and repeated amphetamine. In contrast, extracellular concentrations of GABA were gradually decreased to half the control values, but only in rats receiving repeated amphetamine. Although the increase of acetylcholine release was not associated with any change in choline acetyltransferase mRNA levels, the number of neurons expressing high levels of glutamate decarboxylase67 mRNA was decreased (28%) following repeated injections. Thus we suggest that amphetamine decreases extracellular GABA levels by a slow mechanism, associated with the decreased expression of glutamate decarboxylase67 mRNA in a subpopulation of densely labeled neurons in the medial nucleus accumbens. The delayed response by GABA to amphetamine may reflect supersensitivity in the activity of postsynaptic gamma-aminobutyric acid-containing neurons in nucleus accumbens as a consequence of the repeated amphetamine treatment.
In the substantia nigra pars compacta neurons can be classified in two sub-populations. In this study the distinguishing criteria have been the presence of four distinct calcium-dependent potentials, two each generated selectively and exclusively in each cell type. One class of cells, found in the more caudal pars compacta, displays calcium-mediated, slow oscillatory potentials which occur spontaneously and generate long-duration afterhyperpolarizations. A second, much faster calcium spike can be evoked after the blockade of sodium and potassium channels. This spike has a high generation threshold and is followed by a fast afterhyperpolarization. The other group of neurons is distributed principally in the rostral substantia nigra, at the level of the mammilary bodies. In these cells, a low-threshold calcium spike is generated that (i) inactivates at depolarized potentials, (ii) has no active negative phase, and (iii) causes burst firing action potentials. In all these three respects, this transient differs from the slow oscillatory potential in the more caudal group of neurons. In addition, a short-duration calcium-dependent potential can be evoked at a high threshold. Both the low- and high-threshold spikes of the rostral cells are attenuated in experiments where dendrites have been sectioned prior to the recording. The membrane properties of the caudal cell group, including the fast calcium spike, are unaffected by dendritic sectioning. It is suggested that in the guinea-pig the calcium conductances in the caudal neurons operate in or near the cell body and might play a large (though not necessarily exclusive) role in regulating autorhythmicity. In the more rostral cells, the characteristics of their particular calcium conductances which seem to be located more distally would prompt a mediating function in the secretion, and subsequent action, of neuroactive substances from dendrites.
The quasi-steady-state distribution volume of brain glucose was measured using 3-O-[14C]methylglucose quantitative autoradiography in a group of rats (n = 5) which 12-15 weeks previously had undergone unilateral ibotenic acid-induced lesion of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis, followed by implantation into ipsilateral neocortex of primordial basal forebrain cell suspensions. The effects of the lesion and the presence of transplanted tissue in neocortex were visualized by acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. The 3-O-[14C]methylglucose tracer was distributed homogeneously throughout the host brain areas analysed, with no side-to-side differences, despite a marked unilateral depletion of acetylcholinesterase activity ipsilateral to the lesion site. Whilst the transplants were indistinguishable from the homogeneity of surrounding host frontal cortex, there was a 70% increase in the apparent distribution volume of methylglucose localized around the ibotenate injection site and associated needle tract. Brain glucose content is an important experimental variable affecting the lumped constant of the 2-deoxyglucose technique. There was no evidence of any significant difference in the lumped constant between transplant and host tissue which might compromise the validity of the 2-deoxyglucose technique when used together with intracerebral implantation of fetal neuronal cell suspensions.
We undertook this study to determine whether the microglia, the resident macrophages of the central nervous system, turn over in the steady-state. The turnover of brain macrophages would lend support to the &quot;Trojan Horse&quot; hypothesis of central nervous system infection, since one origin of replacement cells is the circulating monocyte pool. We combined the immunohistochemical detection of F4/80, a specific macrophage marker, with [3H]thymidine incorporation and autoradiography in normal adult mice. We could detect double-labelled cells in the brains of mice perfused 60 min after isotope administration. Such cells were few in number, randomly scattered throughout the brain and had the morphology of typical resident cells. The labelling index at this survival time was 0.052 +/- 0.003%. Thus resident microglia can synthesise DNA in situ. After longer survival times, we detected larger numbers of double-labelled cells. F4/80+ cells with resident morphology, mitotic figures, pairs of closely apposed (daughter) cells and cells with rounded macrophage-like morphology, all exhibited silver labelling. Twenty-four hours after isotope administration the labelling index was 0.192 +/- 0.052%. From morphologic evidence and comparison of labelling indices at different survival times, we concluded that: (i) resident microglia can synthesise DNA and go on to divide in situ; (ii) cells are recruited from the circulating monocyte pool through an intact blood-brain barrier and rapidly differentiate into resident microglia. We estimate that the two processes contribute almost equally to the steady-state turnover of resident microglia.
We have performed a qualitative and quantitative analysis of the electrophysiological properties of medial septal neurons in the unanesthetized rat. The rat's head was held in a stereotaxic apparatus by a painless head-restrained system that was implanted seven days prior to the recording sessions. Extracellular recordings were made in a mixed population of antidromically identified septohippocampal neurons and unidentified medial septal neurons in different states of arousal and in response to peripheral and reticular stimulations. The spontaneous activity as well as the percentage of rhythmically bursting septal neurons varied significantly according to the state of arousal. Higher values were noted in paradoxical sleep (28 imp/s and 94% of bursting neurons) as compared with wakefulness with hippocampal theta rhythm (17.4 imp/s and 64.2% of bursting neurons) and slow wave sleep (12.3 imp/s and 8% of bursting neurons). The frequency of the bursts was significantly higher during paradoxical sleep. In individual medial septal neurons, arousing stimuli and paradoxical sleep could induce rhythmic bursting activity in previously non-bursting neurons provided that they were fast-firing neurons. No differences were noted in the functional characteristics of neurons in the medial septal nucleus as compared with the diagonal band of Broca. When the unanesthetized rats were compared with a group of urethane-anesthetized rats, the spontaneous activity was higher and more irregular in the absence of anesthesia. The percentage of the bursting neurons was significantly lower in the unanesthetized rats (32.3% vs 43.3%). However, the frequency of the bursts was higher (5.9 +/- 0.1 Hz vs 3.5 +/- 0.1 Hz). Since the patterns of activity of medial septal neurons fluctuate in different physiologically relevant states, previous classifications of these neurons made by ourselves and other authors, in urethane-anesthetized rats, may not be appropriate.
Immunocytochemistry with specific antisera was used to assess regional levels of six immediate early gene encoded proteins (KROX-24, c-FOS, FOS B, c-JUN, JUN B and JUN D) in the rat hippocampus after 15 min of bicuculline-induced seizures. Serial sections of the dorsal hippocampus were examined at various postictal recovery periods up to 24 h. The results demonstrate a complex temporal and spatial pattern of immediate early gene synthesis and accumulation. Three major categories of immediate early gene products could best be distinguished in the dentate gyrus: KROX-24 and c-FOS showed a concurrent rapid rise with peak levels at 2 h and a return to baseline levels within 8 h after seizure termination. FOS B, c-JUN and JUN B levels increased more gradually with peak intensities in the dentate gyrus reached at 4 h. These immediate early gene products showed above normal levels in various hippocampal subpopulations up to 24 h. JUN D exhibited the most delayed onset combined with a prolonged increase of seizure-induced immunoreactivity. Irrespective of this differential temporal expression profile of individual transcription factors, the sequence of induction in the hippocampal subpopulations was identical for all immediate early gene-encoded proteins examined: first in the dentate gyrus granule cells followed by CA1 and CA3 neurons, respectively. Our data indicate an asynchronous synthesis of several immediate early gene-encoded proteins in the brain after status epilepticus. FOS and JUN proteins act via homo- or heterodimer complexes at the AP-1 and other DNA binding sites. The different time-courses for individual immediate early gene products strongly suggest, that at different time-points after status epilepticus, different AP-1 complexes are effective. In vitro studies have shown that different AP-1 complexes possess different DNA binding affinities as well as different transcriptional regulatory effects. Our results suggest that these molecular mechanisms are also effective in vivo.
The present paper explores the possible functional significance of the parallel orientation of parallel fibers in teleostean cerebellar and cerebelloid molecular layers, taking advantage of the restricted width of these molecular layers compared with mammalian ones and several specific configurations of granule cells. These configurations include: (i) a unilateral location, i.e. at only one (lateral) side of the molecular layer, giving rise to parallel fibers without bifurcation in a unidirectional molecular layer, where all parallel fibers conduct signals in the same direction; (ii) a bilateral location at both sides of the molecular layer giving rise to a bidirectional molecular layer where parallel fibers conduct signals in two opposite directions originating from two discrete sources; and (iii) a basal (or sometimes apical) location underneath (or opposite to) the layer of Purkinje cells, giving rise to a bidirectional molecular layer where parallel fibers conduct signals in two opposite directions originating from a continuous range of sources. It is argued that molecular layers with a bilateral location of granule cells, exemplified by the mormyrid lobus transitorius, represent an optimal configuration for the analysis of small temporal differences (up to 4 ms) between inputs to the right and left granule cell mass, by means of detection of the site of coincidence of parallel fiber activity running from left to right and vice versa. Morphological aspects that probably optimize such a function include not only the parallel course and bilateral origin of parallel fibers, but also their small diameter, large number and co-extensive location, as well as the sagittal orientation and the presence of many spines of Purkinje cell dendrites and the presence of stellate and other inhibitory interneurons. The only assumption underlying the present coincidence detection hypothesis is that Purkinje cells are supposed to be maximally stimulated by parallel fiber input when all spines are activated in such a way that their excitatory postsynaptic potentials reach the axon hillock simultaneously. For molecular layers with a unilateral location of granule cells, exemplified by the teleostean torus longitudinalis-tectal marginal parallel fiber system, a similar coincidence detecting mechanism is proposed on the basis of the presence of two populations of parallel fibers with slightly different conduction velocities. Such a system might be suitable to adapt the location of coincidence peaks to topographic maps present in deeper layers of nervous tissue. Molecular layers with basally (or apically) located granule cells as encountered in the teleostean corpus cerebelli, are probably involved in the analysis of specific spatio-temporal input waves directed centripetally towards different Purkinje cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
c-fos protein-like immunoreactivity was investigated in the human brain post mortem, using a polyclonal antiserum raised against the N-terminal conserved peptide of c-fos protein. Immunostaining was found in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, striatum, thalamus and cerebellum but not in the upper brainstem and the adrenal gland. c-fos-like immunoreactivity predominated in neuronal elements, but was also observed in neuropil and glial cells. In addition to a nuclear localization, the staining could be seen in neuronal dendrites (i.e. in the pyramidal cells of hippocampus or in some cortical areas). In order to analyse the effect of brain injury on c-fos expression, the characteristics of the immunostaining were analysed in the hippocampus of patients deceased with Alzheimer's disease known to be associated with a preferential vulnerability of the pyramidal neurons. No staining was observed in the senile plaques or in neurofibrillary tangles, the histopathological stigmata of the disease. Densitometric measurement of the intensity of c-fos-like staining revealed a significant increase in the hilus, the fimbria and the CA1 field of the pyramidal layer in brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease compared to controls. These modifications may result from a suffering stage of hippocampal cells or from a compensatory mechanism in the still surviving neurons not yet affected by the pathological process.
We have derived a number of monoclonal antibodies which detect molecular differences correlating with the afferent inputs to the molecular layer of the adult rat hippocampal dentate gyrus. One group, dubbed OM-1 to OM-4, strongly stain the outer zone of the molecular layer, which receives its major innervation from the ipsilateral entorhinal cortex. A second group, IM-1 and IM-2, show a complementary pattern and preferentially stain the inner molecular layer, which receives inputs from the ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampus. These antigens are not, however, restricted to these layers, being found outside the hippocampus in several other areas of neuropil in the adult brain. In the developing brain the IM-1 antigen appears ubiquitously from the earliest age studied, embryonic day 12. Within the dentate gyrus, its restriction to the inner terminal field of the molecular layer only occurs during the second postnatal week. In contrast, OM staining appears only sparsely and late in the prenatal brain, appearing in developing cortical white matter between embryonic days 18 and 20. The outer dentate molecular layer becomes OM-positive from birth onwards, corresponding to the time of arrival of entorhinal axons during the first postnatal week. These two groups of monoclonal antibodies recognize a number of different glycoproteins. Ultrastructural immunohistochemistry shows they are cell surface molecules, and as such may be involved in the recognition events required for the establishment of specific patterns of neuronal connectivity.
We investigated the ontogeny of provasopressin gene expression in neurosecretory neurons of the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of developing mice by semi-quantitative in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical techniques in combination with stereometry of vasopressin-immunoreactive neurons. Provasopressin mRNA was detected in paraffin sections using a mixture of radiolabeled synthetic oligonucleotide probes complementary to the mRNA loci encoding vasopressin (2-9) and vasopressin neurophysin (1-8). Vasopressin immunoreactivity was located with a polyclonal anti-vasopressin antiserum and a monoclonal anti-vasopressin-neurophysin antibody either with or without enhancing technique for the diaminobenzidine reaction. Autoradiographic hybridization signals that indicate the localization of provasopressin mRNA were first detected on embryonic day 15 in the supraoptic nucleus and embryonic day 18 in the paraventricular nucleus. Vasopressin immunoreactivity was first found in the median eminence on embryonic day 14, and then in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei on embryonic days 15 and 16, respectively. The provasopressin mRNA levels were markedly increased in both the supraoptic and the paraventricular nuclei just after birth. The immunoreactivity of vasopressin neurons was drastically decreased in both nuclei on postnatal days 1 and 2, suggesting marked vasopressin release in the neonates. Cross-sectional areas of vasopressin-immunoreactive somata and their cell nuclei gradually increased in both the supraoptic and the paraventricular nuclei during the perinatal period by day 5, and then attained adult size between days 10 and 20. During this phase, the level of provasopressin mRNA remained low compared with that in the adult magnocellular neurosecretory cells. These results indicate that the expression of provasopressin gene is markedly increased in both the supraoptic and the paraventricular nuclei soon after birth. Secretory activity of vasopressin neurons is elevated in neonatal mice. Vasopressin may have an important osmoregulatory role in neonatal mice undergoing drastic changes in water metabolism following birth.
The activity of the endogenous opioid systems was analysed in the spinal cord of rats 12 h, one, five or 14 days after injection of the Freund Adjuvant into the hind limb sole. The tissue level of immunoreactive Met-enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8, a peptide derived from proenkephalin, started to rise 12 h after Freund Adjuvant inoculation and remained enhanced until day 14. The spontaneous release of the immunoreactive Met-enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 was also elevated at all the examined time points, the peak occurring on day 1. No changes were observed in the stimulated release except on day 14, when the peptide release was decreased. The proenkephalin messenger RNA level was enhanced at all the time points on the ipsilateral side of the spinal cord in laminae I-II, whereas in lamina V an increase was observed only on days 1 and 5. An increase in the proenkephalin messenger RNA level on the contralateral side was observed only in laminae I-II and only on days 1 and 5. The tissue level of immunoreactive alpha-neoendorphin, a peptide derived from prodynorphin, was significantly increased on days 5 and 14. The spontaneous immunoreactive alpha-neoendorphin release from spinal cord slices was elevated at all the time points studied, whereas the stimulated release of the peptide was strongly increased 12 h after Freund Adjuvant inoculation but gradually declined on the following days. An in situ hybridization study showed that the prodynorphin messenger RNA level in laminae I-II was increased at all the examined time points.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In many arm or leg movements the hand or foot has to exert an external force on the environment. Based on an inverse dynamical analysis of cycling, it is shown that the distribution of net moments in the joints needed to control the direction of the external force is often opposite to the direction of joint displacements associated with this task. Kinetic and kinematic data were obtained from five experienced cyclists during ergometer cycling by means of film analysis and pedal force measurement. An inverse dynamic analysis, based on a linked segments model, yielded net joint moments, joint powers and muscle shortening velocities of eight leg muscles. Activation patterns of the muscles were obtained by means of surface electromyography. The results show that the transfer of rotations in hip, knee and ankle joints into the translation of the pedal is constrained by conflicting requirements. This occurs between the joint moments necessary to contribute to joint power and the moments necessary to establish a direction of the force on the pedal which allows this force to do work on the pedal. Co-activation of mono-articular agonists and their bi-articular antagonists appear to provide a unique solution for these conflicting requirements: bi-articular muscles appear to be able to control the desired direction of the external force on the pedal by adjusting the relative distribution of net moments over the joints while mono-articular muscles appear to be primarily activated when they are in the position to shorten and thus to contribute to positive work. Examples are given to illustrate the universal nature of this constrained control of force (external) and position (joint). Based on this study and published data it is suggested that different processes may underlie the organization of the control of mono- and bi-articular muscles.
The influences of signals in descending systems on the parameters of scratching generator activity were studied on decerebrate immobilized cats. It was shown that phasic electric stimulation of descending systems evoked certain phase-dependent reorganization of the parameters of scratching generator efferent activity. Maximum increase in scratching cycle duration during electric stimulation of Deiters' nucleus, red nucleus and pyramidal tract is observed during stimulation in the first half of aiming phase. Stimulation in the second half of aiming phase and at the beginning of scratching jerk phase virtually does not change the scratching cycle duration. Maximum increase in scratching cycle duration during electric stimulation of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis is observed in the second half of aiming phase. Electric activation of descending pathways during aiming phase increases its intensity and decreases the intensity of scratching jerk phase. Activation of descending pathways during scratching jerk phase increases its intensity and virtually does not change the aiming phase intensity. Influences of electric activation of descending systems on scratching generator work reveal dependence on limb position. They are increased when the limb is deflected to the rear and are decreased during over-aimed position. Decerebellation leads to a decrease of scratching generator activity parameters rearrangement under influence of electric stimulation of the red nucleus and nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis, and to its increase during Deiters' nucleus stimulation. On the basis of these results the principles of supraspinal correction of scratching generator work are discussed.
A homogenous protein of 120,000 mol. wt isolated from black widow spider (Lactrodectus mactans tredecimguttatus) venom and referred to as alpha-latroinsectotoxin was highly potent (4 nM) in the induction of an increase of the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic potentials in blowfly (Calliphora vicina) larvae neuromuscular preparations. In the frog nerve ending, however, even 50 nM alpha-latroinsectotoxin failed to affect transmitter release. Pretreatment of insect preparations with alpha-latrotoxin or frog preparations with alpha-latroinsectotoxin did not prevent the specific effect of consequent applications of alpha-latroinsectotoxin (insect) and alpha-latrotoxin (frog), respectively. The binding of labelled [125I]alpha-latroinsectotoxin to insect and [125I]alpha-latrotoxin to bovine membrane preparations was saturable and highly specific. The presynaptic effect, but not the binding of alpha-latroinsectotoxin, was dependent on the presence of divalent cations in the external medium. Mg2+ could readily substitute for Ca2+ and increase of transmitter release induced by alpha-latroinsectotoxin also occurred in Ca(2+)-free solutions. Pretreatment of preparations with 300 micrograms/ml concanavalin A completely abolished both the presynaptic effect of alpha-latroinsectotoxin and its binding to insect membrane preparations. Thus, the phenomenology of alpha-latroinsectotoxin action on insects resembles in general that described for the action of alpha-latrotoxin on vertebrates. The selectivity of alpha-latrotoxin and alpha-latroinsectotoxin seems to be due to differences in the structure of neurotoxin receptors in nerve endings of vertebrates and insects, although the mode of presynaptic action has a great deal in common.
Sexually experienced male rats infused bilaterally into the amygdala with 60 pmol beta-endorphin show decreased rate of precopulatory investigation of the female and delayed intromission latency, but copulation is left unaltered. Such males are still able to discriminate between the odours of bedding from receptive and unreceptive females, demonstrating that beta-endorphin does not impair the ability to detect sexually relevant odours. Preventing visual cues emitted by females during proceptive behaviour (by treating them with haloperidol) delayed intromission latency but had no effect on preintromission investigation. Intra-amygdaloid beta-endorphin exacerbated the effects of this treatment on the intromission latency. Inducing anosmia in males (by applying zinc sulphate solution to the olfactory mucosa) decreased their anogenital investigation and delayed their intromission latency. These effects were not enhanced by intra-amygdaloid beta-endorphin. Allowing males to investigate and initiate the first intromission prior to intra-amygdaloid infusion had no effects on subsequent intromissions. However, if following an intromission with one female and an infusion of beta-endorphin, the male was presented with an unfamiliar female then the effects of intra-amygdaloid beta-endorphin on investigation and intromission returned. These results suggest that beta-endorphin in the amygdala interferes with the processing of female-specific olfactory information. Without this processed information, classification of the female as a sexual stimulus may be impeded and thus sexual arousal delayed.
Bilateral intra-amygdaloid infusions of 0, 20, 60, 120 and 200 pmol beta-endorphin were administered to sexually experienced male rats in a Latin-square design. Sixty, 120 and 200 pmol beta-endorphin significantly decreased preintromission investigation rate and increased intromission latency with an oestrous female. No other effects on the male rats' sexual behaviour were produced. beta-Endorphin-induced effects on preintromission investigation and intromission latency were naloxone reversible (5 mg/kg, i.p.). Similar doses of intra-amygdaloid beta-endorphin had no effect on aggressive interaction with another, strange, male behaviour and similar doses of intra-amygdaloid corticotropin-releasing factor had no effect on sexual behaviour. Thus, there was both behavioural and chemical specificity of intra-amygdaloid beta-endorphin-induced effects on male sexual behaviour. Bilateral 60 pmol beta-endorphin infusions into the caudate-putamen had no effects on male sexual behaviour, demonstrating anatomical specificity of the intra-amygdaloid-induced effects. Basolateral excitotoxic lesions did not prevent the behavioural effects of intra-amygdaloid beta-endorphin infusions. These results demonstrate that intra-amygdaloid beta-endorphin specifically suppresses the precopulatory phase of male rat sexual behaviour but leaves the execution of the copulatory series intact once it has been initiated. This effect appears to be mediated via the corticomedial amygdaloid region. The change in precopulatory behaviour suggests that beta-endorphin may interfere with the processing of sensory information from the female, thus delaying appropriate initiation of the copulatory series.
The thalamic connections of the second somatosensory area in the anterior ectosylvian gyrus of cats have been investigated using the retrograde tracer horseradish peroxidase and the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. Horseradish peroxidase was injected iontophoretically in several somatotopic zones of the second somatosensory area map of six cats. Sites of horseradish peroxidase delivery were identified preliminarily by recording with microelectrodes the responses of neurons to skin stimulation. Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin was iontophoretically injected within the ventrobasal complex (one cat) or in the posterior complex (one cat). Horseradish peroxidase injections into cytoarchitectonic area SII retrogradely labeled neurons in the ipsilateral ventrobasal complex and in the posterior complex. Counts of labeled neurons from the ipsilateral thalamus showed that the overwhelming majority of horseradish peroxidase-labeled neurons were in the ventrobasal complex (96.3-96.9%) and few were in the posterior complex (3.1-3.7%). Neurons labeled in the ventrobasal complex were observed throughout the anteroposterior extent of the nucleus, while their mediolateral distribution varied with the site of horseradish peroxidase delivery in the body map of the second somatosensory area, which indicates that the projections from the ventrobasal complex to the second somatosensory area are somatotopically organized. In the cat in which the horseradish peroxidase injection involved both the second somatosensory area proper and the second somatosensory area medial, which lies in the lower bank of suprasylvian sulcus, labeled neurons were almost as numerous in the ventrobasal complex as in the posterior complex. Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin injected in the ventrobasal complex anterogradely labeled thalamocortical fibers in the ipsilateral anterior ectosylvian gyrus. In this case, patches of labeled fibers and terminals were distributed exclusively within the cytoarchitectonic borders of the second somatosensory area proper. Labeled terminals were numerous in layer IV and lower layer III, but terminal boutons and fibers with axonal swellings, probably forming synapses en passant, were frequently observed also in layers VI and I. Injection of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin in the posterior complex labeled thalamocortical fibers in two distinct regions in the ipsilateral anterior ectosylvian gyrus, one lying laterally and the other medially, which correspond, respectively, to the fourth somatosensory area and the second somatosensory area medial. In both areas the densest plexus of labeled fibers and axon terminals was in layer IV and lower layer III, but numerous labeled fibers and terminals were also observed in layer I. In this case, only rare fragments of labeled fibers were present in second somatosensory area proper, but no labeled terminals could be observed.
The distribution of calbindin immunoreactivity was studied in the developing rat dorsal thalamus at embryonic days 14, 16, 18 and 20. At early stages (days 14-16), calbindin is expressed throughout the dorsal thalamic cell mass. Most intense labeling occurs in cells adjacent to the ventricular surface, in a spatial gradient reflecting the well-known outside-in generation pattern. Between days 16 and 20, calbindin-positive periventricular cells are redistributed in the dorsal thalamus according to two different patterns. They first become oriented tangentially within the periventricular layer, and diminish in number at the central locus where midline thalamic fusion occurs at 18 days. Periventricular calbindin immunoreactivity becomes restricted to a ring of late-born cells surrounding the gray commissure. Recognizable portions of this ring-shaped primordium will mature forming n.paratenialis, n.reuniens, n.paraventricularis, and n.subparafascicularis magnocellularis. Simultaneously, a massive contingent of radially-oriented, fusiform, calbindin-positive young neurons extends from the periventricular ring-shaped aggregate to the lateral brain surface at the caudoventral pole of the dorsal thalamus at embryonic days 17/18. These cells surround the primordium of the medial geniculate body, participating in the constitution of its marginal zone, and invade the lateral posterior nucleus, accumulating within its caudomedial part. Other portions of this stream form the parvocellular subparafascicular nucleus and the peripeduncular nucleus. The observed patterns of calbindin expression suggest that dorsal thalamic postmitotic neurons transiently express the marker during initial phases of axogenesis, whereas a specific, late-born population expresses calbindin continuously into adulthood. This late subpopulation displays migratory behavior, and finally subdivides into several nuclei of the mature midline, superficial and posterior thalamus.
Calretinin is a calcium-binding protein related to calbindin-D28k; both are present in different though overlapping sets of neurons in brains of birds and mammals. We describe in detail the pattern of calretinin immunoreactivity in the rat brain. As in chick brain, calretinin immunoreactivity is abundant in various sensory pathways (particularly certain cells and fibres of the cochlear nuclei and olfactory bulb), in the heterogeneous parts of the brainstem and in parts of the hypothalamus. Many primary sensory fibres are strongly positive. Major groups of calretinin-positive neurons also include the thalamic reticular nucleus, triangular septal nucleus, lateral mammillary nucleus and substantia nigra pars compacta. Many other calretinin-positive cells are recognizable as local inhibitory neurons. Calretinin is absent from all but a few cells in the cerebral cortex, and is never found in motor neurons. There are also some distinctive positive structures whose identity is uncertain, notably irregular &quot;shells&quot; of cells and fibres around the thalamus and in the amygdala and an unnamed cell type in the vestibulocerebellum.
We have analysed several markers for small synaptic vesicles (synaptin-synaptophysin, p65 and SV2) and large dense-core vesicles (chromogranin A, secretogranin II/chromogranin C) in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease, and normal controls by immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry. In comparison to age-matched controls the levels of all three synaptic vesicle markers were decreased in temporal cortex of Alzheimer patients. On the other hand, the levels of chromogranin A were increased, and those of secretogranin II lowered. This resulted in a significant increase of the ratios of chromogranin A to synaptophysin, p65 or SV2 and of that for chromogranin A to secretogranin II. These increases were significantly correlated to clinical severity of dementia and extent of neuropathological changes. By immunohistochemistry a high percentage of senile plaques was found to contain chromogranin A-reactive dystrophic neurites, whereas synaptophysin reactivity within plaques was rare. These results indicate that the number of synaptic vesicles is lowered in Alzheimer's disease, and that one component of large dense-core vesicles, i.e. chromogranin A, is elevated. We, thus, suggest that in Alzheimer's brain distinct changes occur for both types of synaptic organelles.
Two to six months after implantation of fetal striatal primordia into the kainic acid-lesioned neostriatum of adult rats, spiny neurons in the grafts were stained intracellularly with biocytin. To determine whether the spiny neurons in the grafts differentiate morphologically as in the host neostriatum, the intracellularly stained spiny neurons in the grafts were studied with light and electron microscopy and compared with that of spiny neurons in the host neostriatum. The spiny neurons in the grafts had ovoid or polygonal cell bodies with dendrites radiating in all directions. The somata were smooth and the dendrites, except for their most proximal portions, were rich in spines. All these features resembled the appearance of spiny neurons in the intact neostriatum. However, quantitative studies showed that the somata of spiny neurons in the grafts were larger than those in the host neostriatum (projected cross-sectional areas of 230 +/- 64.6 microns 2 in the grafts and 158 +/- 28.9 microns 2 in the host) and the spine density of graft neurons was lower than that of host neurons. Cells near the border of the grafts had dendrites extending both into the graft and into the host neostriatum. In these cells, the dendrites in the grafts had fewer spines than the dendrites in the host tissue. The axons of spiny neurons in the grafts had very large and dense intrastriatal collateral arborizations, which occupied a much larger volume than that of the dendritic domain of the parent cells. The local axonal arborizations of each of these cells filled almost the entire graft. In some cells, axonal branches were traced outside the grafts and were seen to enter the internal capsule fascicles. Unlike spiny neurons in the normal adult neostriatum, the spiny cells of the graft could have nuclear indentations. With this exception, the ultrastructural features of spiny neurons in the grafts were very similar to those in the hosts. Many unlabeled boutons made synapses on identified spiny neurons in the grafts. Terminals with small round vesicles made synaptic contacts on dendritic shafts and dendritic spines, while terminals with flattened or pleomorphic vesicles contacted somata, dendrites, and dendritic spines. Labeled axon collaterals of graft neurons made symmetrical synapses on somata, dendrites and spines in the grafts and in the host neostriatum. In the grafts, more than 60% of the axon terminals contacted dendritic shafts. The proportion of axosomatic and axospinous synapses varied substantially from cell to cell.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recent studies have revealed that the thalamus does not only generate spindle oscillations (7-14 Hz), but that it also participates in the genesis of a slower (less than 4 Hz) rhythm within the frequency range of delta waves on the electroencephalogram. In thalamic cells, delta is an intrinsic oscillation consisting of low-threshold spikes alternating with afterhyperpolarizing potentials. It is known from electroencephalographic recordings in humans and animals that slow or delta waves prevail during late sleep stages, whereas spindle oscillations are characteristic for the early stages of sleep. We studied the dependence of spindles and delta oscillations on membrane potential, as well as the effects of spindles on delta oscillations, in thalamocortical neurons of cats under urethane anesthesia and in cerveau isol preparations (low collicular transections). Spindles appeared at membrane potentials between -55 and -65 mV, whereas delta oscillations occurred by bringing the membrane potential between -68 and -90 mV. Spindles either evoked by cortical stimulation or occurring spontaneously in cerveau isol preparations prevented delta oscillations. This effect was probably due to the increase in membrane conductance associated with spindles. Barbiturates also blocked delta activity in thalamocortical neurons, probably through the same mechanism. A certain degree of incompatibility between spindles and delta rhythms in thalamocortical cells may explain the prevalence of these two types of oscillations during different stages of sleep with synchronization of the electroencephalogram.
In urethane-anesthetized rats, stimulation of the contralateral hippocampal CA1 region resulted in activation of the homotopic CA1 region. Current-source-density analysis revealed that both basal and apical dendrites were activated. However, alveolar and stratum oriens stimulation in CA1 gave about equal peak excitation of the basal and apical dendrites while CA1 stratum radiatum/moleculare and CA3c stimulation gave stronger apical than basal dendritic excitation. In chronically implanted and freely moving rats, tetanic patterned stimulation of the contralateral CA1, irrespective of depth, resulted in a robust long-term potentiation of the ipsilateral CA1 basal dendritic synapse. The population basal dendritic excitatory postsynaptic potential was initially potentiated to greater than 200% of the baseline and decayed with a 3 h time constant; it lasted at least two days. Patterned stimulation of the commissural inputs at 2 x threshold stimulus intensity seldom potentiated the apical dendritic synapse in CA1; rather, long-term depression was sometimes observed. After tetanic stimulations at 3 x threshold, a small potentiation of the apical dendritic excitation was seen in about half of the experiments. The average apical dendritic potentiation peaked at about 25% and persisted to at least one day. This study provides original evidence that the properties of long-term potentiation are different at the commissural basal dendritic and apical dendritic synapses in CA1 of the behaving rat. Basal dendritic potentiation is low-threshold, high-amplitude and decayed rapidly in the first 3 h. Apical dendritic potentiation is high-threshold, low-amplitude and not rapidly decaying. A long-lasting enhancement of synaptic transmission has been postulated as a physiological correlate of memory. This paper reports properties of this synaptic enhancement for two different types of synapses on the same cells in the behaving animal. The basal dendritic synapse on hippocampal pyramidal cells readily increased their efficacy, up to at least two days, after a brief, patterned stimulation. In the same preparation, it was difficult to obtain a long-lasting increase in the apical dendritic excitation, in contrast to studies on isolated hippocampal slices in vitro.
Mossy fibre synapses on the CA3 hippocampal neurons in the brain of ground squirrels repeatedly undergo a striking structural transformation during hibernation. In the middle of hibernation bout the giant complex mossy fibre synapses have a reduced number of dendritic spine infoldings that are smaller and have a decreased number of postsynaptic densities in comparison with mossy fibre synapses of active animals. Two hours after arousal all these parameters of mossy fibre synapses increase and significantly exceed their levels not only in torpid but in active euthermic animals between bouts of torpor. The longer postsynaptic densities and the greater proportion of perforated postsynaptic densities were found soon after arousal. These rapid, reversible and repeated changes indicate a cyclic process of partial denervation/reinnervation of hippocampal neurons by mossy fibres in the course of the innate, stereotyped behaviour.
Quantitative Golgi study of hippocampal pyramidal neurons of ground squirrels showed rapid and profound transformation of their apical dendrites in the course of hibernation. The dendrites were significantly shorter, less branched and had fewer dendritic spines in the middle of hibernation bout than in the active euthermic ground squirrels between bouts. After arousal from torpor, within 2 h dendrites completely restored their structure. During hibernation, season remodelling of the hippocampal dendrites occurs repeatedly during each torpor-activity cycle.
The possible co-existence of calretinin with other calcium binding proteins, parvalbumin and calbindin D28k, and with GABA, was studied in non-pyramidal cells of the rat dorsal hippocampal formation, using the mirror technique. The majority of the calretinin-containing neurons (83%) were found to be immunoreactive for GABA (79% in the dentate gyrus, 84% in the CA2-3, and 88% in the CA1 subfield). Most of the GABA-negative calretinin-immunoreactive neurons were located in the hilus of the dentate gyrus and in stratum lucidum of the CA3 subfield. Detailed analysis of the calretinin-immunoreactive cells of these subfields revealed that the two morphologically distinct types of calretinin neurons, i.e. the spiny and the spine-free cells, differ in their immunoreactivity for GABA. The overwhelming majority (92%) of the spine-free neurons were GABA-positive, whereas the immunoreactivity of spiny cells was ambiguous. At the sensitivity threshold of the immunocytochemical techniques used in the present study, most of the spiny cells (89%) had to be considered as GABA-negative, although the staining intensity in their cell bodies was somewhat above background level. Colchicine treatment resulted in a degeneration of calretinin-immunoreactive neurons; therefore, its effect on the GABA content of spiny neurons could not be evaluated. Nevertheless, the observations suggest that calretinin-containing neurons are heterogeneous both morphologically and neurochemically. Examination of the co-existence of calcium binding proteins revealed that none of the hippocampal cells contained both calretinin and parvalbumin in any regions of the hippocampal formation. Some overlap was detected between the calretinin- and the calbindin D28k-containing cell populations, 5.1% of the former and 6.2% of the latter were immunoreactive for both calcium binding proteins. This may be due to a small degree of cross-reactivity of the calbindin D28k antiserum with calretinin. Thus, our results demonstrate that the majority of calretinin-immunoreactive neurons are GABAergic and represent a subpopulation of non-pyramidal cells with no or only a negligible overlap with the subpopulations containing the other calcium binding proteins, parvalbumin and calbindin.
Expression of the neural cell adhesion molecule was compared in endplate and non-endplate regions of skeletal muscles of mature and old CBF-1 mice, in order to determine whether age-related changes in neuromuscular morphology were correlated with age changes in neural cell adhesion molecule expression. Three muscles were examined: two (soleus and sternomastoid) showed age-related regionalization of nerve terminals as one manifestation of increased synaptic remodelling while the third (diaphragm) did not. Relative neural cell adhesion molecule content in these muscles was measured by densitometry of immunoblots after concentration by affinity chromatography. Expression of the major 140,000 mol. wt form of neural cell adhesion molecule, which was most abundant in the endplate region, was increased in sternomastoid and soleus of old compared to adult mouse, but was unchanged with age in diaphragm. A 70,000-80,000 mol. wt presumably proteolytic polypeptide fragment of neural cell adhesion molecule was increased in immunoblots of all old muscles. Immunocytochemical studies of skeletal muscles showed no difference in neural cell adhesion molecule cellular distribution in mature vs old mice, but in motor nerve of sternomastoid, the number of neural cell adhesion molecule-positive nerve fibers was increased in old mice. Several lines of evidence indicated that partial denervation was rare in old CBF-1 mice, and therefore could not account for the findings above. Selective increase of 140,000 mol. wt neural cell adhesion molecule expression in the junctional regions of those muscles of old mice which show neuromuscular remodelling indicates that this adhesion molecule may play a role in the age-related instability of motor nerve terminals.
Acute inflammation is important for defence against infection, wound repair and the mediation of auto-immune tissue destruction. Myelomonocytic recruitment in acute inflammation is a stereotyped and non-specific response to tissue insult which begins within 2 h. In this study, lipopolysaccharide was injected into the murine CNS and other body sites of mice to compare the inflammatory responses. Doses of lipopolysaccharide which induced typical myelomonocytic recruitment in skin and the choroid plexus had no effect in CNS parenchyma, apart from the morphological activation of local resident microglia. The CNS parenchymal response proceeded independently of that in the choroid plexus-cerebral ventricles and had three distinct and unique phases. Initially there was minimal neutrophil exudation and a two-day delay before any increase in macrophage-microglial cell number. Next, there was a rapid increase in macrophage-microglial cell numbers during the third day, mainly due to recruitment of blood monocytes. During this phase, leukocyte recruitment was restricted to monocytes which rapidly adopted the arborized microglial phenotype. Monocytes migrated through an intact blood-brain barrier independent of changes in solute permeability. Finally, there was a florid myelomonocytic reaction predominantly in the white matter, one week after intracerebral injection of 2 micrograms lipopolysaccharide. At this time, the leukocyte reaction disrupted the blood-brain barrier, mononuclear phagocytes expressed macrophage morphology and abundant major histocompatibility complex Class II antigen, and T lymphocytes were present. Myelomonocytic entry into the CNS was partially inhibited by prior blockade of the type 3 complement receptor, known to mediate leukocyte adhesion to endothelium elsewhere. The processes which lead to rapid myelomonocytic recruitment in other tissues are absent in CNS parenchyma. Understanding the molecular mechanisms responsible could have considerable significance both for CNS pathophysiology as well as possible anti-inflammatory therapeutic application elsewhere in the body.
The resting and reflex-evoked activities of single postganglionic sympathetic neurons with axons in the right thoracic vagus were tested in chloralose-anaesthetized cats. The properties of a majority of neurons were found to be similar. Cardiac- and inspiration-related rhythmicities were present in the resting activity of sympathetic neurons. Their resting activity was not affected by hyperventilation which abolished phrenic nerve discharges. Systemic hypoxia (2 min; 8% O2 in N2) increased the activity of the neurons more effectively in the deafferented state than when both sinus nerves remained intact. Injection of 0.1 ml 1 M sodium bicarbonate saturated with CO2, which activates peripheral chemoreceptors in the right or left carotid sinus, usually evoked a decrease in sympathetic activity in animals with both sinus nerves intact. We concluded that activation of peripheral chemoreceptors may inhibit the activity of the sympathetic neurons with axons in the right thoracic vagus. We suggest that the described sympathetic neurons may be a functionally homogeneous population which may innervate the conducting system of the heart. The close localization of sympathetic and parasympathetic axons in the vagus nerve may facilitate sympathetic-parasympathetic interaction at the level of their endings in the heart.
Brain maturation and GABA metabolism are known to play a key role in epileptogenesis. The metabolism of the polyamines (putrescine, spermidine and spermine) is closely linked to the process of brain maturation. Putrescine has been shown to be catabolized to GABA in brain tissue and astrocytes. In order to better understand the importance of glial putrescine transport and metabolism, a model of age-dependent epilepsy was used to study the kinetic properties of [14C]putrescine uptake into cultured astrocytes from normal C57/BL and audiogenic DBA/2 newborn mice, and the subsequent GABA formation. (1) Putrescine uptake exhibited non-Michaelian allosteric kinetics with positive co-operativity (Hill factor = 2), suggesting a physiological importance of putrescine uptake by astrocytes. (2) The Vmax of putrescine uptake was significantly higher in C57/BL astrocytes than in DBA/2J, but the uptake affinity for putrescine was higher in DBA/2J than in C57/BL. (3) Higher K+ concentrations (18 mM) had little effect on putrescine uptake in either strain. (4) Ten-micromolar N-acetylputrescine, the first putrescine metabolite, stimulated putrescine uptake into astrocytes of both strains, but to a different degree: +46% in C57/BL and + 102% in DBA/2J. (5) The specific radioactivity of the GABA formed from labelled putrescine was four times higher in astrocytes from DBA/2J than from C57/BL mice. (6) The molar ratio of glutamate/GABA in the cerebral cortex of the DBA/2J mice was significantly higher during the period of audiogenic seizure susceptibility than in age-matched C57/BL mice. Our results show characteristics of putrescine uptake into astrocytes; we demonstrated distinct kinetic properties between normal and epileptic strains of mice.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Small immunoreactive cholinergic neurons were detected in the main and accessory olfactory bulbs of the rat with choline acetyltransferase immunocytochemistry. Such cells were also found in additional forebrain regions that received direct efferent innervation from the main olfactory bulb, such as the anterior olfactory nucleus, two subdivisions of the olfactory amygdala (nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract and anterior cortical nucleus), and the cortical-amygdaloid transition zone. Cholinergic neurons located in these olfactory-related regions were similar to each other morphologically and to those previously described by other investigators in the cerebral cortex, the hippocampus, and the basolateral amygdala. Somal measurements indicated that choline acetyltransferase-positive cells in olfactory-related regions were all essentially the same size, measuring 13-14 by 8-9 microns in major and minor diameters, respectively. In addition, these small cells were commonly bipolar in form with thin, smooth dendrites, and such characteristics have generally been associated with intrinsic, local circuit neurons in the forebrain. Depending on their location, however, these small cholinergic neurons differed from each other with regard to their frequency and dendritic orientation within planar sections. Choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cells in most cortical regions were relatively numerous and usually exhibited long, planar dendrites oriented perpendicularly to the pial surface. In contrast, dendrites of cholinergic neurons found in &quot;cortical-like&quot; regions (e.g. olfactory bulbs or nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract) were relatively sparse in number and appeared to be distinctly non-planar and randomly oriented. Despite these differences, the small choline acetyltransferase-positive cells had many features in common, including their distribution within forebrain regions that contained substantial terminal networks of choline acetyltransferase-positive axons thought to be derived primarily from the basal forebrain complex. In the rat, at least, the presence of small cholinergic interneurons within forebrain regions innervated by the large cholinergic projection neurons of the basal forebrain seems to be developing as a general principle of telencephalic organization. However, differences in both the size and the distribution of the terminal fields derived from each source imply a functional diversity between the intrinsic and extrinsic cholinergic systems of the forebrain.
Calretinin-containing cells were visualized with immunocytochemistry in the rat dorsal hippocampal formation. Calretinin immunoreactivity was present exclusively in non-pyramidal cells in all layers of the dentate gyrus and the CA1-3 areas. Calretinin-positive neurons and processes were most abundant in the hilus of the dentate gyrus and in the stratum lucidum of the CA3 region. Several calretinin-immunoreactive cells were located within the hippocampal fissure. A distinct band of calretinin-immunoreactive fibres occupied the superficial part of the granule cell layer and the lowest part of the molecular layer. Closer examination of the calretinin-positive cells revealed that they formed two distinct cell groups. One group of cells, found exclusively in the stratum lucidum of the CA3 area and in the hilus of the dentate gyrus, was covered with numerous spines. Their somata and dendrites were restricted to stratum lucidum and to the hilus. Cells of the other group had smooth, often varicose, radially running dendrites, and were present in all areas and layers of the hippocampal formation. Two to three thick primary dendrites arose from the irregularly shaped cell body of spiny cells and emitted fine secondary branches only distally (70-100 microns) from the soma, where they formed a profuse network. The extensive dendritic tree of the cells spread horizontally within stratum lucidum and span a distance of 400-600 microns both in the septotemporal and in the transverse directions. The layer-specific location of these cells and their processes suggested that the majority of their input may derive from mossy fibres. This presumption has been confirmed by electron microscopic examination. A large number of asymmetrical synapses were found to cover the soma, the dendritic shafts and the spines (four to six synapses/spine) of the cells. A large proportion of the synapses were formed by boutons, which showed the distinctive features of mossy fibre terminals. Three to six primary dendrites arose from the multipolar, bipolar or pyramidal-shaped somata of spine-free cells, which were smaller than the somata of spiny cells. The smooth and frequently varicose dendrites branched proximally and ran primarily radially. Dendrites ascended or descended through several layers and received both asymmetrical and symmetrical synapses. In the CA1 subfield, the vertically running dendrites frequently contacted other calretinin-immunoreactive spine-free dendrites or cell bodies. Two or three calretinin-immunoreactive dendrites were often seen to be attached for over 100 or, occasionally, 200 microns and several puncta adherentia were observed between them using the electron microscope.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The distribution of parvalbumin-like immunoreactivity was studied in the embryonic and postnatal chicken retina. In post-hatched chickens, parvalbumin-like immunoreactivity was confined to amacrine cells. Three distinct subpopulations were identifiable based upon soma position and level of dendritic arborization in the inner plexiform layer. The primary dendrites from parvalbumin-immunoreactive amacrine cells descended vertically into the inner plexiform layer and eventually branched to give rise to a laminarly arrayed plexus in sublamina I, sublamina V and, to a lesser extent, at the boundary between sublaminae III and IV. Parvalbumin-like immunoreactive amacrine cells projecting to sublamina I of the inner plexiform layer were consistently monostratified. Some, but not all, contributed thick fibers to sublamina I that could be followed for long distances across the retina and were generally not radially organized. The parvalbumin-like immunoreactive cells that projected to sublamina V gave rise to a primary dendrite from which three to five fibers branched radially. Collateral branches of these same primary dendrites gave rise to the parvalbumin-like immunoreactive plexus at the interface between sublaminae III and IV. In prenatal chickens, parvalbumin-like immunoreactivity was not detected until embryonic day 14. At this time it appeared as a faint band at the inner nuclear layer-inner plexiform layer boundary in the central retina. By embryonic day 18 the intensity of immunoreactivity and the complexity of the arborizations of the parvalbumin-like immunoreactive dendrites approached that seen in the post-hatched chicken. In the chicken retina, parvalbumin-like immunoreactivity was displayed by morphologically distinct subpopulations of amacrine cells suggesting that these amacrine cells may subserve diverse functions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
When tritiated proline is injected into various sensory and integrative areas of the brain, it fails to be incorporated into the proteins of neuronal soma located within the injection site. In contrast, such incorporation does occur when [3H]proline is injected into dorsal root ganglia. The basis for this difference is unclear because brain and dorsal root ganglion tissue differ in configurational factors (e.g. synapses, dendrites) as well as in the embryological origin of their respective neuronal and non-neuronal cell populations. To determine if configurational factors might account for [3H]proline's incorporation into somal neuronal proteins in dorsal root ganglia, [3H]proline was injected into autonomic (pelvic and superior cervical) and sensory (dorsal root and nodose) ganglia in the rat. These ganglia differ in synaptic and cellular configurations, but have the same neural origin (neural crest). Virtually all neuronal soma were labeled in autoradiograms of all of these injection sites, suggesting that configurational factors do not account for the labeling of dorsal root ganglion neurons by [3H]proline. To address the issue of embryological origin, cellular labeling patterns after [3H]proline injection into the hypoglossal nucleus, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and the ventral horn of spinal cord were compared with those after [3H]proline injections into the adjacent solitary nucleus, gracile nucleus and central cervical nucleus of the spinal cord. The neurons in the former three nuclei (i.e. motoneurons) originate from the neural tube, but their axons are associated primarily with Schwann cells which originate from the neural crest. Although neurons in the latter three regions also originate from the neural tube, their axons are myelinated entirely by neural tube-derived glia (i.e. oligodendrocytes).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Electrophysiological experiments have been carried out on rats to examine the relationship between plasma extravasation into skin and antidromic activation of individual unmyelinated afferent fibres supplying cutaneous receptors, particularly polymodal nociceptors. Normal animals and ones in which the skin had been reinnervated after peripheral nerve transection 26-52 weeks before were studied. In the normal animals 12 of 18 (66%) polymodal nociceptor afferents showed evidence of plasma extravasation after antidromic stimulation of the nerve filament from which they were initially recorded. Antidromic stimulation of other types of unmyelinated unit gave no detectable signs of plasma extravasation. The results from the animals with regenerated nerves were similar with 15 of 21 (71%) of the polymodal nociceptor afferents showing clear signs of plasma extravasation after antidromic activation and the other types of unit giving no signs of such a response. These results show that while antidromic stimulation of a cutaneous nerve after intravascular administration of Evans Blue dye can be used to get a general view of the extent of innervation by polymodal nociceptors, it does not necessarily show the entire distribution of these receptors. It is likely that the ability or lack of ability of a polymodal nociceptor afferent to enhance vascular permeability, and so bring about plasma extravasation, is related to its neuropeptide content, and thus it follows that this might be a useful criterion for separating this broad class of cutaneous receptor into sub-groups.
Low doses (0.2-0.8 microM) of capsaicin were used to achieve selective excitation of C-fibres and the consequent synaptic activation of dorsal horn neurons (laminae I-VI) in the spinal cord of the 12-20-day-old mouse, maintained in vitro. Most dorsal horn cells were activated by application of capsaicin to dorsal root ganglia. The response consisted of a long-lasting membrane depolarization with increased regenerative (synaptic) activity in 79% of the cells, and in a further 7% only an increased synaptic activity was evoked. These effects of capsaicin were completely blocked by removing extracellular calcium ions from the superfusate to the spinal cord, or by the addition of 1 microM tetrodotoxin, suggesting a presynaptic origin of the capsaicin action. Only 67% of cells excited by capsaicin were sensitive to exogenous substance P. The excitatory amino acid antagonists, kynurenic acid (50-100 microM) or (-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (10-20 microM) completely blocked the capsaicin-evoked response in deep dorsal horn cells, indicating the involvement of excitatory amino acid receptors in the synaptic pathway. However, in superficial dorsal horn neurons these antagonists attenuated, but never completely abolished, the capsaicin-evoked depolarization. The kynurenic acid-resistant component of the capsaicin-evoked excitation in superficial dorsal horn cells suggests the involvement of non-amino acid excitatory transmitters--possibly neuropeptides--in the synaptic transmission. Activation of primary afferents by high-intensity electrical stimulation of the dorsal roots induced a prolonged (0.5-3 s) postsynaptic excitation in the majority of deep dorsal horn cells. The duration of the synaptic response was significantly reduced by (-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. Following repeated application of capsaicin, desensitization of the capsaicin-evoked synaptic activation of dorsal horn cells occurred. This effect was paralleled with the loss of the prolonged (-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid-sensitive phase of the excitatory postsynaptic potential evoked by the high-intensity electrical stimulation of dorsal roots. This observation suggested that activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the dorsal horn can be activated by small-calibre capsaicin-sensitive fibres. In summary, our data suggest that the selective activation of C-fibre afferents with capsaicin produces synaptic activity in the dorsal horn which has a strong excitatory amino acid component as well as a non-excitatory amino acid, possibly peptidergic, component.
This work was initiated because pretreatment with concanavalin A was reported to abolish the increase in spontaneous quantal release produced by hypertonic solutions [Gorio A. and Mauro A. (1979) J. gen. Physiol. 73, 245-263]. This suggested that lectins might be valuable tools for investigating the role of glycoproteins in the response to tonicity. We compared muscles soaked for 2 h in hypertonic solution containing concanavalin A with paired muscles soaked in hypertonic solution without lectin. The lectin treatment decreased miniature end-plate potential frequencies in Ringer and in hypertonic solutions compared with the controls. Even after lectin treatment hypertonic solutions and elevated K+ solutions increased miniature end-plate potential frequencies, and the proportional increases were the same as in controls. The lectin treatment lowered baseline frequency, but the preparation still responded to hypertonic solutions. Concanavalin A effects appeared after treatment for more than 1 h and required concentrations of 10 micrograms/ml or higher. Higher concentrations did not produce more effect. Similar results were obtained with four other lectins with different sugar specificities. Treatment in hypertonic solution without lectin produces a similar, but smaller, decrease in baseline frequency. Concanavalin A pretreatment had no detectable effects on evoked release or facilitation. We conclude that the effects of lectins on quantal release are not mediated by binding to a single sugar group. The lectins do not produce a unique effect; they exaggerate the changes produced by hypertonic pretreatment. All of the effects could be accounted for by a reduction in baseline [Ca2+] in the nerve terminal. Such reductions are produced by lectins in many cell types.
We have examined the effect of several blockers of voltage-sensitive calcium channels on the release of acetylcholine and ATP from synaptosomes isolated from Torpedo marmorata electric organ. Depolarization of these nerve terminals with high K(+)-containing solutions resulted in a calcium-dependent release of both molecules. Cadmium ions (10(-6) to 10(-3) M) inhibited similarly both releases whereas nickel ions (10(-4) M) in the external medium did not affect either neurotransmitter or nucleotide release. Both releases were completely resistant to the effect of 1,4-dihydropyridines (antagonists nimodipine, nifedipine and agonist Bay K 8644) and of a related compound (diltiazem) at concentrations up to 10(-5) M. These drugs failed to cause any effect even when synaptosomes were submaximally depolarized during incubation. Omega-conotoxin (10(-8) to 5 x 10(-5) M) showed a differential effect on acetylcholine and ATP releases. Nucleotide release was inhibited 90% at the highest concentration tested (50 microns) while acetylcholine release was only moderately decreased (30%). EC50 values for acetylcholine and ATP were of 167 and 2 microM respectively. The results suggest the implication of different types of calcium channels in the release of these molecules.
The electrophysiological, biochemical and behavioral responses produced by administration of haloperidol were studied in intact rats and in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine-induced partial lesions of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway. In both control rats and rates tested four to 10 days postlesion, the electrophysiological response of nigral dopamine neurons to increasing doses of haloperidol consisted of either: (1) an increase in firing rate which reached a plateau at six to 10 spikes per second, or (2) no response (i.e., less than 20% change in firing rate). Administration of additional doses of haloperidol up to lethal levels did not elicit further changes in dopamine cell firing in these rats. In contrast, in 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats tested four to six weeks postlesion, acute administration of haloperidol was not only more consistent in producing increases in dopamine cell firing rate, but also caused six out of seven dopamine neurons tested to cease firing upon entering a state of depolarization block. In all cases in which depolarization block was observed, dopamine cell firing was reinstated by either iontophoretic application of gamma-aminobutyric acid or intravenous administration of apomorphine. In parallel studies, haloperidol caused an increase in the extracellular dopamine levels measured by microdialysis in the striatum of control rats, whereas administration of the same dose of haloperidol to 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats four to six weeks postlesion did not elicit any change in extracellular dopamine levels. In addition, administration of haloperidol at a dose which was ineffective in control rats produced gross motor deficits in the 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats when tested four to six weeks postlesion. These results show that 6-hydroxydopamine-induced dopamine depletions produce a time-dependent change in the responsivity of the nigrostriatal dopamine system to acute haloperidol administration. In this altered system, the induction of depolarization block of spike activity in nigral dopamine neurons by haloperidol was not associated with a corresponding decrease in extracellular dopamine levels measured in the striatum. However, it appeared that depolarization block did prevent haloperidol-induced increases in extracellular dopamine levels. The occurrence of depolarization block in the dopamine-depleted animal may limit the capacity of this system to respond to additional compromise, in spite of the compensatory processes that contribute to maintaining motor function.
The action of serotonin on medial pontine reticular formation neurons was examined using intracellular electrophysiological methods in rat brainstem slices in vitro. A hyperpolarization associated with a decrease in input resistance was elicited by serotonin in 34% of the neurons, and a depolarization associated with an increase in input resistance was produced in 56% of the neurons. Both responses persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin. The hyperpolarization resulted from a steady-state increase in outward current which varied with the external potassium concentration in a manner consistent with a conductance increase primarily to this ion. This response was mimicked by the serotonin1 agonist, 5-carboxamidotryptamine, as well as by the serotonin1a agonist, 8-hydroxy-dipropyl aminotetralin hydrobromide, and was blocked by spiperone, an antagonist of serotonin1 sites. The depolarization resulted from a steady-state decrease in outward current which varied with external potassium. The depolarization was mimicked by the serotonin2 agonist, alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine, and was blocked by the serotonin2 antagonist, ketanserin. Neither of these agents had any effect upon serotonin-induced hyperpolarizations. In conclusion, the excitability of medial pontine reticular formation neurons is influenced by serotonin acting to increase or decrease potassium conductance(s). These opposing effects reflect actions on distinct serotonin receptor subtypes that are segregated to distinct populations of medial pontine reticular formation neurons.
The actions of serotonin on the membrane properties of motoneurons and on the synaptic responses evoked by stimulating the segmental dorsal root have been investigated using intracellular recording in a neonatal rat hemisected spinal cord preparation in vitro. Superfusion with serotonin produced concentration-dependent depolarizations (EC50 32.1 microM) with an apparent increase in input resistance and increase in motoneuron excitability. During serotonin depolarizations an increase in membrane noise was seen. At higher serotonin concentrations repetitive firing was induced. Sensitivity to serotonin was enhanced by blockade of neuronal uptake with citalopram, when the EC50 was 1.4 microM. The depolarization was mimicked by alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine (EC50 11.7 microM). Serotonin depolarizations were blocked by ketanserin (0.1 and 1 microM), ritanserin (1 microM), spiperone (0.1 and 1 microM) and LY 53857 (1 microM). A norepinephrine-induced depolarization of motoneurons, which was mimicked by L-phenylephrine and antagonized by prazosin, is probably mediated by an alpha 1-adrenoceptor. An inhibitory action of serotonin was also apparent. The frequency and amplitude of spontaneous postsynaptic potentials and the response following dorsal root stimulation were markedly reduced. This action was mimicked by 5-carboxamidotryptamine and 8-hydroxy-2-(n-dipropylamino)tetralin, but was not antagonized by ketanserin (1 microM), ritanserin (1 microM), methiothepin (1 microM), metergoline (1 microM), spiperone (1-10 microM) or 21-009 (1-10 microM). It is proposed that the depolarization and increase in excitability of spinal motoneurons is mediated by a serotonin (5-HT2) receptor subtype.
The transmitter mechanism of a long-lasting descending inhibition of the monosynaptic reflex was investigated in the isolated spinal cord of the neonatal rat. The monosynaptic reflex elicited by dorsal root stimulation was recorded extracellularly from a lumbar ventral root (L3-L5). Electrical stimulation of the upper thoracic part of the hemisected cord caused an inhibition lasting about 40 s of the monosynaptic reflex. This descending inhibition was markedly attenuated by perfusing the spinal cord with reserpine (1 microM) or 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (10 microM) for 2-6 h. The perfusion with reserpine (1 microM) for 4 h significantly decreased the contents of 5-hydroxytryptamine, dopamine, and norepinephrine of the neonatal rat spinal cord, whereas the perfusion with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (10 microM) for 4 h decreased the contents of 5-hydroxytryptamine and dopamine. The descending inhibition was markedly potentiated by a 5-hydroxytryptamine uptake blocker, citalopram (10 nM), and was blocked by a 5-hydroxytryptamine antagonist, ketanserin (10-100 nM). Application of 5-hydroxytryptamine to the spinal cord induced an inhibition of the monosynaptic reflex, a later part of which was blocked by ketanserin. Ketanserin also moderately blocked inhibitions of the monosynaptic reflex caused by norepinephrine and dopamine. Phentolamine (10 microM) abolished the depressant actions of norepinephrine and dopamine, but did not affect that of 5-hydroxytryptamine or the descending inhibition. These results strongly suggest the involvement of 5-hydroxytryptamine, but not dopamine nor norepinephrine, in the descending inhibition. Besides ketanserin, the descending inhibition was blocked by ritanserin, haloperidol, and pipamperone, which have affinities to 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors, and also by spiperone and methiothepin, which are antagonists at both 5-hydroxytryptamine1 and 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors (all 1 microM). On the other hand, a 5-hydroxytryptamine1C and 5-hydroxytryptamine2 antagonist, mesulergine (1 microM), and 5-hydroxytryptamine3 antagonists, ICS 205-930 and quipazine (both 1 microM), did not depress either the descending inhibition or the 5-hydroxytryptamine-evoked inhibition of the monosynaptic reflex. The results with these antagonists favor the involvement of 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors although the results with mesulergine disagree with this notion. 5-Hydroxytryptamine1 agonists, such as 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin, buspirone, and 5-carboxyamidotryptamine, and a 5-hydroxytryptamine3 agonist, 2-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine, induced a long-lasting inhibition of the monosynaptic reflex, which was blocked by ketanserin whereas a 5-hydroxytryptamine2 agonist, S-(+)-alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine, evoked a biphasic inhibition, in which only the later component was blocked by ketanserin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The dendritic spines of many central neurons are generally thought to modulate the ability of individual synaptic conductances to depolarize the dendritic shaft. A compartmental analysis using typical spine dimensions shows that spine neck resistances are probably far too low to support such a function, because low conductance synapses act as time-varying current sources. However, the collective presence of all spines on a dendrite significantly modifies the electrical properties of the branch in ways which have previously been overlooked. In particular, they lower its input impedance and length constant, reducing the amplitude of the unitary excitatory postsynaptic potential as well as the strength of spatial summation. This enables a dendrite to integrate large numbers of synaptic inputs while occupying minimal volume. In this way, dendritic spines are analogous to axonal myelin, which also alters transcellular impedance in order to maximize neurite function and minimize volume. Unlike membrane resistance changes, spines have little effect on the membrane time-constant so they maintain a long window for temporal summation. Though spine shape and neck resistance do not significantly affect dendritic potentials, spine area does. Therefore, while changes in spine morphology probably do not directly potentiate the strength of individual synapses, changes in spine density can regulate the synaptic excitability of an entire dendrite. The shortened length-constant of the spiny dendrite requires excitable membranes to be located in distal dendrites. These, in turn, eliminate many of the electrotonic nonlinearities associated with summation in long, thin processes, and make all distal synapses equipotent. The short length-constant also enhances the sensitivity of dendritic spikes to local impedance changes while decreasing the sensitivity to distant impedance changes. This would enable a neuron to effectively use inhibitory synapses or branch points to regulate propagation through its spiny dendritic tree. A model neuron is developed in which dendritic spines, excitable membranes, and dendritic branching combine to form a two-stage filter, which serves as a synaptic input coincidence detector with adjustable gain. Gain is regulated by potassium conductances which modulate branch point safety factor. The model is consistent with the notion of functional independence of distal dendrites and demonstrates that certain aspects of dendritic spiking which have previously been thought to require membrane hot-spots can also result from geometrical properties. It is suggested that the activation of spiny neurons may depend as much on the density as on the number of active synapses, and that spiny neurons may tend to have discrete output states whereas nonspiny neurons may be more continuous.
Mature neurons contain two distinct regulated secretory pathways, characterized electron microscopically by so-called large dense core vesicles and small synaptic vesicles, respectively. Each vesicle type is characterized by vesicle-specific proteins, such as the granins (chromogranins/secretogranins) for the matrix of large dense core vesicles and synaptophysin for the membrane of small synaptic vesicles. So far, no data exist on the biogenesis of these two distinct vesicle types during neuronal development. We have used secretogranin II and synaptophysin as markers for the biogenesis of these two vesicle types during the development of mouse hypothalamic neurons in culture, using immunocytochemistry and biochemical analyses. By immunofluorescence, we found that secretogranin II appears as early as synaptophysin, but in a subset of neurons only, and with different subcellular localizations. It was observed in cytoplasmic areas where little or no synaptophysin immunofluorescence was detected, such as lamellipodia, emerging neurites and growth cones. At later stages, the proportion of secretogranin II-containing varicosities remained steady whereas that of synaptophysin-containing varicosities increased dramatically. By quantitative analysis we found that the level of expression of synaptophysin increased several-fold during synaptogenesis whereas that of secretogranin II decreased. These data suggest that large dense core vesicles and small synaptic vesicles can be formed separately and expressed at different levels. They provide evidence for a differential biogenesis of these two distinct vesicle types.
The dynamic effects of the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, MK-801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo(a,d)cyclohepten-5,10-imine] , on cerebral blood flow and tissue partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were investigated in the striatal and occipital regions of conscious and anaesthetized rats by mass spectrometry. MK-801 (0.5 and 5 mg/kg, i.p.) induced a large increase in the blood flow of both cerebral regions of conscious rats, without significant changes in local tissue partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide. The increase in cerebral blood flow was maximal within 30 min after injection. Its amplitude was independent of the dose of MK-801, but cerebral blood flow remained elevated for up to 4 h after 5 mg/kg MK-801, while it progressively decreased towards its basal level in rats given 0.5 mg/kg MK-801. The amplitude and time-course of the vascular changes were similar in the two cerebral regions studied. The difference in the changes in tissue partial pressure of oxygen induced by MK-801 and by a 6% CO2 inhalation suggests that the MK-801-induced rise in cerebral blood flow in conscious rats is, at least partly, due to an increase in oxidative metabolism. In contrast, MK-801 induced either no changes or decreases in cerebral blood flow in alpha-chloralose-anaesthetized rats. The present results should be taken into account not only to determine the mechanisms by which N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists may exert their neuroprotective effects but also to further elucidate the sites of action of MK-801 in the central nervous system.
The cardiovascular effects of noradrenaline bilaterally injected into the hypothalamic paraventricular nuclei were investigated in conscious, unrestrained Long-Evans rats and homozygous, vasopressin-deficient Brattleboro rats, chronically instrumented with pulsed Doppler probes for measurement of regional haemodynamics. In Long-Evans rats, incremental doses of noradrenaline (0.01-10 nmol) caused dose-related increases in blood pressure and a substantial, dose-related, superior mesenteric vasoconstriction. These changes were accompanied by bradycardia and reductions in renal and hind-quarter vascular conductances. In Brattleboro rats, noradrenaline (10 nmol) had no effect on blood pressure, heart rate, or renal or superior mesenteric vascular conductances. However, there was a slight vasodilatation in the vascular bed of the hindquarters. In Long-Evans rats, intravenous pretreatment with phentolamine had no effect on the bradycardia but partly inhibited the pressor response to noradrenaline injected into the paraventricular nuclei. These effects were associated with a smaller superior mesenteric vasoconstriction and an abolition of the vasoconstriction in the hindquarters. Combined intravenous pretreatment with phentolamine and propranolol had no effect on the heart rate or pressor responses to noradrenaline injected into the paraventricular nuclei, but reduced the superior mesenteric vasoconstriction, potentiated the vasoconstriction in the hindquarters and eliminated the renal vasoconstriction. These results suggest that, in untreated Long-Evans rats, alpha-adrenoceptor-mediated constriction in the mesenteric vascular bed and beta-adrenoceptor-mediated dilatation in the vascular bed of the hindquarters have important influences on the pressor response to noradrenaline injected into the paraventricular nuclei. In the presence of the vasopressin V1-receptor antagonist, d(CH2)5[Tyr(Et)]DAVP, the pressor and heart rate responses to noradrenaline injected into the paraventricular nuclei were abolished, as were the vasoconstrictions in the renal, superior mesenteric and hindquarter vascular beds. Together these results suggest an interaction between the sympathoadrenal system and vasopressin-mediated mechanisms in the cardiovascular responses to noradrenaline injected bilaterally into the paraventricular nuclei of conscious, untreated rats.
The dynamic transfer characteristics of mammalian spinal skeleto-motoneurons are determined by intrinsic properties and various sorts of feedback. Here, recurrent inhibition via Renshaw cells and reflex feedback via muscle units and muscle spindle (in particular Ia) afferents, in the cat, are considered. The dynamic properties of the motor axon-Renshaw cell and the motor unit-spindle afferent subsystems were experimentally determined by stimulating motor axons with pseudo-random patterns of electrical pulses at two mean rates (low: 9.5-13 pulses/s; high: 20-23 pulses/s) and recording discharges of the two output elements. Spectral analysis yielded frequency responses to which transfer functions were fitted. These transfer functions in conjunction with those previously derived for alpha-motoneurons were used to study the stability and input-output characteristics of motoneurons with regard to two issues: stability and input-output relations of the combined (recurrent plus reflex) system as compared with each subsystem alone, with (i) each feedback path consisting of a single loop at some moderate level of force production, and (ii) each pathway consisting of two loops related to two motoneuron subpopulations active at a higher level of recruitment. It is shown that Renshaw cells have frequency characteristics well suited to contribute to the stabilization of the reflex loop. They can do so at low gains of recurrent inhibition.
The present study analyses the relationship of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-immunoreactive primary afferent terminals with unlabeled and GABA-immunoreactive profiles in the primate (Macaca fascicularis) dorsal horn. One-hundred CGRP-immunoreactive terminals located in the superficial dorsal horn were quantitatively analysed and all profiles in apposition or in synaptic contact with these terminals were categorized as either axon terminals or dendrites with or without vesicles. These profiles were then further classified as to whether they were GABA-immunoreactive. All of the CGRP-immunoreactive terminals demonstrated axodendritic interactions; in addition to dendrites without vesicles, approximately half of the CGRP-immunoreactive terminals had dendrites with vesicles as postsynaptic elements. Of the dendrites with vesicles, 25/53 were GABAergic but only 3/67 of the postsynaptic dendrites without vesicles were GABAergic. GABAergic vesicle-containing dendrites were the most prominent CGRP-GABAergic interaction. Axoaxonic and dendroaxonic interactions were a rare occurrence, thus the classical anatomical substrate for primary afferent depolarization involving GABA- and CGRP-immunoreactive terminals could not be substantiated. CGRP-GABAergic interactions often involved diadic and triadic arrangements. These findings are discussed in relation to previously described primary afferent synaptology, primary afferent-GABAergic interactions and spinal cord mechanisms for modulation of noxious input.
The interactions among opioid-sensitive nociceptive modulatory systems, which include the midbrain periaqueductal gray, rostral ventromedial medulla and spinal cord, are likely to play a central role in the potent antinociception that results when morphine is administered systemically. The aim of the present study was to investigate the mechanisms through which local application of morphine, either in the periaqueductal gray or at the lumbar spinal cord in the rat, influences the activity of one population of putative nociceptive modulatory neurons in rostral ventromedial medulla, i.e. &quot;on-cells&quot;. Previous studies have shown that the spontaneous and tail-flick-related firing of on-cells is invariably depressed when morphine is given systemically in doses demonstrated to inhibit the tail-flick reflex, and that a similar depression of this activity is produced when morphine is applied directly in the periaqueductal gray or intrathecal space. In the present experiments, on-cells were activated pharmacologically using iontophoretically applied glutamate to provide an indication of whether morphine-induced suppression of on-cell firing reflected a postsynaptic inhibition or a disfacilitation resulting from blockade of an excitatory input to the on-cell. Microinjection of morphine into the periaqueductal gray blocked glutamate-evoked activity of on-cells in parallel with its suppression of the tail-flick reflex, suggesting activation of an inhibitory input to these cells. No change in glutamate-evoked activity occurred in rats in which morphine did not produce antinociception. Intrathecal administration of morphine did not alter the glutamate-evoked activity of these neurons despite blocking the tail-flick reflex, suggesting that morphine acting in the spinal cord removes an excitatory input to on-cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
It has been widely observed that when artificial neural networks are trained by supervised learning to do computations that also occur in the nervous system, the behavior of the model neurons often closely resembles that of the real neurons involved in the task. It is not immediately clear why this should be the case or what use can be made of models generated by supervised learning. Here, recent developments are reviewed and analysed in an attempt to clarify these issues. This analysis is facilitated by treating supervised learning models of the brain as a special case of system identification, a general and well-studied modeling paradigm. The neural systems identification paradigm provides a systematic way to generate realistic models starting with a high-level description of a hypothesized computation and some architectural and physiological constraints about the area being modeled. There is no inherent limitation to the realism that can be incorporated into identification models. This approach eliminates the need to find neural implementation algorithms by ad hoc means and provides neuroscientists with a convenient way to build models that account for observed data.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats, trained to perform a standard or delayed-non-match-to-sample radial arm maze task, were implanted with a single cannula aimed at the medial septal nucleus. A within-subjects design was utilized to examine the effects of intraseptal administration of the GABAergic antagonist bicuculline on performance of these tasks. Bicuculline (0-0.5 microgram/0.5 microliter) infusion produced dose-dependent impairments when administered prior to performance of a standard radial arm maze task. Post-training infusion of bicuculline (0.-0.25 microgram/0.5 microliter) also induced dose-dependent impairments in the delayed version (4 h) of the task. Further testing indicated that post-training administration of a low dose of bicuculline (0.05 microgram) in the delayed version of the task induced a deficit at a 4-h, but not a 1-h, retention interval. The latter indicates that the impairment varied as a function of bicuculline dose and increasing task difficulty (longer retention intervals). Previous observations indicated that post-training administration of the GABAergic agonist muscimol and the antagonist bicuculline could induce deficits in the performance of the delayed task. The present findings demonstrate that intraseptal bicuculline treatment can disrupt ongoing radial maze performance, as well as the maintenance and/or retrieval of memories necessary for performance of the delayed version of the task. These findings suggest that either activation or blockade of intraseptal GABA receptors is sufficient to disrupt working/episodic memory processes. The role of septum and septohippocampal pathway in working/episodic memory is discussed.
Digoxigenin-labeled RNA probes and in situ hybridization histochemistry were used to examine choline acetyltransferase gene expression in the rat central nervous system. Hybridization signal was present only in brain sections processed with the antisense riboprobe. The sense probe did not yield labeling, further validating the specificity of tissue reactivity. Telencephalic neurons containing the mRNA for the cholinergic synthetic enzyme were found in the caudate-putamen nucleus, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercule, islands of Calleja complex, medial septal nucleus, vertical and horizontal limbs of the diagonal band, substantia innominata, nucleus basalis, and nucleus of the ansa lenticularis. Some somata evincing hybridization signal were observed in the anterior amygdalar area, and an occasional such cell was seen in the basolateral and central amygdalar nuclei. Neurons in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and primary olfactory structures did not demonstrate hybridocytochemically detectable amounts of choline acetyltransferase mRNA. Thalamic cells were devoid of reactivity, with the exception of several neurons located primarily in the ventral two-thirds of the medial habenula. A few somata labeled with riboprobe were found in the lateral hypothalamus, caudal extension of the internal capsule, and zona incerta. Neurons in the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei were moderately reactive, whereas cells of the parabigeminal nucleus exhibited a very weak hybridization signal. No somata in the brainstem raphe nuclei, including raphe obscurus and raphe magnus, were observed to bind riboprobe. In contrast, motor neurons of the cranial nerve nuclei demonstrated relatively large amounts of choline acetyltransferase mRNA. Putative cholinergic somata in the ventral horns and intermediolateral cell columns of the spinal cord were also labeled with riboprobe, as were a few cells around the central canal. We conclude that hybridocytochemistry with digoxigenin-labeled riboprobes confirms the existence of cholinergic neurons (i.e. those that synthesize and use acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter) in most of the neural regions deduced to contain them on the basis of previous histochemical and immunocytochemical data. Notable exceptions are the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, which do not possess neurons expressing detectable levels of choline acetyltransferase mRNA.

Three days after bilateral septal lesions, regional and laminar densities of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptors of the dorsal rat hippocampus were studied. The concentration of [3H]N-methylscopolamine binding sites and muscarinic M1 and M2 receptor subtypes, as well as the affinity of muscarinic receptors and their sensitivity to modulation by 5-guanylylimidodiphosphate were analysed by quantitative receptor autoradiography. The measurement of these parameters was performed with a computerized image-processing system allowing a spatial resolution down to the level of single hippocampal layers. No postlesional changes of the density of M1 receptors were detected. M2 receptors showed a remarkable decrease in concentration (less than 21%) in some hippocampal layers after septal lesions. In competition experiments the affinity of muscarinic receptors for the cholinergic agonist carbamylcholine chloride decreased significantly in all hippocampal subregions and layers of the lesioned animals. In contrast to controls, the sensitivity of muscarinic receptors of the lesioned animals could not be modulated by 5-guanylylimidodiphosphate. These findings demonstrate a desensitization of muscarinic receptors in the rat hippocampus three days after septal lesions, which is caused by changes of the coupling of guanine nucleotide-binding proteins to muscarinic receptors. Therefore, the lesion-induced alteration of the muscarinic receptor-effector complex is a major aspect of the hippocampal plasticity after cholinergic denervation.
Relationships between cholinergic axons and GABA cells in the lateral geniculate and the perigeniculate nuclei were quantitatively assessed by combining pre-embedding immunocytochemical visualization of choline acetyltransferase with post-embedding immunogold labelling of GABA at the electron microscopic level. In the lateral geniculate nucleus, vesicle-containing profiles immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase made synapses exclusively with dendritic profiles both within and outside synaptic glomeruli. Only 7.0% (seven of 100 dendrites) of the target dendrites tested were positive for GABA. Of these, the majority (85.7%; 6/7) were dendritic profiles containing synaptic vesicles. This is in contrast with the overall population of geniculate synapses where 21.3% of the targets were GABA-immunopositive, a three-fold significant difference. In the perigeniculate nucleus, immunoreactive choline acetyltransferase synapses targeted mainly dendritic profiles (93.9%; 31/33) and to a lesser extent somata (6.1%). In this nucleus, all unequivocally defined targets were GABA-immunopositive. Cholinergic inputs thus show a preference to target geniculate relay neurons without a strong innervation of GABA-immunoreactive interneurons. In the perigeniculate, however, cholinergic synapses provide a powerful input to GABAergic cells. This suggests that the facilitatory effects of acetylcholine on the excitability of relay cells would be mediated through (i) a direct innervation of the geniculate relay cells, and (ii) a cholinergic inhibitory innervation of the recurrent inhibition to the lateral geniculate nucleus via the perigeniculate nucleus.
Focal extracellular recording techniques were used to study nerve impulse propagation and the intermittent transmitter release mechanism in sympathetic nerve terminals of the guinea-pig vas deferens in vitro. In particular, the nature of impulse propagation in postganglionic nerve fibres was characterized following pre- or postganglionic stimulation. Conventional intracellular recording techniques were also used to study directly ganglionic transmission in cell bodies in the anterior pelvic ganglia. When brief electrical stimuli were applied to the hypogastric nerve trunk close to the prostatic end of the vas deferens, the nerve terminal impulses recorded extracellularly could be evoked either directly by stimulation of the parent axon (i.e. postganglionically) or indirectly by stimulation of the preganglionic nerve fibre. In 364 separate recordings, nerve terminal impulse conduction failure was not observed during trains of stimuli at 1 Hz. However, apparent &quot;intermittent conduction&quot; of nerve impulses was noted on 16 occasions. In these fibres, the degree of intermittent conduction decreased as the frequency of stimulation was increased. Conduction in these intermittent fibres was reversibly interrupted by removing calcium from the Krebs' solution or by the addition of the ganglion blocker, hexamethonium (30-100 microM). Thus, the cause of intermittent conduction is failure of the transmission of excitation in the sympathetic ganglia. Impulses evoked by postganglionic stimulation never failed to propagate into the nerve terminals, and changes in the shape or amplitude of the nerve terminal impulse during trains of stimuli were not detected. One effect of stimulation was a frequency-dependent increase in the latency of the nerve terminal impulse which developed during the train of stimuli. Thus, intermittence of transmitter release from individual varicosities cannot be attributed to failure of impulse propagation in sympathetic nerve terminals. Transmission in the anterior pelvic ganglia was investigated directly by making intracellular recordings from cell bodies whose terminals projected to the vas deferens. Many cell bodies received a strong synaptic input which generated an action potential in the postganglionic cell body on a one-to-one basis. However, in some cell bodies there was a low safety factor for the generation of the action potential by the excitatory postsynaptic potential. The safety factor for generating an action potential in the postganglionic cell body was raised by increasing the frequency of stimulation. These findings suggest that peripheral ganglia are not simple one-to-one relay stations, but may well play an important role in controlling the patterns of nerve impulse traffic in postganglionic sympathetic neurons.
The presence and distribution of the calcitonin gene-related peptide was studied, using immunohistochemical techniques, in carotid receptors, in the nodose and glossopharyngeal ganglia and in the nucleus tractus solitarii of the cat. Seventy-seven per cent of the 42% of the nodose ganglion cells were labeled. Fine, sparsely branched immunoreactive terminal axonal arborizations were found in the carotid body; they disappeared after petrosal ganglionectomy. The intense immunoreactivity present in fibers in the commissural, medial, interstitial, gelatinosus, dorsal, intermediate and rostral gustatory subnuclei of the nucleus tractus solitarius was drastically reduced after removal of the ipsilateral nodose and petrosal ganglia. The central distribution of the immunoreactive axons, the morphology of the terminals in the carotid receptors and their dependence on an intact peripheral innervation are consistent with the idea that in the cat the calcitonin gene-related peptide is present in a high proportion of the primary visceral afferents, most of them unmyelinated.
Helodermin is an amidated peptide of 35 amino acid residues isolated from the lizard Heloderma suspectum. Homologous peptides, helospectins I and II, peptides of 38 and 37 amino acid residues, respectively, have been isolated from the lizard Heloderma horridum. This group of peptides stimulates the adenylate cyclase activity. Helodermin- and helospectin-like immunoreactivities were studied in the rat brain by using immunohistochemistry and radioimmunoassay in combination with high-performance liquid chromatography. The highest concentrations of helodermin-like immunoreactivity were found in the cerebellum and hypothalamus. The chromatographic analysis of rat brain extract revealed one main immunoreactive peak with elution properties similar to those of authentic lizard helodermin. Helodermin-immunoreactive neurons were located in the supraoptic nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus, periventricular nucleus, arcuate nucleus and central gray. Fibers and terminals of varying densities were observed in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial part of the central nucleus of amygdala, external layer of the median eminence, thalamus and central gray. The highest concentrations of helospectin-like immunoreactivity were found in the cerebral cortex, hypothalamus and medulla. The chromatographic analysis of brain extract revealed one major peak with elution properties similar to those of authentic helospectin I. Helospectin-immunoreactive neurons were located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, central gray, cerebral cortex, dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus and supramammillary nucleus. Helospectin-immunoreactive fibers and terminals were found in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial part of the central nucleus of amygdala, median eminence, lateral parabrachial nucleus, central gray, cerebral cortex, thalamus and nucleus of the solitary tract. The present study has revealed novel neuronal systems in the rat brain by using antisera against the lizard peptides helodermin and helospectin. The patterns of immunostaining suggest a role for the helodermin- and helospectin-like peptides in the hypothalamo-hypophyseal control of endocrine functions.
Kinematic and dynamic analyses were employed to study the effects of cerebellar lesions on conditioned and unconditioned nictitating membrane responses in the rabbit. It was found that conditioned responses acquired to an auditory stimulus accelerated in two bursts as indicated by two distinct peaks of acceleration. The second peak of acceleration was very weak during the early portions of conditioning but became a prominent feature of the conditioned response over 16 sessions of conditioning. The second peak of acceleration in the conditioned response was more sensitive to cerebellar damage than was the first peak. When lesions of the cerebellum permanently reduced the amplitude of conditioned responses, but did not affect their frequency, the second peak of acceleration was nearly abolished while the first peak was unaffected. When cerebellar lesions profoundly impaired both the amplitude and frequency of conditioned responses, large and permanent impairments occurred in both peaks of acceleration. Lesions of the anterior interpositus nucleus most severely impaired both peaks of acceleration in the conditioned response and significantly reduced the acceleration of unconditioned responses across a wide range of intensities of corneal air puff. The deficit in the acceleration of unconditioned responses became manifest only after membrane extension exceeded 0.12 mm. The impairment in the amplitude of the unconditioned response after cerebellar lesions more closely approximated the impairment in the amplitude of the conditioned response when the force-generating properties of the conditioned and unconditioned stimuli were equated. It was hypothesized, therefore, that one reason why conditioned responses are so easily disrupted by cerebellar lesions is because they are of low force and not simply because they are learned. It was proposed that the two peaks of acceleration that characterize the conditioned response represent the function of two distinct anatomical systems. The first, a short-latency system, initiates the response and is most likely mediated by circuits that traverse the pontomedullary reticular formation. The second, a longer-latency system, amplifies response amplitude and its neural basis remains to be elucidated. The two components of the conditioned response may reflect two sequential bursts of activity in the accessory abducens nucleus, the principal site of the motoneurons for the retractor bulbi muscle, or may reflect the synergistic activity of the accessory abducens nucleus and the motor nuclei of the other extraocular muscles. It was concluded that the vulnerability of the second component of the conditioned response to cerebellar damage reflects an important role for the cerebellum in modulating the degree to which long-latency neural systems contribute to the ongoing performance of learned and unlearned behaviors.
GM1 ganglioside and nerve growth factor both promote the recovery of injured central cholinergic neurons in young animals. Brain cholinergic activity declines with aging and nerve growth factor has been shown to correct cholinergic deficits in senescent animals. We have administered GM1, to young (three months old) or senescent (22-24 months old) rats and evaluated acetylcholine and choline content, choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase activity as well as choline uptake in striatum, hippocampus and frontal cortex. For some studies, nerve growth factor was administered alone or together with GM1. Our results indicate that cholinergic neurochemical parameters are decreased in some brain areas of senescent animals and that both GM1 and nerve growth factor can enhance their recovery.
Membrane potential-dependent changes in the repetitive firing properties of morphologically identified rat dorsolateral septal nucleus neurons were investigated in a submerged slice preparation using intracellular recording techniques and lithium acetate-Lucifer Yellow-filled microelectrodes. The results indicate that the majority of dorsolateral septal nucleus neurons are capable of burst firing and suggest, moreover, the existence of neuronal subtypes with distinct differences in spike waveform and the pattern of spontaneous activity. In the largest proportion of neurons, single spike activity predominated at membrane potentials near rest while burst-like discharges prevailed at more hyperpolarized membrane potentials. Less frequently observed were neurons exhibiting different burst waveforms at various membrane potentials. In a few neurons, hyperpolarization slowed neuronal firing but did not elicit burst-like discharges. Characteristics such as the presence of burst or single spike discharges, spike afterpotentials, and the membrane potential dependence of repetitive firing patterns did not appear to be closely associated with membrane time constant, membrane resistance, or resting membrane potential. A detailed examination of the somatodendritic and axonal morphology of the Lucifer Yellow-filled cells revealed that these electrophysiologically identified neurons in the dorsolateral septal nucleus are morphologically heterogeneous. However, there did not appear to be any correlation between a particular somatodendritic morphology and the expression of a distinct spontaneous firing pattern. The present findings demonstrate that neurons in the rat dorsolateral septal nucleus are morphologically diverse and capable of intrinsically generating rhythmic neuronal activity. Similar patterns of rhythmic neuronal firing in vivo may provide a substrate for the integration of afferent neuronal activity and have a central role in intraseptal circuitry necessary for generation of hippocampal theta rhythm.
Glycine-like immunoreactivity was localized to a number of sites in the rat brain which are involved in processing sensory information. In the auditory and vestibular systems, glycine immunoreactivity was seen in dorsal and ventral cochlear nuclei, superior olive, trapezoid body, medial and lateral vestibular nuclei, and inferior colliculus. Staining in the visual system was seen in retina, dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, and superior colliculus. The olfactory system exhibited staining in the olfactory bulb and accessory olfactory formation. Somatosensory centers with glycine immunoreactivity included the dorsal column nuclei, spinal trigeminal nucleus, principal sensory nucleus of V, reticular formation, and periaqueductal gray. Glycine-immunoreactive neurons were also seen in cerebellar cortex, deep cerebellar nuclei, hippocampus, cerebral cortex, and striatum. The distribution of staining indicates that glycine plays a major role in sensory centers with actions at both strychnine-sensitive and strychnine-insensitive receptors.
Removal of the sensory plate in Xenopus laevis embryos was performed to study the influence of the olfactory anlage on the development of the forebrain. Embryos, which at stage 22-23 underwent removal of the olfactory anlagen, were killed from stage 47 to 60. In 79% of the animals, two olfactory organs reformed and gave origin to two olfactory nerves which contacted the forebrain. In this instance, the telencephalic hemispheres developed normally. In 14% of the animals, one olfactory organ reformed which contacted the brain by means of one olfactory nerve. This resulted in the development of a unique, reduced in size, cone-shaped telencephalic lobe. In the remaining animals, only a rudiment of the olfactory organ, unconnected with the brain, was present; in these cases, the telencephalon did not develop. Similar results were observed in embryos where olfactory anlagen removal was coupled with damage to, or partial removal of, the prosencephalic vesicle. In animals where lesion of the forebrain was performed without placodal removal, normal development of the forebrain was observed. The developmental relationship observed between the olfactory organ and the forebrain suggests an active role of the nose on the development of the brain.
This study investigated the specificity of sensory nerve regeneration in a primate model. In adult cynomolgus monkeys, the femoral nerve was explored in the groin and two sensory branches identified. A sensory branch was sectioned and introduced into the proximal channel of a Y-shaped silicone chamber. This proximal sensory nerve stump was given distal choices of distal sensory nerve graft or distal sensory nerve which was intact to the distal sensory cutaneous receptors. After eight months, histological analysis confirmed axonal growth directed towards both the distal nerve graft and the distal nerve intact to the distal cutaneous receptors. However, the number of nerve fibres directed towards the distal nerve was significantly greater than the number of nerve fibres directed towards the nerve graft (P less than 0.004). These results suggest that while both distal nerve graft and distal intact nerve act as specific targets to regenerating proximal primate nerve, the presence of an intact distal end-organ positively enhances sensory regeneration.
While peripheral nerve reconstruction could benefit from the use of nerve allografts, long term immunosuppression for non-vital organ transplantation is controversial. This study investigated the effectiveness of short course Cyclosporin A immunosuppression. Fourteen Lewis (RT1l) rats were the recipients of 3 cm sciatic nerve grafts from ACI (RT1a) donors, repaired to the transected sciatic nerve of the recipient animal. Animals were treated with Cyclosporin A (5 mg/kg/day) for eight weeks. Neuromuscular function was assessed every two weeks by sciatic function index determinations until 20 weeks. Electrophysiological, histological and morphological evaluations were performed at 14 (n = 6) and 20 weeks (n = 8) postengraftment. Rats had significantly improving functional studies from four to eight weeks (P = 0.01). Function decreased following cessation of Cyclosporin A treatment. Rats evaluated at 14 weeks had histological evidence of graft rejection with inflammatory cell infiltration, extensive demyelination and remyelination, and some Wallerian degeneration. Rats demonstrated improvement in morphological parameters and motor function from 14 to 20 weeks after engraftment. In this sciatic nerve allograft model, short course Cyclosporin A immunosuppression, although resulting in an initial episode of graft rejection, was successful in permitting good long term functional regeneration of neuromuscular function.
Increased levels of preproenkephalin mRNA in spinal cord neurons induced by peripheral tissue inflammation were examined using in situ hybridization histochemistry. In addition, in situ hybridization histochemistry was combined with immunocytochemistry to determine whether increases in preproenkephalin mRNA were co-localized in spinal cord neurons with increases in immunoreactivity for Fos and Fos-related proteins coded by the immediate-early proto-oncogene, c-fos, and related genes. Dorsal horn laminae I-II, V-VI and VII showed a greater than 200% increase in preproenkephalin mRNA-labeled neurons on the inflamed side as compared to the contralateral control. Inflammation also induced Fos-like immunoreactivity in cell nuclei, mainly in the superficial laminae I-II and the neck of the dorsal horn (laminae V-VI). Few labeled nuclei were detected on the contralateral side. Inflammation resulted in double-labeling of neurons ipsilateral to the inflamed limb whereas they were almost completely absent on the contralateral side. Double-labeled neurons were most frequently found in laminae V-VI. Double-labeled laminae I-II neurons were concentrated in the medial two-thirds of the dorsal horn, the site that receives innervation from the inflamed limb. There were also many double-labeled neurons in laminae VII. Over 90%, 82% and 69% of all neurons expressing preproenkephalin mRNA co-localized Fos immunoreactivity in laminae V-VI, I-II, and VII, respectively. However, the number of neurons expressing increased Fos immunoreactivity was substantially greater than the subpopulation of double-labeled neurons. Our findings indicated that peripheral inflammation induces an increase in preproenkephalin mRNA levels in spinal cord neurons and that most neurons exhibiting preproenkephalin mRNA labeling also co-localized Fos and Fos-related immunoreactivity. These data are consistent with evidence supporting the role of Fos and Fos-related proteins in the regulation of transcription of the preproenkephalin gene in spinal neurons.
The effect of 5-hydroxytryptamine on the induction of long-term potentiation by a train of high frequency pulses (100 Hz; 1 s) or by a stimulation consisting of one burst of five pulses at 100 Hz delivered 170 ms after a single pulse (primed burst) was investigated in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampal slice in vitro with extracellular recordings. Superfusion with 5-hydroxytryptamine (3-30 microM) produced a concentration-dependent decrease in amplitude of the population spikes evoked by test stimuli. The presence of 5-hydroxytryptamine (30 microM) did not affect the magnitude of long-term potentiation produced by the high-frequency stimulation but it prevented the long-term potentiation induced by a primed burst. The action of 5-hydroxytryptamine was mimicked by the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A agonist 5-carboxamidotryptamine (0.3 microM) and blocked by the 5-hydroxytryptamine2/5-hydroxytryptamine1A antagonist spiperone (3 microM) or by the 5-hydroxytryptamine1/5-hydroxytryptamine2 antagonist methiothepin (1-10 microM). The selective 5-hydroxytryptamine2 antagonist ritanserin (1 microM) did not antagonize the block of long-term potentiation produced by 5-hydroxytryptamine. The selective 5-hydroxytryptamine3 antagonists (3-tropanyl)-1H-indole-3-carboxylic acid ester (ICS 205-930; 1 nM) and ondansetron (GR-38032; 30 nM) did not affect the reduction in the population spike produced by application of 5-hydroxytryptamine. In contrast, a primed burst delivered at the fifth minute of 5-hydroxytryptamine application in the presence of a 5-hydroxytryptamine3 antagonist induced a long-term potentiation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The muscle spindle reactions evoked by the servo-controlled changes in the muscle length or external load were studied on the de-efferented muscles in experiments on cats under Nembutal anaesthesia. The activity of 39 primary and 10 secondary endings of the muscle spindles from four hindlimb extensor muscles: soleus, plantaris, lateral and medial heads of gastrocnemius has been recorded during servo-controlled changes in muscle length (L-control) or external load (P-control). Slow linear reciprocating (triangular) signals and their modification with fixation of the controlled parameter at the same level at forward and reverse phases were used as commands for the muscle stretcher. The steady firing rates in primary and secondary endings during fixation of muscle length or external load were shown to be strongly dependent on the direction of previous changes in these parameters. The firing rates were always higher after preceding lengthening (loading) and lower after shortening (unloading). These rate uncertainties in the steady firing of spindle endings at the same level of controlled parameter could be as much as 15-20 p.p.s. The revealed dependence of the spindle ending firing on the past history of the muscle movement was denoted as movement-dependent after-effects. Two kinds of movement-dependent after-effects in the firing of the spindle endings can be observed: (1) the movement-dependent ones being studied in the present work, and (2) those connected with the conditioning fusimotor stimulation and described elsewhere. Their common origin is supposed to be connected with the hysterical (thixotropic) properties of the intrafusal muscle fibres. Similarity of the movement-dependent after-effects in L- and P-control conditions was shown to be connected with a resemblance of the length-firing rate [F(L)] and load-firing rate [F(P)] hysterical loops registered during reciprocating movements. Both kinds of loops were in a clock-wise direction, their comparison in normalized form showed that F(L) loops were always broader than F(P) ones. Isotonic and isometric uncertainty vectors were introduced to analyse quantitatively the hysterical effects in the spindle firing and their relation to the muscle hysteresis proper. Uncertainty vectors connect the points of equal load (isotonic uncertainty vectors) and equal length (isometric uncertainty vectors) on F(L) and F(P) loops correspondingly. The projections of both uncertainty vectors onto the Y-axis give the rate uncertainty coinciding in sign for both cases, whereas their projections onto the X-axis differ in sign, being positive for isometric uncertainty vectors (the tension uncertainty) and negative for isotonic uncertainty vectors (the length uncertainty).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The changes of motor unit size following partial denervation of the extensor digitorum longus muscles in rat neonates (at five to six days) and later in development (at 18-20 days) were studied. Extensor digitorum longus muscle is innervated mainly by axons from L4 ventral ramus and to a lesser extent by axons from L5 ventral ramus. In neonates the motor units in extensor digitorum longus are large, and they become restricted to their adult size during the first two weeks of life. Six to 10 weeks after removing the major input to extensor digitorum longus, i.e. L4 ventral ramus at five to six days, the motor unit sizes of axons in the remaining L5 ventral ramus decrease from their expanded neonatal territory to their adult smaller size. In spite of partial denervation the motor units remain small throughout the animal's life and the denervated muscle fibres do not become &quot;occupied&quot; by sprouts from the remaining axons of L5 ventral ramus motor nerves. Partial denervation of extensor digitorum longus muscles at 18-20 days by section of the L4 ventral ramus leads to the expected two- to three-fold increase in the size of motor units of L5 ventral ramus. These results are taken to show that fast motor units of neonatal rats are unable to maintain their enlarged peripheral field, while later in development their axons can sprout and occupy an expanded peripheral field.
The topographical distribution of neuropeptide-containing cell bodies, fibers and terminals was studied in human parabrachial nuclei and the pontine tegmentum with immunohistochemical stainings. Brains of seven adult human subjects of 35-72 years were fixed within 2 h post mortem. Serial sections were immunostained by antisera of 14 different neuropeptides--oxytocin, vasopressin, thyrotropin-releasing hormone, angiotensin II, calcitonin gene-related peptide, beta-endorphin, dynorphin A, dynorphin B, leucine-enkephalin, alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone, substance P, neuropeptide Y, cholecystokinin and galanin--alternately. All of these peptides were found to be present in nerve fibers and terminals, but only two, angiotensin II and dynorphin B, in cell bodies of the parabrachial nuclei. Calcitonin gene-related peptide-, neuropeptide Y-, cholecystokinin- and galanin-immunoreactive cells were present in other areas of the pontine tegmentum, like the motor trigeminal nucleus, locus coeruleus, periventricular gray matter but not in the parabrachial nuclei. Peptidergic fibers were distributed unevenly throughout the pontine tegmentum having unique, individual distribution patterns. In the parabrachial nuclei, substance P, neuropeptide Y, cholecystokinin and galanin showed the highest density of immunoreactive neuronal networks. Moderate to low concentrations of immunoreactive processes were detected by calcitonin gene-related peptide, alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone, dynorphin B, thyrotropin releasing hormone, leucine-enkephalin, dynorphin A, angiotensin II, beta-endorphin, vasopressin and oxytocin antisera, respectively. Other pontine tegmental areas, like the locus coeruleus, dorsal tegmental, pontine raphe and motor trigeminal nuclei as well as the central gray of the tegmental region exhibited a varying assortment of neuropeptides with distinct, individual localization patterns. Their detailed topographical distributions are mapped and given in coronal sections.
The effects of tetanus toxin and its light and heavy chain subunits on vasopressin release were investigated in digitonin-permeabilized neurosecretory nerve terminals isolated from the neural lobe of the rat pituitary gland. Exocytosis was induced by challenging the permeabilized nerve endings with micromolar calcium concentrations. Tetanus toxin inhibited vasopressin release only in the presence of the reducing agent dithiothreitol. This effect was irreversible. The purified light chain of tetanus toxin strongly inhibited exocytosis in a dose-dependent manner with half-maximal effect at c. 10 nM. The action of the light chain was observed after only 2.5 min of preincubation. Separated heavy chain subunit had no effect on hormone secretion. Inhibition of vasopressin release could be prevented by preincubating the light chain of tetanus toxin with an immune serum against tetanus toxin. The data clearly demonstrate that in mammalian neurosecretory nerve endings tetanus toxin acts at a step downstream from the activation by Ca2+ of the exocytotic machinery and that the functional domain of this toxin is confined to its light chain.
Nociceptive primary afferents develop an increased responsiveness in inflamed tissue. The aim of this neurophysiological investigation was to study the sensitivity changes of cutaneous nociceptors following application of the algesic inflammatory mediator bradykinin and to examine a possible contribution of the sympathetic nervous system. Single unit recordings were obtained in a skin-nerve in vitro preparation from unmyelinated nociceptive afferents supplying the hairy skin of intact or of chronically sympathectomized rats. In preparations from intact skin, mechano-heat-sensitive C-fibres responding to superfusion of the receptive fields with 10 microM bradykinin for 1 min were sensitized to heat stimulation 2 min later. On average, the threshold dropped by 5.0 degrees C, the maximal discharge frequency increased by 34% and the temperature eliciting this peak discharge dropped by 5.6 degrees C. This resulted in a leftward shift and an increased slope of the stimulus-response function indicating sensitization. In surgically sympathectomized animals, 52% of the nociceptive afferents were activated by bradykinin which is not different from normal controls. In sympathectomized animals neither the reduction of the mean threshold (4.6 degrees C) nor the increase of the peak discharge frequency (48%) differed significantly from intact controls. The change of the stimulation-response function following bradykinin application was virtually identical in intact and sympathectomized preparations. Moreover, bradykinin increased the heat discharge of individual fibres by a factor of 2.1 in intact and 1.9 in sympathectomized animals, respectively. In both preparations the increased responsiveness of the nociceptors was short-lived and had resolved 7 min after chemical stimulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Antisera to GABA conjugates and postembedding techniques were used to identify GABA-containing axonal endings at the electron microscopic level in the inferior colliculus. Over 90% of the GABA-labeled axonal endings had a similar morphology. They contained pleomorphic synaptic vesicles and made symmetrical synapses. The exceptional endings contained round vesicles and made symmetrical synaptic contacts or had pleomorphic vesicles with asymmetrical contacts. The majority of GABA-labeled axonal endings synapsed on dendrites; however, a few labeled axosomatic synapses were also found. Potential sources for these GABAergic synapses are neurons intrinsic to the inferior colliculus or from the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus. These findings suggest a basic similarity for most GABAergic endings in the inferior colliculus despite their possible origin from different cell types.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP) is a vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-like hypothalamic peptide occurring in two forms, PACAP-27 and the C-terminally extended PACAP-38. The predicted rat and human PACAP sequence is identical to the isolated ovine one. In the present study, the occurrence and distribution of PACAP-like peptides were examined in the gut of several species by immunocytochemistry and immunochemistry using an antibody raised against PACAP-27. PACAP-like immunoreactivity was observed in nerve fibers in the gut wall of all species examined (chicken, mouse, rat, hamster, guinea-pig, ferret, cat, pig, sheep and man). In the chicken and human gut, immunoreactive fibers were numerous in all layers. In the other species examined the fibers were predominantly found in the myenteric ganglia and smooth muscle. Delicate PACAP-immunoreactive fibers were seen in the gastric mucosa of mouse, rat, hamster and man but not in the other species examined. The chicken proventriculus harbored numerous PACAP-immunoreactive endocrine cells which were identical with the serotonin-containing cells storing gastrin-releasing peptide. PACAP-immunoreactive nerve cell bodies were numerous in the submucous ganglia and moderate in number in the myenteric ganglia of the human gut. They were few in the intramural ganglia of the other species examined. Extrinsic denervation (performed on segments of rat and guinea-pig small intestine) did not visibly affect the PACAP innervation, indicating an intramural origin of most PACAP-immunoreactive fibers. Double immunostaining for VIP and PACAP revealed co-existence of the two peptides in nerve cell bodies and nerve fibers of the human and chicken gut and in fibers in the gastric mucosa of mouse and rat. In all other species examined and in all other locations in the gut PACAP-immunoreactive nerve cell bodies and nerve fibers were distinct from those storing VIP; many of them contained gastrin-releasing peptide instead. Immunochemistry revealed PACAP-like peptides in gut extracts of all species studied; upon high performance liquid chromatography the immunoreactive material co-eluted with synthetic PACAP-27. The distribution of PACAP-immunoreactive nerve cell bodies and nerve fibers in the gut wall suggests their involvement in the regulation of both motor and secretory activities.
Helospectins I and II are two non-amidated, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-like peptides, isolated from the salivary gland venom of the lizard Heloderma horridum. Helospectin I has 38 amino acid residues and differs from helospectin II in that it has an additional serine residue at the C-terminus. The study was based on an antiserum that recognizes both helospectins I and II (but recognizes VIP only poorly). Immunocytochemistry of the digestive tract revealed helospectin-immunoreactive nerve fibers in the muscle layers, submucosa and mucosa of mouse, rat, hamster, guinea-pig and man. Myenteric and submucous ganglia in all species contained helospectin-immunoreactive nerve fibers and cell bodies. The distribution of helospectin-like immunoreactivity in the gut resembled that of VIP. Double immunostaining for helospectin and VIP revealed their co-existence in the same population of nerve fibers and cell bodies throughout the gut of all species tested. In addition, helospectin (but not VIP) immunoreactivity was observed in a population of endocrine cells in the intestines. The existence of helospectin-like material in the gut was confirmed by immunochemistry. The helospectin-like immunoreactivity in the extracts diluted in parallel to the helospectin standard curve. Analysis by high performance liquid chromatography of extracts of rat intestine revealed one predominant helospectin-immunoreactive peak that eluted close to authentic helospectins I and II. The helospectin-immunoreactive material in the gut may constitute a novel neuropeptide that co-exists with VIP. The distribution of the VIP-helospectin-immunoreactive neurons and fibers indicates their possible involvement in the regulation of gut motor and secretory activities.
The present study has examined the birthdates of neurons in the retinal ganglion cell layer of the adult rat. Rat fetuses were exposed to tritiated thymidine in utero to label neurons departing the mitotic cycle at different gestational stages from embryonic days 12 through to 22. Upon reaching adulthood, rats were either given unilateral injections of horseradish peroxidase into target visual nuclei in order to discriminate (1) ganglion cells from displaced amacrine cells, (2) decussating from non-decussating ganglion cells, and (3) alpha cells from other ganglion cell types; or, their retinae were immunohistochemically processed to reveal the choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive amacrine cells in the ganglion cell layer. Retinae were embedded flat in resin and cut en face to enable reconstruction of the distribution of labelled cells. Retinal sections were autoradiographically processed and then examined for neurons that were both tritium-positive and either horseradish peroxidase-positive or choline acetyltransferase-positive. Tritium-positive neurons in the ganglion cell layer were present in rats that had been exposed to tritiated thymidine on embryonic days E14-E22. Retinal ganglion cells were generated between E14 and E20, the ipsilaterally projecting ganglion cells ceasing their neurogenesis a full day before the contralaterally projecting ganglion cells. Alpha cells were generated from the very outset of retinal ganglion cell genesis, at E14, but completed their neurogenesis before the other cell types, by E17. Tritium-positive, horseradish peroxidase-negative neurons in the ganglion cell layer were present from E14 through to E22, and are interpreted as displaced amacrine cells. Choline acetyltransferase-positive displaced amacrine cells were generated between E16 and E20. Individual cell types showed a rough centroperipheral neurogenetic gradient, with the dorsal half of the retina slightly preceding the ventral half. These results demonstrate, first, that retinal ganglion cell genesis and displaced amacrine cell genesis overlap substantially in time. They do not occur sequentially, as has been commonly assumed. Second, they demonstrate that the alpha cell population of retinal ganglion cells and the choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive population of displaced amacrine cells are each generated over a limited time during the periods of overall ganglion cell and displaced amacrine cell genesis, respectively. Third, they show that the very earliest ganglion cells to be generated in the temporal retina have exclusively uncrossed optic axons, while the later cells to be generated therein have an increasing propensity to navigate a crossed chiasmatic course.
Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone is a decapeptide found in the brain and nose of all vertebrates that have been examined by immunocytochemical procedures with antiserum to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone. It regulates the release of both luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone from the gonadotropes of the anterior pituitary gland and promotes mating behavior. After about 11 days of embryogenesis in mice, luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-immunoreactive cells are detected by immunocytochemical procedures in the medial olfactory placode, in the primordium of the vomeronasal organ. As they leave the olfactory placode, they run under the epithelial layer of the nasal septum associated with vomeronasal and terminalis nerves. Clustered, they stream toward the primordium of the olfactory bulb, passing along its ventromedial surface. Eventually, the largest numbers reach the septal and preoptic areas of the brain. Electron microscopic immunocytochemistry showed that luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-immunoreactive product is accumulated just outside the nuclear envelope and in the lumen of rough endoplasmic reticulum adjacent to the cell nucleus of cells in and adjacent to the olfactory placode. As luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-immunoreactive neurons migrate, they assume a fusiform shape and the immunoreaction product extends from the area around the nucleus throughout the cytoplasm, notably in processes which extend toward the direction of migration. Before and during migration, luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone was not detected in the Golgi apparatus or neurosecretory granules. It is inferred that as far as ultrastructural evidence is concerned, these neurons do not have a secretory function before they attain their target organs.
Previous work has indicated that the anticonvulsant effect of nigral inactivation on the maximal electroshock model of generalized seizures is mediated by the projection from substantia nigra to superior colliculus. In accordance with this idea, and with the GABAergic nature of the nigrotectal pathway, microinjections of the GABAA antagonist bicuculline methiodide into the superior colliculus have been reported to block tonic hindlimb extension induced by maximal electroshock. To characterize the relevant circuitry more precisely, the present study sought to determine which region of the superior colliculus was important for the anticonvulsant effect of bicuculline by systematic mapping in the rat. Bilateral injections of bicuculline methiodide (50 pmol in 400 nl/side) were most effective in the caudal deep layers of the superior colliculus and adjoining midbrain reticular formation. These results suggest that the well-known projection from substantia nigra pars reticulata to the superior colliculus may not be involved in the anticonvulsant effect of nigral inactivation in the electroshock model, because this pathway terminates primarily in the intermediate layers of the superior colliculus throughout its rostrocaudal extent. Instead, some other pathway from ventral midbrain to a dorsal midbrain anticonvulsant zone appears to be part of the brain's anticonvulsant circuitry. The following paper [Redgrave et al. (1991) Neuroscience 46, 391-406] describes an anatomical study to characterize this pathway.
As a major output station of the basal ganglia, the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra has stimulated much interest. In the past two decades there has been a growing body of evidence for a partition of this structure into separate channels to express the striatal processing. To further our knowledge on the functional partitioning of the rodent substantia nigra pars reticulata, the regional distribution of the nigral efferent cell groups that provide innervation of thalamus, colliculus and tegmentum has been detailed in rat using the wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase as an axonal tracer. To ensure a total visualization of the nigral efferent neurons we have, in a preliminary study, determined the total extent of the nigral terminal field in each of the nigral target structures using the anterograde transport of wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase and Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. At variance with the classical view that nigral cells innervating distinct target structures form functionally distinct subnuclei, the results suggest a nigral compartmentation that rather relies upon specific associations of efferent cell groups. As disclosed, these associations are specified by topographic rules and spatially ordered in a series of curved laminae enveloping an excentrated dorsolateral core. In this onion-like model of the substantia nigra pars reticulata, each lamella defines an associative unit composed of a set of neurons innervating particular loci of thalamus, colliculus and/or tegmentum. This lamellar partitioning bestows the ability upon the substantia nigra to dispatch the striatal outflow via parallel and divergent channels to functionally associated target areas in thalamus and brainstem.
The relationships between cholinergic and neuropeptide Y-containing neuronal systems in the rat striatum were examined using a dual immunoperoxidase labelling method. These neurons were identified by their immunoreactivity to choline acetyltransferase and neuropeptide Y, respectively, and were visualized on the same sections using 3,3'-diaminobenzidine and benzidine dihydrochloride as distinct chromogens under two conditions: (i) neuropeptide Y detection by the 3,3'-diaminobenzidine diffuse brown reaction product and choline acetyltransferase detection by the benzidine dihydrochloride blue, granular reaction product; (ii) choline acetyltransferase detection by 3,3'-diaminobenzidine and neuropeptide Y detection by benzidine dihydrochloride. Although both neuropeptide Y- and choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cell bodies were simultaneously detected and were easily distinguishable whatever the conditions used, neuropeptide Y- and choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive dendrites and axons could not be visualized on the same sections, since only the diaminobenzidine-labelled processes were detectable. Light microscopic observations on sections dual labelled with either method confirmed that choline acetyltransferase and neuropeptide Y immunoreactivities were localized in morphologically different populations of striatal neurons scattered throughout the striatum, choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity being associated with large neurons and neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity with medium-sized neurons. In addition, the choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons were found to be more numerous than the neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons and to be prevalent in the dorsolateral areas of the striatum, whereas neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons were preferentially found in the ventromedial areas of this structure. Electron microscopic observations on sections processed under either condition revealed that choline acetyltransferase-positive terminals form synaptic contacts of the symmetrical type with neuropeptide Y-positive somata and proximal dendrites and that choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons are contacted by neuropeptide Y-positive terminals. These data show that the striatal neuropeptide Y- and choline acetyltransferase-containing neuronal systems have reciprocal synaptic interactions and provide morphological support for the hypothesis that striatal cholinergic and neuropeptide Y interneuron activities may be functionally linked.
The distribution of neurotensin-immunoreactive structures in the rat striatum was evaluated after blockade of dopamine neurotransmission by drugs that act presynaptically (6-hydroxydopamine, reserpine) and postsynaptically, preferentially at the D2 (eticlopride, haloperidol) and D1 [(R)-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepi n-7-ol, SCH-23390] receptor sites. Calbindin-D (mol. wt 28,000) immunoreactivity was used to delineate patch (striosome) and matrix in the caudate-putamen and core and shell in the nucleus accumbens. Antagonism at the D2 dopamine receptor and 6-hydroxydopamine lesions caused dense axonal immunoreactivity and moderate numbers of neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons to be distributed preferentially in the matrix of the caudate-putamen. D1 receptor antagonism was significantly less effective at eliciting neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons in the caudate-putamen. Reserpine or co-administration of the D1 and D2 receptor antagonists produced many neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons in both striatal compartments throughout the caudate-putamen and dense axonal neurotensin immunoreactivity in the medial patch compartment. To varying degrees, with SCH-23390 being least effective and reserpine most effective, all of the drug treatments elicited neurotensin immunoreactivity in neurons in the olfactory tubercle, rostral nucleus accumbens, accumbal shell and ventrolateral caudate-putamen, i.e. most of the ventral striatum.
Recently, a phenomenon has been described in the dentate gyrus termed maximal dentate activation, which is defined by the appearance of bursts of large amplitude population spikes associated with a negative shift of the d.c. potential and a secondary rise of the extracellular potassium level. Previous work has linked maximal dentate activation to kindling of afterdischarges, either when they are elicited in the hippocampus or outside of the hippocampus in the amygdala. Recording bilaterally in the dentate gyrus, it was found that maximal dentate activation occurred on both sides, with the side ipsilateral to the stimulus (either CA3 or angular bundle) being activated first. An afterdischarge did not appear unless bilateral maximal dentate activation had occurred. With repeated stimulation, the time to onset of maximal dentate activation on the two sides of the brain became nearly equal. This was associated with the appearance of afterdischarges. However, complete synchronization of the onset of maximal dentate activation was not necessary for afterdischarge production. Maximal dentate activation and afterdischarges could be readily elicited in rats in which the hippocampal commissures had been cut. It appears that, in the intact brain, the lack of maximal dentate activation on one side of the brain can function as a &quot;brake&quot; for epileptic activity, preventing afterdischarges. Once this brake is removed, by cutting the hippocampal commissures or by initiating maximal dentate activation, the dentate gyrus readily expresses afterdischarges.
To investigate the effect of adenosine on anoxic damage of brain tissue, energy metabolism in relation to neural activity was studied using hippocampal slices from the guinea-pig. For the index of energy metabolism, adenosine triphosphate and creatine phosphate in each slice were measured and also postsynaptic potentials (population spike potentials) were recorded in the granule cell layer of the slices. After preparation of the slices, one group of slices was incubated for 120 min in standard medium and another in the medium containing adenosine (5 mM). The adenosine triphosphate content of the former group was 8.8 mmol/kg protein whereas that of the latter was 15.8 mmol/kg protein. During deprivation of oxygen and glucose, adenosine triphosphate and creatine phosphate in the control slices and the slices treated with adenosine decreased rapidly. Adenosine did not alter the rate of consumption of high energy phosphates in both slices. The pretreatment of slices with adenosine (5 mM), however, considerably enhanced the recovery of the adenosine triphosphate level during reoxygenation with glucose after deprivation of oxygen and glucose for 15 and 30 min. Postsynaptic potentials in the granule cell layer of the slice were recorded before and after 10, 15, 20 or 25 min deprivation of oxygen and glucose in the control slice and the slices pretreated with adenosine (5 mM) for 60 min. In the control slices, postsynaptic potentials in one of 10 slices could be recorded after 60 min reoxygenation following 15 min anoxia/aglycemia, while postsynaptic potentials in 10 of 15 slices treated with adenosine could be detected even after 15 min of anoxia/aglycemia. Thus the functional recovery of postsynaptic potentials agreed well with the results of the recovery of adenosine triphosphate level in the slices treated with adenosine. These results indicate that adenosine has a protective effect against anoxic/aglycemic damage of brain tissue by facilitating the resynthesis of tissue adenosine triphosphate during the recovery period.
We examined the distribution of synapsin I in the gerbil brain and investigated ischemic damage of presynaptic terminals immunohistochemically by using this protein as a marker protein of synaptic vesicles. The reaction for synapsin I in normal gerbil brain is exclusively localized in the neuropil, and other brain structures such as neuronal soma, dendrites, axon bundles, glia and endothelial cells exhibited little immunoreactivity. In a reproducible gerbil model of unilateral cerebral ischemia, ischemic loss of synapsin I immunoreactivity in the affected hemisphere was confined to the area exhibiting overt infarction, where the breakdown of this protein was also confirmed by the immunoblot analysis, and noted much later than that of microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactivity, which was demonstrated in neuronal soma and dendrites. In the non-affected hemisphere, selective damage of presynaptic terminals due to Wallerian degeneration and subsequently occurring resynaptogenesis at the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus were clearly demonstrated as a loss and recovery of immunoreaction for synapsin I, respectively. In a gerbil model of bilateral cerebral ischemia, immunoreaction for synapsin I was persistently preserved after seven days to two months recirculation following a brief period of global forebrain ischemia in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, where delayed neuronal death was consistently observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
There is no direct information available concerning the exact spatial characteristics of long-range axons and their relationship with the patchy phenomena observed after extracellular injection of retrograde tracers. In the present study, using the recently introduced neuronal tracer biocytin, we demonstrate by detailed three-dimensional reconstruction of 10 pyramidal cells in layer III, that their clustered axonal terminals form a specific patchy network in layers II and III. The reconstructed network occupied an area of 6.5 x 3.5 mm parallel to the cortical surface elongated in an anteroposterior direction. The average centre-to-centre distance between patches within the network was 1.1 mm. On average, the axonal field of each of the 10 pyramidal cells contained a total of 417 boutons at four to eight distinct sites (patches), and in each patch, an average of 79 boutons was provided by the same cell. The identified connections between the patches were predominantly reciprocal. Detailed analyses have shown that many pyramidal cells of the network are directly interconnected so that each of them can receive one to four, chiefly axospinous, contacts onto the distal segment of its apical and basal dendrites from the axon of another pyramidal cell belonging to a different patch labelled from the same injection site. We hypothesize that the possible functional role of the network is to link remote sites with similar physiological characteristics, such as orientation preference, supporting the model of Mitchison and Crick [(1982) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 79, 3661-3665].
In this study, we have investigated serotonin hyperalgesia employing the mechanical paw withdrawal nociceptive threshold test in the rat. Intradermally injected serotonin was found to produce a dose-dependent hyperalgesia that was not attenuated by procedures which eliminate the known indirect mechanisms of hyperalgesia such as sympathectomy, polymorphonuclear leukocyte depletion or cyclooxygenase inhibition. In addition, the latency to onset of serotonin hyperalgesia is extremely short, with maximal hyperalgesia observed in less than 1 min, a similar temporal onset to direct-acting hyperalgesic agents such as prostaglandin E2. The results suggest, therefore, that the hyperalgesic effects of serotonin in our animal model are exerted by direct action on primary afferent neurons. Only the intradermal injection of selective serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) agonists for the 1A receptor subset (5-HT1A), (+/-)-2-dipropylamino-8-hydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthaline hydrobromide and N,N-dipropyl-5-carboxamido-tryptamine maleate, produced dose-dependent hyperalgesia. No hyperalgesia was seen after 5-HT1B, CGS-12066B maleate and m-trifluoromethylphenyl-piperazine hydrochloride; 5-HT2+IC, alpha methyl 5HT and (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane HCl; or 5-HT3, 2-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine maleate and phenylbiguanide, agonists. Similarly, only the 5-HT1A antagonists, spiroxatrine and spiperone, attenuated the hyperalgesia induced by intradermally injected serotonin. 5-HT2+IC antagonists, mesulergine and ketanserin, and 5-HT3 antagonists, quipazine and 3-tropanyl-indole-3-carboxylate, did not significantly attenuate 5-HT hyperalgesia. We conclude that serotonin produces hyperalgesia by a direct action on the primary afferent neuron via the 5-HT1A subset of serotonin receptors.
GAP-43 is a membrane-bound phosphoprotein generally associated with axon growth during development and regeneration. Using immunohistochemical and immunoblotting techniques this study shows that GAP-43 is expressed extensively in the unperturbed adult autonomic nervous system. Strong immunoreactivity was seen in the developing and mature enteric subdivision of the autonomic nervous system and in nerves of the iris and various blood vessels. The presence of GAP-43 immunoreactivity in varicose nerve fibres, and a comparison of the labelling pattern of GAP-43 with the nerve associated marker PGP 9.5 suggests that GAP-43 is present in most or all autonomic nerve fibres in these organs. Immunoblotting of gut samples on 10% polyacrylamide gels revealed a single band of approximately 45,000 mol. wt that co-migrated with pure central nervous system GAP-43. Surgical sympathectomy experiments resulting in almost complete elimination of sympathetic fibres did not markedly affect the pattern of GAP-43 immunoreactivity in the iris, indicating that GAP-43 is expressed not only in sympathetic nerves but also in parasympathetic and sensory fibres. These findings show that GAP-43 is expressed extensively in autonomic nerves of the adult rat, at levels comparable to those seen during development. High levels of GAP-43 are not therefore restricted to development and regeneration in this part of the nervous system.
Prolonged treatment with dopamine D2 receptor antagonists is known to elevate the density of dopamine D2 receptor binding sites in caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens in rat and human brain. In this study we used the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist raclopride (3 mumol/kg, s.c.) to determine if a single injection or daily administration of this drug for up to 18 days changed the expression of dopamine D2 receptor mRNA in rat caudate-putamen and accumbens as measured by in situ hybridization. A single injection of raclopride did not significantly change the numerical density of dopamine D2 receptor mRNA-expressing neurons in any of the regions examined. A daily administration of raclopride for 18 days resulted in a 31% increase in the number of cells expressing detectable amounts of dopamine D2 receptor mRNA in dorsolateral caudate-putamen and in a 20% increase in the area of silver grains over individual hybridization-positive neurons in this brain region measured on emulsion-dipped slides. The region-specific increase in the D2 receptor mRNA level in dorsolateral caudate-putamen was confirmed by measurement of the hybridization signal on X-ray film autoradiograms. The levels of D2 receptor mRNA remained unchanged in medial caudate-putamen and accumbens after 18 days' treatment. The region-selective increase in dopamine D2 receptor mRNA expression in dorsolateral caudate-putamen indicates a differential regulation of dopamine D2 receptor mRNA expression in a subpopulation of caudate-putamen neurons by this neuroleptic. We suggest that the increase in dopamine D2 receptor density in caudate-putamen known to follow prolonged dopamine D2 receptor blockade to some extent is regulated at the level of gene expression.
The aim of the present study was to test whether intrastriatal implants of embryonic dopaminergic neurons are able to normalize the lesion-induced hypersensitivity of striatal dopaminergic receptors. The ascending dopaminergic pathway of adult rats was unilaterally lesioned using 6-hydroxydopamine. Three weeks later a cell suspension obtained from the mesencephali of ED 14 rat embryos was implanted into the denervated striatum. Rotational responses to dopaminergic agonists were tested five months after implantation. One month later animals were killed and striatal dopaminergic receptor densities were quantified using autoradiography, the dopaminergic reinnervation of the host striatum being visualized with [3H]GBR 12935, a ligand labelling dopamine uptake sites. The lesion induced a behavioural hypersensitivity to dopaminergic agonists and lesioned animals displayed a strong rotation contralateral to the lesion in response to a test dose of the D1 agonist compound SKF 38393 (2.5 mg/kg) or of the D2 agonist LY 171555 (0.15 mg/kg). These responses were completely abolished by the graft. The normal distribution of D1 and D2 dopaminergic receptors in the rat striatum was similar to that described previously. Seven months after the lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway, the density of D1 receptors was not significantly affected while the density of D2 receptors was increased by about 25-50%. The implantation of embryonic dopaminergic neurons into the denervated striatum led to a slight decrease of D1 receptor densities and to a reversal of the lesion-induced increase of striatal dopaminergic D2 receptors six months later. Moreover, this reversal concerned not only the reinnervated striatal region but also extended into non-reinnervated areas of the striatum. It is concluded that grafts of embryonic dopaminergic neurons can normalize the density of dopaminergic D2 receptors.
On the basis of experiments made on striatal membranes, Leff and Creese [Molec. Pharmac. (1985) 27, 184-192] have proposed that tritiated dopamine binds to a high-affinity agonist state of D1 dopamine receptors (D1h) which adopt this conformation when they are associated with the GTP-binding protein involved in the transduction process. Quantitative autoradiography was thus used to look for the distribution of these D1h sites in the rat brain and to compare it with that of D1 receptors labelled with [3H]7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benz aze pine [( 3H]SCH23390), a D1 antagonist. The effects of unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the ascending dopamine pathways on the density of [3H]dopamine D1h and [3H]SCH23390 binding sites in the striatum and the nucleus accumbens were also analysed. In the striatum, when D2 receptors were blocked by spiroperidol (20 nM), [3H]dopamine was found to bind specifically to dopamine receptors of the D1 type. Complementary experiments made with dopamine uptake blockers indicated that high-affinity dopamine uptake sites were not labelled by [3H]dopamine under our experimental conditions. The anatomical distribution of [3H]dopamine D1h binding sites was found to be markedly different from that of [3H]SCH23390 binding sites. This was particularly the case in the substantia nigra, some amygdaloid nuclei and the prefrontal cortex--structures in which the ratios between [3H]SCH23390 and [3H]dopamine binding sites were more than seven-fold higher than that observed in the striatum. [3H]SCH23390 binding was not significantly affected in either the striatum or the nucleus accumbens six weeks after a complete unilateral destruction of ascending dopamine pathways. In contrast, a marked decrease in [3H]dopamine D1h binding sites was found in both structures, but this effect was lower in the medioventral (-60%) than in the laterodorsal (-81%) part of the striatum, even though dopamine denervation was uniform throughout the structure. Preincubation of the sections with dopamine (0.5 microM) led to a partial recovery (+126%) in the lesioned striatum and an increase of [3H]dopamine labelling in the control striatum (+68%). This suggest that the presence of dopamine stabilizes the D1h state of D1 receptors. The absence or low amount of dopamine, either due to dopamine denervation or naturally occurring (prefrontal cortex), would then impair the [3H]dopamine D1h binding. In addition, a lower coupling of D1 receptors with adenylate cyclase was observed in the substantia nigra when compared to that in the striatum: this may explain the relatively weak [3H]dopamine binding in the substantia nigra.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
D1, a subtype of the dopamine receptors, is widely distributed in the nervous system and has been shown to be positively coupled to adenylate cyclase. Using a combination of in vitro receptor autoradiographic and in situ hybridization techniques, the present study examines the co-distribution of D1 receptor binding sites and D1 receptor mRNA in adjacent rat brain sections. D1 receptor binding sites were labeled using the selective antagonist [3H](R)-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzaz epin- 7-ol (SCH23390) (4.6 nM), in the presence of 1 microM ketanserin, while the D1 receptor mRNA was visualized with a 35S-labeled riboprobe corresponding to a region between transmembrane domains III and VI of the rat D1 receptor (base pairs 383-843). Analysis of serial sections suggested a good agreement between D1 receptor binding and mRNA in several brain regions, including the paleocortex, caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, and suprachiasmatic nucleus. Marked discrepancies between D1 receptor binding and mRNA were observed in other brain regions including the entopeduncular and subthalamic nuclei, substantia nigra (pars reticulata), hippocampus, and cerebellum. While technical considerations may contribute to these results, much of the discordance between the distributions is probably due to the differential localization of D1 receptor mRNA in cell bodies and receptor binding sites on fibers and may provide insights into receptor synthesis, transport, and membrane insertion. In the basal ganglia, for instance, D1 receptors are synthesized in the striatum and are either transported to efferent projections in areas such as the substantia nigra, or remain localized in striatal cells bodies. Ibotenic acid lesions in the striatum are consistent with these conclusions and demonstrate a coordinate loss of D1 receptor binding and mRNA in the caudate-putamen that is accompanied by a degeneration of fibers projecting to substantia nigra and a loss of D1 binding in the pars reticulata. Neurons in the dentate gyrus and in the granular layer of the cerebellum, on the other hand, synthesize D1 receptors and transport them entirely to either their dendritic or axonal fields, respectively, in the molecular layer. This analysis provides a better understanding of dopaminergic receptor systems in the CNS and their anatomical organization.
The effect of haloperidol, a dopamine (preferably D2) receptor blocking agent on neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity was studied immunohistochemically in neurons of the locus coeruleus and striatum of rat brain. It was found that haloperidol given four times (5 and 2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) induced, after 24 h, a significant increase in the level of neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity in the locus coeruleus but not in the striatum. No changes in neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity in studied structures were observed after alpha-adrenergic receptor blocking agent phenoxybenzamine or serotonin-synthesis inhibitor D,L-p-chlorophenylalanine. The results suggest that the content of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive material in nerve cell bodies of the locus coeruleus is inhibitorally controlled by monoaminergic (may be dopaminergic D2) receptors.
The mammalian carotid body consists of preneural type I (glomus) cells synaptically coupled to afferent axon terminals and enveloped by type II (sustentacular) cells. Recent studies indicate the presence of multiple putative neurotransmitters in this arterial chemoreceptor organ. A double-labeling immunocytochemical technique was utilized which allows simultaneous visualization of two neurochemicals in a single cell. The issue of transmitter co-occurrence in type I cells of the cat carotid body was addressed using specific antibodies for seven neurochemical agents: tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, choline acetyltransferase, serotonin, substance P, met-enkephalin and chromogranin. A high degree (greater than 70%) of co-localization was observed for most pairs of markers, indicating the co-existence of multiple neuroactive agents in type I cells of the cat carotid body. The intensity of staining varied greatly among cells but formed a pattern. Thus, for tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, the majority of double-labeled type I cells exhibited equivalently low or high levels of both, while for the neuropeptides unequal levels of the two markers predominated. Neuropeptides also co-existed in type I cells with catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes and with serotonin. The functional significance of such patterns of multiple co-existence involving biogenic amines and neuropeptides is discussed. Our results indicate a high degree of co-occurrence of reaction product for amine-synthesizing enzymes (tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and choline acetyltransferase), the indoleamine serotonin, and the neuropeptides substance P and met-enkephalin.
Changes in the innervation of the heart (right atrium), mesenteric blood vessels, vas deferens and superior cervical ganglia have been examined following long-term sympathectomy of the mature rat. Patterns of innervation were investigated by histochemical and immunohistochemical techniques, while levels of noradrenaline and neuropeptides were measured by neurochemical assays. Large doses of guanethidine (80 mg/kg) were given daily for four weeks to 12-14 week-old male rats which were killed at 18-20 weeks of age. Catecholamine-containing nerves were severely depleted or absent in all tissues, together with a reduction in noradrenaline content. Neuropeptide Y levels were depleted by 97% in vas deferens, 78% in mesenteric vein and 50% in right atrium and superior cervical ganglion. Increases in levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide were seen in the mesenteric vein (up seven-fold), superior cervical ganglia (up 11-fold) and vas deferens (prostatic portion up three-fold), which were also evident by assessment of immunolabelling of nerve fibres. Calcitonin gene-related peptide levels were not increased in the right atrium. In addition, an increase in vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive nerve fibre density was seen in the mesenteric artery and vas deferens, although no significant differences were observed in assays of vasoactive intestinal peptide levels in any tissue. No changes were seen in the innervation of any of the tissues by substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibres either by immunohistochemical or immunochemical assay assessment. This study indicates that there are selective changes in the mature nervous system in response to the loss of sympathetic nerves. Differences between these changes and the response of the developing nervous system to long-term sympathectomy are discussed.
The distribution of binding by the isolectin I-B4 from Griffonia simplicifolia in the rat trigeminal system has been investigated. This lectin binds to a sub-population of small-diameter trigeminal ganglion neurons. Double-labelling studies revealed that this lectin bound to all the trigeminal ganglion neurons containing somatostatin, whereas it bound to less than 25% of those containing calcitonin gene-related peptide or substance P. In the brainstem this lectin gave terminal-like staining in only the sub-nucleus caudalis of the trigeminal nuclei. In this nucleus, staining was most dense in the inner part of lamina II. Morphometric studies suggest that this lectin and that from the soybean recognize the same population of cells. The relationship of this data to those obtained in other studies using markers binding to glycoconjugates with a terminal alpha-galactose is discussed.
Previously, using purified synaptosomes from the rat striatum, we have shown that agonists of D,L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptors stimulate the release of [3H]dopamine continuously synthesized from [3H]tyrosine. Similar results were obtained with N-methyl-D-aspartate in the absence of magnesium. In the present study, using the same approach, attempts were made to determine whether in the presence of magnesium, the combined stimulation of AMPA receptors allows us to demonstrate the presynaptic facilitation of [3H]dopamine release through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. L-Glutamate (10(-3) M) markedly stimulated the release of [3H]dopamine from synaptosomes, this effect being about twice that found with AMPA (10(-3) M) while N-methyl-D-aspartate (10(-3) M) even in the presence of glycine (10(-6) M) was ineffective. In agreement with previous results, a stimulatory effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate and glycine was only observed in the absence of magnesium. This response was blocked by 6,7-dinitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione (3 x 10(-5) M), confirming that this compound, generally used as an AMPA antagonist, also blocks N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. The AMPA (10(-3) M)-evoked release of [3H]dopamine was markedly potentiated by the combined application of N-methyl-D-aspartate (10(-3) M) and glycine (10(-6) M) in the presence of strychnine, indicating that the concomitant activation of AMPA receptors removes the voltage-dependent magnesium block of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Role of cytoplasmic concentration of free Ca2+ ([Ca]in) and arachidonic acid in potentiating the effect of vitamin E (DL-alpha-tocopherol) on acetylcholine receptor activity in Helix pomatia neurons was studied using a two-microelectrode intracellular recording, voltage clamp and fluorescent calcium probe fura-2 technique. Elevation of [Ca]in by intracellular injection from a microelectrode or by depolarizing pulses and application of 0.1 microM-0.1 mM vitamin E enhanced the acetylcholine-induced chloride current both in LP11 and RBc4 neurons. Application of 10 microM arachidonic acid to the same neurons decreased this current. The use of fluorescent probe showed that vitamin E did not essentially change [Ca]in, but an increase of [Ca]in intensified both the enhancing effect of vitamin E and the depressing effect of arachidonic acid. The enhancing effect of calcium influx was considerably decreased after vitamin E application. The antioxidant action of vitamin E was probably not involved in the mechanism of its enhancing effect on acetylcholine-induced current, since synthetic antioxidant, ionol, depressed acetylcholine responses. A spectrum analysis has shown the interaction between vitamin E and arachidonic acid in solution. This interaction may be considered as the molecular mechanism responsible for the prevention by vitamin E of steady arachidonic acid production from membrane phospholipids and its down-regulatory effect on acetylcholine receptor activity. Our results support this suggestion, since an inhibitor of phospholipase A2, 4-bromophenacyl bromide, mimicked the enhancing effect of vitamin E.
Neural tissue of central (rat spinal cord) and peripheral origin (rat sciatic nerve, nerve fascicles of rat skin and iris and of human conjunctiva) was processed by osmium tetroxide/microwave fixation and embedded in epoxy resin. Hyaluronan-binding proteins and link proteins coupled to 15-20-nm gold particles were used as markers in a one-step post-embedding procedure for identifying hyaluronan (hyaluronic acid) at the ultrastructural level. All myelin sheaths in both rat and human material were found to be intensely labelled. The specificity of the hyaluronan-binding probes was demonstrated by the total loss of labelling following treatment of sections with hyaluronidase or by preincubating either the probes with hyaluronan oligosaccharides or the sections with unlabelled hyaluronan-binding protein. The identified hyaluronan appears to be located extracellularly, but is precise role here remains to be elucidated.
Electrophysiologic studies support the hypothesis that corticotropin-releasing factor, the neurohormone that initiates adrenocorticotropin release during stress, also serves as a neurotransmitter in the pontine noradrenergic nucleus, the locus coeruleus. To elucidate the circuitry underlying proposed corticotropin-releasing factor neurotransmission in the locus coeruleus, the present study utilized immunohistochemical techniques to characterize corticotropin-releasing factor innervation of rat locus coeruleus and pericoerulear regions. Corticotropin-releasing factor-like immunoreactive fibers were identified in the locus coeruleus of colchicine- and non-colchicine-treated rats. However, corticotropin-releasing factor innervation of pericoerulear regions rostral and lateral to the locus coeruleus was more dense than that of the locus coeruleus proper. Double-labeling studies utilizing antisera directed against corticotropin-releasing factor and tyrosine hydroxylase indicated that corticotropin-releasing factor-like immunoreactive fibers overlap with tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive processes of locus coeruleus neurons, particularly in rostral medial and lateral regions. A group of corticotropin-releasing factor-like immunoreactive neurons was localized just lateral to the locus coeruleus and numerous corticotropin-releasing factor-like immunoreactive neurons were visualized just ventral to the rostral pole of the locus coeruleus in a region corresponding to Barrington's nucleus. None of these corticotropin-releasing factor-like immunoreactive neurons were tyrosine hydroxylase-positive. To determine the source of corticotropin-releasing factor-like immunoreactive fibers in the locus coeruleus, injections of the retrograde tracer [wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to inactivated (apo) horseradish peroxidase coupled to gold particles] were made into the locus coeruleus and sections were processed for corticotropin-releasing factor-like immunoreactivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In situ hybridization was used to study the mRNA levels for vasopressin, galanin, secretogranin II and carboxypeptidase H in salt-loaded and Brattleboro rats. These animals represent an in vivo model for the chronic stimulation of the hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal neurons. As shown by immunelectron microscopy secretogranin II is co-stored with vasopressin in these neurons. In salt-loaded rats the levels of mRNA for vasopressin, galanin and secretogranin II are increased in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei. Analogous changes were observed for Brattleboro rats with the exception of the vasopressin message which was decreased in these animals. The secretogranin II message was also increased in neurons which do not contain the vasopressin mRNA, i.e. in magnocellular neurons of the lateral hypothalamus and in the subfornical organ. Carboxypeptidase H message was also found in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei and in the subfornical organ; however, in both models the changes in mRNA in these nuclei were much lower than those observed for the secretory peptides or non-existent. We conclude that chronic stimulation of vasopressin neurons leads to a concomitant up-regulation of the biosynthesis of neuropeptides and secretogranin II. We suggest that the secretogranin II message might be a useful general marker for identifying chronically stimulated neurons.
The neuronal distribution of cannabinoid receptor in the adult rat brain is reported, combining receptor binding radioautography using the synthetic psychoactive cannabinoid ligand CP55,940 with in situ hybridization histochemistry using oligonucleotide probes complementary to rat cannabinoid receptor cDNA. In the cerebral cortex, especially in the frontal and cingulate cortex, dense binding was found in layers I and VI together with slight mRNA levels in a majority of both pyramidal and non-pyramidal-shaped neurons and of high mRNA levels in a moderate number of non-pyramidal-shaped neurons especially in layers II-III and V-VI. In the hippocampal dentate gyrus, very dense staining was found in the molecular layer together with high mRNA levels in a moderate number of hilar neurons close to the granular layer. In Ammon's horn, especially in the CA3 sector, very dense binding was found in the dendritic layers together with slight mRNA levels in the majority of the pyramidal cells and high mRNA levels in a moderate number of interneurons. In the basal ganglia, binding was very dense in the lateral putamen, substantia nigra pars reticulata, globus pallidus and entopeduncular nucleus, moderate in the medial putamen and caudate; and slight in the accumbens, together with slight to moderate mRNA levels in the striatal medium-sized neurons. Together with slight binding, slight to moderate mRNA levels were found in the majority of the neurons in the subthalamic nucleus. No binding and mRNA were found in the substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area. Slight to moderate binding was found together with slight to moderate mRNA levels in the majority of neurons in the anterior olfactory nucleus; septum, especially medial septum and diagonal band of Broca; amygdala, especially basolateral amygdala; lateral habenula; ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus; lateral interpeduncular nucleus; central gray, dorsal cochlear nucleus; parabrachial nucleus; dorsal pontine tegmentum; pontine nuclei; commissural part of the nucleus tractus solitarius; inferior olive and dorsal horn of the spinal cord. In the cerebellum, very dense binding was found in the molecular layer together with slight mRNA levels in the majority of the granule cells and moderate mRNA levels in the basket and stellate cells. In conclusion, this study provides, for the first time, indirect assessment of the neurons containing cannabinoid receptor in the entire adult rat brain and will serve as a basis for future direct morphological confirmation using receptor immunohistochemistry and for functional studies.
Previous work has indicated that the neurotachykinin substance P may have nootropic and neurotrophic effects in vivo and in vitro raising the possibility that this neuropeptide may promote functional recovery from brain damage. This hypothesis was tested using the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal dopamine system, as there is close anatomical and functional interaction between dopamine and substance P in this system. Rats were unilaterally injected with 6-hydroxydopamine into the substantia nigra, and, starting with the day after the lesion, were treated daily with peripheral injections of substance P (50 micrograms/kg, i.p.). The analysis of open-field behavior showed that, compared with vehicle-treated control lesions, substance P prevented the lesion-induced ipsiversive asymmetry in turning behavior and accelerated recovery from the ipsilateral asymmetry in thigmotactic scanning. The facilitatory effects of substance P were dependent on the degree of the lesion, as they were observed in animals with subtotal neostriatal dopamine depletions but not in those with near-total depletions. These results are discussed, firstly, with regard to the possible mechanisms of substance P on dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic systems, and secondly, with respect to their possible relevance in the study of neurodegenerative diseases.
Serotonergic neurons of the medulla oblongata have been proposed to play a role in the control of sensory, motor and autonomic cells in the spinal cord. Many of these raphe neurons have been shown to contain the undecapeptide substance P as well as the tripeptide thyrotropin-releasing hormone, but evidence for the presence of an excitatory amino acid in these pathways has not yet been documented. In colchicine-treated rats, we have used a combination of retrograde tracing and tri-color immunohistofluorescence techniques to study co-localization of serotonin- and substance P- with glutamate- or aspartate-like immunoreactivities in medullary neurons and the possible spinal projections of these cells. In addition, the distributions of serotonin-, substance P- and glutamate-immunoreactive terminal fields in the dorsal, ventral and lateral horns of the spinal cord were examined with tri-color immunofluorescence in the rat and the primate Macaca fasciculata. In colchicine-treated rats, glutamate- and aspartate-like immunoreactivity was found in practically all serotonin- and substance P-immunoreactive neurons of the B1, B2 and B3 cell groups. Some of these neurons also contained wheat-germ agglutinin conjugated to inactivated horseradish peroxidase and colloidal gold particles retrogradely transported from the spinal cord. In the spinal cords of non-colchicine-treated monkeys and rats, striking co-localization of serotonin, substance P- and glutamate-like immunoreactivities was seen in large boutons, surrounding the dendrites and cell bodies of large alpha motor neurons in the ventral horn. These observations suggest the existence of spinally projecting serotonin/substance P neurons containing excitatory amino acids such as glutamate or aspartate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase injected ipsilaterally in several parts of the electric organ and light microscopy were employed to study motoneurons and electromotoneurons of the spinal cord in the weakly electric ray Raja clavata (Rajidae). The horseradish peroxidase-labelled electromotoneurons form a chain of cells located ventrolaterally in the gray matter of the spinal cord segments adjacent to the electric organ. The diameters of cells in the electromotor nucleus vary from 70 to 110 microns. When comparing other motoneurons of the spinal cord with electromotoneurons, the latter reveal no segmentation, whereas motoneurons yield accumulations which are close to metametric ones and are essentially smaller in size (averaging 33 microns in diameter).
Previous work has demonstrated that intravenous injection of neuronal tracers, e.g. horseradish peroxidase or Fast Blue, can retrogradely label neurons in brain areas that project outside the blood-brain barrier, e.g. magnocellular neuroendocrine neurons of the hypothalamus. Here we have shown that 24 h after intravenous injection of the fluorescent retrograde tracer Evans Blue, the same population of magnocellular neuroendocrine neurons is labeled in the paraventricular, supraoptic and accessory magnocellular nuclei. Parvicellular neuroendocrine cells in the paraventricular nuclei are also labeled. Most Evans Blue-labeled magnocellular neuroendocrine cells in the supraoptic nucleus could be stained immunocytochemically for neurophysins, suggesting that these neurons continue to produce their peptide hormones after taking up the fluorescent dye. Ultrastructural observation of supraoptic cells retrogradely labeled with Evans Blue shows that 95% of the neurons appeared healthy. There was no ultrastructural evidence of degeneration, hyperstimulation, or interruption of the axoplasmic flow. Labeling the neuroendocrine cells with Evans Blue did not alter the size of magnocellular cells, the animal's fluid balance or ingestive behavior. Following enzymatic/mechanical dissociation of the supraoptic nucleus from animals that had been injected with Evans Blue 24 h previously, phase-bright neurons that often contained fluorescent material were observed, thus identifying these neurons as neuroendocrine. Recording from identified neuroendocrine cells showed that these neurons generated spontaneous or current-evoked overshooting action potentials with an afterhyperpolarization and had negative resting membrane potentials. Action potential broadening, a feature of magnocellular neurons, was observed during bursts of action potentials elicited by depolarizing current injection. Taken together, this work would suggest that Evans Blue is non-toxic at the doses used and that it provides a method to identify single neuroendocrine cells in primary cell cultures made from adult hypothalamus for voltage-clamp recordings.
The effects of centrifugal afferents on membrane potentials of identified granule cell layer using evoked field potential profiles, and trans-synaptic activation via antidromic stimulation of output cell axon collaterals. Intracellular recordings maintained for 4-30 min showed complex spontaneous spike discharges and allowed characterization of the cell's input resistance, and on some occasions its morphology following intracellular injection of Lucifer Yellow. Stimulation in the nucleus of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band, but not surrounding regions, produced hyperpolarizing responses in 13 of 27 cells in the granule cell layer; four of these were morphologically identified as granule cells of two types, in five the responses had reversal potentials more negative than the resting potential, and six were identified as granule cells by monosynaptic activation from output axon collaterals. A different set of three cells in the granule cell layer responded with depolarization. The results are consistent with the inhibition of tonic activity of granule cells by the nucleus of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band, leading to disinhibition of mitral and tufted cells via dendrodendritic synapses of granule cells on mitral/tufted cell secondary dendrites.
Recent methods allow the study of neurons that contain zinc in synaptic vesicles of their boutons (Timm-stainable boutons) by the intravital precipitation (local or throughout the CNS) of the vesicular zinc with selenium compounds and its subsequent retrograde transport to the parent neurons, where the precipitate can be silver enhanced. The present study is a description of the distribution of zinc-containing neurons, their possible connections and their terminal fields within the hippocampal region of the rat. Problems inherent to the methods are addressed. Finally, based on the results and a review of literature, the possible function of zinc in the hippocampal region is considered. Neurons which contain silver-enhanced precipitates were observed in layers II, V and VI of the lateral entorhinal area and in layers V and VI of the medial entorhinal area. In the parasubiculum, labeled cells were seen in layer II/III of the parasubiculum a and in layer V. Labeled cells in the presubiculum were concentrated in layers III and V, in the hippocampal pyramidal cell layer and the dentate granule cell layer, but neurons containing precipitates were largely absent from the subiculum. Zinc-containing axonal boutons defined subpopulations within principal hippocampal neuron populations. Within layer II of the lateral entorhinal cortex and the pyramidal cell layer for regio inferior deeply situated neurons were labeled, whereas superficially placed pyramidal cells were labeled in regio superior. The neuropil staining described in the present study corresponded to that found in earlier studies. However, glial and vascular staining or unspecific background were largely absent, and the neuropil staining could unequivocally be identified light microscopically. Methodological problems are most prominently reflected in unstained mossy fibers in some animals. Based on series from animals treated with decreasing doses of sodium selenite and increased survival times, this problem can be related to small amounts of circulating reactive selenium and a competition of zinc compartments (vesicles) for the selenium. Staining will fail where the competition prevents individual compartments from reaching a threshold amount of zinc precipitate for silver amplification. A guide to evaluate histological material is provided. The distribution of zinc-containing boutons and their cells of origin indicate that zinc-containing and zinc-negative projections are not organized as parallel pathways. The mossy fibers provide an example of a pure zinc-containing pathway. Projections from regio superior to the dorsal presubiculum are likely to be zinc-negative while projections from the same area to the subiculum are zinc-containing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We used E1 mice, a ddY mouse-derived, autosomal mutant strain and a model of hereditary sensory-precipitated epilepsy, to test the hypothesis that epileptic susceptibility may be associated with the activity of voltage-dependent ion channels. We examined the saxitoxin binding capacity of the receptor site 1 of the Na+ channel alpha-subunit, the expression activity of the Na+ channel mRNA, the veratridine-induced 22Na+ influx in the brain synaptosomes, and the regional distribution of Na+ channels in the brain. Compared with control ddY mice, in E1 mice which have not experienced seizures, the number of Na+ channels in the brain synaptosomes increased by approximately 20% starting at the fourth postnatal week through the adult stage as determined by [3H]saxitoxin binding assay. Northern blot hybridization analysis showed excess expression of Na+ channel mRNA (by 30-40%) coincidentally with Na+ channel increases. Regional analysis using the saxitoxin binding assay demonstrated approximately 1.3-fold denser distribution of Na+ channels in the cortex and cerebellum but not the hippocampus and midbrain including thalamus of E1 mice compared to ddY mice. Scatchard plot analysis for saxitoxin binding in the cortex of E1 mouse brains revealed higher maximum binding capacity (Bmax) values (ddY, 4.43 +/- 0.28 pmol/mg protein; E1, 5.43 +/- 0.25 pmol/mg protein) without a change in Kd (ddY, 1.05 +/- 0.03 nM; E1, 1.03 +/- 0.01 nM). Lastly, veratridine-evoked 22Na+ influx, sensitive to tetrodotoxin, was increased approximately 45% in the cortical synaptosomes in six-week-old E1 mice.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Monoclonal antibodies OM-1 to OM-4 and IM-1 [Woodhams et al. (1991) Neuroscience 46, 57-69] have complementary immunostaining patterns in the molecular (dendritic) layer of the adult rat dentate gyrus, with OM-1 to OM-4 selectively recognizing the outer (distal) two-thirds (i.e. the entorhinal afferent zone), and IM-1 the inner (proximal) one-third (i.e. the hippocampal commissural/associational zone). Immunoblotting suggests that OM-1 recognizes a single glycoprotein antigen of mol. wt around 93,000, and OM-2, OM-3, and OM-4 all recognize a second glycoprotein antigen of mol. wt around 36,000. At four weeks after removal of the ipsilateral entorhinal cortex the background OM immunostaining of the entorhinal afferent zone is abolished and replaced by a network of densely stained granules, which we interpret as degenerating entorhinal afferent axons. At the same time, the proximal, IM immunoreactive zone expands by about 10 microns in width (while the distal deafferented zone shrinks by about 80 microns). Attempts were made to restore the OM immunoreactivity of the distal zone by grafting either small pieces or cell suspensions of embryonic day 18 entorhinal cortex directly into the dentate molecular layer of entorhinally deafferented adult hosts. About half (14/26) of the animals with successfully positioned grafts showed restoration of OM-2 to OM-4 immunostaining throughout the entire width of the outer two-thirds (entorhinal afferent zone) of the dentate molecular layer. Strikingly, however, in adjacent serial sections the restoration of OM-1 immunoreactivity was restricted to the &quot;middle&quot; molecular layer, i.e. the most proximal part of the distal (entorhinal) two-thirds of the dentate molecular layer. In no case did the OM-1 immunoreactivity extend to the outer margin of the molecular layer. This did not appear to be associated with incompleteness of the removal of the host entorhinal projection, since it occurred in grafted cases where the hippocampus had been completely isolated from the entorhinal area. The simplest explanation of the observed pattern of OM loss and restitution is that the epitopes are located on the entorhinodentate axons, but it is not clear whether the antigens recognized by OM-1 and OM-2 to OM-4 are expressed in different parts of the same group of axons, or in different subsets of entorhinodentate axons. Nor is it clear why the pattern of OM-1 is only restored to the &quot;middle&quot; molecular layer, while that of OM-2 to OM-4 is restored to the entire outer two-thirds.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) are present in nerve fibers innervating the submandibular gland. Radiotherapy of tumors in the head and neck region usually embraces the salivary glands in the irradiated field and consequently a dramatic decrease in salivary function is seen. In this study, the submandibular glands and ganglia of rats subjected to fractionated irradiation were examined by use of immunohistochemical techniques for demonstration of substance P and CGRP. Irradiation was given on five consecutive days (daily doses of 6-9 Gray) with unilateral or bilateral irradiation techniques. Specimens of control and experimental animals were processed in parallel. A marked increase in the expression of substance P in the ganglionic cells--presumably parasympathetic--and in the number of fibers showing substance P-like immunoreactivity in association with acini and small ducts was seen in response to bilateral irradiation. (Surprisingly, unilateral irradiation of the parotid area had no effect on peptide distribution in the irradiated gland and ganglion). No changes in the pattern of CGRP immunoreactivity occurred. In the trigeminal ganglion, which supplies the submandibular gland with the majority of the sensory substance P- and CGRP-containing nerve fibers, no changes in the expression of substance P or CGRP immunoreactivity were seen. The results suggest that bilateral irradiation leads to an increase in the synthesis of substance P-like substance in the parasympathetic ganglionic cells supplying the submandibular gland with secretory nerves, and can thus be an additional factor in explaining the altered secretory capacity of salivary glands.
Depolarization responses to tachykinin receptor agonists were recorded extracellularly from lumbar ventral roots of spinal cord isolated from neonatal rats (one to eight days post partum). All spinal cords were hemisected in the sagittal plane. In addition, in some hemisected cords, the dorsal horns were removed by means of a further cut, perpendicular to the first. In both hemisected and quadrisected spinal cords, reproducible depolarization responses were induced by low concentrations of the neurokinin-1-selective agonist substance P methylester (10 nM-1 microM) or of the neurokinin-3-selective agonist senktide (3-300 nM). On both types of preparation, responses to substance P methylester (1 microM) or senktide (300 nM) were of comparable size. The amplitude of the response to senktide (300 nM) was reduced by at least 88% in spinal cord preparations exposed to tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM) or to physiological medium containing magnesium chloride (20 mM). In contrast, under either of these conditions, concentration-response curves to substance P methylester were shifted rightward by 2.8-8.5-fold, with little effect on the maximum response. Responses to senktide were blocked selectively by the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist 3-[(+-)-2-carboxypiperazine-4-yl]propyl-1-phosphonic acid (100 microM); the antagonist had little effect on substance P methylester-induced depolarization (mean concentration ratio 2.0). These results suggest that in the neonatal rat spinal cord, application of exogenous tachykinin agonists can induce ventral root depolarization by activation of neurokinin-1 and/or neurokinin-3 receptors. The response to stimulation of neurokinin-1 receptors has a major component likely to be due to a direct action at motoneurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In order to identify possible sites of synthesis of nitric oxide in the peripheral nervous system, several mouse organs were investigated for the presence of NADPH-diaphorase activity. Diaphorase-positive neurons and fibers were localized in the tongue, submandibular salivary glands, gastrointestinal and biliary duct systems, lower urinary tract and pelvic ganglia. By thionin counterstaining it was found that a distinct subpopulation of neurons was labeled. The present study indicates that nitric oxide synthase may be present in intrinsic neurons of various organs, suggesting a widespread function of nitric oxide in the peripheral autonomic nervous system.
Intra-axonal recordings were made from 24 afferent fibres of the superior laryngeal nerve in and around the nucleus tractus solitarius, in 26 pentobarbitone-anaesthetized cats. Conduction velocity ranged from 15 to 38 m/s. Four afferents were injected with horseradish peroxidase. They showed dense terminal arborization in the region of the ventral and ventrolateral subnuclei of the nucleus tractus solitarius, both rostral and caudal to the obex. Six other intra-axonal recordings were thought to originate from axons of neurons postsynaptic to superior laryngeal afferents; one of these was injected with horseradish peroxidase and showed a similar arborization pattern to that of the afferent axons. In the same region, intracellular recordings were made from 124 neurons which responded to superior laryngeal nerve stimulation with excitatory postsynaptic potentials (mean latency 2.7 +/- 1.0 ms). Ninety-nine of these neurons were thought to receive a monosynaptic input. The stimulation threshold evoking these responses was similar to that which inhibited phrenic nerve discharge. Eleven of the monosynaptically excited neurons were injected with horseradish peroxidase. They had fusiform or stellate somata and simple dendritic trees, radiating mainly in the transverse plane. In one experiment, in which both a superior laryngeal nerve afferent fibre and a neuron were labelled, afferent terminal varicosities were found in close apposition with the postsynaptic membrane of the injected neuron. Four of 14 (29%) tested neurons could be antidromically activated from the C3 spinal segment. The stimulus thresholds and onset latencies of the responses of superior laryngeal nerve afferents and medullary neurons to stimulation of the superior laryngeal nerve are consistent with their involvement in the reflex inhibition of respiratory neurons evoked by superior laryngeal nerve stimulation.
We investigated the effects of unilateral electrical trigeminal ganglion stimulation (0.1 or 1.0 mA, 5 Hz, 5 ms, 5 min) on the morphology of blood vessels within the rat dura mater and tongue using light and transmission electron microscopy. Stimulation at both intensities caused changes which were confined to the ipsilateral post-capillary venules except in the tongue where arterioles were affected as well. Changes were more marked after 1.0 mA. Dramatic increases in the numbers of endothelial pinocytotic vesicles were found along the luminal and abluminal surfaces ipsilateral to the stimulation. Tight junctions remained largely intact, except that injected ferritin particles were occasionally trapped inside these junctions. Cytoplasmic microvilli and endothelial blebs were sometimes present as well. Approximately 80% of the examined dural post-capillary venules showed one or more of these endothelial changes. Horseradish peroxidase injected intravenously 5 min prior to stimulation was detected in the extracellular space surrounding dural blood vessels and within pinocytotic vesicles. Ferritin injected similarly, was also localized in post-capillary venule walls, interstitial spaces, intraendothelial vesicles and in vacuoles. Platelet accumulation and aggregation were present in approximately 10% of post-capillary venules in dura and tongue. These changes were associated with mast cell secretion, but neither vascular nor mast cell activation was observed in adult rats in whom C-fibers were destroyed during the neonatal period with capsaicin. The present observations provide morphological evidence which supports findings from previously reported albumin tracer studies suggesting enhanced transport and endothelial activation following electrical stimulation of small caliber afferent fibers.
Rats received bilateral lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis by infusion of ibotenic acid. Fourteen days later, osmotic minipumps releasing human recombinant nerve growth factor (0.3 micrograms/day) were implanted subcutaneously. Starting one month after the lesion, spatial learning of the animals was tested using the Morris water maze. Acquisition of the task was impaired by the lesion, but treatment with nerve growth factor reduced the average latency to find the platform by approximately 9 s, which represents 28% of the lesion-induced behavioral deficit. Retention of this task and spatial acuity, tested in a trial in which the platform was not present, did not show a statistically significant improvement. Lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis reduced the choline acetyltransferase activity in the neocortex, but not in the hippocampus. Treatment with nerve growth factor increased the choline acetyltransferase activity in the neocortex but not in the hippocampus. There was no significant difference in the levels of norepinephrine, dopamine, serotonin or their metabolites in the cortex or hippocampus between nerve growth factor-treated animals and lesioned control animals. There was no significant correlation between any of these neurochemical changes and behavioral performance (acquisition and spatial acuity). Treatment with nerve growth factor did not increase the number or the size of nerve growth factor receptor-immunoreactive neurons in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. These data suggest that delayed treatment with nerve growth factor results in an improvement of spatial learning in rats with lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. A possible role for cholinergic mechanisms in this effect is discussed.
In this study we use whole-cell recording to characterize at least two distinct populations of cultured neurons from perinatal rat petrosal or petrosal/jugular ganglia based on differential sensitivity of the transient inward Na+ current to tetrodotoxin. These ganglia supply chemoreceptor and baroreceptor afferents which mediate several cardiovascular reflexes. Approximately 50% of the neurons sampled had Na+ currents that were virtually unaffected by bath addition of tetrodotoxin (0.5-2.0 microM) but were abolished by choline substitution for external Na+. The majority of the remaining neurons had Na+ currents that were rapidly and reversibly blocked by 500 nM tetrodotoxin. A few cells had both tetrodotoxin-resistant and tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ currents. All neurons had similar voltage-activated Ca2+ and K+ currents. The inward Ca2+ current had no obvious fast transient or T-type component and appeared to be due mainly to the presence of long-lasting L-type Ca2+ channels. The outward currents consisted largely of a delayed rectifying K+ current (IKdr) and a Ca(2+)-activated K+ current (IKca), but no obvious fast transient K+ current (IA) was observed. Exposure to a chemosensory stimulus, hypoxia (PO2 approximately 20 Torr), had no effect on these neurons, in contrast to the pronounced decrease in K+ current it produces in cultured glomus cells, the presumed chemoreceptors and normal targets for a subset of petrosal neurons in vivo. Current-clamp recordings indicated that some neurons gave single spikes while others gave multiple spikes in response to long-depolarizing stimuli. No correlation between spiking behaviour and tetrodotoxin-sensitivity was observed. Thus, cultures enriched in petrosal neurons contain subpopulations with differential sensitivities to tetrodotoxin. Since many of these neurons innervate a single chemosensory target organ, the carotid body, it is of interest to know whether one or both subtypes can form functional synapses with glomus cells of the carotid body and mediate a chemoreceptor reflex.
Pre-embedding immunocytochemistry with antiserum to neurotensin was combined with post-embedding immunocytochemistry with GABA antiserum, in order to identify neurotensin- and GABA-containing neurons in laminae I-III of rat spinal dorsal horn. The distribution of cell bodies containing these two compounds was similar to that which has been described previously. None of the 88 neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons which were tested showed GABA-like immunoreactivity, which suggests that GABA and neurotensin exist in different cells in this region. Since both compounds are thought to be present in islet cells, it is likely that there are two neurochemically distinct populations of islet cells in lamina II of rat spinal cord.
Triple-labelling immunofluorescence and retrograde axonal tracing with fluorescent dyes have been combined to identify and characterize the neuropeptide content of vasoconstrictor, vasodilator and pilomotor neurons in the lumbar sympathetic ganglia of guinea-pigs. Postganglionic noradrenergic pilomotor neurons lacked immunoreactivity to neuropeptide Y and comprised up to about 30% of postganglionic neurons. Most post-ganglionic noradrenergic neurons that contained neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity were likely to be vasoconstrictor neurons, although some noradrenergic neurons containing neuropeptide Y projected to pelvic viscera. Vasoconstrictor neurons comprised up to about 60% of postganglionic neurons. About 15% of postganglionic neurons were non-noradrenergic and contained immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal peptide, neuropeptide Y and dynorphin. They mostly innervated blood vessels supplying skeletal muscles and were likely to be vasodilator neurons. Endings of presumed preganglionic neurons containing immunoreactivity to substance P were exclusively associated with vasodilator neurons. Conversely, presumed preganglionic endings containing immunoreactivity to calcitonin gene-related peptide were exclusively associated with vasoconstrictor neurons, although not all vasoconstrictor neurons had such endings associated with them. Presumed preganglionic terminals containing immunoreactivity to enkephalin were associated with some postganglionic neurons in each functional class. These results show that preganglionic and postganglionic sympathetic neurons lying in different functional pathways can be distinguished by their neuropeptide content as well as their projections. The identification of neurochemically distinct functional pathways begins to explain how the sympathetic nervous system is organized to allow the precise control of discrete target tissues.
The aim of this study was to identify the conductance change induced by one quantum of gamma-aminobutyric acid from axonal release sites on cultured superior colliculus neurons. Unitary (single cell-activated) inhibitory postsynaptic currents and spontaneous synaptic activity were recorded with patch clamp techniques in the whole cell configuration while superfusing the entire neuron with normal saline. Miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents were recorded in the presence of tetrodotoxin and in reduced [Ca2+]o/[Mg2+]o. In addition, the membrane area contributing to synaptic activity was limited to a narrow window of 50 microns. Smaller neurons were chosen for recording to render a standard deviation of the &quot;instrumental&quot; noise of less than 1.5 pA at a holding voltage of -80 mV. After two weeks in vitro, the percentage of synaptically connected tectal neurons exceeded 50%. At holding voltages of -80 mV (Cl- equilibrium potential -12 mV) minimal amplitudes of unitary inhibitory postsynaptic currents were as low as 7-10 pA, while maximal amplitudes exceeded 500 pA. The mean time to peak and time constant of decay were 3.0 and 34.4 ms, respectively (n = 31). Fluctuating unitary inhibitory postsynaptic currents were deemed to be compound postsynaptic responses. Multiple Gaussian equations could be fitted to the amplitude histograms of unitary postsynaptic currents. This procedure rendered a quantal size between 5.0 and 10.9 pA (mean 7.1 pA; S.D. 1.78 pA) in five neurons from mature cultures. The amplitudes of statistically determined quantal inhibitory postsynaptic currents were slightly smaller than the independent estimate from somatic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents. The latter had a mean amplitude of 9.1 pA (S.D. 3.3 pA, n = 23), a mean time to peak of 1.65 ms (n = 9), and a mean time constant of decay of 16.2 ms (n = 9). Single channel recording from outside-out patches showed three to four main conductance states ranging from 9 to 22 pS. Single channel closures at the 21-24 pS level were occasionally observed during relaxation of miniature currents. The small size of whole cell quantal inhibitory postsynaptic currents and somatic miniature currents indicates that one GABA quantum opened only 5-15 single Cl- channels.
The occurrence of serotonin in the human adrenal gland was demonstrated both by immuno-histochemical and biochemical approaches. Using specific polyclonal antibodies to serotonin, the presence of numerous immunoreactive cells was revealed by means of the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique. These cells exhibited the morphological characteristics of mast cells. Combination of high performance liquid chromatography and electrochemical detection showed the presence of substantial amounts of both serotonin and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid in adrenocortical extracts. The role of serotonin in the regulation of steroidogenesis from human adrenocortical slices was studied in vitro using a perifusion system technique coupled to a specific radioimmunoassay for cortisol. Graded doses of serotonin (from 10(-8) M to 3 x 10(-7) M) increased cortisol production in a dose-dependent manner. Prolonged exposure of adrenal fragments to serotonin (10(-7) M) induced a biphasic response, i.e. a rapid and transient increase in cortisol secretion followed by a plateau phase, suggesting the existence of a desensitization phenomenon. The stimulatory effect of serotonin (10(-7) M) was not altered during infusion of the serotonin1 and/or serotonin2 receptor antagonists methysergide (10(-6) M) and ketanserin (10(-6) M), respectively. In contrast, ICS 205 930 (10(-6) M), a non-selective serotonin3/serotonin4 antagonist, totally abolished the response of adrenal slices to serotonin (10(-7) M). The benzamide derivative zacopride, considered as a serotonin4 agonist, induced a robust stimulation of cortisol secretion. In addition, the corticotropic effects of serotonin (10(-7) M) and zacopride (10(-6) M) were not additive. Incubation of adrenocortical fragments with zacopride (10(-6) M) or serotonin (10(-6) M) caused a significant increase in cAMP formation. Taken together, these data suggest that serotonin, locally released by intra-adrenal mast-like cells, may act as a paracrine factor to stimulate cortisol secretion in man. Our results also indicate that serotonin-induced corticosteroid production is mediated through activation of a serotonin4 receptor subtype positively coupled to adenylate cyclase.
The effect of intracellular and extracellular pH on GABA-gated Cl- conductance was studied using H(+)-selective microelectrodes and a three-microelectrode voltage clamp in crayfish leg opener muscle fibres in bicarbonate-free solutions. Experimental variation of intracellular pH in the range 6.4-8.0 did not affect the GABA-gated conductance. In contrast to this, the GABA-gated conductance was sensitive to changes in external pH. Raising the external pH from 7.4 to 8.4 decreased the GABA-gated peak conductance observed immediately following application of GABA by 30%, and a change from 7.4 to 6.4 produced an increase of 26%. The effect of extracellular pH on the GABA-gated peak conductance was approximately linear in the pH range 6.4-8.9. A slight decrease in the slope of the pH-conductance relationship was evident in the pH range 5.4-6.4. The desensitization of the GABA-gated conductance was also affected by external pH. At pH 6.9 the conductance produced by 1 mM GABA showed a desensitization of about 15%, and at pH 8.9 this value was 34%. Raising the external pH in the presence of GABA decreased the GABA-gated peak conductance and increased the fractional desensitization, while lowering the external pH produced opposite effects, and was capable of repriming the conductance from a desensitized state to the non-desensitized state. The above results show that the GABA-gated conductance is sensitive to changes in external pH in the physiological range, and suggest that pH-dependent changes in the postsynaptic efficacy of GABA-mediated inhibition may contribute to H+ modulation of neuronal excitability.
The vestibular nuclear input into the flocculus and the uvula and nodulus of the caudal vermis was studied in rabbits by means of retrograde transport of the fluorescent tracers Fast Blue and Diamidino Yellow. Through simultaneous injection of the tracers in the homonymous lobules at either side of the midline, the distribution, the preference in laterality and the degree of collateralization of vestibulo-cerebellar neurons could be studied. The nucleus prepositus hypoglossi was included in the analysis. In the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi and in the medial vestibular nucleus 6% of the number of labeled neurons contained both tracers, against 4% in the descending vestibular nucleus. In the superior vestibular nucleus a statistically significant difference in the proportion of double-labeled neurons was found between cases with injections in the flocculus (1%) and the caudal vermis (9%). The relative distribution of single-labeled neurons projecting to either the flocculus or the caudal vermis was similar in most of the vestibular nuclei. A statistically significant preference for a projection to the flocculus in favor of one to the caudal vermis, was found for neurons in the medial vestibular nucleus and the prepositus hypoglossal nucleus. Statistically significant laterality preferences were found in the superior vestibular nucleus for the contralateral flocculus.
Consistent findings in the hippocampi of patients with Alzheimer's disease are the presence of neurofibrillary tangles in pyramidal neurons and the loss of choline acetyltransferase activity due to degeneration of hippocampal cholinergic terminals. The present study sought to clarify, in the brains of five patients with Alzheimer's disease and four controls, whether the loss of cholinergic terminals in the hippocampal stratum pyramidale in Alzheimer's disease is related to degenerative changes in hippocampal pyramidal cells. A polyclonal antibody to human choline acetyltransferase was employed to visualize immunohistochemically cholinergic terminals. Hippocampal neurons were stained with Cresyl Violet, neurofibrillary tangles with thioflavin S and a monoclonal antibody against phosphorylated neurofilament (RT97). Quantification of the stained structures was performed in CA4, CA1 and the subiculum, on five sections selected from the entire anteroposterior extent of each hippocampus. In the group of Alzheimer patients, the densities of cholinergic terminals were homogeneously diminished in the three hippocampal subregions in comparison with the controls (32-33%). In contrast, a significant loss of pyramidal neurons was found only in CA1, and the density of neurofibrillary tangles was markedly increased only in CA1 and the subiculum in Alzheimer's disease. These findings suggest that there is no relationship between the loss of cholinergic terminals and the degeneration of pyramidal cells in the hippocampus of patients with Alzheimer's disease.
In adult rats the mystacial vibrissae were clipped on one side of the snout, and the influence of this sensory deprivation on crossed and uncrossed striatal afferents from the substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area, and retrorubral area was examined with the horseradish peroxidase tract tracing technique. Unilateral removal of vibrissae was found to affect crossed and uncrossed nigrostriatal projections in a time-dependent manner. One to three days after hemivibrissotomy an apparent neuronal asymmetry was found in the crossed nigrostriatal projection arising in the rostral part of the substantia nigra, with more labeled neurons in the projection to the caudate-putamen on the side of vibrissae removal. This asymmetry resulted mainly from an asymmetry in the subset of nigrostriatal neurons reported to project to the striatal matrix (&quot;dorsal cell type&quot;). In contrast, 4-20 days after hemivibrissotomy reversed asymmetries were found in crossed and uncrossed nigrostriatal projections, with more labeled neurons in the projections to the caudate-putamen of the hemisphere opposite to vibrissae removal (the sensory deprived hemisphere). The asymmetry in the uncrossed projection was found throughout the substantia nigra, but was also most substantial in the projection from its rostral part. The asymmetry in the crossed projection was again restricted to the rostral substantia nigra; interestingly, however, it was limited to the subset of neurons reported to terminate in the striosomes (&quot;ventral cell type&quot;). Evidence was also found for time-dependent changes in size of neurons of the crossed nigrostriatal projections, as well as for changes in striatal afferents from the ventral tegmental area. The time course of these apparent changes in strength of mesostriatal projections is similar to the known time course of recovery from behavioral asymmetries induced by hemivibrissotomy, which is suggestive of a functional relationship between neuronal and behavioral changes. Moreover, the finding of a differential influence of hemivibrissotomy on nigrostriatal afferents to striosomes and matrix is indicative of a functional dissociation of these two systems.
Three morphologically and immunohistochemically distinct types of cell were present in primary cultures of adult rat olfactory nerve and glomerular layers of the olfactory bulb. One cell type was multipolar and stained positively for glial fibrillary acidic protein; a second type had fried egg-like morphology and stained with antibodies to epitope ED1; the third cell type had fusiform morphology, reacted with antibodies to vimentin and laminin and was glial fibrillary acidic protein- and ED1-negative. Trypsinization of these primary cultures (3 min, 37 degrees C), detached multipolar and fusiform cells only. When detached cells were set up in secondary culture on a glass substrate, fusiform cells did not attach, resulting in a pure culture of multipolar cells. Multipolar cells were glial fibrillary acidic protein- and myelin basic protein-positive and had the properties of so-called ensheathing cells or Blanes' glia. Immunoreactivity with anti-nerve growth factor receptor and anti-fibronectin allowed us to identify four distinct populations of multipolar ensheathing cells. One population was nerve growth factor receptor-positive, fibronectin-negative. A second was nerve growth factor receptor-negative and fibronectin-positive. A third was positive for both markers and the remaining cells did not stain for either of them. The morphological and immunological characteristics of cultured cells from olfactory nerve and glomerular layers were similar to those of Schwann cells and the similarities could account for the permissivity to axonal growth of the olfactory bulb.
A study was undertaken to determine the segmental organization of the dorsal root ganglion cells which give rise to ureteric primary afferent fibres in the guinea-pig. The size-distribution and peptide content of these dorsal root ganglion cells were examined and compared with a sample of all dorsal root ganglion cells from the same ganglia. Afferent fibres to the guinea-pig ureter were found to arise mainly from dorsal root ganglia L2-L3 and S1-S2. A large contralateral component of the afferent innervation of the ureter was found when either the right or the left ureter was injected with tracer. This amounted to approximately 40% of the total labelled cells. The cross-sectional areas of the dorsal root ganglion cells of ureteric afferents were found to be at the smaller end of the size-range for the whole ganglion. Most (90%) of the cells innervating the ureter were immunoreactive for one of the peptides studies, substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide, and a large proportion (65%) were immunoreactive for both. This was very different for the ganglia as a whole, where only about 50% of the cells were immunoreactive for either of the peptides and only 14% were immunoreactive for both peptides. These results show a bilateral afferent innervation of the ureter by nerve fibres which, in the vast majority, contain substance P and/or calcitonin gene-related peptide.
Projections from the medulla to the parabrachial complex of the rat were examined for their content of neuropeptide Y-, angiotensin II- or galanin-like immunoreactivity using combined retrograde tracing and immunohistochemical techniques. Rhodamine-labelled latex microspheres were stereotaxically injected into discrete nuclei of the parabrachial complex. After survival of two to five days, colchicine (100 micrograms in 10 microliters saline) was injected into the cisterna magna. One day later, rats were perfused and the brainstems were prepared for visualization of the retrograde tracer and immunoreactivity of one of the three peptides. Retrograde labelling verified that the area postrema, nucleus of the tractus solitarius, caudal spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, parvocellular reticular nucleus, and ventrolateral medulla including the rostral ventrolateral medulla and nucleus paragigantocellularis project to the lateral parabrachial and Klliker-Fuse nuclei. While most projections were primarily ipsilateral, a small proportion of the projections from the ventrolateral medulla was bilateral. Neurons containing neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity were found in the caudal and intermediate nucleus of the tractus solitarius, dorsal to the lateral reticular nucleus and in the nucleus paragigantocellularis. After bilateral microsphere injections into the lateral parabrachial and Klliker-Fuse nuclei, double-labelled neurons were found dorsal to the lateral reticular nucleus of caudal and intermediate medullary levels, at the ventral surface of the medulla at intermediate levels and in the nucleus paragigantocellularis at rostral levels. Neurons with angiotensin II-like immunoreactivity were observed at the dorsomedial border of the caudal and intermediate nucleus of the tractus solitarius, in the area postrema and in the lateral reticular nucleus and nucleus paragigantocellularis. Of these neurons, small numbers in the nucleus of the tractus solitarius and ventrolateral medulla also projected to the lateral parabrachial and Klliker-Fuse nuclei. Neurons containing galanin-like immunoreactivity were found in the caudal nucleus of the tractus solitarius, the area postrema, the spinal trigeminal nucleus, the raphe nuclei (pallidus and obscurus), the nucleus paragigantocellularis and dorsal to the lateral reticular nucleus. Of these cells, double-labelled neurons were found in the commissural and medial subdivisions of the caudal nucleus of the tractus solitarius and in the rostral ventrolateral medulla including the ventral surface and the nucleus paragigantocellularis. The results suggest that neuropeptide Y, angiotensin II and galanin may serve as neurochemical messengers in pathways from the medulla to the parabrachial complex. The location of double-labelled neurons suggests that the information relayed by these neurons is related to autonomic activity.
Using a monoclonal antibody against choline acetyltransferase, neurons of the rat entopenduncular nucleus were found to express choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. These cholinergic cells were located mostly in the rostral portion of the entopeduncular nucleus with a marked decrease towards its caudal portion. To identify their target sites, a retrograde fiber tracing technique was combined with immunohistochemistry for choline acetyltransferase. After injection of wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase into the habenula, some of the entopedunculo-habenular cells were found to be immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase. The cells in the peripallidal region (the substantia innominata, nucleus basalis magnocellularis and ansa lenticularis) with choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity did not contain horseradish peroxidase. Following injection of fluorescent tracer into the frontal cerebral cortex, retrogradely labeled cells were observed in the rostral part of the entopedunucular nucleus. A majority of these entopedunculo-cortical cells exhibited choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity, similar to the cells of the peripallidal region projecting to the neocortex. Employing two different fluorescent tracers, entopedunculo-cortical cells were shown to constitute a distinct cell population from the numerous entopedunculo-habenular cells. The present study demonstrated, in the rat entopeduncular nucleus, the presence of cholinergic neurons that projected to the neocortex and habenula.
The topographic organization of the nigral cells sending axons to the striatum, amygdala and inferior colliculus was studied in the rat substantia nigra pars lateralis by using retrograde fluorescent tracers. Nigral perikarya projecting to the inferior colliculus were located dorsolaterally within the substantia nigra pars lateralis, whereas nigral perikarya projecting to the striatum or to the amygdala were mostly situated ventromedially within the substantia nigra pars lateralis. The transmitter substances of the nigrotectal cells were examined by combining a retrograde tracing method with immunohistochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase or glutamate decarboxylase. Nigral neurons projecting to the inferior colliculus lacked tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity, but exhibited immunoreactivity for glutamate decarboxylase. The substantia nigra pars lateralis is made up of different neuronal populations: one projecting to the inferior colliculus and another directed to the striatum and amygdala. The pars lateralis pathway to the inferior colliculus utilized GABA as a neurotransmitter, whereas the previously characterized nigral cells projecting to the striatum and superior colliculus use GABA and dopamine as neurotransmitters.
The topographic arrangement of globus pallidus neurons sending axons to the subthalamic nucleus, auditory cortex and pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus was studied in the rat using retrograde fluorescent tracers. Neurons projecting to the subthalamic nucleus were localized in the rostral part of the globus pallidus, while neurons projecting to the auditory cortex and to the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus were located in the caudal part. The two populations of pallidocortical and pallidotegmental neurons were also distributed in a separate manner within the caudal globus pallidus. The former neurons were large and located more ventromedially, whereas the latter were medium-sized and located more dorsolaterally. Using a retrograde fluorescent tracing technique combined with choline acetyltransferase immunofluorescence histochemistry, it was found that a vast majority of pallidocortical neurons expressed choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity, and that pallidotegmental neurons rarely exhibited choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. A method of retrograde tracing with wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase associated to immunohistochemistry for glutamate decarboxylase confirmed the GABAergic nature of the pallidotegmental pathway. The present study revealed the independent nature of the globus pallidus neurons projecting to the subthalamic nucleus, auditory cortex and pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. Within this cellular arrangement, the presence of functionally distinct neuronal populations at the caudal pallidal level was also identified, with large cholinergic cells innervating the neocortex and medium-sized GABAergic cells &quot;feeding&quot; the mesencephalic tegmentum.
The properties of the excitatory postsynaptic potential evoked by focal stimulation and of the responses to excitatory amino acids were examined by intracellular recording from sympathetic preganglionic neurons in upper thoracic spinal cord slices of the adult cat. Single stimuli to the region dorsal to the intermedio-lateral nucleus evoked short-latency, presumably monosynaptic, excitatory postsynaptic potentials. The reversal potential of this response was -2.2 mV and became more negative when external Na+ or K+ concentration was decreased. The excitatory postsynaptic potential was depressed by the non-selective excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist cis-2,3-piperidine dicarboxylic acid and enhanced by a glutamate uptake inhibitor. The non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2.3-dione abolished the excitatory postsynaptic potential in 72% of neurons. In the remaining neurons, this antagonist only depressed the potential and unmasked a slower component which was abolished by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. In the presence of tetrodotoxin all neurons tested were depolarized by glutamate or aspartate, as well as by the selective agonists quisqualate, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole propionic acid, kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate. The glutamate-evoked depolarization reversed at a membrane potential of -2.0 mV and at a more negative value when external Na+ or K+ concentration was decreased. The response to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole propionic acid was abolished by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione in all neurons tested and that to kainate in only one-third of the cells. In the remainder the response to kainate was only slightly depressed by this antagonist. The responses to glutamate and aspartate were only slightly depressed by the combined action of the various amino acid receptor antagonists used. The responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate were abolished by D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. The punched-out region of the intermedio-lateral nucleus, maintained in vitro, released glutamate and aspartate in the absence of stimulation. Field stimulation (20 Hz) enhanced release by between 40 and 100%. The increase was prevented by superfusion with calcium-free Krebs. It is concluded that excitatory amino acids, acting on both N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, but mainly on the latter, are likely mediators of the monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potential evoked in sympathetic preganglionic neurons by the stimulated region. The efflux data suggest that glutamate and aspartate are among the mediators.
The blood supply to the brain has been linked closely to nervous system function and metabolism, thereby possibly playing a direct role in brain maturation. Previously, we demonstrated that closure of an external naris early in life results in large changes within the olfactory bulb, including reductions in laminar volume and cell number and a rapid decline in metabolism and protein synthesis. To understand the role of the blood supply in the dramatic changes following naris closure, the present study examines the development of olfactory bulb vasculature in unilaterally odor-deprived and control rats. On post-partum day 1 (P1; the day after birth), littermate rat pups underwent either unilateral naris occlusion or sham surgery. On P5, P10, P15, P20, P30 and P60, animals were perfused with an india ink-gelatin mixture to assess blood vessel amount and complexity. Densitometric analyses were performed to obtain values of blood vessel area ratios (vessel area/tissue area), branch point number and branch point density. Considerable vessel development in all bulbs occurred over the first two to three weeks post-partum. By P20, large reductions in vessel area ratios were observed in all constituent laminae of deprived bulbs. While similar reductions in number of vessel branch points/tissue area were seen, few changes were noted in the number of branch points/vessel area. The effects were primarily confined to early developmental periods: bulb vasculature in animals deprived at older ages (P40) appeared normal. The results indicate that the vasculature responds to alterations in sensory stimulation early in life, therefore potentially playing an important regulative role in neural development.
An immunohistochemical study of spinal cord, dorsal root and sympathetic ganglia of human embryos and fetuses demonstrated that neuropeptide Y and its C-flanking peptide could be detected in seven-week-old embryos but were absent or difficult to demonstrate after the 17th week of gestation. The peptides were found in several structures of the spinal cord, e.g. fibres in the dorsal portion of the lateral funiculus, cell bodies and fibres in the dorsal horn, and motoneurons, and also in numerous primary sensory neurons of dorsal root ganglia. They were also present in sympathetic neurons and since these are the only structures expressing neuropeptide Y and its C-flanking peptide in the adult, it must be concluded that their presence in other neurons is a transient developmental feature. To assist in understanding the relationship of these transient structures with other spinal and sensory neurons, a comparison was made with other neuronal structures showing immunoreactivity for two general neuronal markers, neurofilaments and protein gene product 9.5, and two neuropeptides present in primary sensory afferents, somatostatin and substance P. In the dorsal root ganglia, numerous neuropeptide Y- and C-flanking peptide-immunoreactive neurons were observed before substance P- or somatostatin-immunoreactive cells could be detected. Therefore, neuropeptide Y and its C-flanking peptide could represent a primitive peptidergic system appearing before primary sensory neurons express their characteristic adult phenotype. The fibres of the lateral funiculus showing immunoreactivity for neuropeptide Y and its C-flanking peptide were longitudinally orientated and could be detected at all cephalocaudal levels of the spinal cord. Comparison with the other immunohistochemical markers indicated that they were not primary sensory afferents. At least some of them probably originated from neuropeptide Y- and C-flanking peptide-immunoreactive neurons of the dorsal horn, that may be considered to be a subset of early-appearing interneurons.
Pheochromocytoma PC12 cells incubated with and without nerve growth factor were investigated using the patch-clamp technique in the whole-cell recording mode, and the concentration clamp method in the rat. On the fourth day of incubation with nerve growth factor, sodium potential-activated ionic currents appeared in the membranes of the most morphologically differentiated cells. At the same period a three-fold increase of acetylcholine-activated current density, compared with the cells incubated without nerve growth factor, was observed. Thus, the qualitative and quantitative changes in membrane properties can be a result of metabolic reorganization in PC12 cells induced by nerve growth factor and accompanied by morphological differentiation according to neuronal phenotype.
The NADPH-diaphorase histochemical technique provides a simple and robust method to stain select populations of neurons throughout the brain. We have recently identified the enzyme responsible for this histochemical reaction to be nitric oxide synthase. This enzyme is responsible for the calcium-dependent synthesis of nitric oxide from arginine. Nitric oxide acts as a novel neural messenger by stimulating soluble guanylyl cyclase thereby increasing the levels of cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate in target cells. Thus the NADPH-diaphorase histochemical method allows the direct visualization of the neurons which use this novel signal transduction pathway. We now describe the detailed distribution of this enzyme in the rat brain. Our results suggest a widespread role for the nitric oxide-cyclic guanosine monophosphate system in the nervous system.
The inter-renal (adrenal) gland of amphibians is composed of chromaffin and steroidogenic cells which can interact through a paracrine mode of communication. We have previously shown that serotonin is present in secretory granules of frog adrenochromaffin cells; concurrently, we have demonstrated that serotonin is a potent stimulator of corticosterone and aldosterone secretion by adrenocortical cells. The aim of the present study was to determine the origin of the amine contained in frog chromaffin cells. Using 3H-labelled tryptophan as a precursor, we observed the formation of substantial amounts of serotonin and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid by frog inter-renal slices. Newly synthesized serotonin was secreted into the incubation medium and the release process was enhanced by depolarizing concentrations of KCl. Fluoxetine, and inhibitor of serotonin uptake, caused an increase of 3H-labelled serotonin in the incubation medium, suggesting that the indoleamine was taken up again by adrenal chromaffin cells. The capacity of the frog inter-renal gland to synthesize serotonin was also demonstrated by incubating inter-renal slices with non-labelled tryptophan or 5-hydroxytryptophan. In these conditions, we observed that the rate of synthesis was higher when 5-hydroxytryptophan was used as a a precursor, rather than tryptophan. Taken together, these results indicate that chromaffin cells, which have the capacity for synthesizing and releasing serotonin, behave like authentic serotonergic paraneurons. As far as is known, these data provide the first evidence for the occurrence of tryptophan-5-hydroxylase activity within the adrenal gland.
Lesion evidence suggests that the superior colliculus is essential for mediating the anticonvulsant properties of nigral suppression in the electroshock model of epilepsy. However, our companion paper [Redgrave et al. (1991) Neuroscience 46, 379-390] established that the region of dorsal midbrain where bicuculline was most effective in suppressing tonic hindlimb extension did not correspond well with the known distribution of nigrotectal terminals. The purpose of the present anatomical study was, therefore, to investigate in more detail ventral midbrain connections to the dorsal midbrain anticonvulsant zone in rat. Small injections (10-20 nl) of a 1% solution of wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase were made specifically into the region of dorsal midbrain where bicuculline was maximally effective. Numerous retrogradely labelled cells were found in substantia nigra pars lateralis and adjacent peripeduncular area but not in substantia nigra pars reticulata. Retrogradely labelled cells were also located in ventral zona incerta. When wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase injections were made into lateral substantia nigra, a region of anterogradely transported reaction product characteristic of nerve terminals was observed in the caudolateral deep layers and underlying reticular tissue; this area corresponded well to the dorsal midbrain anticonvulsant zone. These data suggest that, in the electroshock model of epilepsy, direct connections between substantia nigra pars lateralis and adjacent peripeduncular area and the dorsal midbrain anticonvulsant zone could be critical for mediating the anticonvulsant properties previously attributed to substantia nigra pars reticulata. During the course of this study, anterograde projections from substantia nigra pars lateralis and adjacent peripeduncular area to both superficial and intermediate layers of the ipsilateral superior colliculus were noted. Additional experiments using retrograde transport of the fluorescent tracer Fast Blue confirmed these projections.
The localization of four membrane-bound aminopeptidases--aminopeptidase A, aminopeptidase M, dipeptidylpeptidase IV, and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase--known as characteristic enzymes of the blood-brain barrier was studied in the microvasculature of some circumventricular organs of the mouse brain (subfornical organ, area postrema, choroid plexus, and neurohypophysis). Enzyme activities were demonstrated histochemically in chloroform-acetone-pretreated cryostat sections applying an azo-coupling method. Reactions were evaluated using light microscopy and end-point microdensitometry. The results revealed differences in microvascular enzyme pattern between circumventricular organs and regions having a blood-brain barrier. Moreover, the cytochemical picture of the circumventricular organs themselves was not uniform. Dipeptidylpeptidase IV reaction showed a strongly reduced activity in the microvessels of all studied circumventricular organs. On the other hand, aminopeptidase M seemed to be present in both the leaky and the tight capillaries. Only a low activity of aminopeptidase A was found in parts of the choroid endothelium and the subfornical organ microvasculature. gamma-Glutamyl transpeptidase could neither be detected in the capillary part of the choroid plexus nor in the neurohypophysis. We are led to conclude that at least dipeptidylpeptidase IV might be involved in special mechanisms of the blood-brain barrier.
Microdialysis probes were used to measure dopamine in, and to administer glutamate receptor antagonists and agonists to, the striatum of unanesthetized rats. Antagonists used were: kynurenate, 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Agonists used were: N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate. In some rats an additional dialysis probe was implanted in medial forebrain bundle for infusion of tetrodotoxin (10 microM) to block action potential propagation along dopaminergic axons in this pathway. The latter treatment reduced dopamine in striatal dialysate to below detectable levels (less than 0.5 pg). The quantity of dopamine in striatal dialysate was not reduced by the local application of glutamate receptor antagonists. At lower concentrations, the receptor antagonists failed to alter significantly the quantity of dopamine, whereas the highest concentration of each antagonist increased the amount of dopamine in the dialysate. At the highest concentration tested (0.75 mM or 1.0 mM), as well as at a lower concentration (0.1 mM), 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione blocked the dopamine-releasing effects of exogenously applied N-methyl-D-aspartate (1.0 mM) or kainate (0.1 mM), respectively. Thus, concentrations of glutamate receptor antagonists that produced effective pharmacological blockade of the respective receptors had no effect on the basal amount of dopamine in striatal extracellular fluid. Finally, N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate produced a significant elevation in extracellular dopamine during the infusion of tetrodotoxin into the medial forebrain bundle, indicating that impulse activity in this pathway is not necessary for dopamine release produced by glutamate receptor agonists.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Acetylcholinesterase is released in a calcium-dependent manner when afferents of the cerebellar cortex are stimulated. Since cholinergic transmission is probably insignificant in the cerebellar cortex, the esterase itself might serve as a transmitter or modulator. Therefore, the effect of acetylcholinesterase in the cerebellum was investigated in slices of guinea-pig cerebella during intracellular recording from Purkinje cell somata or dendrites. Addition of acetylcholinesterase (20 U/ml) to the superfusion medium did not change the membrane potential or the input resistance of the Purkinje cells. Thus, esterase does not act like a classical transmitter. The threshold for Na+ spikes generated by intracellular current injection was unaffected, but the threshold for Ca2+ spikes was increased. This increase was abolished by tetrodotoxin (1 microM). Furthermore, when Ca2+ currents were blocked by substituting Mn2+ for Ca2+ (2 mM) a decrease in a Na+ plateau potential was seen in the presence of esterase. The effect of acetylcholinesterase of Ca2+ spikes is therefore most likely due to a reduction of the non-inactivating Na+ current of the Purkinje cell membrane. When present this current contributes to activation of Ca2+ spikes in dendrites. Acetylcholinesterase also enhanced the response of Purkinje cells to the excitatory amino acids glutamate and aspartate thought to be transmitters in the cerebellar cortex. The responses became larger and faster in the presence of esterase. Responses to climbing fibre stimulation were also enhanced by acetylcholinesterase. The late part of this synaptic response was increased. The potentiation by esterase of responses of Purkinje cells to excitatory amino acids and to climbing fibre stimulation may be mediated through interference with transmitter uptake, because it was prevented by treatment with DL-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (0.5 mM) and di-hydrokainate (0.1 mM). None of the effects of esterase was due to hydrolysis of acetylcholine because irreversible inhibition of the catalytic site of the enzyme with soman did not prevent the actions. The observations were specific for acetylcholinesterase. Butyrylcholinesterase (20-40 U/ml) showed none of the effects. It is concluded that acetylcholinesterase in the cerebellar cortex seems to mediate a novel type of modulation by two separate mechanisms. Esterase reduces the tendency towards Ca2+ spike generation in Purkinje cells. Ca2+ spikes are followed by afterhyperpolarizations and in their absence firing of Na+ spikes at higher frequencies is possible. Secondly, there is an enhancement of the action of excitatory transmitters so that the extended operating range can be utilized.
The possibility that the enhancement of extracellular protein concentrations during long-term potentiation is related to the maintenance of long-term potentiation was examined in area CA1 of rat hippocampal slices. First, we found that during the 3 h after induction, long-term potentiation maintenance was correlated with a persistent enhancement of extracellular protein concentrations. Second, when the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide was applied 10-15 min before long-term potentiation induction, the drug blocked both the maintenance of long-term potentiation and the elevation of extracellular protein concentrations. These results suggest that the elevation of extracellular protein concentrations requires new protein synthesis. The results further indicate that the newly synthesized proteins may play a role in the maintenance of long-term potentiation.
The effects of the selective dopaminergic neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) on the kinematics of two-dimensional arm movements in the primate were studied. Two rhesus monkeys were trained to move a manipulandum at various distances and directions in horizontal space from a centrally located target box. Several kinematic parameters including reaction time, and time and amplitude of peak tangential velocity were analysed. Following an extensive control evaluation period, the animals were unilaterally injected with MPTP into the internal carotid artery. The animals were restudied for up to 289 days following induction of hemiparkinsonism. Larger-amplitude movements (greater than 3.5 cm) were more severely affected than smaller amplitude movements. Both animals exhibited marked changes in the arm movements including increased time-to-peak velocity and decreased peak velocity. The degree of the kinematic changes was spatially dependent, with the decrease in velocity as well as the time-to-peak velocity being more pronounced for the larger, outward movements. Reaction time increased but showed no spatial dependency. Kinematic deficits persisted over the entire time-period studied. Also, the kinematic changes were reduced by levo-3,4 dihydroxyphenylalanine in a dose-dependent manner. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry documented extensive cell loss in the substantia nigra. These results show that both the timing as well as the amplitude of the velocity profiles are disrupted by MPTP consistent with the known akinesia and bradykinesia of parkinsonism. Although abnormalities were present for all directions and distances, a spatial dependency to the deficits was detected. The observation of more pronounced changes for larger, outward movements suggests a role for the basal ganglia in production of larger-amplitude movements directed away from the body.
In the companion report [Nisenbaum and Berger (1992) Neuroscience 48, 561-578] the contrasting paired impulse responses to stimulation of the corticostriatal pathway which define the Type I and Type II subpopulations of striatal neurons were shown to reflect differential regulation by GABAergic and dopaminergic inputs. More specifically, the decreased probability of spike discharge (inhibition) to long interstimulus intervals (60-260 ms) characteristic of Type I neurons was found to be dependent on dopaminergic input via D1 receptor activation, whereas the inhibition to short interstimulus intervals (10-20 ms) distinctive of Type II neurons was found to be mediated by GABAergic input acting through GABAA receptor stimulation. The present experiments have further investigated the contribution of GABAergic and dopaminergic feedforward and/or feedback circuits to the functional identities of Type I and Type II neurons using an in vitro corticostriatal slice preparation. In this preparation, the cortical afferents to the striatum are preserved, allowing for activation of striatal cells in a manner similar to that used in vivo; however, all axons arising from midbrain and brainstem structures including the substantia nigra are transected, and intrastriatal GABAergic pathways are reduced. Consistent with the predicted effect of disrupting these two neurotransmitter pathways, the paired impulse responses of striatal neurons recorded in vitro were not similar to the responses of either Type I or Type II neurons recorded in vivo. Indeed, the paired impulse profiles of striatal neurons recorded in vitro were relatively homogeneous in that virtually all cells displayed an increased probability of spike discharge (facilitation) to the second impulse of all interstimulus intervals (10-500ms) tested. Low concentrations of allosteric agonists for the GABAA receptor, pregnanolone (5 microM) and pentobarbital (50 microM), selectively inhibited spike discharge in response to short interstimulus intervals (10-20 ms) for approximately 40% of the neurons sampled, but produced no change in facilitation to longer interstimulus intervals (30-500 ms). The agonist-induced inhibition to short interstimulus intervals was blocked by bicuculline (10-20 microM), and was not mimicked by the GABAB receptor agonist, baclofen (1-5 microM). In addition, application of dopamine (5-10 microM) or the D1 receptor agonist, SKF38393 (2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine; 5 microM), inhibited spike discharge to longer interstimulus intervals (40-500 ms) for approximately 10% of striatal cells recorded. The inhibition to longer interstimulus intervals was blocked by the D1 receptor antagonist, SCH23390 [R-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepin+ ++-7-ol], but not the D2 antagonist, sulpiride.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
There is considerable evidence that on the anterior surface of the heart (which is usually supplied by the left anterior descending and the proximal part of the left circumflex coronary arteries), sympathetic efferent reflexes characterized by tachycardia and/or hypertension predominate following experimental or pathological perturbations. These cardiovascular reflexes are accompanied by an increase in presumed nociceptive afferent traffic and, in pathological condition, by pain. In these experiments, there is generally no effect of vagotomy on afferent nerve traffic, and lower cervical and upper thoracic sympathectomies help provide relief from angina. On the other hand, experimental or pathological perturbations involving the inferior-posterior surface of the heart (supplied by the right and distal parts of the left circumflex coronary arteries), are characterized by vagal efferent reflexes, resulting in bradycardia and/or hypotension. These reflexes are accompanied by an increase in vagal afferent nerve traffic and, in pathological conditions, by pain. In these experiments, vagotomy generally abolishes such cardiovascular reflexes, and lower cervical and upper thoracic sympathectomies are not effective in the relief from angina. Although cardiac sympathetic afferents are unquestionably involved in the central transmission of nociceptive information from the heart, it is also likely that there is a contributing role from the vagus in cardiac pain. It is important experimentally to understand the natural stimulus that gives rise to angina. In the clinical situation, a decrease in coronary blood flow or an increase in the metabolic demands of the myocardium due to increased work are obvious precipitating factors which lead to myocardial ischemia. In the experimental situation, occlusion of the coronary arteries is often used as a stimulus which mimics myocardial ischemia. As people who frequently experience angina have varying degrees of coronary artery disease, it is difficult to accept that the state of the coronary arteries of the normal experimental animal bear any resemblance to the state of the coronary arteries under pathological conditions. That is, the gain of homeostatic reflexes, the basal concentrations of neuroactive substances in the plasma, the myocardium and the afferent terminals, the excitability of the afferents, access of chemical mediators (e.g. bradykinin, 5-HT, adenosine, histamine, prostaglandins, potassium, lactate), to afferents, and the overall function of the animal are all significantly different. We have no idea how control mechanisms have been altered in the person with severe coronary artery disease compared to the normal patient or the &quot;normal&quot; experimental animal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of serotonin and excitatory amino acids on motoneurons were examined by sucrose gap recordings from the ventral root of the isolated, hemisected frog spinal cord superfused with magnesium-free, carbonate-buffered Ringer solution. Low concentrations of serotonin (0.1 microM) and the serotonin1A agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(n-dipropylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT; 0.01 microM) significantly increased the duration and amplitude of the polysynaptic components of ventral root potentials produced by dorsal root stimulation. The facilitations of the ventral root potentials were blocked by the serotonin1A antagonist spiroxatrine, but were unaffected by the serotonin2 antagonist ketanserin or the serotonin3 antagonist 1 alpha H,3 alpha,5 alpha H-tropan-3-yl-3,-dichlorobenzoate (MDL 72222). The actions of 0.1 microM serotonin on motoneuron depolarizations evoked by the putative excitatory amino acid transmitters L-glutamate and L-aspartate were quite variable, but in the presence of ketanserin (20 microM), small consistent increases in amino acid-induced motoneuron depolarizations were observed. 8-OH-DPAT significantly enhanced motoneuron depolarizations elicited by the selective excitatory amino acid agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate in both normal and tetrodotoxin-containing Ringer solution. Quisqualate-induced motoneuron depolarizations were also facilitated by 8-OH-DPAT in normal Ringer solution, but these increases were eliminated by addition of either tetrodotoxin or the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate to the Ringer superfusate. Kainate-depolarizations were not altered by low concentrations of serotonin or 8-OH-DPAT. Prior exposure of the cord to spiperone, but not ketanserin or MDL 72222 blocked the enhancement of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced motoneuron depolarizations by 8-OH-DPAT.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recent anatomical and physiological experiments indicate that the nucleus locus coeruleus receives a predominant excitatory amino acid input, as well as a substantial inhibitory input, from the nucleus paragigantocellularis in the ventrolateral medulla. To determine whether C1 adrenergic neurons are involved in the inhibitory projection, the effects of the alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist, idazoxan, on inhibitory responses of locus coeruleus neurons to paragigantocellularis stimulation were characterized in the rat. Intravenous administration of idazoxan (0.2-1 mg/kg) attenuated paragigantocellularis-evoked inhibition, and often revealed an underlying weak excitation. Intraventricular administration of kynurenate, an excitatory amino acid antagonist, eliminated excitation from paragigantocellularis and disclosed an underlying inhibitory response in many locus coeruleus neurons that were previously excited by paragigantocellularis stimulation. These results revealed that about 90% of locus coeruleus neurons receive inhibition from the paragigantocellularis. Intravenous idazoxan significantly reduced such paragigantocellularis-evoked inhibition, completely blocking this response in three of eight locus coeruleus cells tested. Idazoxan was much more potent when locally infused into the locus coeruleus. Local infusion of idazoxan (0.1-2.5 ng) into locus coeruleus produced a dose-dependent decrease of paragigantocellularis-evoked inhibition and completely blocked the inhibition in 10/33 locus coeruleus neurons, indicating that the site of idazoxan action was in the locus coeruleus. These results extend our previous anatomical studies of adrenergic input to locus coeruleus, and indicate that C1 adrenergic neurons in the paragigantocellularis provide a direct inhibitory input to the great majority of locus coeruleus noradrenergic neurons. In addition, this is the first report of a neuronal response to activation of C1 adrenergic cells indicating that these neurons are strongly inhibitory when acting at alpha-2 receptors in vivo.
Ischemia-induced selective neuronal injury to field CA1 is not attributable to selective glutamate release in field CA1 during ischemia. Excessive release of glutamate has been proposed to play a major role in ischemia-induced selective neuronal death in field CA1 of the hippocampus. It is well known that, following carotid arterial occlusion of 5 min duration in the gerbil, the pyramidal neurons in field CA1 show delayed neuronal death, whereas the neurons in field CA3 do not show any neuronal degeneration. In the present study, we measured the levels of released glutamate during ischemia in field CA1 and field CA3, separately, and evaluated whether there are subregional differences in the concentration of released glutamate which could be a satisfactory explanation for the selective vulnerability of hippocampal neurons to ischemia. Extracellular glutamate levels were significantly increased during ischemia in both field CA1 and field CA3. No significant differences were detected in the time-course of change in glutamate release and the levels of glutamate between field CA1 and field CA3. This result indicates that the increased glutamate levels do not play a pivotal part in the detrimental effect of glutamate during 5-min ischemia. Some differentiated post-synaptic organization may act as a crucial factor in the development of ischemia-induced selective neuronal death in the gerbil hippocampus.
Spatiotemporal changes of the intracellular calcium ion (Ca2+) were recorded by digital ratio imaging of fura-2 in pyramidal neurons acutely isolated from the adult guinea-pig hippocampus. Increases in calcium were evoked in tetrodotoxin (2 microM) containing saline either by stimulation with the excitatory amino acids, glutamate or N-methyl-D-aspartate, or by depolarization with high potassium (50 mM). Local stimulation with excitatory amino acids, applied from a microelectrode with 1-2-s iontophoretic pulses at the dendrite, induced a rapid increase in intracellular Ca2+ predominantly supported by a Ca2+ influx at the site of stimulation (primary response). Ca2+ levels recovered within 1-2 min in about one-half of the neurons examined. In the remaining neurons the initial exposure to excitatory amino acids induced a non-recovering gradient of Ca2+, highest at the site of stimulation, that lasted for periods of minutes (secondary response). Within the population that showed recovery from the initial agonist exposure, a second, or in some cases, a third application triggered the sustained, secondary response. Pretreatment of neurons with the protein kinase inhibitor sphingosine (10 microM) blocked development of the secondary response but had no effect on the primary response to the excitatory amino acids. There were no Ca2+ increases in Ca(2+)-free medium with either agonist, and responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate were blocked by 2-amino-4-phosphovaleric acid and significantly reduced at physiological concentrations of Mg2+ (1.8 mM). The maintained gradient of Ca2+ was supported by a continuous influx of calcium from outside the cell. In contrast, dendritic gradients of Ca2+ induced by short exposures to high potassium (50 mM, 5 s) collapsed immediately at the end of the stimulus and could be repeatedly evoked. Minute-long exposures to high K, induced large, repeatable changes in Ca2+ but there was always rapid recovery in normal saline. K depolarization applied after excitatory amino acid stimulation produced larger Ca2+ changes than the same K stimulus applied before the cell was stimulated with the excitatory amino acid. Bath application of GABA (10-100 microM) reduced the magnitude of the maintained Ca2+ gradients. The functional significance of the extended, secondary response cannot be directly established from these measurements on isolated neurons, but its properties could give rise, in part, to mechanisms involved in neural plasticity, in kindling epileptogenesis or in glutamate-induced toxicity.
Previous studies suggested that in the nucleus tractus solitarius, cardiovascular responses to serotonin may involve the simultaneous activation of more than one receptor subtype. In the present study, the cardiovascular effects of the local application of serotonin and different serotonin3 agonists and antagonists into the nucleus tractus solitarius were analysed in intact and unilaterally ganglionectomized rats. Unilateral injections of serotonin (5-15 nmol) produced a dose-dependent increase in blood pressure and partially antagonized the arterial baroreflex responses evoked by an i.v. injection of phenylephrine. Similar blood pressures response were obtained after unilateral microinjections of phenylbiguanide (5 nmol) and 2-methyl-serotonin (5 nmol), two serotonin3 receptor agonists. Bilateral microinjections of serotonin or phenylbiguanide produced more pronounced blood pressure effects and antagonized completely the baroreflex responses. Both blood pressure and baroreflex effects were antagonized by prior injections of specific serotonin3 antagonists such as zacopride (100 pmol) and ondansetron (100 pmol). Concomitant autoradiographic studies performed in intact and ganglionectomized rats, using [125I]iodozacopride, confirmed that serotonin3 receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarius are mainly located on vagal afferent fibers. In addition, serotonin microinjections made in the nucleus tractus solitarius ipsilateral to the ganglionectomy revealed a significant reduction in cardiovascular responses compared to intact animals. These results suggest that in the nucleus tractus solitarius of the rat, serotonin is involved in the reflex regulation of blood pressure through the stimulation of serotonin3 receptors presumably located on vagal afferent fibers. Since bicuculline antagonized the serotonin-mediated pressor responses, a serotonin3-dependent activation of an inhibitory GABAergic system within the nucleus tractus solitarius might be involved in blood pressure regulatory mechanisms.
Buspirone, benzodiazepines, barbiturates and ethanol all reliably reduce the frequency of reticular-elicited hippocampal rhythmical slow activity. In the present experiments we tested a number of drugs which are not usually used for treating generalized anxiety disorders but which have been reported to have some anxiolytic properties. Clonidine (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.), baclofen (6 mg/kg, i.p.) and 8-hydroxy-di-n-propylamino tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) all reduced the frequency of rhythmical slow activity. The effect of all three drugs was reduced by the 5-hydroxytryptamine 1a antagonist pindolol (2 mg/kg, i.p.). Pindolol had no effect on the reduction in rhythmical slow activity produced by sodium amylobarbitone, as has been previously reported for the benzodiazepine chlordiazepoxide. Flumazenil (10 mg/kg, i.p.), a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, reduced the effects of chlordiazepoxide (5 mg/kg, i.p.), but not buspirone (10 mg/kg, i.p.). A combination of the selective beta 1 adrenergic receptor antagonist metoprolol (20 mg/kg, i.p.) and the beta 2 adrenergic receptor antagonist ICI 118,551 (4 mg/kg, i.p.) did not reduce the effects of either buspirone (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or diazepam (1 mg/kg, i.p.). These data show that there are at least two separate routes through which anxiolytic agents reduce the frequency of hippocampal rhythmical slow activity. Buspirone, clonidine, baclofen and 8-OH-DPAT act via a system dependent on 5-hydroxytryptamine 1a receptor activation. Benzodiazepines act via activation of the benzodiazepine receptor and probably share with barbiturates action at the GABA-benzodiazepine-chloride ionophore complex but do not produce their effects, directly or indirectly, by 5-hydroxytryptamine 1a receptor activation.
Recent anatomical data suggest that the nucleus accumbens can be parcellated into a core region, related to the caudate-putamen, and a shell region, associated with the limbic system. We have used pharmacological methods to characterize the dopamine innervations of the nucleus accumbens core and shell in the rat. Concentrations of both dopamine and serotonin were significantly greater in the nucleus accumbens shell than the nucleus accumbens core. Metabolite: amine ratios suggested that both dopamine and serotonin utilization are greater in the core. However, dopamine turnover (as determined by measuring the rate of decline of dopamine after alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine treatment) was not significantly different in the two accumbal sectors. Dopamine concentrations in the two nucleus accumbens sectors were decreased to an equivalent degree at both 4 and 18 h after reserpine administration. In contrast, serotonin concentrations were decreased to a significantly greater degree in the nucleus accumbens core than nucleus accumbens shell at 4 h, but not 18 h, after reserpine administration. Administration of haloperidol increased dopamine utilization in both nucleus accumbens sectors, but augmented utilization to a significantly greater degree in the nucleus accumbens core. Clozapine increased dopamine utilization to an equivalent degree in both nucleus accumbens regions. Short duration immobilization stress selectively increased dopamine utilization in the nucleus accumbens shell. These data indicate that there are significant differences between the nucleus accumbens core and nucleus accumbens shell in basal dopamine metabolism, and indicate that the core and shell dopamine innervations can be distinguished on the basis of response to both pharmacological and environmental challenges.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous retrograde tracing studies on rat and guinea-pig showed a projection of sensory tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons to the region of the carotid bifurcation via the carotid sinus nerve. In the present study, focussing on the sensory innervation of the human carotid body, antisera to tyrosine hydroxylase and other catecholamine synthesizing enzymes were applied for an immunohistochemical investigation of carotid bodies obtained at autopsy. In addition, an array of antisera directed to non-enzyme antigens known to be present in viscero-afferent neurons were incorporated in the study. The glomic lobules consisting of glomus cells and sustentacular cells contained a variable number of enzyme-immunoreactive glomus cells. Arteries were supplied by nerve fibres displaying the full phenotype of sympathetic noradrenergic axons, i.e. immunoreactivity to tyrosine hydroxylase, aromatic-L-amino-acid-decarboxylase and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase. The glomic lobules, however, were densely innervated by tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons lacking immunoreactivity to aromatic-L-amino-acid-decarboxylase and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase. These fibres reacted with neurofilament 160kD-antibody but were devoid of immunoreactivity to all neuropeptides tested (calcitonin gene-related peptide, somatostatin, substance P). Ultrastructurally, tyrosine hydroxylase/neurofilament 160kD-immunoreactive axons gave rise to large axonal swellings filled with mitochondria and vesicles, and established extensive contacts to glomus cells. Nerve bundles surrounded by a perineural sheath contained both myelinated (2.0-2.8 microns in diameter) and unmyelinated (0.14-3.0 microns) tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons. Most of the unmyelinated immunoreactive axons were running singularly within a Schwann cell-sheath. Judged from the pattern of immunoreactivities as well as their preterminal and terminal ultrastructure, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons innervating glomus cells are of sensory origin. Although final proof by retrograde tracing cannot be presented in man, this conclusion is supported by experimental evidence in laboratory animals. The myelinated immunoreactive axons correspond to chemoreceptor A-fibres whereas the classification of the large unmyelinated immunoreactive axons has yet to be established. The lack of immunoreactivity to the dopamine-synthesizing enzyme, aromatic-L-amino-acid-decarboxylase, in this fibre type does not support the view of dopamine being the primary transmitter of chemoreceptor afferents.
Anatomical, biochemical and behavioral data suggest functional interactions between dopamine and neurotensin in regions of the brain receiving a co-existent and/or distinct innervation by these two transmitters. We therefore measured and compared the effects of iontophoretically applied dopamine and neurotensin in the prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortex (co-existent innervation) vs the nucleus accumbens and neostriatum (distinct innervation) of urethane-anesthetized rats. In every region, the firing rate of most spontaneously active neurons was depressed by dopamine. Neurotensin had no effect on the same cells, except for a few nucleus accumbens units which were inhibited by the peptide. When dopamine and neurotensin were concomitantly applied, the magnitude of maximal inhibitions induced by dopamine was modified in the majority of neurons tested. A significant decrease in dopamine inhibition was observed in 100% of anterior cingulate, 74% of prefrontal cortex and 48% of accumbens units. On the contrary, in neostriatum, dopamine inhibition was significantly increased in 60% of the units tested. In every region, the remaining neurons showed less than 30% changes in dopamine responsiveness, and were therefore considered unaffected by neurotensin. In the anterior cingulate cortex, inhibitions, respectively, induced by the dopamine D1 agonist, SKF 38393, and the D2 agonist, LY 171555, were also decreased by simultaneous application of neurotensin. Together with currently available data on the cellular localization of neurotensin receptors in rat brain, these results suggest that the modulation of dopamine inhibition by neurotensin may have opposite effects depending on whether the neurotensin receptors are located postsynaptically on target neurons (antagonistic effects) or presynaptically on dopamine terminals (potentiating effects).
We have examined the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y in ciliary ganglia of normal adult rats and of adult rats in which the environment of these neurons was altered by sympathectomy at birth. Following neonatal 6-hydroxydopamine treatment, the proportion of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons in ciliary ganglia was significantly increased. In ciliary neurons of both control and sympathectomized rats, neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity was preferentially co-localized with tyrosine hydroxylase. Immunoblot analysis confirmed the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase and its increase following sympathectomy. In situ hybridization studies revealed that many ciliary neurons contain mRNA for tyrosine hydroxylase and for neuropeptide Y. Like tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity, the number of ciliary neurons containing tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA and the amount of mRNA per cell were increased in 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats. In contrast, neuropeptide Y mRNA levels were the same in control and 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats. Nerve growth factor is a candidate for mediating the effects of sympathectomy and most ciliary neurons in control and sympathectomized rats expressed immunoreactivity for the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor. In addition, ciliary neurons from 6-hydroxydopamine-treated animals possessed increased nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity. These studies indicate that both tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y in the ciliary ganglion are regulated by alterations in their environment. Their expression was enhanced by chemical sympathectomy which does not affect ciliary neurons directly but, rather, removes sympathetic innervation of shared targets, including the iris. In situ hybridization analysis suggests that the increased tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y levels result from different mechanisms and provides evidence that neuropeptide levels can be regulated without changes in mRNA levels.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the comparative effects of rapid vs graded correction of chronic hypoxia in vitro. Cerebral cortical cell cultures obtained from fetal mice were exposed to 5% O2 for 24 h and returned immediately to room air for the following 24 h (Group I); comparable cultures were exposed to 5% O2 for 24 h followed by 10% O2 for an additional 24 h before return to room air (Group II). At the conclusion of the experimental protocol (time 0), partial pressure of oxygen in the bathing medium of Group I cultures was significantly higher than that of Group II and non-hypoxic controls (151 mmHg vs 124 and 132 mmHg, respectively; P less than 0.05). Throughout the recovery period, Group II cultures evidenced improved neuronal survival (e.g. 35,800 vs 17,700 neurons/culture well at time 0, P less than 0.01), decreased lactate dehydrogenase efflux into the bathing medium, relative preservation of neuronal morphology, as well as higher specific and clonazepam-displaceable benzodiazepine binding and GABA uptake. Glutamate binding was not differentially affected and glutamine synthetase activity, a predominantly glial marker, was only modestly increased after graded reoxygenation. These results demonstrate that gradual reoxygenation after prolonged hypoxia in vitro (i) improves neuronal survival compared to rapid reoxygenation and (ii) delays the manifestations of metabolic dysfunction even though the length of hypoxic exposure is increased. The findings are also consistent with the concept that a period of relative hyperoxia may contribute to hypoxia-induced neuronal injury.
Membrane potentials from Schwann cells associated with giant axons of the small squid (Alloteuthis and Loliguncula) and the large squid (Loligo) were monitored with glass microelectrodes following 100 Hz/15 s axonal stimulation, or the application of 10(-7) M glutamate and ion substitutions, in the presence or absence of 10(-7) M d-tubocurarine. Glutamate or stimulation caused the membrane of the Schwann cell to depolarize to approximately -32 mV. This was rapidly replaced by a transient hyperpolarization to approximately -55 mV; the potential returning to the resting level (-40 mV) in approximately 7 min. In the presence of d-tubocurarine only the initial depolarization was evident. Nominally zero [Na+]o or treatment with 10(-7) M tetrodotoxin (in normal [Na+]o) blocked the stimulation- and glutamate-induced depolarization while low Clo- hyperpolarized the Schwann cell without effect on the glutamate- or stimulation-induced depolarization. Nao+ depletion or pretreatment with tetrodotoxin in normal Nao+ did not affect the development of the Schwann cell hyperpolarization. These results do not support the hypothesis that the glutamate-induced depolarization is the trigger leading to the Schwann cell hyperpolarization. Preliminary experiments to test the possibility that inositol phosphate second messenger and an increase in [Ca2+]i are triggered by glutamate receptor activation showed that nominally 0 Cao2+/75 mM Mgo2+ only slightly reduced the hyperpolarizing response to stimulation or glutamate while intracellular Bapta (20-30 microM) blocked the hyperpolarization but not the depolarization. [3H]Myoinositol incorporation into axon-Schwann cell plasma membranes was high.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Graft-to-host interactions were examined at cellular level, by measuring changes in the immunoreactivity of striatal interneurons expressing neuropeptide Y after dopamine denervation and transplantation of fetal mesencephalon neurons into the striatum of adult rats. Mesencephalic cell suspensions were implanted unilaterally into the dorsal part of the striatum in rats two weeks after intranigral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine. One month and three to four months later, rats showing abolition of amphetamine-induced turning were perfused. Serial brain sections containing intrastriatal grafts were treated for tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y immunocytochemistry, and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons were quantified in various parts of the striatal surface and compared with the striatum of controls and age-matched rats with lesions. Biochemical analyses of dopamine and dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid tissue levels and [3H]dopamine uptake were also performed on striatal samples from similar groups of normal, lesioned and transplanted rats. As early as one month post-grafting, a complete reversal of the increase in the number of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons occurring after 6-hydroxydopamine lesion was observed in dopamine-grafted animals, although a partial restoration of the tyrosine hydroxylase immunostaining and a recovery of 8% dopamine tissue level were observed in the striata of grafted as compared to normal rats. This effect on the host immunoreactivity was found to be specific to dopamine grafts, since no reversal was observed in sham-spinal cord-transplanted rats. Moreover, similar degrees of normalization were recorded either in the total striatum, or in the area immediately adjacent to the graft, or even in the zone most sensitive to dopamine denervation in terms of neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity. No more pronounced functional effects were observed three to four months after transplantation. These data suggest that grafted dopamine neurons are able to induce rapid and extensive host responsiveness, possibly by means of mechanisms involving synaptic and diffuse release of dopamine and adaptive changes in the host brain. These data may provide a cellular basis for interpreting larger behavioural recoveries than those expected to occur with dopamine grafts in view of the partial restoration of the dopaminergic innervation.
Bilateral electrolytic lesions of the rat ventral tegmental area, a mesencephalic structure containing the cell bodies of ascending dopaminergic neurons, induce a behavioural syndrome characterized by a permanent locomotor hyperactivity. Acute intraperitoneal injections of prazosin, an alpha 1-adrenergic receptor antagonist, at a dose (0.5 mg/kg) which does not affect locomotor activities of control animals, abolished locomotor hyperactivities of lesioned rats. Antagonists of other monoaminergic receptors (propranolol, ritanserin, yohimbine), and also another antagonist of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, 2-(2',6'-dimenthoxyphenoxyethyl)-aminomethyl-1,4-benzodioxan (WB4101) were ineffective. Comparisons of autoradiograms of brain slices incubated in the presence of 1 nM [3H]prazosin or 10 nM [3H]WB4101 indicated clear topographical differences. [3H]Prazosin labelling is present in the septum and in layer III of the cerebral cortex but absent in the striatum. [3H]WB 4101 labelling is diffuse in the superficial layers of the cerebral cortex and present in the striatum. In addition, intraperitoneal injection of WB4101 displaces, only weakly, [3H]prazosin binding in layer III of the cerebral cortex (-18%) while it decreases by 50% [3H]prazosin binding in the more superficial cortical layers. These observations strongly suggest that the binding site labelled by [3H]prazosin is different from alpha 1A- and alpha 1B-adrenergic receptor subtypes labelled by [3H]WB4101. Finally, it is proposed that the prazosin-induced blockade of the locomotor hyperactivity exhibited by ventral tegmental area lesioned animals is linked to the previously demonstrated regulatory role of noradrenergic neurons on cortical dopamine transmission.
Population spikes, population excitatory postsynaptic potentials and intracellular excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded in the CA1 area of guinea-pig hippocampal slices in response to low frequency stimulation of the stratum radiatum. Tetanic stimulation of the same afferents during an application of saccharin (10 mM, 10 min) failed to induced a long-term potentiation of the population spike, population excitatory postsynaptic potential and intracellularly recorded excitatory postsynaptic potential. A post-tetanic application of saccharin did not prevent long-term potentiation of the population spike from developing. Saccharin did not change the input resistance, the membrane potential or the ability to induce action potentials in the CA1 neurons. The slope of the intracellular excitatory postsynaptic potentials recorded in normal medium, in normal medium containing 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, or in Mg(2+)-free medium containing 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione was not significantly altered by saccharin. The depolarizations of CAI neurons produced by superfusion of N-methyl-D-aspartate or during a brief tetanic stimulation of the stratum radiation were also not altered by the drug. It therefore appears that saccharin blocks the induction of long-term potentiation by a mechanism that does not involve a blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Application of fluid samples collected from rabbit neocortical surface during a tetanic stimulation of the neocortex caused neurite growth in PC-12 cells, suggesting that growth-related substances were present in the collected samples. If these samples were superfused onto hippocampal slices, long-term potentiation developed. If however, the samples were co-applied with saccharin, neither neurite growth in PC-12 cells nor long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices was observed, raising the possibility that growth-related substances are involved in long-term potentiation.
The distribution of somatostatin immunoreactivity in the basal ganglia and amygdala of the squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus) was studied with specific polyclonal antibodies directed against somatostatin-28 and somatostatin-28(1-12). Both antibodies gave similar results with regard to the distribution of somatostatin-immunoreactive neuronal profiles. A moderately dense and highly heterogeneous network of somatostatin-positive fibers was observed throughout the striatum. A dorsoventral gradient of increasing immunoreactivity was noted in the striatum and the caudate nucleus was found to strain generally less intensely than the putamen. The immunoreactive fibers within the striatum were mostly thin and varicose and formed patches corresponding to the striosomes, as visualized on adjacent sections immunostained for calbindin. Although some somatostatin cell bodies rimmed the striosomes, most of the positive cells were rather uniformly scattered in the striatum. These medium-sized cells were significantly smaller in the caudate nucleus (93 microns2, S.D. = 26 microns2) than in the putamen (122 microns2, S.D. = 39 microns2), but their density was significantly higher in the caudate nucleus (29.7 cells/mm2, S.D. = 8.8 cells/mm2) than in the putamen (20.5 cells/mm2, S.D. = 7.0 cells/mm2). The nucleus accumbens stained moderately and positive cell bodies were evenly dispersed throughout this structure. In contrast, the olfactory tubercle displayed a heavily stained neuropil but positive neurons were encountered only in its polymorph layer. In the sublenticular region, dense fiber plexuses appeared in register with nonreactive cell clusters of the nucleus basalis of Meynert and of the nucleus of the anterior commissure. More caudally, a dense bundle of positive fibers was observed at the level of the ansa lenticularis, the inferior thalamic peduncle, and the adjoining bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Several fibers contributing to this bundle were of the woolly type. Woolly fibers also coursed in the substantia innominata between the ventral aspect of the globus pallidus and the optic tract, and ascended in the internal medullary lamina separating the internal and external segments of the globus pallidus. Somatostatin-immunoreactive cell bodies were uniformly scattered throughout the substantia innominata. The various nuclei of the amygdala showed a wide range of immunoreactivity. The central nucleus was lightly reactive, whereas the intercalated masses displayed a moderate staining. A dorsoventral gradient of immunostaining was noted in the ventrolateral portion of the amygdala, the lateral nucleus being moderately to densely stained and the basal nucleus very lightly to lightly immunoreactive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The neuronal distributions of somatostatin and neuropeptide Y and their respective mRNAs in hippocampal slice cultures were examined by immunohistochemical staining and in situ hybridization. For the in situ hybridization we used an alkaline phosphatase-labelled oligodeoxynucleotide probe for somatostatin mRNA and an 35S-labelled oligodeoxynucleotide probe for neuropeptide Y mRNA. For both neuropeptides the immunostained and hybridized neurons displayed a comparable, organotypic distribution. Most labelled neurons were located in the dentate hilus and stratum oriens of CA3 and CA1. Additional neurons were found in stratum radiatum and pyramidale of CA3, but very few in the corresponding layers of CA1. In all locations the density of somatostatin- and neuropeptide Y-reactive cells exceeded that observed in vivo. Also, the hybridization signal of the individual neurons appeared enhanced in the slice cultures. Methodologically it was noted that the non-radioactive alkaline phosphatase-labelled oligodeoxynucleotide probe gave excellent in situ hybridization results with detailed cellular resolution and no apparent problems of tissue penetration, even when used on whole-mount explants. These results demonstrate that somatostatin and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive and mRNA containing neurons retain their organotypic distribution and basic morphological characteristics in the slice cultures. The supernormal density of these neurons and their hybridization signals indicate that a transient developmental increase in neuropeptide expression may persist in vitro.
The effects of iontophoretic application of acetylcholine, noradrenaline, serotonin and their blockers on neuronal activity were studied in the cat before and during fulfillment of conditioned instrumental placing reflex. It was found that acetylcholine increased the background neuronal activity through muscarinic cholinergic receptors and noradrenaline decreased it through beta-adrenoceptors in a considerable proportion of the cortical neurons. Serotonin had no reliable effect on the background activity. At the same time, it facilitated an initial component of the impulse reaction to conditioned stimulus and part of the impulse reaction preceding the start of the conditioned movement. Acetylcholine applied iontophoretically also facilitated the evoked responses in some cortical neurons via nicotinic cholinergic receptors. On the contrary, iontophoretic application of noradrenaline or ephedrine decreased the evoked activity of some neurons. Application of beta-adrenergic receptor blocker, propranolol, led to an increase of neuronal responses to conditioned stimuli. Evidently, noradrenergic projections exert a steady inhibitory influence on the cortical neurons during natural functioning of the cortex. It is concluded that cortical reactions evoked by activation of thalamic projections and intracortical connections are modulated and regulated by extrathalamic projections to the cortex.
Electrical field stimulation of circular muscle strips from the guinea-pig isolated renal pelvis produces a frequency-dependent positive inotropic effect of the spontaneous contractions which is unaffected by atropine and guanethidine and abolished by tetrodotoxin or in vitro capsaicin desensitization. Omega conotoxin fraction GVIA markedly inhibited the response to low frequencies of stimulation but had only a partial or minor inhibitory effect at higher frequencies. Tachykinins produce a concentration-dependent positive inotropic effect, neurokinin A being more potent than substance P. On the other hand, rat alpha calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) inhibited spontaneous contractions of the renal pelvis. MEN 10,376 a neurokinin A (4-10) analog, antagonized the positive inotropism produced by neurokinin A, without affecting the response to KCl, and suppressed the positive inotropic response produced by electrical field stimulation. In the presence of MEN 10,376, a negative inotropic response was produced by electrical field stimulation which was antagonized by the C-terminal fragment (8-37) of human alpha calcitonin gene-related peptide (hCGRP). hCGRP (8-37) antagonized the negative inotropic effect of exogenously administered CGRP without affecting inhibition by isoprenaline. Application of capsaicin (10 microM) produced a marked increase in the outflow of substance P-, neurokinin A- and CGRP-like immunoreactivities from the superfused guinea-pig renal pelvis. Substance P-, neurokinin A- and CGRP-like immunoreactivities were also detected in tissue extracts of the renal pelvis by radioimmunoassay. These experiments indicate that peptide release from peripheral endings of capsaicin-sensitive primary afferents represents the major type of nerve-mediated response affecting motility of the guinea-pig isolated renal pelvis. Tachykinins and CGRP act as physiological antagonists and the excitatory action of tachykinins prevails over the inhibitory action of CGRP. Local modulation of renal pelvis motility by sensory nerves could facilitate removal of irritants present in the urine, protecting the kidney during obstruction and ureteral antiperistalsis.
In awake, freely moving rats, the intracerebral administration of the excitatory amino acid L-glutamate (30 nmol/0.5 microliters) into discrete regions of the brainstem resulted in a transient and spontaneous pain-like syndrome characterized by an initial vocalization and vigorous escape behavior. Systematic microinjection mapping studies were carried out at sites distributed caudally from the lower medulla and rostrally into diencephalon. These studies revealed that the spontaneous pain-like behavior was observed to occur after glutamate injection in 13% of 331 microinjected sites, and these sensitive sites were largely limited to the mesencephalic periaqueductal gray matter. The behavioral syndrome was dose-dependent and antagonized in a dose-dependent fashion by the glutamate receptor antagonists MK 801 and DL-2-amino-5 phosphonovalerate but not by gamma-D-glutamyl-amino-methylsulfonic acid. The pain-like behavior was also produced by the other excitatory amino acid receptor agonists N-methyl-D-aspartate, quisqualate and to a certain extent by kainate in a dose-dependent manner with the order of potency being N-methyl-D-aspartate = kainate greater than quisqualate greater than D-glutamate. The effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate were antagonized by MK 801 and DL-2-amino-5 phosphonovalerate but not by gamma-D-glutamyl-amino-methylsulfonic acid. It is suggested that the pain-like behavioral syndrome is the result of focal occupation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors on neuronal populations in the terminal regions of rostrally projecting spinomesencephalic systems.
An electron microscopic, double-labelling immunocytochemical procedure was used to assess the level of fixed glutamate and glutamine in different cell profiles in ultrathin sections of rat cerebellar cortex. The procedure was based on sequential immunolabelling with two rabbit antisera, using gold particles of different sizes as markers and formaldehyde vapour as a means to avoid interference between the two incubations. Model sections containing a series of known concentrations of the respective amino acids (aldehyde--fixed to rat brain protein) were incubated together with the tissue material. These revealed a close to linear relationship between gold particle density and antigen concentration throughout the range of biological relevance. The ratio between the density of the two categories of gold particles was calculated for the individual profile types. This ratio showed a 20-fold variation, with the highest glutamate/glutamine ratios obtained for putative excitatory terminals (terminals of parallel fibres in the outer part of the molecular layer, followed by mossy and climbing fibre boutons) and the lowest for glial cells (Bergmann glia, astrocytes in the granule cell layer, and oligodendrocytes). Granule cell bodies and dendrites, and cell bodies and processes of putative GABAergic cells (Purkinje, basket and Golgi cells) displayed intermediate ratios. The ratios corresponded to millimolar ratios (mM fixed glutamate/mM fixed glutamine) ranging from 4.5 to 0.2, tentatively assessed by adjusting for differences in labelling efficiency of the two antigens. Our results show that the compartmentation of glutamate and glutamine, an issue previously addressed mainly in the test tube, can be studied in morphologically intact preparations at a resolution that matches the complexity of CNS tissue. The data indicate that glutamate is effectively converted to glutamine in all categories of glial cells, and that glutamate synthesis prevails in each of the three types of excitatory terminals in the cerebellar cortex. Terminals of putative GABAergic cells form a distinct low glutamate/low glutamine compartment.
The role of the glycine modulatory site in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor function was examined by determining the effect of the glycine site antagonist, 7-chlorokynurenic acid, on the induction of long-term potentiation at the commissural-CA1 synapse in anesthetized rats. Robust long-term potentiation of population excitatory postsynaptic potentials and population spike responses recorded extracellularly in the stratum pyramidale and in stratum radiatum of CA1 developed after high frequency stimulation (100 Hz for 1 s) of commissural fibers during continuous intrahippocampal administration of vehicle solution (0.15 M NaCl). In contrast, infusion of either 7-chlorokynurenic acid (400 microM) or of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (100 microM), significantly attenuated or completely blocked the development of long-term potentiation. When 7-chlorokynurenic acid was infused together with the glycine analog, D-serine (1 mM), long-term potentiation developed that was comparable to that observed in control animals. Intrahippocampal administration of D-serine alone was associated with slightly greater magnitude of long-term potentiation than observed in control animals. Collectively, these findings establish that in intact hippocampus, activity at the glycine modulatory site is necessary for activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex. Furthermore, these results suggest that the glycine modulatory site may not be fully saturated in vivo, and thus can serve to regulate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor function.
Dopamine receptor-mediated Fos protein expression in the striatum has been used to monitor dopamine receptor activation at the cellular level after dopaminergic denervation and reinnervation by fetal nigral transplants. The pattern of striatal Fos expression after systemic administration of either the dopamine receptor agonist, apomorphine, or the dopamine-releasing agent, amphetamine, was studied in rats which had received cell suspension grafts of fetal ventral mesencephalic neurons into the striatum after a complete 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of mesostriatal dopaminergic projection. Grafted animals, and normal and lesioned controls were killed 2 h after administration of either D-amphetamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) or apomorphine (0.25 mg/kg, s.c.). Fos protein was detected immunohistochemically, and the density of Fos-immunoreactive cell nuclei was measured in 12 selected areas of caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens and globus pallidus by computerized image analysis. Consistent with previous studies, amphetamine induced high Fos expression in the medial and dorsal parts of the intact caudate-putamen and significantly lower expression in the denervated caudate-putamen. A significant difference between lesioned and intact striata was present also in globus pallidus, but not in nucleus accumbens. In grafted rats, amphetamine-induced Fos activation was restored to normal or supranormal levels in the anterior and central caudate-putamen (i.e. close to the graft deposits), whereas in the tail of caudate-putamen Fos expression was significantly lower than normal. The side-to-side difference in globus pallidus seen in lesioned rats was no longer present in the grafted animals. Apomorphine led to high Fos activation throughout the dopamine-depleted caudate-putamen, whereas only very few immunopositive cells were observed in the intact caudate-putamen. Also in globus pallidus and nucleus accumbens, a significantly higher number of Fos-immunoreactive cells was detected on the denervated side. In the grafted rats, apomorphine-induced Fos activation was similar to normal in all striatal areas sampled, as well as in the globus pallidus. The graft-induced effect extended over a considerably larger area than that covered by the graft-derived tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive innervation. These findings indicate that fetal ventral mesencephalic transplants normalize dopamine receptor-mediated function in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens, as well as in a primary target of the striatal output neurons, the globus pallidus. The results support the idea that dopamine released from the grafted neurons, both under baseline conditions and after amphetamine administration, exerts functional effects over a larger volume of the striatum than that reached by the graft-derived fibers.
We have demonstrated that the mouse neuroblastoma N18Tg2 cell line and several clones of hybrid ND cells (ND7, ND9 and ND21), derived from the fusion of neonatal rat sensory neurons with that neuroblastoma, show immunostaining to protein gene product 9.5, neuropeptide Y, C-flanking peptide of neuropeptide Y, tyrosine hydroxylase and chromogranins. Synaptophysin could only be detected in ND cells. Immunoreactivities to substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin and somatostatin could not be detected in any of these cell lines. After three days of incubation in a differentiation medium, cell processes of various lengths were observed both in neuroblastoma and ND cell cultures. In ND7 cells there was also a redistribution of neuropeptide Y and its C-flanking peptide to the tips of cell processes. The differentiation of cell processes was also accompanied by the appearance of immunostaining to rat chromogranins in their tips. In contrast, synaptophysin expression was found mainly in cell bodies. Neuropeptide Y, its C-flanking peptide and chromogranins have been associated with secretory granules, whereas synaptophysin is a marker for small synaptic-like vesicles. Therefore, our morphological findings further support and expand the view that these markers are primarily associated with different subcellular structures. Moreover, they indicate that the regulated secretory pathway associated with chromogranins is segregated into nerve processes at an early stage of differentiation, when the synaptophysin-associated pathway is not yet mature. ND7 cells thus provide a useful model system for studying changes in the distribution of neuropeptides, cytoskeletal elements and proteins associated with cell secretion during neuronal differentiation.
The response of six mRNAs (for prepro-corticotropin-releasing hormone, prepro-enkephalin, prepro-vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine, prepro-neurotensin/neuromedin N, prepro-cholecystokinin, and prepro-tyrosine hydroxylase) was measured in the hypothalamic paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei after increasing periods of osmotic stimulation caused by the replacement of regular drinking water with hypertonic saline (up to five days) or by forced dehydration (up to three days). In addition, hematocrits and concentrations of corticosterone were determined after the different periods of osmotic stimulation and correlated with the effects on the content of the various mRNAs. The temporal response of the mRNAs within the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei to osmotic stimulation was different within the three compartments of these nuclei. First, in response to overnight osmotic stimulation, magnocellular neurosecretory neurons increased their mRNA content for two molecules (prepro-corticotropin-releasing hormone and tyrosine hydroxylase). As the stimulus was maintained over the next two to four days, these cells accumulated the mRNAs for at least three other peptides (cholecystokinin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine and enkephalin). Second, the response of peptide-coding mRNAs in parvicellular neurosecretory neurons of the paraventricular nucleus appeared to be slower; no changes could be measured after overnight stimulation. However, after a further two- to four-days of continued osmotic stimulation, the content of the mRNA coding for corticotropin-releasing hormone markedly decreased while that for cholecystokinin increased. No change in the content of the mRNAs coding for prepro-vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine, enkephalin, and prepro-neurotensin/neuromedin N could be seen at any time after osmotic stimulation in parvicellular neurosecretory neurons. Third, increases in the content of mRNA coding for corticotropin-releasing hormone in the parvicellular neurons that provide descending projections from the paraventricular nucleus could only be detected after longer periods of osmotic stimulation. The effect of osmotic stimulation on plasma corticosterone concentrations was quickly apparent; plasma corticosterone concentrations were significantly elevated on the first morning after the beginning of salt-loading, and demonstrated the rapid effects of osmotic stimulation on the mechanisms controlling corticosterone release. These results show that the synthetic capability of cells in all three compartments of the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei are modified by osmotic stimulation over different time scales, thereby allowing differential modulation of the neuroendocrine, autonomic, and behavioral components of the animal's response to disturbances in fluid homeostasis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Antisera raised against protein-glutaraldehyde-amino acid conjugates were used to study the light and electron microscopic distribution of GABA, glutamate, glutamine and taurine in organotypic slice cultures of rat hippocampi. In the stratum oriens and radiatum, glutamate-like immunoreactivity was particularly concentrated in nerve endings establishing asymmetric junctions with dendritic spines. Mossy fiber terminals in CA3 and the dentate hilus were also strongly labeled. A quantitative immunogold analysis of the glutamate-immunolabelled profiles showed a pattern that was highly reminiscent of that previously observed in perfusion-fixed hippocampi, including a correspondingly sparse labeling of glial processes and of presynaptic elements in symmetric synapses. GABA-like immunoreactivity was localized predominantly in interneurons and in presynaptic terminals contacting dendritic shafts and neuronal cell bodies, while immunoreactivities for glutamine and taurine were found mainly in astroglial cells and pyramidal cells, respectively. Our data indicate that the major intrinsic fiber systems of the cultured hippocampi have retained their normal transmitter phenotypes.
The dynamics of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade-induced transitions between two types of intracellularly recorded spontaneous membrane potential oscillation from cat thalamic neurons have been studied using non-linear dynamics techniques. We report that, as previously predicted by theoretical studies, the number of degrees of freedom of these oscillations (the minimal number of independent variables governing the activity) is small, i.e. they are low dimensional. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists DL-2-amino-5-phosphono-valeric acid and ketamine, which transformed one type of oscillation into another, decreased the calculated dimension. DL-2-Amino-5-phosphono-valeric acid had no effect on the dimension when Mg2+ was present in the perfusion medium. The decrease in dimension was gradual and its time-course had a sigmoidal shape. It is suggested that the application of the machinery of dynamical systems theory might help to detect and monitor drug-induced membrane potential state transitions and to identify the factors underlying membrane potential oscillations.
The Mongolian gerbil was used as a model of aging because of its relatively short lifespan, genetic homogeneity and the fact that data had been collected previously. Furthermore, gerbils have been widely used in biomedical investigations of stroke and epilepsy. Age-related differences in signal transmission and transduction systems were investigated in brains of three-, 11- and 21-month-old gerbils by morphological and in vitro receptor autoradiographic studies. Morphometric analysis revealed a decreased number of neurons in layer III of the occipital cortex and also a decrease in cerebellar Purkinje cells in 21-month-old animals. However, no statistical differences were observed in the hippocampal formation, the dorsolateral striatum and layer III of the frontal cortex. Autoradiography was used to map muscarinic cholinergic (labeled with [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate), serotonin2 ([3H]spiperone), dopamine D2 ([3H]spiperone), adenosine A1 ([3H]cyclohexyladenosine), GABAA ([3H]muscimol), naloxone ([3H]naloxone), protein kinase C ([3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate), adenylate cyclase ([3H]forskolin), cyclic AMP ([3H]cyclic AMP) and L-type Ca2+ channels ([3H]PN200-110). Muscarinic cholinergic receptor and protein kinase C, cyclic AMP and L-type Ca2+ channels were significantly decreased in the cerebral cortex and/or in the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus in the 21-month-old group. Muscarinic cholinergic receptor and L-type Ca2+ channel binding sites were significantly reduced in the dentate gyrus. In contrast, protein kinase C was increased in this area in the 21-month-old group. Also, naloxone binding sites were increased in the CA3 subfield, hilus, dentate gyrus and molecular layer of the cerebellum in the 11- and 21-month-old groups. Muscarinic cholinergic, serotonin2 and dopamine D2 receptors and adenylate cyclase were significantly decreased in the striatum. On the other hand, adenosine A1 and GABAA receptors remained unchanged in the 21-month-old group. Although age-related histopathological abnormalities were only observed in the occipital cortex and in the cerebellum, alterations of signal transmission and transduction systems were noticed in all areas examined (e.g. cerebral cortex, CA1 subfield, dentate gyrus and striatum). These data indicate that changes in these receptors and binding sites may be related to dysfunction of learning and memory and to the loss of motor function. The aged gerbil model is a good system for studying aging and is of value for simulating aging after epilepsy and stroke.
Electrical stimulation of a broad area of the frontoparietal cortex in the rat brain induces immunocytochemically detectable Fos in striatal neurons normally devoid of the protein. The vividness of labeling within striatal neurons was maximal at 0.5 h after the cessation of a 15-min-long stimulation period and became weaker by 3 h. Although Fos-reactive neurons were widely distributed in the striata of both hemispheres in an uneven pattern, those on the stimulated side were more numerous and more darkly stained. At no time-point were labeled neurons found in the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus or substantia nigra. Destruction of the nigrostriatal dopamine projection with 6-hydroxydopamine did not induce Fos production and failed to prevent the induction of Fos by cortical stimulation. That many of the Fos-positive neurons project to the substantia nigra was confirmed by retrograde labeling with Fluoro-Gold. The data suggest that corticostriatal excitatory transmission may directly influence the genomic activity of striatal neurons by way of Fos.
The mechanisms by which the atypical neuroleptic clozapine produces its therapeutic effects in the treatment of schizophrenia without causing the extrapyramidal side effects that are characteristic of most antipsychotic drugs remain unclear. Recently, a single injection of the typical antipsychotic haloperidol has been shown to increase c-fos expression in the striatum [Dragunow et al. (1990) Neuroscience 37, 287-294]. C-fos is a proto-oncogene that encodes a 55,000 mol. wt phosphoprotein, Fos, which is thought to assist in the regulation of &quot;target genes&quot; containing an AP-1 binding site. Because a wide variety of physiological and pharmacological stimuli increase c-fos expression, it has been proposed that Fos immunohistochemistry might be useful in mapping functional pathways in the central nervous system. The present experiments examined some potential neuroanatomical differences in the actions of clozapine and haloperidol by comparing their effects on c-fos expression in the medial prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, striatum and lateral septum. The effects of the selective dopamine receptor antagonists SCH 23390 (D1) and raclopride (D2) were also examined. Haloperidol (0.5, 1 mg/kg) and raclopride (1, 2 mg/kg) produced large increases in the number of Fos-containing neurons in the striatum and nucleus accumbens. SCH 23390 (0.5, 1 mg/kg) reduced the number of Fos-positive neurons in the nucleus accumbens and striatum, and had no effect in the other regions. Neither haloperidol nor raclopride increased the number of Fos-positive neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex. Haloperidol, but not raclopride, produced a modest increase in c-fos expression in the lateral septal nucleus. Clozapine (10, 20 mg/kg) was without effect in the striatum; however, it significantly increased the number of Fos-positive neurons in the nucleus accumbens, medial prefrontal cortex and lateral septal nucleus. Destruction of mesotelencephalic dopaminergic neurons with 6-hydroxydopamine abolished the increase in Fos expression in the nucleus accumbens and striatum produced by haloperidol and raclopride, and also blocked the clozapine-induced increase in the nucleus accumbens. However, the inductive effects of clozapine and haloperidol on c-fos expression in the lateral septal nucleus and of clozapine in the medial prefrontal cortex were not affected by the 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. These results suggest that clozapine's unique therapeutic profile may be related to its failure to induce Fos in the striatum as well as its idiosyncratic actions in the lateral septum and medial prefrontal cortex. The effects of clozapine in these latter regions do not appear to be mediated by dopaminergic mechanisms.
The actions and mechanism of GABAergic modulation of catecholamine secretion from isolated bovine chromaffin cells were investigated. The GABAA receptor agonist muscimol induced a fast rise in cytosolic [Ca2+]. The mean peak increase was 290 +/- 30 nM over basal levels. The increase in cytosolic [Ca2+] was abolished in the absence of extracellular [Ca2+] and was blocked by the GABAA antagonist bicuculline and the dihydropiridine nifedipine. Muscimol also elicited the release of catecholamines and increased the bisoxonol fluorescence indicating a cell depolarization. The [Ca2+] entry was well correlated with muscimol-evoked catecholamine secretion. When cells were treated with muscimol and a second secretagogue, a biphasic behavior was revealed. Muscimol enhanced the catecholamine release evoked by low concentrations of nicotine or K+, whereas release obtained at high concentrations of nicotine or K+ was actually inhibited. When the muscimol effect on membrane potential was studied in the presence of low K+ or nicotine concentrations, an enhancement of the bisoxonol fluorescence was observed. This effect was reversed at high concentrations of both K+ and nicotine. Measurement of 36Cl- fluxes showed an increase in membrane permeability to Cl- during muscimol stimulation. The influx or efflux in Cl- was dependent on membrane potential. In normal conditions, with a K+ concentration of 5.4 mM, a Cl- efflux was observed by both radiometric techniques, with 36Cl- and by the use of the chloride-sensitive fluorescent probe 6-methoxy-N-(3-sulphopropil)quinolinium, as indicator of intracellular Cl-. At high nicotine (20 mM) or K+ concentrations (105 mM) a Cl- influx was observed using 6-methoxy-N-(3-sulphopropil)quinolinium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The present study utilized an in vitro preparation of the rabbit carotid body, with tissue catecholamine stores labeled by incubation with 3H-tyrosine. The goal was to characterize pharmacologically the voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels present in the type I (glomus) cells of this arterial chemoreceptor organ, and to elucidate their role as pathways for Ca2+ entry. We found that release of 3H-dopamine induced by high external potassium was over 95% dependent on external calcium concentration and that this release was 90-100% inhibited by the dihydropyridine antagonists, nisoldipine and nitrendipine, and was potentiated by the dihydropyridine agonist, BayK 8644. Therefore, any stimulus-induced, calcium-dependent release of 3H-dopamine that was inhibited by nisoldipine and potentiated by BayK 8644, was considered to be supported by Ca2+ entry into the cells via voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. Significant differences were observed in the release of 3H-dopamine induced by 75 vs 25 mM K+. On prolonged stimulation, release induced by 75 mM K+ was large and transient, whilst that induced by 25 mM K+, although more moderate, was sustained. The release elicited by 75 mM K+ was inhibited approximately 90% by 1.5 mM Co2+ or 625 nM nisoldipine, while release by 25 mM K+ was completely blocked by 0.6 mM Co2+ or 125 nM nisoldipine. Low PO2-induced release of 3H-dopamine was 95% dependent on Ca2+, and was inhibited by nisoldipine (625 nM) in a manner inversely proportional to the intensity of hypoxic stimulation, i.e. 79% inhibition at a PO2 of 49 Torr, and 20% inhibition at PO2 of 0 Torr. BayK 8644 potentiated the release induced by moderate hypoxic stimuli. Release elicited by high PCO2/low pH, or by Na(+)-propionate or dinitrophenol-containing solutions, was approximately 80% Ca(2+)-dependent, and the dihydropyridines failed to modify this release. It is concluded that type I cells possess voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels sensitive to the dihydropyridines, which in agreement with previous electrophysiological data should be defined as L-type Ca2+ channels. Calcium entry which supports the release of 3H-dopamine elicited by moderate hypoxia should occur mainly through these channels while the release induced by strong hypoxic stimuli will be served by Ca2+ entry which occurs in part via voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels, and in part through an additional pathway, probably a Na+/Ca2+ exchanger.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide added at submicromolar concentrations to the perfusion fluid of rat hippocampal slices and slice cultures enhanced the excitability of CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells in several ways. Specifically, cells were depolarized and the Ca(2+)- and cyclic AMP-dependent potassium conductance was blocked as demonstrated by reduction of the long-lasting afterhyperpolarization and the accommodation of firing. This was also found in tetrodotoxin-containing medium. In low Ca(2+)-high Mg2+ medium (in synaptic isolation) the firing rate was increased. Synaptic transmission was potentiated: extracellularly registered excitatory postsynaptic potentials and population spikes in response to stratum radiatum stimulation and intracellularly recorded excitatory postsynaptic potential-inhibitory postsynaptic potential sequences were enhanced. These results are in keeping with the known stimulation of adenylate cyclase by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide.
Neosurugatoxin and omega-conotoxin, known to be specific ligands for the neuronal nicotinic receptor and Ca2+ channel, respectively, were previously claimed to exert no depressant action on the mouse neuromuscular junction. It was found that in preparations partially blocked with tubocurarine or with low Ca(2+)-high Mg2+ Tyrode's, both toxins, at 3-10 microM, depressed indirect twitches and either produced wanings (neosurugatoxin) or waxings (omega-conotoxin) of indirectly elicited tetanic contractions whilst in normal Tyrode's the contractile forces were not changed. In normal Tyrode's, neosurugatoxin decreased the amplitudes of spontaneous and evoked endplate potentials and enhanced the run-down of endplate potentials as did tubocurarine though with lesser potency. By contrast, omega-conotoxin (10 microM) decreased the amplitude of the evoked but not of the spontaneous endplate potential in low Ca(2+)-high Mg2+ Tyrode's, and produced facilitation of endplate potentials, instead of run-down, on repetitive stimulations. Higher concentrations of omega-conotoxin appeared to depress quantal release in normal Tyrode's. The effects were all reversible. The prolonged endplate depolarization found in preparations treated with neostigmine or 3,4-diaminopyridine, was partially depressed by both toxins. The results suggest that neosurugatoxin blocks the neuron and muscle nicotinic receptors in the neuromuscular junction with comparable potency. The pharmacology of the nicotinic receptor on motor nerve terminal seems more similar to the muscle nicotinic receptor than to that on autonomic ganglia or brain. On the other hand, omega-conotoxin seems to block a small fraction of Ca2+ channels on the motor nerve and decreases the quantal release of evoked endplate potentials.
The development of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal response to stress is profoundly altered by environmental events. One target for environmental regulation within the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis is the hippocampal type II corticosteroid (or glucocorticoid) receptor system, which mediates the negative-feedback effects of glucocorticoids on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity. Thus, adult rats handled early in life show increased hippocampal type II corticosteroid receptor density and increased sensitivity to the inhibitory effects of circulating glucocorticoids on post-stress hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity. Both effects persist throughout life. The effects of handling on type II corticosteroid receptor development are, at least in part, mediated by changes in hippocampal 5-hydroxytryptamine turnover. Moreover, 5-hydroxytryptamine can regulate type II corticosteroid receptor density in cultured hippocampal cells, providing a paradigm for examining the neurochemical mechanisms by which environmental stimuli might regulate neural differentiation. In the present studies, we examined the intracellular mechanisms underlying the effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine on type II corticosteroid receptors ([3H]RU 28362 binding) in hippocampal cell cultures. cAMP, but not cGMP, levels in cultured hippocampal cells were significantly increased by the addition of 5-hydroxytryptamine to the medium. The cAMP response to 5-hydroxytryptamine was biphasic: an initial increase in cAMP levels occurred in response to nanomolar 5-hydroxytryptamine concentrations (EC50 = 7.2 nM), while a second increase was apparent at low micromolar concentrations. 5-Hydroxytryptamine also increased [3H]RU 28362 binding (EC50 = 4.5 nM) with a maximal effect at a concentration of 10 nM. There was no further increase in [3H]RU 28362 binding even with higher, micromolar concentrations of 5-hydroxytryptamine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Two subpopulations of striatal neurons, Type I and Type II, are distinguished by their contrasting electrophysiological responses to paired impulse stimulation of cortical afferents. Although both Type I and Type II striatal neurons are excited by the first impulse of any pair of impulses, in response to short interstimulus intervals (10-30 ms) Type I neurons display an increase in probability of spike discharge to the second impulse (facilitation), whereas Type II neurons exhibit a decrease in probability of discharge (inhibition); in response to longer interstimulus intervals (50-250 ms) Type I cells display inhibition, whereas Type II cells show facilitation. The present experiments investigated the possibility that the unique paired impulse responses of Type I and Type II neurons reflect differential regulation by GABAergic and dopaminergic afferents. Extracellular recording techniques were combined with micropressure ejection of specific antagonists for GABAA (bicuculline), GABAB (phaclofen), D1 (R-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-IH-3-benzazepin+ ++-7-ol; SCH23390) or D2 (sulpiride) receptors; the role of dopamine was also examined using the specific neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine. Results showed that bicuculline (250-500 microM) reduced stimulation threshold for spike discharge of both Type I and Type II neurons and completely antagonized the paired impulse inhibition in response to short interstimulus intervals characteristic of Type II neurons. In contrast, phaclofen (2-30 mM) had only a variable influence on spike threshold for Type II cells and no effect on the paired impulse responses of either Type I or Type II neurons. Micropressure ejection of SCH23390 (1 mM) decreased spike thresholds for both cell types and attenuated the inhibition of spike discharge to long interstimulus intervals distinctive of Type I neurons, an effect which was mimicked by dopaminergic denervation. In contrast, sulpiride (1 mM) had little effect on spike thresholds, and no influence on the paired impulse responses of either cell type. These results indicate that the excitability of both Type I and Type II neurons is tonically inhibited by GABAergic and dopaminergic input via stimulation of GABAA and D1 receptors, respectively. Moreover, the bicuculline sensitivity of Type II neurons suggests that GABAergic input to this cell class arises from neurons within a cortically driven feedforward and/or feedback loop, whereas Type I cells receive input from neurons which lie outside of such a loop. In addition, the inhibition to longer interstimulus intervals characteristic of Type I cells is, at least in part, dependent on dopaminergic input through D1 receptor stimulation.
In this study we have evaluated the second messenger system that might couple 5-HT1A receptor activation to produce peripheral hyperalgesia. The intradermal injection of the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) receptor agonist for the 1A receptor subset (5-HT1A), (+/-)-2-dipropylamino-8-hydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthaline hydrobromide (8-OH DPAT) produces a dose-dependent hyperalgesia which was attenuated by a cAMP kinase inhibitor (the R-isomer of cyclic adenosine-3'-5'-monophosphate), but prolonged by the inhibition of endogenous phosphodiesterase by rolipram, supporting a role for the cAMP second messenger system. The 5-HT1A receptor agonist, 8-OH-DPAT, and the adenyl cyclase activator, forskolin administered together, produced an additive hyperalgesia, suggesting that the 5-HT1A receptor in peripheral terminals of the primary afferent neurons is positively coupled to the cAMP second messenger system in producing hyperalgesia. The inability of pertussis toxin to inhibit 8-OH DPAT-induced hyperalgesia further supports this hypothesis. The coupling of the 5-HT1A receptor to the cAMP second messenger system appears to be through guanine regulatory proteins since guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) and cholera toxin both markedly enhanced 8-OH DPAT hyperalgesia. In further support of the role of guanine nucleotide regulatory proteins, guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), as well as activators of inhibitory guanine regulatory proteins (the mu-opioid agonist, [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol]-enkephalin, and the adenosine A1 agonist, N6-cyclopentyladenosine, significantly attenuated 8-OH DPAT hyperalgesia.
Immunoreactivity for two derivatives of pro-opiomelanocortin, beta-endorphin and alpha-melanocortin (or corticotropin), was demonstrated, using a conventional immunoperoxidase method, in some of the intramuscular nerves in muscle sections from obese diabetic (ob/ob) mice and homozygous lean (+/+) mice. The endplate regions were visualized in the sections by staining for acetylcholinesterase reaction product. The proportion of muscle endplates with beta-endorphin-immunoreactive motor nerves was approximately 2.5-fold higher in soleus and extensor digitorum longus muscles and approximately 1.5-fold higher in the diaphragm of the obese (ob/ob) mice compared to the normal lean mice. The proportion of muscle endplates with alpha-melanotropin-immunoreactive motor nerves was between 30 and 53% lower, depending on the muscle type, in the ob/ob mice compared to the lean mice. The muscles of ob/ob and lean mice were investigated for the presence of specific binding sites for [125I]beta-endorphin and for [125I]corticotropin, using autoradiography. Some muscle fibres in soleus, extensor digitorum longus and diaphragm in both the ob/ob and the lean mice exhibited specific binding sites for the radioactive ligands. The binding sites were distributed over the entire surface in these muscle fibres. In the ob/ob mice the number of muscle fibres with specific [125I]beta-endorphin binding sites was six-fold higher in soleus and approximately 10-fold higher in extensor digitorum longus and diaphragm, than in the corresponding muscles of the lean mice. In contrast, the number of muscle fibres with specific [125I]corticotropin binding sites was similar in obese (ob/ob) and lean mice.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Monoclonal antibodies were raised against the L-enantiomer of baclofen conjugated by glutaraldehyde to keyhole limpet hemocyanin. Hybridoma clones were selected for their stability and their production of high titers of antibodies directed against the p-chlorophenyl moiety of the L-baclofen molecule. The chosen antibody showed no cross-reactivity with conjugates of GABA and other neurotransmitters to human or bovine serum albumin. Specificity was further confirmed by the ability of L-baclofen-HCl to inhibit the binding of the antibody to L-baclofen-bovine serum albumin conjugate. Immunocytochemical studies were conducted on brain tissue from rats and monkeys injected with baclofen to localize baclofen-sensitive GABAB receptor sites. In these animals, the molecular layer of cerebellar cortex was clearly immunostained and the granular layer showed only some pale immunoreactivity. Ultrastructural observations were conducted in cerebellar cortex, as well as in the substantia nigra and the vestibular nuclei. Discrete labeling of neuronal profiles was observed in these structures, and both immunoperoxidase and colloidal gold methods were employed successfully. Material from saline-injected control animals showed no immunoreactivity at both light and electron microscopic levels. We conclude that the anti-L-baclofen antibody preferentially recognizes the p-chlorophenyl moiety of the baclofen molecule. Antibodies of such specificity are useful tools for the ultrastructural localization of baclofen-sensitive GABAB receptor sites. In general, antibodies directed against accessible moieties of specific neuroactive substances may serve as valuable markers for their sites of action.
The distribution and characteristics of [125I]Bolton Hunter-eledoisin binding sites in rat lumbar spinal cord were studied during postnatal development by in vitro receptor autoradiography. At three, six and 10 days of age, specific [125I]eledoisin binding was distributed throughout the dorsal and ventral horns of the spinal cord. In contrast, from day 24 onwards, specific binding of [125I]eledoisin was confined to superficial layers of the dorsal horn, with negligible amounts of specific binding in the ventral horn. [125I]Eledoisin binding to neonatal (three day) and adult (eight to 12 weeks) spinal cord sections was characterized using tachykinin agonists. In both dorsal and ventral horns of neonatal spinal cord, the rank order of potency of agonists indicated that the majority (64%) of specific [125I]eledoisin binding was to neurokinin-3 binding sites. The identity of the non-neurokinin-3 sites labelled by [125I]eledoisin remains to be determined. In adult rat spinal cord, [125I]eledoisin appeared to bind exclusively to neurokinin-3 binding sites. These results suggest that major changes take place in the localization of neurokinin-3 receptors during postnatal ontogeny of the rat spinal cord. These changes may reflect an important role for tachykinins in neuronal plasticity of the developing spinal cord.
The role of intrathalamic GABAB neurotransmission in the control of absence seizures was investigated. In rats with genetic absence epilepsy, bilateral injections of R-baclofen (50, 100 and 200 ng/side), a selective GABAB receptor agonist, into the specific relay nuclei and the reticular nuclei of the thalamus increased spontaneous spike and wave discharges in a dose-dependent fashion, whereas injections of a GABAB antagonist CGP 35,348 (1, 2.5 and 5 micrograms/side) into the same sites decreased these seizures dose-dependently. The effect of R-baclofen (200 ng/side) on spike and wave discharges could be blocked by a subsequent injection of CGP 35,348 (1 microgram/side) at the same site. Injections of R-baclofen (200 ng) or CGP 35,348 (5 micrograms) into the midline thalamus had no effect on these seizures. In non-epileptic rats, bilateral injections of R-baclofen (1 microgram/side) into the specific relay nuclei induced synchronized rhythmic oscillations on the cortical electroencephalogram. The results suggest that GABAB receptors in the ventrolateral thalamus and in the reticular nuclei are involved in an oscillatory activity which underlies the rhythmic spike and wave discharges recorded during spontaneous generalized non-convulsive seizures.
The effect of intrathecal or intracerebroventricular administration of the GABAB receptor agonist, baclofen, on rhythmic contractions induced by distension of the urinary bladder (micturition reflex) was evaluated in urethane-anesthetized rats. Baclofen inhibited bladder motility acting at central nervous system sites (spinal and supraspinal) with a comparable potency. The inhibitory effect of i.t. baclofen (0.1-10 nmol) was blocked by i.t. phaclofen (200 nmol) while i.c.v. phaclofen did not affect i.c.v. baclofen (0.1-1 nmol). The inhibition of the micturition reflex induced by bladder distension observed after i.t. administration of baclofen was unaffected by systemic capsaicin pretreatment (50 mg/kg s.c., four days before). On the other hand, i.t. baclofen suppressed, in a phaclofen-sensitive manner, the reflex bladder contraction evoked by chemical stimulation (topical capsaicin) of capsaicin-sensitive bladder afferents. Intrathecal baclofen did not affect the hexamethonium-resistant tonic contraction produced by topical application of capsaicin on to the urinary bladder, which is ascribable to local peptide release from sensory nerves. Bladder motility inhibition by i.t. or i.c.v. baclofen (1 nmol) was unchanged by previous administration of p-chlorophenylalanine, indicating that the serotonergic pathways do not play a role in its action. Baclofen (100 microM) suppressed the release of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity evoked by electrical field stimulation from the dorsal half of the rat spinal cord. This response was also abolished by in vitro capsaicin desensitization or tetrodotoxin, indicating that baclofen suppresses transmitter release from central endings of capsaicin-sensitive primary afferents. The present findings indicate that baclofen acts at both spinal and supraspinal sites to inhibit, with different mechanisms, the micturition reflex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed three different ontogenetic patterns of localized expression of the high-affinity type of neurotensin receptor mRNA in the developing rat brain: one comprises sites which showed transient expression of neurotensin receptor mRNA during the first postnatal week, the expression greatly decreasing thereafter (type I); another comprises sites at which there is a gradual increase in neurotensin receptor mRNA after birth, as there is in cell number and intensity, with advancing age, followed by a plateau (type II); the third comprises sites at which there is much expression of neurotensin receptor mRNA already at birth, and a slight decrease thereafter (type III). The cerebral cortex, except retrosplenial and entorhinal cortices, and the anterior dorsal thalamic nucleus exhibit the type I pattern, while the horizontal and vertical limbs of the diagonal band of Broca, magnocellular preoptic nucleus, substantia innominata, ventral part of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, medial habenular nucleus, ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra pars compacta exhibit the type II pattern. The tenia tecta, retrosplenial and entorhinal cortices exhibit the type III pattern. One of the most striking findings in this study was that the entire neocortex and most of the limbic cortex exhibit the type I pattern, i.e. neurotensin receptor mRNA is expressed transiently long before a neuronal network is established there. This suggests that neurotensin plays an important role in cortical development, other than its reported transmitter-like role in the adult.
Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry was used to simultaneously measure increases in dopamine concentration and decreases in O2 concentration evoked by brief electrical stimulation (two pulses at 10 Hz) in slices of rat caudate nucleus. Dopamine concentration began increasing immediately after the first pulse and reached a maximum within 200 ms of stimulation. The O2 concentration began to decrease 300-700 ms after onset of stimulus. Responses for both dopamine and O2 were dependent on external Ca2+ and were Cd2+ and tetrodotoxin sensitive. Only the O2 response was sensitive to CN- (0.15 mM). At short times after exposure to 50 microM ouabain, electrically stimulated dopamine overflow was increased by 150% and electrically stimulated changes in O2 concentration were unaffected. Maximum dopamine concentration was increased 28% by sulpiride (2 microM), 78% by L-DOPA (60 microM), 105% by nomifensine (10 microM) and unaffected by nialamide (10 microM). Maximum decrease in O2 concentration was increased by 25% by sulpiride and unaffected by nialamide, L-DOPA, or nomifensine. The decreases in O2 concentration are indicative of increased O2 consumption and are a measure of oxidative energy production evoked by electrical stimulation. The increase in dopamine is due to the release of dopamine balanced by uptake and serves as an indication of neurotransmitter activity. The results indicate that increases in oxidative energy production following electrical stimulation are dependent on external Ca2+ entry through Cd(2+)-sensitive channels. Possible mechanisms for this coupling are discussed.
Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded in stratum radiatum of CA1 and CA3 in submerged hippocampal slices from adult or newborn (postnatal days 5-25) Wistar rats. In adult slices, excitatory postsynaptic potentials were depressed by glucose removal (&quot;aglycemia&quot;) more rapidly and to a greater extent in CA1 than in CA3 [respective mean times to 50% reduction in peak amplitude were 7.5 +/- 0.83 (standard error) min and 12.5 +/- 0.27 (standard error) min]. Subsequent recovery of excitatory postsynaptic potentials in normoglycemic medium was correspondingly quicker in CA3 than in CA1. Transmission failure at the synapses was indicated by the preservation of the afferent volley, and sharp depression of synaptic input-output plots. In the early postnatal period, CA1 excitatory postsynaptic potentials were much more resistant to aglycemia, substantially persisting for as long as 75 min, with full subsequent recovery in normoglycemic medium. The higher resistance of slices from newborn rats progressively disappeared over the first two postnatal weeks.
Large neurons from layer V in a slice preparation of cat sensorimotor cortex were impaled with microelectrodes containing KCl plus different concentrations of the Ca2+ chelator 1,2-bis(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetic acid (BAPTA) or two of its derivatives. Impalement with electrodes containing high BAPTA (200 mM) quickly abolished Ca(2+)-dependent afterhyperpolarizations. Spike parameters were normal, but the usual time- and voltage-dependent rectification of subthreshold membrane potential was absent. Normally, this rectification results from activation of two voltage-gated currents, the persistent sodium current (INaP) and the hyperpolarizing inward rectifier current (Ih). Both of these currents were absent during voltage clamp with high BAPTA microelectrodes. Impalement with electrodes containing low BAPTA (2 mM) or derivatives caused a different effect. Injection of a 1-s current pulse evoked phasic firing instead of the tonic firing seen normally. Both the amplitude and the duration of the Ca(2+)-dependent afterhypolarization that followed repetitive firing were much greater than normal. The effectiveness of BAPTA derivatives in altering afterhyperpolarizations and firing properties were similar to their effectiveness in chelating Ca2+. It is assumed that the BAPTA effects result from reduction of intracellular Ca2+ concentration. Results with high BAPTA suggest that (i) both INaP and Ih require a minimal intracellular calcium concentration for normal expression, and that (ii) these voltage-gated currents may be modulated by changes in intracellular calcium concentration. Results with low BAPTA suggest that a small reduction of intracellular calcium concentration preferentially enhances a slow, Ca(2+)-dependent K+ current which then dominates the firing properties of the cell. The transformed firing properties resemble those of hippocampal pyramidal neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Intracellular recordings were made from neurons in a rat locus coeruleus slice preparation in vitro. A postsynaptic potential was evoked by electrical stimulation of afferents to the neurons. CI-977 ([5R-(5a,7a,8b)]-N-methyl-N-[7-(1-pyrrolidinyl)-1-oxaspiro[4.5]dec -8-yl[-4-benzofuranacetamide monohydrochloride) caused a depression of the evoked postsynaptic potential on locus coeruleus neurons. This action was reversed on washout. Bremazocine had a similar action on less than 50% of locus coeruleus neurons. Concentrations of CI-977 which depressed the postsynaptic potential did not affect either passive membrane conductance or a voltage-sensitive potassium current resembling IA. The depression of the excitatory postsynaptic potential caused by CI-977 remained in the presence of either 30 microM bicuculline and picrotoxin or when potassium acetate-filled recording electrodes were used. Using potassium chloride-filled recording electrodes and in the presence of 30 microM 6-cyano-2,3-dihydro-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and either 30 microM DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid or 500 microM kynurenic acid, CI-977 had no effect on the postsynaptic potential. The effects of CI-977 were reversed by 30-100 nM naloxone and 1-10 nM norbinaltorphimine but not by 1-10 nM naloxone. The hyperpolarizing response to the mu-opioid receptor-selective agonist D-Ala2,Nme Phe4,Gly-ol5 (DAGOL) was blocked by 1-10 nM naloxone but not by 1-100 nM norbinaltorphimine. The hyperpolarizing response to DAGOL was not affected by high doses of CI-977.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rats were treated for 15 days with reserpine or vehicle. One day after the last treatment, animals were killed and frozen brain sections were prepared for in vitro autoradiography. Binding to beta-adrenergic receptors was measured with [125I]iodocyanopindolol, and binding selective for beta 1 and beta 2 subtypes was assessed by including non-radioactive drugs that selectively mask beta receptor subtypes. Total alpha 1-adrenergic receptor binding was measured with [3H]prazosin, while alpha 1a binding was measured with [3H]WB4101 (in the presence of unlabeled serotonin). Quantitative densitometric analysis revealed that chronic reserpine treatment caused an increase in beta binding throughout the brain, including the cortex, thalamus, amygdala, hippocampus, caudate-putamen and hypothalamus. This effect of reserpine was entirely confined to the beta 1 subtype in all regions examined. [3H]Prazosin binding (alpha 1a plus alpha 1b) was also increased after chronic reserpine in several regions of the cortex and thalamus, as well as the ventral hippocampus and caudal amygdala. No effect of chronic reserpine was seen on [3H]WB4101 binding, indicating that the effect of reserpine on alpha 1 receptors is limited to the alpha 1b subtype. The increase in alpha 1b binding after reserpine administration in rats was generally smaller and less widespread than that seen with beta 1 binding. Thus the effect of reserpine upon noradrenergic neurotransmission demonstrates a high degree of receptor specificity and regional selectivity.
The effect of the GABAB receptor blocker CGP 35348 on epileptic processes in vitro and in vivo was studied. In hippocampal slices of the rat maintained in vitro, CGP 35348 (100 microM) induced a moderate increase in the frequency of extracellularly recorded spontaneous epileptiform burst discharges induced in CA3 by penicillin (1.2 mM), bicuculline (5 microM) and low Mg(2+) (0.1 mM). This effect was observed in 50-75% of the slices. A similar but less consistent increase was also observed in CA1 in bicuculline and low Mg2+. Data obtained by intracellular recordings from CA1 pyramidal cells in the presence of bicuculline (10 microM) demonstrated that CGP 35348 (100 microM) increased the duration of the paroxysmal depolarization underlying an evoked epileptiform burst and reduced the early component of the after hyperpolarization which followed the burst. In mice pretreated with isoniazid, CGP 35348 (300 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly increased the number of convulsing mice. However, convulsions induced by submaximal doses of pentylenetetrazol, picrotoxin or strychnine were not facilitated by CGP 35348. We conclude that GABAB receptors appear to exert a suppressant effect on various kinds of epileptiform discharges of hippocampal neurons in vitro. In vivo, however, the role of GABAB receptors in regulating convulsions is less prominent since only isoniazid-induced convulsions were facilitated by GABAB receptor blockade.
The localization of neurons containing mRNA of the gamma 2-subunit of GABAA receptors was examined in the rat central nervous system with in situ hybridization histochemistry using an oligonucleotide probe to the sequence of the gamma 2-subunit. Neurons containing the gamma 2-subunit mRNA were widely but unevenly distributed in the brain. The location of gamma 2-subunit mRNA-containing neurons differed from those containing alpha- or beta-subunits. According to our results brain regions can be divided into three categories: one containing only gamma 2-subunit, one containing mRNA of at least one subunit other than gamma 2 and one containing more than one other subunit but not the gamma 2-subunit. The distribution of strongly labeled nuclei partly coincided with that of glutamate decarboxylase, suggesting that the GABAA receptor gamma 2-subunit would be involved in an autoreceptive mechanism of the GABAergic transmission.
In order to study the signal transmission from pineal photoreceptors to luminosity (achromatic)-type ganglion cells of the lamprey, Lampetra japonica, the electrical activity of these cell groups was investigated using intra- and extracellular electrodes. By intracellular recording, it was shown that the photoreceptor cells responded to flashes of light with hyperpolarizations, and the ganglion cells also hyperpolarized with concurrent suppression of spike discharges. Concerning the slow membrane potentials, the light intensity-response relationships of both cell groups followed the Naka-Rushton hyperbolic function. The intensity range over which the ganglion cells responded was broader than that of the photoreceptors. The spectral sensitivity curve of the luminosity-type ganglion cell coincided with that of the photoreceptor, showing a peak sensitivity at 525 nm. Membrane resistance of the ganglion cells increased during light stimulation. These results suggest that the luminosity-type ganglion cell receives and integrates signals from photoreceptors with various light sensitivities, having a peak spectral sensitivity at 525 nm. The synaptic mechanism from the photoreceptors to the ganglion cell is a type of disfacilitation.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the distribution of delta sleep-inducing peptide in the brain and pituitary of the frog Rana ridibunda and to determine the possible effect of this nonapeptide on adrenocorticotropic hormone and corticosteroid secretion. Delta sleep-inducing peptide-like immunoreactive fibres were observed throughout the brain of the frog. These fibres generally exhibited the characteristics of glial cell processes. Scarce delta sleep-inducing peptide-positive fibres were seen in the olfactory bulb and in the periventricular areas of the telencephalon. In the diencephalon, numerous delta sleep-inducing peptide-containing processes were noted in the preoptic nucleus, the infundibular nuclei and the median eminence. A few cerebrospinal fluid-contacting cells were visualized in the ventral nucleus of the infundibulum. Delta sleep-inducing peptide-positive fibres were also observed in the mesencephalon, radiating through the different layers of the tectum. In the cerebellum, all Purkinje cells exhibited delta sleep-inducing peptide-like immunoreactivity. More caudally, numerous delta sleep-inducing peptide-positive fibres were noted in the vestibular nucleus of the rhombencephalon. A dense network of delta sleep-inducing peptide-containing fibres was seen in the pars nervosa of the pituitary. In the distal lobe, a population of endocrine cells located in the anteroventral region contained delta sleep-inducing peptide-immunoreactive material. Labelling of consecutive sections of the pituitary by delta sleep-inducing peptide and adrenocorticotropic hormone antiserum revealed that a delta sleep-inducing peptide-related peptide is expressed in corticotroph cells. The possible role of delta sleep-inducing peptide in the control of adrenocorticotropic hormone and corticosteroid release was studied in vitro, using the perifusion system technique. Administration of graded doses of delta sleep-inducing peptide (from 10(-8) to 10(-6) M) to perifused frog anterior pituitary cells did not affect the spontaneous release of adrenocorticotropic hormone. In addition, prolonged infusion of delta sleep-inducing peptide (10(-6) M) did not alter the stimulatory effect of corticotropin-releasing factor (10(-7) M) on adrenocorticotropic hormone secretion. Similarly, exposure of frog interrenal slices to delta sleep-inducing peptide did not induce any modification of spontaneous or adrenocorticotropic hormone-evoked secretion of corticosterone and aldosterone. Our results provide the first evidence for the presence of a delta sleep-inducing peptide-related peptide in lower vertebrates. The occurrence of delta sleep-inducing peptide-like immunoreactivity in specific areas of the brain suggests that the peptide may act as a neuromodulator.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Type-1-like cortical mouse astrocytes were studied in homogeneous cultures. Membrane input resistance and membrane potential were measured during drug-induced inhibition of glycolysis (sodium fluoride), mitochondrial respiration (antimycin-a) and Na+/K+ pump activity (ouabain). It was found that the electrical properties of the astrocytes recovered after a 60 min period with inhibited glycolysis or mitochondrial respiration, exhibiting only small reversible depolarizations. A 60 min period of high K(+)-induced depolarization, of cell swelling or of Na+/K+ pump inhibition does not lead to irreversible changes. Total block of energy metabolism, however, causes (1) a large depolarization, which is mainly mediated by external calcium, and (2) a 10-fold increase in input resistance, suggestive of an uncoupling of gap junctions. After an exposure period ranging between 45 and 60 min these conditions lead to irreversible damage. This damage appears to be independent of extracellular calcium and the degree of depolarization and to be specifically mediated by events occurring after the 60-min period of inhibited cell metabolism, that is during the recovery period.
[31P]- and [1H]nuclear magnetic resonances recorded in an interleaved fashion were used in order to quantify high-energy phosphates, intracellular pH and lactate in cortical brain slices of the guinea-pig superfused in a CO2/HCO3(-)-buffered medium during and after anoxic insults. The volume-averaged intracellular pH and energy status of the preparation following anoxia were determined. In the presence of external Na+, intracellular pH normalized in 3 min and was significantly more alkaline from 10 to 12 min of recovery, but lactate remained elevated for 12 min of reoxygenation following anoxia. The amount of lactate removed was only 40% of the quantity of acid extruded showing operation of H+ neutralizing transmembrane mechanisms other than transport of lactic acid. Amiloride (1 or 2 mM) did not prevent the recovery of intracellular pH, but it blocked the &quot;overshoot&quot; of the alkalinization at 10-12 min of recovery. In a medium containing 70 mM K+, 60 mM Na+ and 0.1 mM Ca2+, the recovery of pH, but not lactate washout, was significantly delayed. Removal of external Na+ caused severe energetic failure, decreases both in oxygen uptake and in N-acetyl aspartate concentration, indicating loss of viable tissue. In Na(+)-free superfusion, lactic acidosis caused a more severe drop in intracellular pH than in the presence of Na+. Complexing of extracellular Ca2+ in the Na(+)-free medium inhibited the acidification by 0.38 pH units during anoxia which is as much as the acidification caused by lactate accumulation in the absence of Na+. In Na(+)-free medium intracellular pH recovered, however, from an anoxic level to a normoxic value in 6 min. Metabolic damage of the slice preparation induced by anoxia in the absence of Na+ was as profound in the presence as in the absence of Ca2+ showing that accumulation of Ca2+ is not the only reason for the damage. It is concluded that recovery of intracellular pH from lactic-acidosis can occur independently of energetic recovery and involves acid extrusion mechanism(s) that is(are) dependent on external Na+ and sensitive to high K+.
Sympathetic ganglia are innervated by neuropeptide-containing fibers originating from pre- and postganglionic sympathetic neurons, dorsal root ganglion neurons, and in some cases, myenteric neurons. In the present report receptor autoradiography was used to determine whether sympathetic ganglia express receptor binding sites for several of these neuropeptides including bombesin, calcitonin gene-related peptide-alpha, cholecystokinin, galanin, neurokinin A, somatostatin, substance P, and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. The sympathetic ganglia examined included the rat and rabbit superior cervical ganglia and the rabbit superior mesenteric ganglion. High levels of receptor binding sites for cholecystokinin, galanin, somatostatin, substance P, and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide were observed in all sympathetic ganglia examined, although only discrete neuronal populations within each ganglion appeared to express receptor binding sites for any particular neuropeptide. These data suggest that discrete populations of postganglionic sympathetic neurons may be regulated by neuropeptides released from pre- and postganglionic sympathetic neurons, dorsal root ganglion neurons, and myenteric neurons.
Postischemic alteration of second messenger systems was investigated in the Mongolian gerbil, utilizing [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate and [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor autoradiography. Transient ischemia was induced for 10 min, and animals were allowed to survive for various recirculation periods of up to one month. [3H]Phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate binding in selectively vulnerable areas showed no significant change 1-24 h after ischemia except for a transient decline in a few regions. Thereafter, the binding in most of the selectively vulnerable areas showed significant alteration 48 h or seven days after ischemia. Interestingly, dentate molecular layer which was resistant to ischemia showed a significant elevation in the number of [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate binding sites. One month after ischemia, [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate binding showed significant reduction only in the striatum and the hippocampal CA1 sector where severe neuronal damage was seen morphologically. A significant elevation in the number of [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate binding sites was still seen in the dentate molecular layer one month after ischemia. In contrast, [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding showed significant reduction in the selectively vulnerable regions 1-24 h after ischemia. Thereafter, [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding in most of the selectively vulnerable areas markedly decreased up to one month after ischemia. In the dentate molecular layer, [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding also showed significant reduction during recirculation except for a slight recovery 48 h and seven days after ischemia. One month after ischemia, the binding in all regions showed significant reduction. These results suggest that postischemic alteration of two second messenger (protein kinase C and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate) binding sites was produced with different processes in selectively vulnerable areas.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The action of glycine and GABA on isolated lamprey spinal cord neurons was investigated by means of intracellular perfusion and concentration clamp techniques. These amino acids activated desensitizing chloride ionic conductances. The concentrations of agonists evoking half-maximum effects (ED50) were equal to 16 microM and 1.5 mM for glycine- and GABA-activated currents, respectively. Increase in the transmitter concentration led to a decrease in the time constant of desensitization. Current-voltage relationships of glycine- and GABA-activated currents were strongly dose-dependent. At low agonist concentrations the time constant of activation decreased with membrane hyperpolarization. Glycine- and GABA-activated currents exhibited complete cross-desensitization. The specific glycine antagonist, strychnine, suppressed both glycine- and GABA-activated currents to the same degree. Selective antagonists of GABA receptors, bicuculline and picrotoxin, produced equal blocking effects on glycine- as well as GABA-evoked responses. In the cells studied, taurine activated desensitizing ionic conductance. Responses evoked by taurine and glycine applications demonstrated complete cross-desensitization. Taurine-activated currents were sensitive to strychnine, bicuculline and picrotoxin. These results suggest the existence of one receptor-channel complex for the main inhibitory transmitters in lamprey spinal cord neurons. 3,4-Dioxy-L-beta-phenylalanine evoked desensitizing strychnine-sensitive ionic responses which exhibited cross-desensitization with glycine-activated currents.
In situ hybridization histochemistry has revealed a diffuse distribution of the alpha subunit of type II calcium calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaM II kinase alpha) mRNA in the neuropil of regions containing CaM II kinase alpha-expressing cells and has led some to propose that it may be expressed in dendrites. In order to determine if CaM II kinase alpha mRNA is expressed in dendrites and if the gene encoding CaM II kinase alpha is regulated in response to synaptic reinnervation, we examined its expression in the hippocampus of normal rats, of rats that had received a unilateral injection of kainic acid and of rats with a unilateral entorhinal cortex lesion. The relatively specific elimination of the CA3 pyramidal cells by kainate lesions precisely correlated with the loss of CaM II kinase alpha cRNA hybridization in the stratum radiatum as well as the stratum pyramidale. Following entorhinal cortex lesions, during the period of new synapse formation in the dentate gyrus, there was no detectable change in the level of CaM II kinase alpha gene expression. These data suggest that CaM II kinase alpha mRNA is expressed in the dendrites of hippocampal pyramidal cells and, therefore, is likely to be expressed in dendrites in other regions of the central nervous system exhibiting CaM II kinase alpha cRNA labeling in the neuropil. However, changes in expression were not found to accompany new synapse formation.
The expression of the genes encoding the alpha subunit of type II calcium calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaM II kinase alpha) and the 67,000 mol. wt form of glutamic acid decarboxylase was examined throughout the rat central nervous system. In situ hybridization histochemistry, using cRNA probes, revealed a dense population of CaM II kinase alpha-expressing cells throughout the telencephalon and diencephalon. CaM II kinase alpha mRNA was also expressed in the midbrain, cerebellum and medulla oblongata, but at greatly reduced levels. No CaM II kinase alpha gene expression was detected in nuclei producing monoamines or acetylcholine. By contrast, the glutamic acid decarboxylase gene was moderately to highly expressed throughout the central nervous system. In several regions there was a complementarity in the distributions of cells expressing the glutamic acid decarboxylase or CaM II kinase alpha genes. Cells in certain nuclei such as the thalamic reticular nucleus or globus pallidus showed glutamic acid decarboxylase gene expression only; others such as the majority of the dorsal thalamic nuclei showed CaM II kinase alpha gene expression only. Several regions contained both glutamic acid decarboxylase and CaM II kinase alpha expressing cells. However, simultaneous immunostaining for both proteins revealed only two regions where CaM II kinase alpha and glutamic acid decarboxylase immunoreactivity were colocalized: the cerebellar Purkinje cells and the commissural nucleus of the stria terminalis. The results imply that CaM II kinase alpha is primarily expressed in non-GABAergic neurons. In several regions CaM II kinase alpha mRNA is concentrated in nuclei known to contain populations of neurons that use excitatory amino acid transmitters.
We previously isolated two glutamate-binding proteins from rat brain synaptic membranes of 71,000 and 63,000 mol. wt [Chen et al. (1988) J. biol. Chem. 263, 417-426]. In the present study, the 71,000 and 63,000 mol. wt glutamate-binding proteins were purified from rat and bovine brain synaptic membranes by affinity chromatographic separation on an L-glutamate-derived Trisacryl matrix. The major protein component in the purified fractions was a 71,000 mol. wt protein as judged by sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis. This fraction represented enrichment of bovine brain glutamate-binding proteins by a factor of 7000-8000 when compared with brain homogenates. The ligand binding characteristics of the proteins purified by this new procedure are very similar to those of the proteins purified by the procedures we described in previous studies. Polyclonal antibodies were raised in mice against the purified, native rat and bovine brain glutamate-binding proteins. These two sets of antibodies interacted specifically with the glutamate-binding proteins but not with any glutamate-metabolizing enzymes. Both sets of antibodies labeled a 71,000 mol. wt protein in Western blots of synaptic membranes obtained from either rat or bovine brain, an indication of homology between these proteins. Both sets of antibodies produced immunoprecipitation of approximately 70-75% of all glutamate-binding proteins from solubilized synaptic membrane proteins. These observations are an indication that the glutamate-binding proteins described above are the most common glutamate-binding entities in both bovine and rat brain synaptic membranes and that they can be easily purified in a one-step chromatographic procedure.
Molecular, biochemical and physiological evidence for the existence of releasable Ca2+ stores in neurons is strong. There are two separate molecules that function as release channels from those Ca2+ stores, the RyanR and InsP3R, and both have multiple regulatory sites for positive and negative control. Perhaps most intriguing is the biphasic, concentration-dependent action of cytosolic Ca2+ on both channels, first to stimulate release then, at higher concentration, to depress release. Whether the InsP3R and RyanR channels regulate Ca2+ release from different or identical functional compartments will need to be defined for each neuron type and perhaps even for each intracellular region within neurons since the evidence for functional separation of stores is mixed. The identification of Ca2+ storage and releasing capacity throughout all subcellular regions of neurons and the increasing evidence for a role for Ca2+ stores in neuronal plasticity suggests that the further characterization of the functional properties of Ca2+ stores will be an increasingly important and expanding area of interest in neurobiology.
Delayed ischemic neurological deficit (DIND) remains a major unsolved problem in the management of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). For many years, the complications reported with acute aneurysm surgery caused surgeons to operate late after SAH. In a 42-month-period, we managed 146 patients with aneurysm and/or SAH. Forty-seven patients were characterized by the following: Hunt and Hess Grades I through III after an aneurysmal SAH; 2) clipping of their aneurysm within 72 hours of their SAH; and (3) prophylactic hypervolemia with a pulmonary artery catheter to optimize their fluid management. Forty of 47 (85%) had an excellent or good outcome, and 3 of 47 (6%) died. All of those who died had DIND. Nine of 47 (19%) patients developed DIND. There were 20 complications, primarily pulmonary edema, in 16 patients and one death related to prophylactic hypervolemia. It is not clear from our experience, when compared with results from other series, that hypervolemia provides any additional benefit to the patient as measured by a reduction in the risk of DIND or improved outcome. Despite aggressive volume expansion to the point of cardiovascular compromise, as evidenced by our high rate of pulmonary edema, we had no appreciable decrease in neurological morbidity and mortality when compared with results from recent reports.
Intramedullary spinal abscesses are rare and potentially devastating lesions. A heightened clinical awareness of patients at risk is essential for an early diagnosis and intervention to improve the prognosis of these patients. The first case of spinal abscess was described in 1830, and only 63 cases have been reported subsequently. Intraspinal epidermoids also are unusual lesions. These tumors were reported first in 1829 and represent less than 1% of all intraspinal tumors. We present a case of a 2-year-old girl who had rapidly progressive paraplegia with urinary and bowel retention and was found to have an intramedullary epidermoid and an intramedullary abscess as a result of a dermal sinus. The association of an intramedullary abscess and epidermoid tumor, two rare lesions, has not been reported previously. We also review the literature related to both intramedullary epidermoids and intramedullary abscesses of the spinal cord. Advances in sectional imaging as described should help lead to an early and safe diagnosis of these rare but often debilitating lesions. This case illustrates the importance of a complete neurological assessment of all patients with a congenital dermal sinus because of the potential for intradural extension and the frequent association with other dysraphic abnormalities. Prophylactic surgery is indicated in many cases to prevent dangerous and recurrent infections of the central nervous system.
In the course of several days of formal and informal talks, in the idyllic setting of Woods Hole, the impression grew among many of the participants that useful common themes have emerged for comparison among sensory transduction systems. Many of these were made explicit in a talk on biophysical principles of sensory transduction by Steven Block (Cambridge, MA, USA). In one hour, Block summarized the rest of the symposium and much more, in a dazzling tour through the senses. One of his points was that all sensory transducers must fulfill common goals: detection of the signal, which involves the functions of collecting, selecting or tuning, and capture of the stimulus; amplification, to raise the signal energy (without adding noise) for transmission to other parts of the organism; adaptation or feedback, to extract behaviorally useful parts of the signal; termination, to re-prime the system for the next signal; and encoding, which puts the information in a useful form for downstream processing or effector elements. Another useful comparison was between quantum-detecting systems, such as photoreception and olfaction, where the energy of the stimulus quantum (photon or odor ligand) is large and a uniform response is desired, and noise-limited systems, such as auditory transduction or magnetoreception, where thermal noise is larger than the smallest stimuli and time-averaging helps pull the signal out of the noise. A third observation from Block was that sensory transduction systems--while often performing at physical limits--have not necessarily been perfected by the process of evolution.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This overview on cocaine's addiction liability is presented in this monograph on the blood-brain barrier (BBB) because the National Institute on Drug Abuse has been given the task of finding pharmacotherapies to treat addiction. Knowledge about the BBB might help researchers design better drugs or approaches to keep the &quot;good&quot; drugs inside and/or the &quot;bad&quot; drugs outside. It is to be hoped that the BBB community can be convinced that drug abuse is an exciting area and that work on biological barriers has something to offer.



The studies summarized briefly in this chapter provide several examples of experiments in which a behavioral or pharmacologic history produced profound changes in the effects of an abused drug. In many instances these changes were qualitative, that is, the direction of the effects that drug usually has on behavior was modified dramatically. AMPH and cocaine--both of which may normally decrease a particular behavior--will, after a suitable history, produce large increases in the behavior under study. If the behavioral effects of a drug are related to the abuse potential of that drug, then any condition that alters the behavioral effects of that drug could be an important component underlying vulnerability to drug abuse. A noteworthy aspect of the studies that have been described is the lasting influence that prior experience can have on behavior and the behavioral effects of drugs in the absence of overt changes in behavior itself. The traces of past experience may not be apparent in ongoing behavior until a drug is administered. This feature makes drugs an important tool for studying behavioral processes and raises several related questions pertaining to the mechanisms responsible for these effects (Barrett 1986). Although at present there is little information available to answer the several questions raised by these experiments, newer techniques available in the neurosciences promise to help reveal the neurobiological correlates of these changes that should be of general importance in understanding both behavioral and pharmacologic processes.


The endolymphatic sac of chick embryos (from embryonic day 7 to 1-day-old chicks) was studied light- and electron-microscopically. At stage 30-31 (embryonic day 7-7.5), the epithelial cells of the endolymphatic sac were cuboidal to columnar in shape. Microvilli were relatively well developed. The intercellular space was wide. In the endolymphatic space of the endolymphatic sac, varying shapes and sizes of otoconia-like bodies were often observed. Intracytoplasmic phagosomes containing these bodies were rarely found. After stage 37 (embryonic day 11), otoconia-like bodies in the endolymphatic sac decreased in number and size. They were almost the same as the otoconia in the macular organs, ultrastructurally. These findings indicate that the endolymphatic sac of the chick embryos may possess the function of otoconial degradation and removal of calcium from otoconia.
Illusions of body inversion and of vehicle inversion can be evoked by exposure to weightlessness in the microgravity conditions of orbital and parabolic flight. Such illusions can involve all possible combinations of self-inversion and vehicle inversion. In the absence of any patterns of external stimulation, individuals may lose all sense of body orientation to their surroundings while retaining a sense of their overall body configuration and cognitive awareness of their actual position. Touch and pressure cues provide a perceptual 'down' in the absence of visual input. When vision is allowed, apparent orientation is influenced by a variety of factors including the direction of gaze, the architectural layout of the vehicle, and sight of the body. The relative importance of the various factors affecting orientation changes with repeated exposure. The virtual absence of sensations of falling during exposure to free-fall emphasizes the role of cognitive factors in experienced orientation.
Chronic treatment with imipramine increased the locomotor response to quinpirole, a selective D2 receptor agonist. This effect was blocked by minute doses of prazosin (0.1-1 mg/kg), a selective alpha 1 receptor blocker, in a dose-dependent manner. Conversely, in control rats the locomotor response to quinpirole was enhanced by the stimulation of alpha 1 receptors with the selective agonist St 587. The results suggest that alpha 1 receptor stimulation plays a permissive role in the supersensitivity of D2 receptors following chronic treatment with imipramine.


A detailed description of the increased intake of water and 0.5 M NaCl solution by rats after colloid-induced hypovolemia was obtained by measuring drinking activity every 6 s for 23 h. After an initial phase of largely single-bout water drinking that reflected hypovolemic thirst, there was a marked increase in saline drinking in multiple-bout episodes. This salt appetite developed while rats were volume depleted but persisted for hours even after the plasma volume deficits were repaired. Their drinking episodes then seemed to reflect osmoregulation, since cumulative intakes of water and saline were in appropriate proportions to produce a near-isotonic NaCl solution. Remarkably, rats concocted a 1% NaCl solution within 29% of the drinking episodes, by alternating intakes of water and saline every 30-90 s. This alternation was too rapid to allow significant absorption of ingested fluids from the intestines and changes in plasma osmolality, and thereby to permit central osmoreceptors to influence ongoing consumption. Instead, we propose that, in these episodes, rats are guided by gustatory receptors to obtain the desired NaCl in a palatable solution.
We reexamined whether rat circadian rhythms entrained to the light intensity cycle of a descending saw-tooth (ST-d) form, in which illuminance decreased rectilinearly from 300 lx to 0 lx in 24 h, and abruptly returned to 300 lx (lights-on time). Ambulation, drinking and subcutaneous body temperature were simultaneously monitored in 5 intact, 5 pinealectomized and 5 orchiectomized rats. Additionally, sleep was monitored in the intact rats. In all the rats, entrainment was confirmed during 65 days' exposure to the ST-d cycle. The waveforms of the entrained rhythms were much modified compared with those during LD 12:12. The estimated activity periods of the entrained rhythms straddled the lights-on time of the ST-d cycle. In all the groups of rats, administration of a single ST-d cycle in constant dim red light produced only delay shifts irrespective of its circadian phase, and there was no significant circadian variation in the magnitude of phase shifts. The results indicate that rat circadian rhythms entrain to the ST-d cycle with an unexpected phase position, which cannot be explained by the phase-response curve.
The feeding and running activities of rats were used to characterize the stressful effects of footshock. A 12-hour light/dark cycle was continuously in effect. During the preshock stage, all rats lived in individual cages where they could drink water, press a lever once for each 45 mg food pellet or run in an attached running wheel. During the shock stage, rats were moved to cages where they could drink and eat, but not run. Five s of light followed by 5 s of a light + tone compound preceded five progressively more intense shock levels. Rats in group AE were trained to pull a ceiling chain to avoid/escape from footshocks that were scheduled 24 hours per day. In group YS, the frequency, intensity and pattern of shocks for a rat were yoked to a rat in group AE. Rats in group CN were not shocked. During recovery, rats were allowed to resume running. During the dark, but not the light of the first day of shock, the intake of groups AE and YS was less than the intake of group CN. By the third day of shock, the food intake of group AE recovered and was no longer different from the intake of group CN. Intake of group YS remained less than the intakes of groups AE and CN during the remainder of the shock stage. When shock was terminated, the intake of the YS group recovered, but neither running nor food intake differed among groups. These results suggest that although inescapable shock disrupts food intake more than escapable shock, this disruption is specific to the duration of the shock stage and depends on rat's circadian pattern of intake.
Most sexual dimorphisms in reproductive behavior are hormonally organized in the guinea pig. The study sought to determine whether the sexually dimorphic requirement for the aromatization of testosterone in the activation of mounting is organized by testosterone prenatally and whether aromatization of testosterone contributes to the organization of mounting behavior. Pregnant females were treated with testosterone, the aromatase inhibitor ATD, or vehicle from days 28-65 of gestation. The offspring were gonadectomized and tested as adults for lordosis and androgen-activated mounting behavior. Prenatal testosterone treatments altered the hormonal requirements for androgen-activated mounting in females such that they resembled normal males, and did not require aromatization as adults. Prenatal inhibition of aromatase activity decreased mounting activity in females but not in males. This treatment had no influence on lordosis in either sex. The results support the hypothesis that the same hormones that activate mounting behavior in the adult guinea pig are responsible for the organization of mounting behavior.
Stroke is a major public health problem, yet there is no treatment of proven value for widespread use in the acute phase of the illness. This paper outlines the rationale for using antiplatelet therapy in acute ischaemic stroke and why it appears to be one of the most promising agents for testing in very large scale clinical trials.
In hypersensitive teeth pain is typically induced by cold and hot fluids or foods brought to contact with the sensitive dentin or by osmotic and mechanical stimuli. The results of animal experiments indicate that intradental A-type nerve fibres are responsible for the sensitivity of dentin. They are most probably activated by the hydrodynamic mechanism. Thus, their activation is to a great extent dependent on the condition of dentin with either open or blocked dentinal tubules. Blocking of the tubules effectively prevents the nerve activation. Correspondingly, in human experiments, the condition of the dentinal tubules greatly affects dentin sensitivity. In clinical studies significantly more open tubules are found in sensitive compared to non-sensitive areas. However, hypersensitivity may sometimes persist despite of effective blocking of the tubules. This may indicate that some other mechanisms may operate in the nerve activation instead of, or in addition to the hydrodynamic one. Inflammation may sensitize the nerve endings to such an extent that smaller fluid shifts would be sufficient for nerve activation or, for example, thermal stimulation may activate the nerves by a direct effect. On the other hand, spontaneously occurring changes in the exposed dentin, which in many cases seem to block the tubules may reduce the responses to hydrodynamic stimulation and, thus, have an opposite effect on dentin sensitivity. The results of animal experiments indicate that functional changes of this kind may occur. These results also indicate that real dentin hypersensitivity can develop as a result of inflammation induced sensitization of the nerves in the pulp-dentin border in teeth with open dentinal tubules.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)










The complex neuropsychiatric disorder described by Gilles de la Tourette is a childhood onset, generally lifelong condition diagnosed on the basis of multiple, everchanging motor and vocal tics. Genetic evidence indicates that the vulnerability to Tourette's Syndrome (TS) is transmitted as an autosomal dominant genetic trait. This vulnerability has a broad range of expression, from full-blown TS to chronic multiple tics; an alternate manifestation may be obsessive compulsive disorder. There is also a broad range of severity, from quite mild to incapacitating. No specific neuroanatomical or neurochemical basis has yet been discovered, but the basal ganglia and dopaminergic systems have been implicated. Children and adults with TS experience the intrusion into consciousness of unwanted and disturbing sensations, thoughts and desires; they repeatedly experience the need, arising from an &quot;alien&quot; force within themselves, to produce sounds and actions which they try to resist but to which they eventually capitulate. Their symptoms elicit strong responses from family and others, as well as themselves. Psychoanalytically guided, clinical study can help illuminate the inner world of individuals with TS and define the pathways between biological vulnerability and clinical expression. Treatment often requires a combination of approaches, including guidance, psychotherapy and, in a minority of cases, the careful use of medication. Over the past decade, TS has served as a model developmental disorder for studying the interactions between biological vulnerability and environmental responses in the emergence of a clinical disorder and in the shaping of a child's character. During the next years, further advances in the study of TS should help clarify basic issues in the transmission of constitutional vulnerability and suggest approaches to prevention and early intervention.
A group of 50 patients with a diagnosis of affective disease was examined. Dependence between the intensification of depression psychomotor activity measured according to Widlcher scale was established. Neurophysiological factors (such as thinking productivity, letter drafting, tapping test, simple reaction time) correlated with the intensification of psychomotor activation disorders.
Many studies have shown that in a simple reaction-time (RT) task a non-informative leading cue decreases RT to a subsequent target presented in the same region as the cue. This facilitation lasts about 150 ms; it is then replaced by a sustained inhibition. Experiment 1 tests the hypothesis that the initial facilitation is due to motor, rather than perceptual, processes by using choice RT. Facilitation is greater and lasts longer in choice than in simple tasks, thus supporting the hypothesis. Experiment 2 shows that facilitation occurs even when the subject actively orients his or her attention away from the cue.
Seasonal relapses of affective disorder are known. We report 12 patients who had season-linked relapses during a prospective follow-up period of 4 years. There were both winter and summer relapses of mania and depression. The centre is in the tropical zone, with lesser variation of sunshine and temperature than in more extreme latitudes. This may inference the pattern of relapse in affective disorder. Differences in relapses between tropical and temperate zones need to be investigated.
The current study aimed to examine sociodemographic and clinical variables between washer and checker subgroups of obsessive compulsive disorder. Of 412 subjects seen during 1975-1984, there were 123 washers, 70 checkers and 89 washers and checkers (mixed group). Checkers were more likely to be single and male and have an earlier age of onset and consultation; if married the illness was more likely to have started prior to marriage. The mixed group appeared to be a female-dominated pathoplastic variant of the checkers group. The current study suggests that other variables should also be explored in differentiating these disorders.
Different dimensions of obsessions and compulsions were explored in 103 obsessions and 60 compulsions recorded from 32 subjects who received a primary diagnosis of obsessive compulsive disorder. Intrusiveness and repetitiveness formed relatively discrete dimensions, while resistance, distress, irrationality, interference and ease of dismissal tended to be associated within themselves. An anxiety-provoking effect was an additional dimension observed among compulsions.
Many patients present with stupor or substupor without classical catatonic signs as described by Kahlbaum. The phenomenological literature is not clear as to whether stupor, when it presents alone, constitutes a separate syndrome or is a forme fruste of catatonia. All patients who presented with stupor, (a) partial or total mutism or (b) absent or decreased motor responses (n = 22), were compared with patients who also had classical catatonic signs such as negativism or waxy flexibility (n = 43) over a one-year period (1988), on sociodemographic and clinical variables. There were very few significant differences between the two groups (age, sex, diagnosis, duration of illness, number of ECTs required). The stupor group had a slight excess of patients with manic-depressive psychosis, depression and more frequently positive family histories of mental illness. The current study provides a tentative support to the hypothesis that stupor is a catatonic sign, and even when present alone can be considered to constitute a catatonic syndrome.
Serotonin basic neuroscience discoveries are evolving at a very fast pace and are leading to innovations in clinical psychiatry and in drug development. Numerous novel pharmacological tools, each selective for a given serotonin receptor subtype, are being applied to several psychiatric disorders. The strategy employed is theory driven and hypothesis oriented, aiming for new drug development that selectively targets receptors that are rational sites for therapeutic actions. Thus, serotonin uptake inhibitors are targeting not only depression, but also obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Serotonin1A agonists are targeting not only depression and anxiety, but also mixed anxiety depression. These and other agents selective for additional receptors are being tested in impulse control disorders; eating disorders; addictive disorders; and aggressive, violent, self-destructive, and suicidal behaviors. Serotonin research is an excellent example of how basic science discoveries in the 1990's &quot;Decade of the Brain&quot; are resulting in important advances in therapeutics for psychiatry.

Drug-induced changes in cognitive functions such as memory are generally domain specific rather than general effects, that is, only some components of memory are altered. Changes in memory can be secondary to alterations in other cognitive domains such as attention, or non-cognitive domains (mood and arousal), or the direct result of alterations on those neurobiological systems that determine memory functions. The selective memory impairing effects of benzodiazepines are used to illustrate how cognitive neuroscience methods and theory can be useful in assessing the memory changes produced by psychoactive drugs.
The effects of both systemic and intracerebroventricular administration of mecamylamine, a nicotinic antagonist, were tested on the Morris water maze performance of rats. In experiment 1, mecamylamine (0, 3, and 10 mg/kg, IP) was administered before daily training sessions on the Morris water maze, a task in which rats use environmental cues to learn the location of an invisible escape platform in a large pool of water. The escape latencies of rats given the higher dose of mecamylamine were significantly longer than the latencies of rats given either saline or the peripherally-acting nicotinic antagonist hexamethonium (10 mg/kg). Analysis of search patterns during a free swim trial conducted in the absence of an escape platform confirmed the disruptive effects of the higher dose of mecamylamine. Similar drug effects were not observed when these rats were trained to a visible platform, and mecamylamine did not affect the retrieval of spatial information in well-trained rats. In experiment 2, similar effects were observed with ICV administration of mecamylamine (0, 10, 30, and 100 micrograms). The two higher doses increased escape latencies during the last day of place training and all three doses significantly impaired performance on a free swim. No significant effects were noted on subsequent training to a visible platform, and only the highest dose marginally impaired the retrieval of spatial information in well-trained animals. Thus, mecamylamine appears to impair the acquisition of spatial information in the Morris water maze but does not affect retrieval of previously acquired spatial information at comparable doses.
Intracellular calcium concentrations ([Ca++]i) in blood platelets from 11 depressed patients and 11 healthy controls were investigated. The resting [Ca++]i of platelets from depressed patients was 69.4 +/- 2.9 nM while that from controls was 74.6 +/- 4.0 nM. Serotonin (5-HT), at a concentration of 10 microM, increased [Ca++]i by 129.2 +/- 3.9 nM in platelets from depressed patients, which was significantly greater than that found in platelets from control subjects (105.2 +/- 6.0 nM). Norepinephrine (NE) 100 microM increased [Ca++]i by 46.1 +/- 7.1 nM in platelets from depressed patients, and by 38.6 +/- 6.1 nM in platelets from controls, respectively. These results indicate that 5-HT2 receptor function in platelets of depressed patients is enhanced, and support the hypothesis of hypersensitivity of 5-HT2 receptors in affective disorders.
Functional antagonists at the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex produce anti-depressant-like actions in preclinical models. Thus, an injection of a glycine partial agonist (1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid; ACPC), a competitive NMDA antagonist (2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid; AP-7) or a use-dependent cation channel blocker (MK-801) reduced immobility in the forced swim test (FST) with efficacies comparable to imipramine (Trullas and Skolnick 1990). Seven daily injections of ACPC (200-400 mg/kg) abolished the effects of both this compound (200-1200 mg/kg) and AP-7 (200-300 mg/kg) in the FST. The loss in effectiveness of ACPC required 7 days of treatment to become fully manifest, and was reversed by discontinuing treatment. Other agents active in the FST (e.g. MK-801, imipramine, and nifedipine) were unaffected by this regimen. Moreover, ACPC and AP-7 remained active in the FST following repeated injections of MK-801, AP-7, or imipramine. Chronic treatment with ACPC did not affect its actions in the elevated plus-maze, but significantly attenuated the convulsant and lethal effects of NMDA (125 mg/kg). Tissue levels of ACPC indicate the modified behavioral responses produced by chronic treatment are not attributable to pharmacokinetic factors. These findings suggest repeated administration of ACPC may effect an &quot;uncoupling&quot; of NMDA and glycine receptors, resulting in an apparent desensitization of the behavioral actions of substances acting at these sites.
The effects of the serotonin (5-HT) agonists meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (m-CPP), quipazine and 8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (DPAT) on behavior and on regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) were measured in control rats or in rats pretreated for 2 weeks with continuous infusion of saline or m-CPP (2.5 mg/kg/day, subcutaneously). rCMRglc was measured in 71 brain regions, using the quantitative autoradiographic [14C]2-deoxy-D-glucose technique, at 15 min after acute administration of m-CPP 2.5 mg/kg, 60 min after quipazine 20 mg/kg, or 10 min after DPAT 1 mg/kg. Behavioral effects were assessed for m-CPP with an activity monitor, for quipazine by counting head shakes and for DPAT by scoring the serotonin syndrome. Chronic m-CPP pretreatment produced tolerance to hypolocomotion induced by acute m-CPP and to head shakes caused by acute quipazine, but did not alter the serotonin syndrome produced by DPAT. m-CPP 2.5 mg/kg IP produced widespread rCMRglc reductions in control rats but failed to modify rCMRglc in any region after chronic m-CPP pretreatment. Quipazine increased rCMRglc in 4 regions in control rats, but reduced rCMRglc in 14 brain areas of chronically m-CPP-pretreated animals. DPAT altered rCMRglc to the same degree in control (25 regions affected) and in chronically m-CPP-pretreated rats (28 regions affected). Reduced behavioral and metabolic effects of acute m-CPP in chronically m-CPP-pretreated rats were not due to pharmacokinetic alterations. These results demonstrate that chronic administration of m-CPP produces behavioral and metabolic tolerance to acute administration of m-CPP, but not of DPAT.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Serotonergic mechanisms have been implicated in the pathophysiology of depression and in the neuropharmacology of antidepressant treatment. One measure of central serotonergic function is the prolactin (PRL) response to IV L-tryptophan (L-TRP). We used the L-TRP test to assess the role of serotonin in the mechanism of action of lithium augmentation in refractory major depression. Twenty-six patients with antidepressant-refractory major depression each received three L-TRP tests (after 2 weeks of placebo, after 4 weeks of active primary antidepressant, and after 1 week of lithium augmentation). Primary antidepressant treatment did not increase the PRL response, but lithium augmentation resulted in a statistically significant increase in PRL response as compared to both placebo pretreatment (P less than 0.04) and antidepressant treatment alone (P less than 0.025). This study supports a role for serotonergic mechanisms in the action of lithium augmentation.
The effect of ACTH and/or adrenalectomy on serotonin (5-HT)2 receptor binding sites was evaluated in the neocortex of rat forebrain. One day after the adrenalectomy or sham operation, ACTH (50 micrograms/day) was injected subcutaneously into adult male SD rats for 10 consecutive days. Saturation analysis showed that subchronic ACTH treatment significantly increased the Bmax values for 3H-ketanserin binding without any change in the Kd values. Moreover, this ACTH-induced increase in the Bmax values was prevented by adrenalectomy. The concentrations of 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) measured by HPLC-ECD were not altered by these manipulations. Ten-day administration of corticosterone (20 and 50 mg/kg) also increased 5-HT2 receptor density in the neocortex of rat forebrain. 5-HT2 (and 5-HT1C) receptor agonist, (+/-)DOI-induced wet-dog shakes in ACTH and/or adrenalectomy-treated rats were also examined. Ten-day administration of ACTH enhanced (+/-)DOI-induced wet-dog shakes and this increase was prevented by adrenalectomy. These results indicate that subchronic adrenocorticotropin-adrenal axis activation of rats increases both the number of 5-HT2 receptors in neocortex of forebrain and the wet-dog shake responses induced by (+/-)DOI.
The serotonergic agonists fenfluramine and fluoxetine and the catecholaminergic agonists amphetamine and phenylpropanolamine are well known to cause a reduction in intake in rats. In the studies reported here we investigated the effects of these drugs on the microstructure of licking behavior of the rat ingesting 0.4 M sucrose. The purpose was to examine the similarities in the behavioral effects within and between these two classes of anorectic agents. The serotonergic agonists fenfluramine and fluoxetine caused a reduction in intake primarily by reducing the size of bursts and clusters of licking within the test meal without affecting the duration of the meal, suggesting a reduction in the palatability of the test solution. The catecholamine agonists amphetamine and phenylpropanolamine reduced intake primarily by reducing the number of bursts and clusters without affecting their size, suggesting a fractionation in the organization of the normal pattern of ingestion. The differences between the two serotonin and the two catecholamine agonists on the microstructure of the licking behavior suggest a different effect of the two neurotransmitters on the motor system that controls ingestive behavior. The similarities between the two different agonists within each class suggests a common neurotransmitter mechanism responsible for these two different effects on the behavior of the animals.
Muscarinic receptor-mediated phosphoinositide (PI) turnover in rat brain slices was assessed after chronic administration of nicotine (12 mg/kg/day) or haloperidol decanoate (1.5 mg/kg/day), either alone or in combination, for 6 weeks. Nicotine alone did not significantly alter carbachol-induced inositol monophosphate (IP1) accumulation in the frontal cortex, but did result in a significant increase in the hippocampus, and in a decrease in the striatum. Haloperidol alone attenuated carbachol-stimulated IP1 accumulation in all three brain regions. Chronic treatment with combined nicotine and haloperidol resulted in no significant change in carbachol-sensitive IP1 accumulation in either the frontal cortex or hippocampus but did result in a decrease in the striatum. The results suggest significant cross-talk between cholinergic and dopaminergic systems in affecting PI metabolism.
The specific binding of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists [3H]clonidine and [3H]bromoxidine (UK 14304) was measured in the postmortem brain of ethanol intoxicated nonalcoholic subjects (blood ethanol concentration: 1.37 +/- 0.30 g/l) and matched controls. In the frontal cortex, the density of binding sites for [3H]clonidine (Bmax = 58 +/- 7 fmol/mg protein) and [3H]bromoxidine (UK 14304) (Bmax = 49 +/- 7 fmol/mg protein) in ethanol intoxicated subjects did not differ from those in the control groups (Bmax = 68 +/- 4 and 56 +/- 8 fmol/mg protein for the respective radioligand). The dissociation constants (KD) were also similar in both groups. The binding capacities (Bmax) and KD values for both radioligands also were found unchanged in the hypothalamus, amygdala, head of caudate, hippocampus and cerebellum. The results demonstrate that, contrary to the beta-adrenoceptor, the presence of ethanol in the human brain does not alter the high-affinity state of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor in the frontal cortex and possibly also in other brain regions.
Downregulation of serotonin 5-HT1 receptors is the most frequently reported central nervous system neural effect of subchronic exposure to fluoxetine in rodents. However, downregulation of these receptors has not been universally demonstrated. Effects of subchronic exposure on 5-HT2 receptors are mixed. Fluoxetine exposure appears to have no effect on cholinergic muscarinic receptors. Effects on beta-adrenergic receptors are controversial, as only one laboratory has reported downregulation. The majority of studies have failed to show an effect on beta-adrenergic-receptor-stimulated cAMP generation. Electrophysiologic studies support the concept that fluoxetine facilitates net serotonergic transmission through downregulation of presynaptic inhibitory autoreceptors. Data suggest that its subchronic specificity and selectivity distinguish fluoxetine from members of other classes of available antidepressants, making it a distinct therapeutic option.
Down-regulation of cortical beta-adrenoceptors is observed in laboratory animals following chronic treatment with many clinically effective antidepressant therapies. [3H]Dihydroalprenolol (DHA) binding to cortical beta-adrenoceptors was examined in mice treated with the functional NMDA antagonists 1-aminocyclopropane-carboxylic acid (ACPC) and MK-801. ACPC and MK-801 reduced [3H]DHA binding by 19 (P less than 0.05) and 21% (P less than 0.05), respectively, while imipramine produced a 23% (P less than 0.05) reduction. No corresponding changes in the KD of [3H]DHA were observed. These findings are consistent with the observation that functional NMDA antagonists are active in animal models commonly used to evaluate antidepressants and may represent a novel approach to the treatment of depression.
The anticholinergic, scopolamine, consistently disrupts one-trial passive avoidance conditioning but the effects of such drugs on one-trial conditioned taste aversion (CTA) are variable and contradictory. In the present study, treatment of rats with scopolamine impaired the suppression of sucrose intake by post-ingestion administration of lithium chloride (LiCl) in a two-bottle choice test. A similar effect was obtained by using N-methyl scopolamine which penetrates the brain only to a limited degree on acute administration. The blockade of CTA could be prevented in three ways: (i) by exposing the rats to sucrose only on the training day, (ii) by pre-exposing the rats to both sucrose and scopolamine, and (iii) by using a less palatable sucrose/ascorbate mixture. The results demonstrate that the effect of scopolamine on taste aversion is not mediated by the central nervous system, and can be modified by altering the novelty and relative salience of the taste conditioned stimulus. These experiments suggest that conditioned associations between taste and LiCl, and scopolamine and LiCl may underlie the blockade of CTA by scopolamine.

We recently reported hyperproduction of interleukin-1 (IL1) and hyperexpression of IL1 beta mRNA, after in vitro activation by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in peripheral macrophages of several neurological mutant mice, i.e. staggerer, lurcher, pcd and reeler, that exhibit patterns of neuronal degeneration in the cerebellum; in the present study, we investigated the expression of several cytokine mRNA in peripheral macrophages of other mutants with neuronal degeneration in the cerebellum or in the spinal cord to determine whether this genetic dysregulation is specific for IL1 beta or whether it reflects a generalized hyperexcitability of these macrophages. Hyperexpression of IL1 beta mRNA was present in the cerebellar mutants nodding and nervous, but not in weaver. A similar phenomenon was found, but to a lesser extent, in the spinal mutants dystonia musculorum, wobbler and motor neuron degeneration. On the contrary, no hyperexpression of IL1 beta mRNA was found in non-genetic models of neuronal degeneration (Wistar rats treated with X irradiation or with 3-acetyl-pyridine). In the heterozygote staggerer +/sg, which exhibits a late onset of cerebellar neuronal loss, hyperexpression was found not only in 12-month old animals but also in 2-month old ones, i.e. when the number of cerebellar neurons is still normal. Synthetic molecules (muramyl dipeptides) like MDP or murabutide (Mu), known as macrophage activators, were also efficient in inducing IL1 hyperexpression in sg/sg macrophages. Hyperexpression of two other cytokine mRNA, i.e. IL1 alpha and tumour necrosis factor alpha mRNA, was also detected in LPS-stimulated macrophages of staggerer and lurcher mutant mice. These data led us to conclude that the macrophages of spinal and cerebellar mutants are in a state of general hyperexcitability. Work is in progress to establish whether the cytokine abnormalities result from a defect intrinsic to the macrophages of the mutant mice or are secondary to the degenerative process ultimately leading to neuronal loss.
Following unilateral labyrinthectomy (UL), spontaneous nystagmus (SN) was measured in guinea pigs which received i.m. injections of 100 or 400 g/kg ACTH(4-10) or 800 g/kg [D-Phe7]ACTH(4-10), every 4 h for 48 h post-UL. The results were compared to those from a previous study, conducted under identical conditions, in which guinea pigs received similar injections of 200 g/kg ACTH(4-10) or 0.1 ml/kg saline. ACTH(4-10) significantly accelerated the rate of compensation of SN at 100, 200, and 400 g/kg doses, although the average effects were larger for the 200 g/kg condition. [D-Phe7]ACTH(4-10) significantly increased the frequency of SN following UL compared to saline-treated animals; however, it also accelerated the rate of SN compensation. These results indicate that the acceleration of SN compensation in guinea pig by ACTH(4-10) follows an inverted U-shaped dose-response curve and that [D-Phe7]ACTH(4-10) increases the frequency of SN.
Studies in developing animals have documented that manipulations which increase or decrease the size of a neuron's axon arbor lead to increases or decreases respectively in the size of the neuron's soma. The present study evaluates whether similar dependencies exist in adult animals, by analyzing changes in cell size in the entorhinal cortex after selective destruction of dentate granule cells with colchicine. Neurons in layer II of the entorhinal cortex which had been deprived of their normal targets decreased in size by 32% relative to their contralateral homologs. Neurons in layer III which project to regio superior of the hippocampus were affected to only a slight extent, decreasing in size by 8% relative to their contralateral homologs. Neurons in layer V, which do not project to the hippocampus, were unaffected by colchicine injections into the hippocampus. These results indicate that neurons in adult animals which retract terminal arbors as a consequence of target loss also decrease in size.
Granule cells of the dentate gyrus can be selectively destroyed by intrahippocampal injections of colchicine. The present study evaluates the consequences of this selective neuronal destruction on the afferent axon terminals which have been deprived of their normal targets. The area of the neuropil in the dentate gyrus (the molecular layer) was evaluated in sections stained using the Timm's method for heavy metals, which selectively marks the terminal fields of the different afferent systems. The molecular layer was examined electron microscopically to determine the fate of afferent terminals. Anterograde transport of HRP or [3H]proline was used to define the location and extent of afferent terminal fields of the entorhinal and commissural projections to the dentate gyrus in which the granule cells had been destroyed. There was a substantial reduction in the size of the dentate gyrus molecular layer after destruction of granule cells with colchicine. Electron microscopic analyses revealed that there were very few axon terminals or synapses remaining in the shrunken molecular layer. Tract tracing methods revealed that both the entorhinal and commissural pathways were still present in their normal terminal zones in the dentate gyrus, however, the density of the projections was greatly reduced. There was no evidence to suggest the formation of ectopic projections to unusual locations, such as the contralateral dentate gyrus. Pathways passing through the hippocampus appeared to survive the colchicine injections. These results suggest that target destruction in adult animals leads to the disappearance of the afferent axon terminals which normally innervate the cells which die.
The pharmacological characteristics of both muscarinic receptors and high-affinity choline uptake sites were examined within intracerebral implants of foetal basal forebrain cell suspensions. Approximately 12 weeks after implantation, the transplants were identified by acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. Muscarinic receptors were labelled by [3H]quinuclidinyl benzylate (QNB) autoradiography. The M1 and M2 receptor components of QNB binding were differentiated by pirenzepine competition. The distribution of the high-affinity choline uptake site was examined using [3H]hemicholinium-3 (HC3) autoradiography. Unilateral lesion of the nucleus basalis reduced [3H]QNB (8-25%) and [3H]HC3 (19-43%) binding throughout host frontoparietal cortex ipsilateral to the lesion but did not significantly alter these cholinergic markers within cingulate cortex, subcortical white matter, striatum or septum. Saturation analysis of the implanted tissue revealed the presence of a single population of [3H]QNB and [3H]HC3 binding sites with affinities similar to those of the host tissue (KD = 0.43 nM and 20.4 nM respectively). However, the receptor profile which developed appeared to be intrinsic to the implant; it was unaffected by the site of implantation and was dissimilar to that which ultimately developed in the donor tissue when left in situ.
The present experiments examined whether cholinergic grafts reverse the physiological and behavioral deficits of the damaged hippocampus. Fimbria-fornix lesions were performed in young rats and 3 months later half of the lesioned rats received cholinergic-rich basal forebrain transplants. Eight months after grafting we tested the animals behaviorally in the water maze. Following the behavioral experiments, the animals were implanted with chronic recording and stimulating electrodes and the electrical properties of the hippocampus, including spontaneous EEG, interictal spikes, evoked responses, long-term potentiation, and sensitivity to induced seizures were examined. Grafted rats did not show statistically reliable behavioral recovery (swim latencies, swim path lengths) and their performance was identical to the lesion-only group. Acetylcholinesterase reinnervation of the host hippocampus in grafted animals was similar to intact rats; the grafts also contained numerous parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons. The most striking physiological change was the significant elevation of seizure threshold in the grafted group, but other physiological parameters did not improve consistently. The findings suggest that the presence of septal tissue grafts and restoration of cholinergic reinnervation in animals with previous subcortical denervation of the hippocampus are not sufficient to restore normal hippocampal electrical patterns or to improve behavioral performance.
Live or freeze-killed syngeneic adult muscularis externa, comprising myenteric plexus sandwiched between two layers of smooth muscle, was implanted into the corpus striatum of adult Fischer rats and examined electron microscopically 10 days to 6 weeks after operation. Living grafts contained healthy neurons and glial cells at all time-periods examined, although some areas of necrosis were observed. After 10 days, the glia limitans around the grafts were poorly developed and the adjacent brain tissue contained only a small number of small non-myelinated axons. After 3 and 6 weeks, the brain surrounding the living grafts contained many clusters of small non-myelinated axons. Bundles of putative central nervous system (CNS) axonal sprouts had invaded the grafts, making contact with enteric glia, despite the presence of a well-developed glia limitans at the interface with the brain. In the longer-term grafts some CNS axonal sprouts in the myenteric plexus enlarged and became myelinated. A few astrocyte processes but no axons were found in the freeze-kilied grafts. The brain surrounding the freeze-killed grafts appeared to contain fewer axonal sprouts than were present around the living grafts. The possibility that the living grafts may promote both the sprouting and the elongation of CNS axons is discussed.
The A7 cell line is an astrocyte-like cell immortalized by SV40 large T antigen, using retroviral-mediated gene transfer. These cells were transplanted into rat brains, and the graft-host interaction was investigated immunohistochemically. The A7 cells survived focally 2, 6 and 8 weeks after transplantation and retained the immunocytochemical properties observed in vitro. No immunological response was observed. GAP-43 and N-cadherin immunoreactivities were not expressed by A7 cells, but were seen in the matrix within the area of the graft and in the surrounding brain tissue. This indicates that A7 cells may stimulate expression of GAP-43 and N-cadherin immunoreactivity by host tissue. Expression of Thy 1.1 was not observed within the graft site after 2 weeks of survival, but 6 and 8 weeks after transplantation Thy 1.1 was observed within the graft area, indicating the possible co-existence of grafted cells and host tissue. Although indirect, these observations suggest that the A7 cells induce changes in host brain, including possible growth or regeneration of host tissue into the graft area.
Spasticity following upper motor neuron lesion can be alleviated by few treatments such as physiotherapy, drugs and neurosurgery. However, they all have side effects, limitations or lack of selectivity. We tentatively used the paralyzing effects of botulinum toxin. Since the late 1970's the use of this toxin has increased and it has been extended to numerous muscles and diseases of various causes. In this pilot and open study we use botulinum toxin in spasticity. Eight patients (7 stroke, 1 head injury) with longstanding severe spasticity (minimum: 12 months, maximum: 15 years) were included. Spasticity greatly interfered with their activity in daily life and was resistant to oral antispastic medications. Six patients suffered from pain and 4 had cutaneous lesions especially maceration of the palm of the hand. A-botulinum toxin was injected with a 30-gauged needle. The sites chosen for injection were the following muscles: biceps brachii, brachioradialis, flexor digitorum, flexor carpi, tibialis anterior, flexor digitorum longus. Altogether 41 injections were performed. There were no side effects. Spasticity was improved in all patients. Five patients reported significant pain relief on a visual analogical scale. Most of them reported a benefit in their limb tone and referred to subjective improvement in the activity of daily life and nursing. The beneficial effects of one injection lasted more than 5 months. Seven patients received a second course of treatment. A double-blind study of botulinum toxin in spasticity is to be undertaken to assess its effectiveness and safety when prescribed in the required dose to treat this condition.
Lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (of Meynert) in rats induce severe cognitive impairments, in both mnesic and attentional functions. During the last 10 years, many studies tended to establish some relationships between the behavioral and biochemical effects of such lesions. Recent data show that the activity of some peptidergic and glutamaterigic neurons in target areas is modified by cholinergic deafferentation. A new physiological interpretation may be proposed for the associated cognitive deficits.
Results of numerous studies indicate that both activation of dominant oncogenes and inactivation of tumor suppressor genes play important roles in the genesis and progression of human gliomas. Activation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (erbB1 oncogene) as the result of gene amplification or rearrangement is the best established example of a dominant oncogene involved in glioma development. There is also suggestive evidence for activation of the ros oncogene in gliomas, and activation of a variety of other dominant oncogenes may be operative in individual tumors. Deletion studies suggest that inactivation of tumor suppressor genes on chromosomes 17p (probably the p53 gene), 10, 9p and 22 also play roles in genesis and progression of human gliomas. Additional work remains to be done to identify other dominant oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes involved in gliomas, and to determine how these various factors interact to cause disease.
That genetic factors contribute to the etiology of schizophrenia is no longer debated; the nature and magnitude of that contribution, however, are still open for discussion. In this article, concordance rates for twin studies of schizophrenia are reviewed as one means of assessing the magnitude of the genetic contribution. Using only those studies in which representative samples were used and zygosity was determined with reasonable certainty, the pairwise concordance rate for schizophrenia was found to be 28 percent for monozygotic (MZ) and 6 percent for dizygotic (DZ) twins. Review of twin studies of other central nervous system diseases reveals that schizophrenia is most similar to multiple sclerosis (MZ concordance rate 27%). Although genetics remains as the single most clearly defined etiological factor in schizophrenia, the question remains whether we are overestimating the magnitude of the genetic contribution.

Protein kinase C (PKC) is thought to play an important role in neuronal function by mediating changes in synaptic strength. Specifically, it has been argued that persistent PKC activation underlies the maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus, a model widely used to study mammalian learning and memory. Because the induction of LTP is known to be dependent upon Ca2+ influx into the postsynaptic neuron, we investigated Ca(2+)-dependent mechanisms that operate to elicit persistent PKC activation in the hippocampus. Hippocampal homogenates were incubated with Ca2+ for a brief period and subsequently assayed for persistent changes in basal (Ca(2+)-independent) PKC activity, using the selective PKC substrate neurogranin(28-43) (NG(28-43)). After Ca2+ incubation, basal PKC phosphorylation of NG(28-43) was increased and expression of the increased activity could be inhibited by PKC(19-36), a selective peptide inhibitor of PKC. These data indicate the presence of a persistently activated form of PKC in Ca(2+)-pretreated hippocampal homogenates. The persistently activated PKC was localized to the soluble fraction of homogenates. Generation of the soluble, persistently activated form of PKC was blocked by the calpain inhibitor, leupeptin, suggesting a proteolytic activation of PKC. Column chromatography and Western blots indicated the presence of PKM, a proteolytic fragment of PKC that is active in the absence of calcium, diacylglycerols, or phospholipid cofactors. Thus, Ca2+ induces proteolytic activation of PKC in hippocampal homogenates. This suggests that proteolytic activation is a plausible candidate as a mechanism underlying the persistent activation of PKC associated with LTP.


As part of a series of investigations on the control of fine finger movements in the macaque, spontaneous use of the hand in grooming, scratching, and manipulation was observed before and after interruption of fasciculus cuneatus (FC). Videotaped observations were made of four stumptail macaques (Macaca arctoides) living outdoors in social groups. The monkeys were followed for 1 to 3 years postoperatively. For the first 2 weeks following surgery, all monkeys neglected the affected hand and did not use it for support, locomotion, climbing, scratching, foraging, or grooming. Recovery of gross arm and hand movements occurred over a 1- to 3-month period. All the monkeys eventually used the hand for support, climbing, and object manipulation, but fine control of the fingers did not recover. Also, there was an apparent hypotonia of the fingers, imparting a &quot;floppy&quot; appearance to the hand. The animals coped with the loss of fine control by decreasing the frequency of some behaviors, eliminating others, and developing alternative strategies. Exploratory movements that were utilized for investigating the anogenital area or foraging for small food items were eliminated by FC interruption. There were obvious deficits in grip formation and grasp of small food objects (see Glendinning et al., this issue), but effects on similar movements during grooming only became obvious after repeated inspection of videotaped records. Self-scratching and sweeps of the hand in grooming were preserved but altered in form and frequency. The component movements in these behaviors were relatively uncoordinated, and the fingers were splayed (abducted). Often the hand was formed in a rigid posture throughout the sweeping motion, and the fingers did not stroke the skin individually. Frame-by-frame analysis of videotapes revealed that the morphology of the precision grip during grooming, in movements termed &quot;plucks,&quot; was permanently altered. Preoperatively, the monkeys kept the index finger and thumb closely apposed and routinely made contact on the distal surfaces of the digits, as has been described for precision grip in humans. Postoperatively, this relationship was altered. The index finger frequently missed the thumb tip and made contact on the proximal part of the phalanx, or missed the thumb altogether. Thus, the dorsal column input is important for proprioceptive guidance of movements that achieve &quot;tactile foveation,&quot; when objects or surfaces are actively contacted by the receptive areas of keenest sensitivity (on the fingertips).
Patterns of precision grasp are described in stumptail macaques (Macaca arctoides) before and after lesions of the fasciculus cuneatus (FC). Three monkeys were videotaped while reaching for and grasping small food items. From these videotapes, records were made of the style and outcome of each grasp. Kinematic measurements were also made to describe grip formation and terminal grasp. During grip formation, grip aperture was measured as the distance between the tips of the index finger and the thumb. For terminal grasp, the joint angles of the index finger were measured. The majority of grasps by normal monkeys were of the precision type, in which the item was carried between the tips of the index finger and thumb. Each normal monkey approached objects with a highly consistent grip formation; that is, the fingertips formed a small grip aperture during the approach, and the aperture varied little on repeated grasps. To grasp an item, the forefinger moved in a multiarticular pattern, in which the proximal joint flexed and the distal joint extended. As a result of this combination of movements, the forefinger pad was placed directly onto the object. Following FC transection, the monkeys were studied for 10 months, beginning 1 month after the lesion, to allow for recovery from the acute effects of surgery. The monkeys could grasp the food items, but they rarely opposed the fingertips in precision grasp. Grip formation was altered and was characterized either by excessive grip aperture or by little to no finger opening. All of the monkeys used the table surface to help grasp items. Combined multiarticular patterns of flexion and extension were never observed postoperatively; they were replaced by flexion at all joints of the fingers. These results suggest that the FCs are more important for precision grasping than for other, less refined grasp forms (e.g., power grasps; Napier, 1956). The FCs provide critical proprioceptive feedback to cerebral areas involved in the planning and/or the execution of these movements.
Although it has been proposed that the locus coeruleus is the predominant, if not exclusive, brainstem origin of the noradrenergic innervation of the spinal dorsal horn, pharmacological studies argue otherwise. In this study we made localized injections of the retrograde tracer wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to apo-horseradish peroxidase gold (WGA:apoHRP-Au), in conjunction with immunocytochemical labeling for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or serotonin (5-HT), to identify the brainstem source of the noradrenaline (NA) and 5-HT innervation of the dorsal horn of the rat. Our studies were concentrated in the C5 spinal segment. The pattern of labeling was only studied in animals in which the tracer injection was restricted to the dorsal horn. In these rats, TH-immunoreactive neurons in widespread regions of the brainstem, including the locus coeruleus, subcoeruleus, A5, and A7 cell groups, were found to project to the dorsal horn. In terms of absolute numbers of double-labeled cells, no one noradrenergic cell group predominated. As expected, dorsal-horn-projecting 5-HT-immunoreactive neurons were found within the 5-HT populations of the rostroventromedial medulla and caudal pons, including the nucleus raphe magnus, nucleus paragigantocellularis (PGi), and ventral portions of the nucleus gigantocellularis (Gi). The majority of retrogradely labeled 5-HT-immunoreactive cells were, however, located off the midline, in the ipsilateral PGi and ventral Gi. Finally, a large number of retrogradely labeled, non-5-HT cells were found intermingled among the 5-HT cells of this region. Our results provide evidence that the noradrenergic regulation of nociceptive transmission at the spinal cord level arises from direct spinal projections of several brainstem noradrenergic cell groups.


Sucrose gradients and molecular sieve chromatography were used to determine the native molecular weight of the basic HLH proteins myogenin, MyoD and E12. The muscle bHLH proteins not only formed dimers but also associated in a variety of higher order complexes. Although homodimers bind to DNA sequences such as the MEF-1 site in the creatine kinase enhancer, homotetramers and larger forms do not recognize this DNA sequence. Little evidence for complexes larger than dimers was found for the ubiquitous bHLH protein E12. Most of the myogenin remains in large complexes when myogenin and E12 are mixed. The same result was obtained in nuclear extracts from differentiated myotubes, in which most of the myogenin was found to be present in large complexes that do not bind to the creatine kinase enhancer. A fusion protein that contains only the myogenin HLH region fused to glutathione-S-transferase also forms large homomeric complexes. A model to explain these results is that each helix of the HLH motif can associate with a different subunit to form chains or ring structures. The presence of myogenin in nuclear extracts as both dimers that recognize known DNA sequences as well as higher order complexes that do not raises significant issues concerning the regulation of skeletal muscle bHLH protein activity during myogenesis.
Methylated xanthines are responsible of minor and major side effects on the central nervous system specially seizure. A review of the literature shows that it is related in adult to different promoting factors whereas the relationship between toxicity and excessive theophylline concentration is more clear in child. Other side effects on the gastrointestinal system, sleep and cerebral circulation are discussed.
The origin and the development of the tubular tergo-trochanteral muscle (TTD) was studied by light and electron microscopy in Chironomus (Diptera: Nematocera). Unlike the flight muscles, the TTD was found to develop from myoblasts located around a larval axon, without contribution from a larval muscle. The myoblasts fuse together to form myotubes. Innervation of the TTD arises from the larval axon. The myotubes send out sarcoplasmic extensions towards the axon branches issued from the larval axon. The first differentiated synapses are described. The TTD begins to grow later than the flight muscles. The implications of this developmental lag are discussed.
This paper deals with the theory of Ivan Petrovich Pavlov (1849-1936), a Russian physiologist who presented for the first time the systematic theory of the function of the brain that controls the whole behavior of animals, i.e. higher nervous activity through experimental studies. This paper, principally based on Lectures on Conditioned Reflexes (1928), investigates the development of conditioned reflex theory from its beginning by dividing it into three periods. First, during the period from 1898 to 1906, the fundamental concept of conditioned reflex was established and the study of conditioned reflex became an independent discipline. From 1907 to 1916, the second period, Pavlov theorized on higher nervous activity on the basis of extensive data from his laboratory experiments of conditioned reflex. And Pavlov complemented conditioned reflex theory, during the third period from 1916 to 1928, and extended the boundaries of it through applications of conditioned reflex theory to psychopathology and typology. The study contributes to the understanding that conditioned reflex theory was historically developed, and not presented as a complete form from the beginning, and that Pavlov intended to study the higher nervous activity through the method of neurophysiology.
The method of computer cluster-analysis of citation to determine the structure of a scientific trend is suggested. The map of the current status of research in neurobiology of aging as one of the most promising research areas in gerontology is under consideration. The possibilities and perspectives of this method as a tool of science-of-science research in medicine are analyzed.

Foamy spheroid bodies (FSBs) are described, as newly identified pathological structures occurring in human brain. FSBs favoured the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNPR) and/or globus pallidus (GP) in degenerative conditions especially postencephalitic parkinsonism, progressive supranuclear palsy, pallido-nigro-luysial atrophy and multiple system atrophy. No FSBs were observed anywhere in the presence of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNPC) degeneration, such as occurs in idiopathic Parkinson's disease, or luysio-pallidal system degeneration, such as found in dentato-rubro-pallido-luysial atrophy or Joseph's disease. FSBs were also occasionally identified in the substantia nigra (SN) and/or GP of aged persons. In addition to SN and GP lesions, FSBs were seen in diffuse axonal lesions of long fibre tracts (the corpus callosum, the superior cerebellar peduncle) after non-missile head injuries, and in peri-infarct lesions. Under the light microscope, FSBs appear as slightly eosinophilic, foamy and nearly round objects with vague outlines, measuring approximately 10-50 microns in diameter. Some FSBs contain coarse, eosinophilic clusters at their periphery. FSB stained black when stained by the Gallyas silver method. Some FSBs were immunohistochemically positive for synaptophysin and 68 kDa neurofilament. Glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive fibres were observed alongside and/or inside some FSBs. Electron microscopically, FSBs were found to consist of collections of neuritic debris containing a variety of dense bodies and a small number of both mitochondria and neurofilaments. Some such collections were surrounded by astrocytic processes. These findings strongly suggest that FSBs are collections of small axonal debris destined for removal by astrocytes in due course. A variety of factors (degeneration of the SNPR and/or the GP, injury, infarction, ageing) seemed to be responsible for the histogenesis of FSBs.
Foveal dark adaptation in 58 subjects and photopigment regeneration in 60 subjects from 10-78 years of age exhibit parallel slowing of recovery rate with increasing age, with significant correlation of the two functions among individuals. The data are suggestive of an initial slight decline in rate before age 50, followed by a greater decline occurring at different ages in different individuals. Longitudinal data for one subject from age 40-65 show an increase in pigment regeneration time constant consistent with this idea. Foveal sensitivity and photopigment density both decrease with increasing age and are significantly correlated among individuals, although sensitivity declines more with age than does photopigment density. In contrast to earlier proposals based upon the Rushton-Dowling equation, we found no universal constant of proportionality to relate log relative threshold to photopigment within our population.
The recent isolation of at least five different cDNAs encoding functional subunits of glutamate receptors (GluR1 to GluR5) has revealed a diversity whose function is not understood. To learn more about how these different receptor subunits are used in the brain, we undertook an in situ hybridization study of the retina to define how the different glutamate receptor genes are expressed. We chose the retina because the glutamate sensitivities of its different cell types have been characterized, and these different neurons reside in different laminae. Hybridization of [35S]UTP-labeled cRNA probes with transverse sections and freshly dissociated cells reveals that all five receptor subunits are expressed in the retina. Hybridization signal is detected in different, but overlapping, sets of cells in the retina. GluR1, GluR2, and GluR5 are expressed by many somata, and GluR4 by a few, in the outer third of the inner nuclear layer, where the horizontal cells reside. Transcripts for GluR1, GluR2, and GluR5 are found in the somata within the middle third of the inner nuclear layer, which is where the bipolar cell somata are located, and GluR2 probes label freshly dissociated rod bipolar cells. All of the probes produce labeling over the cells at the inner edge of the inner nuclear layer, which are probably amacrine cells, as well as over the cell bodies in the ganglion cell layer.
Velocity storage is an important aspect of sensory-motor control of body orientation. The effective decay rate and three-dimensional organization of velocity storage are dependent upon body orientation relative to gravity and also are influenced by gravitoinertial force (G) level. Several of the inputs to velocity storage including otolithic, somatosensory, proprioceptive, and possibly motor are highly dependent on G level. To see whether the G dependency of velocity storage is related to changes in the effective coupling of individual sensory inputs to the velocity storage mechanism or to alterations in the time constant of velocity storage per se, we have studied horizontal vestibular nystagmus, horizontal optokinetic after nystagmus (OKAN) and vertical vestibular nystagmus as a function of force level. Horizontal OKAN and vestibular nystagmus both showed no effect of G level on their initial or peak slow phase velocities but their decay rates were quicker in 0G and 1.8G than in 1G. Vertical vestibular nystagmus also showed no effect of G level on peak velocity but decayed quicker in 0G relative to 1G. These-findings indicate that the intrinsic decay rate of a common velocity storage mechanism is affected by the magnitude of G. A negligible amount of slow phase eye velocity was observed in planes outside the planes of stimulation, thus short-term changes in G across multiple body axes can change velocity storage, but the change is restricted to the axis common to the rotary stimulus and the G vector.

The effects of adenosine A2 receptor antagonist (CP-66713) on long-term potentiation were studied using guinea pig hippocampal slices in a perfusion system. Tetanic stimulation of Schaffer collateral input which was applied during perfusion of CP-66713 (10 microM), did not induce long-term potentiation but rather long-term depression of evoked synaptic potentials (field EPSP), but induced long-term potentiation of the population spike in CA1 neurons. Thus, adenosine derivatives which accumulate in the synaptic cleft during the tetanic stimulation may be involved in induction of the long-term potentiation via A2 receptors at the synapse. The clear discrimination between long-term depression of the field EPSP and long-term potentiation of the population spike suggests EPSP-spike potentiation at the postsynaptic sites.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus is a robust form of synaptic plasticity that may contribute to mammalian memory formation. A variety of pharmacological evidence suggests that persistent kinase activation contributes to the maintenance of LTP. To determine whether persistent activation of protein kinases was associated with the maintenance phase of LTP, protein kinase activity was measured in control and LTP samples using exogenous protein kinase substrates in an in vitro assay of homogenates of the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices. After LTP, protein kinase activity was persistently increased, and the induction of this effect was blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. The increased protein kinase activity was found to be significantly attenuated by PKC(19-36), a selective peptide inhibitor of protein kinase C. Thus, LTP is associated with an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated generation of a persistently activated form of protein kinase C. These data lend strong support to the model that persistent protein kinase activation contributes to the maintenance of LTP.
Dye coupling was observed between pinealocytes in acutely dissected pineal glands of adult rats. Pinealocytes maintained in culture were also electrically coupled. Connexins 26 and 43 and their respective mRNAs were present but neither connexin32 nor its mRNA were detected. Pinealocytes expressed only connexin26 whereas connexin43 was confined to astrocytes. In 5-day-old cultures of pinealocytes the incidence of dye coupling and level of immunodetectable connexin26 were low, and both were increased by norepinephrine (NE). The increase in incidence of coupling was maximal at around 6 h after treatment and was prevented by inhibitors of protein or mRNA synthesis. NE-induced metabolic and electrical synchronization mediated by gap junctions may favor melatonin secretion.
Leptomeningeal cells in intact meninges or dissociated and cultured for 2 h to several weeks were dye-coupled (Lucifer yellow), and voltage-clamped pairs of freshly dissociated leptomeningeal cells were well coupled electrically. Unitary conductances of junctional channels were predominantly 40-90 pS. Junctional conductance was reversibly reduced by 2 mM halothane, 1 mM heptanol and 100% CO2 and was increased by 1 mM 8 Br-cAMP. Two gap junction proteins, connexin 26 and connexin 43, were identified between leptomeningeal cells using immunocytochemical methods; Northern blot analyses of RNA isolated from cultured leptomeningeal cells showed specific hybridization to cDNAs encoding connexins 26 and 43, but not to a cDNA encoding connexin 32. These studies demonstrate co-expression of two connexins in a single cell type in the nervous system; biophysical properties do not differ significantly from those of astrocytes and cardiac myocytes, which express only connexin 43.
Unilateral lesions of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system were induced by injecting 6-hydroxydopamine into the substantia nigra of three monkeys trained to initiate arm movements in response to stimuli randomly presented at various locations in their immediate visual space. This procedure resulted in partial reduction of dopamine content, as compared to intact side, in both the putamen and caudate nucleus, with the exception of the putamen in one monkey. A concomitant reduction in the level of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid was observed, but less systematically than the dopamine decrease in the same striatal regions. All monkeys displayed a predominant contralateral arm hypokinesia consisting of a slowness in initiating movements, little or not affected by the hemispace of presentation of the trigger stimulus. Conversely, when the monkeys responded with the arm ipsilateral to the lesion, the movement was initiated more slowly when the trigger stimulus was presented to the hemispace contralateral to the striatal dopaminergic depletion as compared to the ipsilateral hemispace. The results suggest that the visual neglect is more conspicuous when monkeys performed with the arm ipsilateral to the damaged nigrostriatal system. This neglect may be described as a disorder in the ease with which stimuli presented to the side contralateral to the impaired dopaminergic transmission are able to elicit behavioral responses, possibly as the result of a lack of selective attention or defective movement initiation.
The increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration, [Ca2+]i, induced by isomers of 2-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine (CCG) was examined in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. Some CCG isomers and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) increased [Ca2+]i in a concentration dependent manner. The 2S,3R,4S isomer of CCG (L-CCG-IV) was the most potent in elevating [Ca2+]i, and its activity was more than 100 times higher than that of NMDA and about 10 times higher than that of L-glutamate. The increase in [Ca2+]i was effectively blocked by NMDA blockers and Mg2+, and was markedly augmented by the addition of a low concentration of glycine. L-CCG-IV would be a useful tool for elucidation of functions of NMDA receptors.
It has been well established that both applied and endogenous electric fields can modulate neuronal activity in various preparations. In this paper, we present the effects of applied currents on spontaneous epileptiform activity in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus. A computer-controlled system was designed to detect the spontaneous abnormal activity and then apply current pulses of programmable amplitude with monopolar electrodes in the stratum pyramidale. The epileptiform activity was generated by subperfusion of the neural tissue with an elevated potassium artificial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) solution. Extracellular recordings showed that the interictal bursts could be fully suppressed in 90% of the slices by subthreshold currents with an average amplitude of 12.5 microA. Intracellular recordings showed that the anodic currents generated hyperpolarization of the somatic membrane thereby suppressing neuronal firing. This inhibitory effect of applied current pulses is important for the understanding of electric field effects on abnormal neuronal activity and could be an effective means of preventing the spread of epileptiform activity.
Early induction of the mRNAs encoding the c-Fos and c-Jun nuclear proteins was examined in rat brain by in situ hybridization at various timepoints following global forebrain ischemia by the method of four-vessel occlusion. All animals were subjected to 20 min of transient ischemia. This produced a pattern of proto-oncogene activation that was most intense in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus 30 min after ischemia, while the hilar cells in the dentate and the pyramidal cells of the CA3 region in the hippocampus showed a more delayed but robust expression of these immediate early genes at 1 h. The neurons of the CA1 region exhibited a more moderate hybridization signal at 1-2 h postischemia. Very little hybridization signal for either immediate early gene could be detected in animals perfused with fixative immediately following ischemia, suggesting that cellular energy levels may have to be restored to a certain level before efficient de novo mRNA synthesis can occur. In the cerebellum, a similar temporal pattern was observed: the granule cells exhibited a prompt but patchy expression of c-fos and c-jun that was followed by a delayed signal in the Purkinje cells. Without exception c-fos and c-jun appeared to be expressed in unison, although the time course of c-fos and c-jun mRNA accumulation and decay was different in various brain regions: invariably the cerebellum returned rapidly to its baseline with virtually no remaining signal at 3 h postischemia, while c-fos and c-jun activation in the hippocampus remained high at 3 h and returned to baseline by 6 h. Several other brain regions showed early production of c-fos and c-jun mRNAs, such as the medial habenula, piriform cortex, the amygdala, the centromedian, lateral posterior, paracentral, intermediodorsal and reuniens nuclei of the thalamus and the ventromedial and dorsal nuclei of the hypothalamus; in the brainstem, the trapezoid body and the noradrenergic neurons of the locus ceruleus as well as the adrenergic neurons in the ventrolateral medulla (C1 group) and nucleus tractus solitarius (C2 group) regions displayed slightly less intense hybridization signals. In addition, the ependyma of the lateral ventricles and the third ventricle showed a prompt albeit short-lived production of c-fos and c-jun mRNAs. Sham-operated animals as well as animals that had survived to one week postischemia showed either no or only trace levels of hybridization signal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The beta-amyloid peptide is derived from a larger membrane bound protein and accumulates as amyloid in Alzheimer's diseased brains. beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta APP) proteolytically processed during constitutive secretion cannot be a source of deposited amyloid because this processing results in cleavage within the amyloidogenic peptide. To see if other secretory pathways could be responsible for generating potentially amyloidogenic molecules we tested the possibility that beta APP is targeted to the regulated secretory pathway. Stable AtT20 cell lines expressing exogenous human beta APP were genetically engineered. These cells were labeled with [35S]-methionine, and chased in the presence or absence of secretagogue. The beta APP both inside the cells and released from the cells was analyzed by immunoprecipitation and gel analysis. Quantitation of autoradiograms showed that virtually all of the synthesized beta APP was secreted by the constitutive pathway, and that no detectable (less than 1%) beta APP was targeted to the regulated secretory pathway.
Previous studies from our team have shown that a 12 month ethanol administration induced deficits in a sequential alternation task, whereas a 6 month treatment had no effects. We have already shown that the 12 month treatment induced deficits both in diencephalic and hippocampal structures, whereas the 6 month treatment damaged only the mammillary bodies. Thus, the question remained whether or not increasing selectively the diencephalic damage by lesioning the anterior thalamic nuclei would disrupt sequential alternation in 6 month ethanol-treated mice. Results indicate that alcohol-treated mice exhibiting experimental lesions into the anterior thalamus were significantly impaired in the sequential task as compared to both controls or 6 month ethanol-treated mice. In contrast, anterior thalamic lesions in normal (no alcohol treatment) subjects induced no deficits. The relative contribution of the hippocampo-mammillo-thalamic circuitry in sequential alternation is discussed.
Previous studies have shown that the rate of calcium uptake stimulated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) increased during the maturation phase of synapse development in chicken forebrain. To investigate whether this change in function is due to a change in the properties of NMDA receptor associated ion channels, we measured the binding of [3H]MK-801 (a ligand which binds to the NMDA receptor associated ion channel) to membranes from immature and mature chicken brain. The binding properties of MK-801 in chicken brain were similar to those in mammalian brain. There was no significant difference in any of the binding parameters measured at the two ages, i.e. KD, Bmax and optimal glutamate concentration for and maximal enhancement by glutamate of MK-801 binding. These results suggest that there is no change in the NMDA operated ion-channels during maturation. Thus the maturational change in NMDA receptor function could be due to: a change in the agonist portion of the NMDA receptor, a change in the regulation of the receptor/ionophore complex, perhaps by the postsynaptic density whose structure and composition changes during the same period, or a change in the number of voltage-sensitive calcium channels recruited as a result of NMDA receptor activation.
The peripheral nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) is phosphorylated on tyrosine residues in vivo and in vitro at a high stoichiometry. We have previously reported that this tyrosine phosphorylation occurs on the beta, gamma, and delta subunits of the receptor and is implicated in both the modulation of the function of the receptor and localization of the receptor at the synapse. The specific tyrosine residue of each subunit which is phosphorylated is now identified. The endogenously phosphorylated nAChR from the electric organ of Torpedo californica was phosphorylated to maximal stoichiometry in vitro exclusively on tyrosine residues as indicated by phosphoamino acid analysis. Two-dimensional phosphopeptide maps of thermolysin limit digests of the isolated phosphorylated subunits indicated that each subunit is phosphorylated at a single site. To determine the site of tyrosine phosphorylation of the beta, gamma, and delta subunits, phosphorylated subunits were isolated and digested with trypsin. A single phosphotyrosine containing peptide from each subunit was purified by antiphosphotyrosine antibody affinity chromatography and reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography. The purified phosphopeptides were subjected to sequential Edman degradation and sequence analysis. Comparison of the phosphopeptide sequence data with the deduced amino acid sequence of each subunit indicated that Tyr-355 of beta, Tyr-364 of gamma, and Tyr-372 of delta are the sites of in vitro and in vivo tyrosine phosphorylation of the nAChR. Identification of these sites should facilitate further studies of the role of tyrosine phosphorylation in the regulation of receptor function.
The relationship between muscarinic receptor activation of phosphoinositide hydrolysis and the sequestration of cell surface muscarinic receptors has been examined for both intact and digitonin-permeabilized human SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells. Addition of the aminosteroid 1-[6-[[17 beta-3-methoxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-17-yl]amino] hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione (U-73122) to intact cells resulted in the inhibition of oxotremorine-M-stimulated inositol phosphate release and of Ca2+ signaling by greater than 75%. In contrast, when phospholipase C was directly activated by the addition of the calcium ionophore ionomycin, inclusion of U-73122 had little inhibitory effect. Addition of U-73122 to intact cells also inhibited the agonist-induced sequestration of cell surface muscarinic receptors and their subsequent down-regulation with an IC50 value (4.1 microM) similar to that observed for inhibition of inositol phosphate release (3.7 microM). In contrast, when oxotremorine-M-stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis was inhibited by depletion of extracellular Ca2+, no reduction in the extent of receptor sequestration was observed. When introduced into digitonin-permeabilized cells, U-73122 more markedly inhibited inositol phosphate release elicited by either oxotremorine-M or guanosine-5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) than that induced by added Ca2+. Addition of oxotremorine-M to permeabilized cells resulted in muscarinic receptor sequestration and down-regulation. Both the loss of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and activation of phosphoinositide hydrolysis in permeabilized cells were inhibited by the inclusion of guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate). The results indicate that the agonist-induced sequestration of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor in SK-N-SH cells requires the involvement of a GTP-binding protein but not the production of phosphoinositide-derived second messenger molecules.
The cerebral cortex of the rat and other mammals is innervated by two morphologically distinct classes of serotoninergic (5-HT) axon terminals: fine axons with minute varicosities and beaded axons characterized by large, spherical varicosities. Fine and beaded 5-HT axons exhibit different regional and laminar distributions in forebrain and arise from separate brainstem nuclei, the dorsal and median raphe nuclei, respectively. The present neuroanatomic study, based on immunocytochemical methods to visualize 5-HT axons, demonstrates that the two axon types differ markedly in their vulnerability to the neurotoxic amphetamine derivatives, methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA), and p-chloroamphetamine (PCA). While both drugs cause extensive degeneration of fine 5-HT axons throughout forebrain, beaded 5-HT axons are consistently spared. Fine 5-HT axons, which richly innervate most regions of dorsal forebrain in control rats, are rarely seen 2 weeks after treatment with MDA or PCA; this loss of fine axons reflects a marked denervation that persists for months after drug administration. The serotoninergic axon terminals remaining after MDA or PCA administration are almost entirely of the beaded type and appear to be unaffected by both drugs. Over a wide range of doses (2.5-40 mg/kg PCA) and survival times (2 weeks to 2 months), these spared 5-HT axons with large, spherical varicosities cannot be distinguished from the normal, beaded 5-HT axons in control rats by morphologic criteria. Moreover, beaded 5-HT axons exhibit a highly characteristic regional distribution which is the same in control as in MDA- and PCA-treated rats: these axons innervate specific zones or layers within parietal and occipital cortex, hippocampus, cingulate cortex, entorhinal cortex, and the olfactory bulb, among other forebrain areas, and they form a dense plexus lining the ventricular system. Taken together, the results of this study demonstrate that fine 5-HT axons are highly vulnerable to the neurotoxic effects of the amphetamine derivatives MDA and PCA, while beaded 5-HT axons are markedly resistant. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that there are two anatomically and functionally distinct sets of serotoninergic neurons projecting to forebrain. While both of these neuronal systems utilize 5-HT as a neurotransmitter, they differ in several features: 1) origin from separate nuclei in the brainstem (the dorsal and median raphe), 2) two types of morphologically distinct axon terminals, 3) markedly different distribution and innervation patterns in forebrain, and 4) dissimilar pharmacological properties. The results further suggest that psychotropic amphetamine derivatives have a selective action upon fine serotoninergic axons that arise from the dorsal raphe nucleus.
Previous studies have revealed that polyribosomes are selectively localized beneath post-synaptic sites on central nervous system (CNS) neurons, and are particularly prominent during periods of synapse growth. The present study evaluates whether polyribosomes are most prominent at a consistent time in the developmental history of the synapse, or instead at a consistent time in the life of the organism regardless of the state of synaptic maturation (suggesting a globally acting factor). We compare the time course of synaptogenesis and the association between polyribosomes and developing synapses in three regions that develop at different rates: the external and internal blades of the dentate gyrus, and the CA1 region of the hippocampus proper. Each region was examined electron microscopically at 1, 4, 7, 10, 15, 20, 28 and over 120 days of age, evaluating: (1) synapse density (the number of synaptic profiles/area of neuropil), (2) the width of the neuropil layers, (3) the proportion of synapses with underlying polyribosomes, and (4) the number of polyribosome-containing synapses/area of neuropil. As anticipated on the basis of the differences in cytogenesis, the time course of synaptogenesis was different in the three regions. In the external blade of the dentate gyrus, synapse density increased in a nearly linear fashion between birth and 15 days of age, and then continued to increase at a somewhat slower rate until 28 days of age. Synapse development in the internal blade was delayed by several days in comparison to the external blade. In CA1, synapse density increased slowly between 1 and 7 days, and then at a rapid rate between 7 and 28 days of age. In all three regions, the proportion of synapses with underlying polyribosomes was highest between 1 and 7 days of age, and then decreased as synapse density increased. However, the peak in the number of polyribosome-containing synapses/unit area of neuropil occurred at different times in the three regions (4-7 days of age in the external blade of the dentate gyrus and in CA1, and 20 days of age in the internal blade). In addition to further defining the relationship between polyribosomes and developing synapses, the present study provides a data base on the time course of synapse development in the hippocampus and dentate gyrus, which will be useful for comparisons with other measures.
The projections and terminal ramifications of electrophysiologically characterized myenteric neurons of the guinea pig small intestine were studied after intracellular injection of the marker substance biocytin. Myenteric neurons were impaled with microelectrodes containing 4% biocytin in 2 M KCl (pH 7.4) and characterized electrophysiologically as either AH-neurons or S-neurons. AH-neurons were neurons in which action potentials were followed by prolonged after-hyperpolarizations (lasting greater than 4 seconds). S-neurons were neurons in which such hyperpolarizations were not seen. Electrical stimulation of internodal strands evoked prominent fast excitatory synaptic potentials in S-neurons, but not in AH-neurons. Biocytin was injected electrophoretically into the impaled AH-neurons by passage of hyperpolarizing current (0.6-0.8 nA for 5-15 minutes) through the recording electrode. The preparation was then fixed in Zamboni's fixative, dehydrated, and exposed to avidin coupled to horseradish peroxidase which allowed the injected biocytin to be visualised via a diaminobenzidine reaction. In many cases, the injected biocytin appeared to fill all the processes of injected AH-neurons that ramified within the myenteric plexus. The filled processes included axons running up to 4 mm within the plexus and profuse varicose terminals ramifying within both the ganglion containing the injected cell body and nearby ganglia. Most (90%) cell bodies of the injected AH-neurons had the morphology of Dogiel type II neurons; large, mostly smooth cell bodies with few short processes and several long processes. The other 10% of the AH-neurons had similar cell bodies and long processes but also had prominent short filamentous processes. This population was termed dendritic AH-neurons. The projections and terminals of 28 AH/Dogiel type II neurons and 7 dendritic AH-neurons were analysed in detail. Both types of neurons project circumferentially to provide terminals to nearby ganglia, but the AH/Dogiel type II neurons also provide terminals to their own ganglia while the dendritic AH-neurons typically do not. Although many of the injected AH-neurons had projections orally or anally along the intestine no evidence for a preferential direction of projection was obtained. Analysis of the areas and distributions of the terminal fields of the AH/Dogiel type II neurons suggests that each may contact several other myenteric neurons and that each myenteric neuron may receive input from about ten AH/Dogiel type II neurons.
beta-Amyloid formation requires multiple abnormal proteolytic cleavages of amyloid precursor protein (APP), including one within its intramembrane domain. Lysosomes, which contain a wide variety of proteases (cathepsins) and other acid hydrolases, are major sites for the turnover of membrane proteins and other cell constituents. Using immunocytochemistry, immunoelectron microscopy, and enzyme histochemistry, we studied the expression and cellular distributions of 10 lysosomal hydrolases, including 4 cathepsins, in neocortex from patients with Alzheimer disease and control (non-Alzheimer-disease) individuals. In control brains, acid hydrolases were localized exclusively to intracellular lysosome-related compartments, and 8 of the 10 enzymes predominated in neurons. In Alzheimer disease brains, strongly immunoreactive lysosomes and lipofuscin granules accumulated markedly in the perikarya and proximal dendrites of many cortical neurons, some of which were undergoing degeneration. More strikingly, these same hydrolases were present in equally high or higher levels in senile plaques in Alzheimer disease, but they were not found extracellularly in control brains, including those from Parkinson or Huntington disease patients. At the ultrastructural level, hydrolase immunoreactivity in senile plaques was localized to extracellular lipofuscin granules similar in morphology to those within degenerating neurons. Two cathepsins that were undetectable in neurons were absent from senile plaques. These results show that lysosome function is altered in cortical neurons in Alzheimer disease. The presence of a broad spectrum of acid hydrolases in senile plaques indicates that lysosomes and their contents may be liberated from cells, principally neurons and their processes, as they degenerate. Because cathepsins can cleave polypeptide sites on APP relevant for beta-amyloid formation, their abnormal extracellular localization and dysregulation in Alzheimer disease can account for the multiple hydrolytic events in beta-amyloid formation. The actions of membrane-degrading acid hydrolases could also explain how the intramembrane portion of APP containing the C terminus of beta-amyloid becomes accessible to proteases.
The omega-conotoxin GVIA (CTX) receptor has been purified 1900-fold to apparent homogeneity by monitoring both reversible binding of 125I-labeled CTX (125I-CTX) and photoincorporation of N-hydroxysuccinimidyl-4-azidobenzoate-125I-CTX (HSA-125I-CTX). Photoincorporation of HSA-125I-CTX into a 230-kDa protein exhibits a pharmacologic and chromatographic profile indicating that the 230-kDa protein is the CTX-binding subunit of the receptor. The pharmacologic specificity of 125I-CTX binding to the purified CTX receptor closely resembles that of the native membrane-bound form with respect to sensitivity towards CTX (Kd = 32 pM) and other peptide toxin antagonists. The purified CTX receptor comprises the 230-kDa protein (alpha 1) and four additional proteins with apparent molecular masses of 140 (alpha 2), 110, 70 (beta 2), and 60 (beta 1) kDa. This subunit structure closely resembles that of the 1,4-dihydropyridine-sensitive L-type calcium channel.
Rabbits were trained on a Pavlovian conditioned inhibition (CI) task using light as the reinforced conditioned stimulus (CS+) and the same light compounded with a tone as the nonreinforced CS-. The conditioned response was the nictitating membrane response. After attaining a criterion of CI performance, animals received radio-frequency lesions of the hypothalamus (n = 11) or midbrain (n = 14). For the hypothalamic lesion cases, primary damage extended from the optic chiasm to the pretectal region. For the mesencephalic lesion cases, primary damage ranged from the most rostral portions of the periaqueductal grey (PAG) caudally to the tegmental reticular formation at the level of the third nerve. Prior research suggested that the hypothalamic lesions would disrupt retention of CI by increasing responding to the CS-. Except where a lesion impinged upon the zona incerta, no CI disruption was observed. In accordance with previous studies (Berthier, N.E. and Moore, J.W., Physiol. Behav., 25 (1980) 667-673; Mis, F.W., J. Comp. Physiol. Psychol., 91 (1977) 975-988), post-lesioning CI disruption was observed in some of the mesencephalic lesion cases involving the posterior commissure, PAG and/or accessory oculomotor nuclei. However, CI performance recovered over the course of retraining.
To determine whether local neurons mediated the locomotor effects of electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus, kainic acid injections (0.5-1.25 micrograms), intended to destroy neural somata as opposed to fibers of passage, were made unilaterally in the tuberal-posterior hypothalamus of 22 rats. The area of lesion and its contralateral homolog were mapped for locomotor stepping sites in Nembutal-anesthetized rats mounted in a stereotaxic apparatus such that locomotor stepping rotated a wheel. Stimulation (25 and 50 microA, 50 Hz, 0.5-ms cathodal pulses, 10-s trains) was delivered through 50-80 microns glass pipettes filled with 2 M saline. Contralateral to the lesion, locomotor stepping sites were common in the perifornical lateral and medial hypothalamus and less dense in the zona incerta. On the side of the kainic-acid lesion, locomotor sites were generally absent in the central part of the damaged area. If they did appear within the area of lesion, they tended to be near the border with intact tissue. In a few cases, locomotor stepping sites were found centrally located in the lesion amidst widespread loss of somata. In four rats, additional maps of anterior locomotor regions in the preoptic area ipsilateral to the lesion suggested that their descending fibers were largely spared by the kainic lesions. Local neurons appear to be major contributors to the locomotion elicited by electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus, but fibers of passage may also participate.
Using [3H]GBR-12935 as a selective ligand, we have examined the properties of rat striatal dopamine transporter complex during chronic ethanol consumption. The results of this study show a significant change in the Bmax (maximal binding capacity), but not Kd (affinity) of [3H]GBR-12935 binding sites. The observed changes were pulsatile and they exhibited an increase (144% of control), decrease (80% of control), tendency to increase (111% of control), increase (141% of control), decrease (84% of control), no change (98% of control), and decrease (80% of control) after 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 and 10 weeks of ethanol consumption, respectively. Since the duration of ethanol exposure appears to be an important variable in regulating the properties of dopamine transporter complex, the behavioral changes observed during chronic ethanol intake may vary with time.
Long-term depression (LTD) in the intact cerebellum is a decrease in the efficacy of the parallel fiber-Purkinje neuron synapse induced by coactivation of climbing fiber and parallel fiber inputs. In cultured Purkinje neurons, a similar depression can be induced by iontophoretic glutamate pulses and Purkinje neuron depolarization. This form of LTD is expressed as a depression of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4- isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA)-mediated current, and its induction is dependent on activation of metabotropic quisqualate receptors. The effect of inhibitors of protein kinase C (PKC) on LTD induction was studied. Inhibitors of PKC blocked LTD induction, while phorbol-12,13-diacetate (PDA), a PKC activator, mimicked LTD. These results suggest that PKC activation is necessary for the induction of cerebellar LTD.

Magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) display activity-dependent changes in spike duration to modulate Ca2+ influx both in their somata, and in their axon terminals in the neurohypophysis. This study reveals (i) that Ca2+ influx is required to mediate the expression of spike broadening, and (ii) that internal Ca2+ activates a delayed component of spike repolarization in MNCs of the rat supraoptic nucleus. This mechanism provides a rapid feedback control of spike-mediated Ca2+ influx in these neuroendocrine cells.

Previous studies using the technique of microinjection into brain nuclei indicated that the periaqueductal gray (PAG), nucleus accumbens, habenula and amygdala play an essential role in pain modulation and that these nuclei possibly act through a 'mesolimbic neural loop' to exert an analgesic effect, in which Met-enkephalin (MEK) and beta-endorphin (beta-EP) have been implicated as the two major opioid peptides involved in antinociception. In the present study performed in rabbits, intracranial microinjection was supplemented with push-pull perfusion and radioimmunoassay to determine whether the release of enkephalins (ENK) and beta-EP was increased in these nuclei when the putative neural circuit was activated by morphine administered into one of the nuclei. The results showed: (1) microinjection of morphine into the PAG increased the release of ENK and beta-EP in the N. accumbens, and vice versa; (2) microinjection of morphine into the N. accumbens increased the release of ENK and beta-EP in the amygdala, and vice versa; (3) morphine microinjected into the PAG caused an increase in the release of ENK and beta-EP in the amygdala and vice versa, although the release of ENK in PAG was statistically not significant. These results indicate that PAG, N. accumbens and amygdala are connected in a network served by a positive feedback circuitry.
It has been previously demonstrated that an embryonic raphe grafted into a serotonin-depleted hippocampus restores normal serotonin innervation of the hippocampus and behaviors associated with serotonin. To test the possibility that the behavioral effects of these grafts result from non-specific actions of the grafted tissue or the grafting procedure itself, we compared raphe grafts with septal grafts, in serotonin-depleted rats. We also compared the effects of a serotonin synthesis inhibitor, p-chlorophenylalanine, on the behavior of normal, serotonin-depleted and raphe-grafted rats. The results indicate that the bulk of behavioral effects of raphe grafts are due to the serotonergic nature of the graft.
The present study demonstrates many dynorphin (DYN)-immunoreactive fibers and presumed presynaptic terminals in rat lumbar ventral horn. The fibers and terminals seem to arise largely from DYN-containing intrinsic neurons in the dorsal horn. The majority of the presumed terminals closely surround a subpopulation of motoneurons that tend to be located in flexor motoneuron columns. Acute C fiber, but not A fiber, primary afferent stimulation depletes the ventral horn DYN immunostaining. We interpret these findings to indicate that the spinal DYN neurons are well positioned to serve both as modulators of nociceptive input and as interneurons in motor reflexes. We further hypothesize that the depletion of DYN-immunoreactivity that follows either acute C fiber stimulation or intense nociceptive stimuli may be the trigger for the upregulation in spinal cord DYN that occurs in models of chronic pain states.
Adenylylcyclase activity in the flagella of gametes of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii was inhibited by prior incubation at or below 30 degrees C in the presence of ATP. This decrease did not occur in the absence of ATP, in the presence of the ATP analog 5'-adenylylimidodiphosphate (App(NH)p), or in the presence of ATP plus the protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine (2 microM). If ATP treatment was performed in the absence of an ATP-regenerating system, activity initially declined and subsequently recovered. Incubation of flagella at 45 degrees C in the absence of ATP or incubation at lower temperatures in the presence of either App(NH)p or staurosporine both increased adenylylcyclase activity (over 10-fold) and blocked subsequent ATP-dependent loss of activity at 30 degrees C. This heat-induced activation was prevented by the presence of ATP plus an ATP-regenerating system. Incubation of flagella with [gamma-32P]ATP followed by gel electrophoresis in sodium dodecyl sulfate indicated the presence of endogenous protein kinase and protein phosphatase activities. These data suggest that the flagellar adenylylcyclase in Chlamydomonas gametes is inhibited by phosphorylation and stimulated by dephosphorylation. This mechanism for regulating adenylylcyclase may underlie the rapid increase in cyclic AMP that is induced by flagellar adhesion during fertilization in Chlamydomonas.
We have used radio-high pressure liquid chromatography to study the acyl-CoA ester intermediates and the acylcarnitines formed during mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation. During oxidation of [U-14C]hexadecanoate by normal human fibroblast mitochondria, only the saturated acyl-CoA and acylcarnitine esters can be detected, supporting the concept that the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase step is rate-limiting in mitochondrial beta-oxidation. Incubations of fibroblast mitochondria from patients with defects of beta-oxidation show an entirely different profile of intermediates. Mitochondria from patients with defects in electron transfer flavoprotein and electron transfer flavoprotein:ubiquinone oxido-reductase are associated with slow flux through beta-oxidation and accumulation of long chain acyl-CoA and acylcarnitine esters. Increased amounts of saturated medium chain acyl-CoA and acylcarnitine esters are detected in the incubations of mitochondria with medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, whereas long chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency is associated with accumulation of long chain 3-hydroxyacyl- and 2-enoyl-CoA and carnitine esters. These studies show that the control strength at the site of the defective enzyme has increased. Radio-high pressure liquid chromatography analysis of intermediates of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation is an important new technique to study the control, organization and defects of the enzymes of beta-oxidation.
Quantitative changes in the total mass and the molecular species of 1,2-diacyl-sn-glycerol (DAG) and phosphatidic acid (PA) formed upon muscarinic receptor activation were studied in cultured human SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells. DAG was isolated from the total lipid extracts of carbachol (CCh)-stimulated and unstimulated cells and after benzoylation, was subjected to reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography to separate the component species. The molecular species of DAG were identified by analyzing the fatty acid composition of each separated fraction by gas chromatography, and their total and individual masses were quantified from the known amount of an internal standard, 1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycerol, added during the extraction of the lipid. Relatively high basal levels of DAG (1.5 nmol/mg protein) are present in these cells, and addition of CCh elicited a 50-60% increase in the total amounts of DAG within 5 min. The increase was biphasic: an initial major peak at 5 min was followed by a sustained increase that persisted for at least 30 min. An increase in DAG was elicited by both full and partial muscarinic agonists and was blocked by atropine. The presence of extracellular Ca2+ was necessary for muscarinic receptor-activated formation of DAG. To determine the source of the DAG, the molecular species of the major phospholipids present in SK-N-SH cells were also analyzed. The phospholipids were first enzymatically hydrolyzed to DAGs which were then analyzed as described above. A number of unusual fatty acids, the major one being 20:3 (n-9), were present in these lipids especially in the phosphoinositides and also in the DAG formed after CCh stimulation. Within 5 s of CCh stimulation there were transient increases in the DAG species representative of phosphoinositides. By 5 min the newly formed molecular species of DAG resembled a mixture of phosphoinositides and phosphatidylcholine (PC). Quantitative comparison of the molecular species compositions of phosphoinositides, PC, and newly formed DAGs indicated that at time periods up to 10 min, approximately 30% of the DAG originated from the phosphoinositides and the rest from PC. At longer intervals (greater than 20 min), most (85%) of DAGs originated from PC. Activation of muscarinic receptors in SK-N-SH cells also elicited an increase in PA (200% in 5 min). A quantitative molecular species analysis, using 1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycerol-3-P as internal standard, was performed by enzymatic (alkaline phosphatase) hydrolysis of PA to DAG and subsequent analysis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We propose a theoretical model of the cerebral cortex which is based on its cellular components and integrates its different levels of organization: (1) cells have general adaptive and memorization properties; (2) cortical columns are repetitive interneuronal circuits which determine an adaptive processing specific to the cerebral cortex; (3) cortical maps effect selective combinations which are very efficient to learn basic behavioural adaptations such as invariant recognition of forms, visually-guided hand movements, or execution of structured motor programs; (4) the network between cortical areas has a global architecture which integrates successive learning experiences into coherent functions such as the human language.
Postnatal development of S-Ag and GFAP immunoreactivity in the in situ pineal glands of golden hamsters and gerbils was examined using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase immunohistochemical technique. S-Ag was present in the gerbil pineal gland on the first postnatal day (P1), whereas it did not appear in the hamster pineal until P6. GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes were first observed in the hamster pineal gland on P7 and in the gerbil pineal gland on P10. The number of S-Ag-immunoreactive pinealocytes and GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes in the pineal glands of hamsters and gerbils increased with increasing age from P7 to 3 weeks. By 4 weeks, strong S-Ag and GFAP immunoreactivity was observed in both hamster and gerbil pineal glands. GFAP-immunoreactive stellate astrocytes were distributed evenly throughout the gerbil superficial pineal gland, but they were more often located in the peripheral region of the hamster superficial pineal. For the pineal grafts, pineal glands from neonatal (3-5 day old) hamsters were transplanted into the third cerebral ventricle (infundibular recess or posterior third ventricle) or beneath the renal capsule of adult male hamsters. S-Ag immunoreactivity appeared in the pineal grafts within 1 week following transplantation. By 4 weeks the pineal grafts showed strong S-Ag immunoreactivity which was maintained until at least 12 weeks after transplantation. The time course of glial cell maturation in the cerebroventricular pineal grafts is generally parallel to the hamster pineal gland in situ before 4 weeks. By 12 weeks, however, more astrocytes differentiated and developed GFAP-immunoreactivity in the pineal grafts than in the in situ pineals. These studies have described the postnatal development of S-Ag and GFAP immunoreactivity in in situ pineal glands and in neonatal pineal grafts.
The biosynthesis of all alpha-amidated peptides requires the participation of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), a bifunctional enzyme dependent on molecular oxygen, ascorbate, and copper. In the AtT-20 corticotrope cell line, reduced concentrations of PAM and ascorbate can make alpha-amidation the rate-limiting step in the production of bioactive product peptide. Production of various peptides thought to play autocrine and paracrine roles may be affected by ascorbate availability.
Microlocalization of mRNA coding for the guanylyl cyclase-coupled atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) receptor was carried out in the rat kidney. We used a combination of reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in individual microdissected renal tubule segments, glomeruli, and vasa recta bundles. Relative quantitation of the resulting amplified cDNA utilized densitometry of autoradiograms from Southern blots probed with a specific 32P-labeled probe. Among renal tubule segments, the largest signal was found in the terminal inner medullary collecting duct (IMCD). Slightly smaller signals were found in the initial IMCD and in loop of Henle segments from the inner medulla. Readily detectable signals were also seen in the following segments (in descending order): cortical collecting duct, proximal convoluted tubule, medullary thick ascending limb, cortical thick ascending limb, distal convoluted tubule, and outer medullary collecting duct. Large signals were also detected in glomeruli and in vasa recta bundles from the inner stripe of the outer medulla. Based on these results, we conclude that 1) renal microlocalization of specific mRNAs coding for hormone receptors is feasible through application of the RT-PCR procedure in microdissected renal tubules and vascular elements, and 2) the gene for the guanylyl cyclase-coupled ANF receptor is broadly expressed along the nephron, raising the possibility that multiple sites of ANF action are present.

The empirical and disector methods are unbiased sampling methods for determining numbers of neurons. The present study verifies and thus calibrates these methods by determining true numbers of ganglion cells in serial reconstructions and then using each method to estimate the same populations. The empirical method gives accurate counts but is laborious (inefficient). Five separate disector analyses, distinguished by height (h), were done for each ganglion. The findings are: (1) that the estimates are consistently low when h is minimal (reference and look-up sections are adjacent), but (2) the estimates are accurate when h is greater (one to four sections intervene between reference and look-up sections). We ascribe the difficulties with the first disector to &quot;lost&quot; or &quot;invisible&quot; caps. We emphasize that we would not have known of the problem unless we verified our counts. If there is suspicion that difficulties with profile recognition might occur, we recommend that serial sections of an appropriately chosen sample of tissue be prepared and 500-1,000 neurons (or, more generally, particles) be reconstructed. Then the method of choice can be used on the issue of choice to make certain of the necessary accuracy before proceeding with the main study.
The study of the deep pineal gland of the Mongolian gerbil and other neuronal tissue from the rat by means of confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) is described. Opical serial sectioning was performed on thick (100-200 microns) sections of the deep pineal gland of the Mongolian gerbil stained immunohistochemically using antisera to S-antigen and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Both dual-stained and single-stained material was examined using the fluorochromes fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) and Texas Red. High resolution images were obtained showing that pinealocytes have 1-3 processes that extend primarily to other pinealocytes or presumptive pinealocytes. Pinealocytes are located within the deep pineal gland as well as adjacent to the posterior aspect of the medial habenular nuclei. Pinealocyte processes were not seen extending into the habenular nuclei, but rather ended within the deep pineal gland a significant distance from their perikarya. The TH-immunopositive fibers were distributed throughout the deep pineal gland, often forming &quot;baskets&quot; of fibers around pinealocytes rather than being associated primarily with blood vessels. Other uses of the confocal microscope are demonstrated on rat neural tissue reacted with peroxidase/diaminobenzidine (DAB) immunohistochemistry and FITC fluorescence immunohistochemistry (paraventricular nucleus) as well as Golgi-stained neuronal tissue (cerebral cortex). The HRP/DAB and Golgi-stained images were visualized using the reflected image mode of the confocal system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), dot immunobinding assay (DIA) and passive haemagglutination assay (PHA) were evaluated for the detection of anticysticercal antibodies in cerebrospinal fluids (CSF) from neurocysticercosis (NCC) patients. Results from the three tests were similar. Higher titres of antibodies were observed to the antigens in porcine whole-cyst sonicate than to those in vesicular fluid or scolex or membrane sonicates. Affinity purified parasitic antigens showed a higher degree of specificity and sensitivity in PHA than in ELISA or DIA. Western blot analyses with cyst antigens showed that CSF antibodies from confirmed NCC patients consistently recognized a protein in the region of 64-68 kDa. Other proteins, of 110, 94-97, 80, 72-75, 52, 45, 26-28 and 16-18 kDa, showed heterogenous reactivity, whereas the partially purified antigen of 64-68 kDa showed a high degree of sensitivity and specificity.
Thrombolytic therapy is likely to be effective in some patients with stroke, but further improvements may require combination treatment with neuroprotective agents that can be given rapidly with relative safety. We tested the effects of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) with the glutamate antagonist MK-801 or the calcium channel blocker nimodipine in an embolic stroke model. We found that MK-801, followed by t-PA, was more effective than t-PA alone in reducing neurologic damage. Nimodipine plus t-PA was not better than t-PA alone. Combined glutamate antagonist and thrombolytic therapy may provide increased efficacy and safety for stroke treatment.
The clinical implications of two areas of basic neuroscience research are described in this review paper. These areas include the identification of glutamate receptors on central neurons and their involvement in brain injury, and the role of nerve growth factor in the development and treatment of Alzheimer disease.
The traditional role of psychiatrist as the central figure in the delivery of mental health services is changing. First, the advent of structured diagnostic interviews means that the diagnosis of mental disorders is no longer the exclusive preserve of psychiatrists; second, the growth of community mental health services staffed by non-psychiatrists means that psychiatrists now treat a minority of the patients with mental disorders; and third, the psychiatrists' continued endorsement of dynamic psychotherapy means they are becoming identified with an unproven and very expensive treatment. These changes should be seen against the broader background of a profession that is well-trained, active in evaluating performance, supported by a burgeoning research base in cognitive science and neuroscience, and delivering services efficiently and inexpensively.
Experience with a consecutive series of 125 computerized tomographic (CT) image guided stereotaxic neurosurgical procedures, performed using the Brown-Roberts-Wells (BRW) system is described. Operative objectives included tissue sampling for diagnostic purposes, intra-operative localization of craniotomy flaps and intracerebral lesions, cyst and abscess aspiration and lesion to modulate tremor. A neuropathological diagnosis was possible in 96% of the biopsies, and lesions were precisely localized in all patients undergoing microsurgical stereotaxic craniotomy. Two patients (2.2%) undergoing stereotaxic biopsy died as a result of the procedure and one patient's hemiparesis was permanently worsened (0.8%). In only one of three patients undergoing stereotaxic thalamotomy was tremor abolished. This report confirms that CT image guided stereotaxic neurosurgery is safe, accurate and versatile. There is, however, a moderate incidence (7.2%) of lesser complications that can occur with this type of surgery. These complications, which are emphasized in this paper, are related to both the site of surgery and the neuropathology.
Amyloidosis describes a group of diseases characterized by deposition of abnormal fibrous proteins in body organs and soft tissues. This disease complex is classified under the broad headings primary and secondary based on whether or not chronic infections or inflammatory conditions co-exist. In addition, localized versus systemic involvement and heredofamilial considerations are used to subclassify amyloidosis. Many primary and secondary amyloid diseases involved the central, peripheral and autonomic nervous systems. This paper will focus on the latest information concerning systemic and localized forms of amyloidosis involving the nervous system with special emphasis on Alzheimer's disease and amyloidosis secondary to spinal cord injury. The roles of the nurse related to diagnosis, patient care, patient and family education and identification of support systems in the community will be covered. Patient care will be discussed from the standpoint of process and outcome criteria for specific nursing diagnoses.
In humans, congenital deficiency of the enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) results in a disorder known as the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome. Patients with this disorder exhibit a prominent neurobehavioral phenotype that results in part from dysfunction of catecholaminergic systems in the striatum. HPRT-deficient mice produced as animal models for this syndrome curiously exhibit no spontaneous neurobehavioral abnormalities. However, the present study demonstrates that HPRT-deficient mice are more sensitive than their HPRT-normal littermates to the ability of amphetamine to stimulate locomotor or stereotypic behaviors. This behavioral supersensitivity to amphetamine indicates the existence of an underlying subclinical abnormality of catecholaminergic systems in the brains of HPRT-deficient mice, analogous to findings in human Lesch-Nyhan patients.
Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency is a common inborn error of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation. To determine if immunoreactive enzyme protein is present in patients with MCAD deficiency, we studied cultured skin fibroblasts from patients with the 985 point mutation, present in about 85% of cases, and cell lines from patients in which the point mutation is not present or only involves one allele. Immunoblotting studies, using a polyclonal antibody to the purified protein, showed an absence of immunoreactive protein in mitochondrial fractions prepared from fibroblasts from MCAD-deficient patients. To determine whether MCAD protein accumulated in the cytosol because of impaired transport into the mitochondria, we immunoprecipitated MCAD protein from the fibroblast homogenate. MCAD protein was detected in the immunoprecipitates from controls, but not in those from the MCAD-deficient patients. These results suggest that either the MCAD protein is not synthesised or, if produced, it is rapidly degraded.
alpha-inhibin was immunocytochemically localized in granulosa cells of different stages of developing follicles, freshly formed corpora lutea, and scattered interstitial cells (pigmented or ceroid cells) in ovaries of 6-, 14-, and 23-25-mo-old C57BL/6NNia mice. Developing follicles exhibited the greatest amount of staining. Quantitation of the stain using an image analysis system indicated the staining intensity within ovarian follicles of 14-mo-old mice was greater than that in 23-25-mo-old mice. The levels of plasma alpha-inhibin and estradiol (E2) decreased with age. The number of follicles present in ovaries of middle-aged mice was comparable to those of 6-mo-old mice, yet plasma levels of FSH were significantly higher than those of 6-mo-old mice. This may be due to an age-related loss in the sensitivity of the hypothalamus and/or pituitary of middle-aged mice to ovarian hormones. In contrast, ovaries of 23-25-mo-old mice contained few antral follicles and consequently produced little alpha-inhibin. There appeared to be little negative feedback regulation of FSH secretion in 23-25-mo-old mice as a result of age-related ovarian impairments. This study supports an earlier hypothesis from our laboratory [Biol Reprod 1985; 32:989-997] that the primary defect(s) limiting age-related reproductive performance in mice appears to reside within the hypothalamo-hypophyseal axis, whereas secondary defects arise from the ovary.
1. The urethane-anaesthetized, vagotomised rat preparation was used to investigate the effects of the histamine H2-antagonist ranitidine, the proton pump inhibitor omeprazole and the CCKB/gastrin antagonists CI-988, PD 136450 and L-365,260 on pentagastrin-, histamine- and bethanechol-induced gastric acid secretion. 2. The novel CCKB/gastrin antagonists CI-988 and PD 136450, and L-365,260 dose-dependently inhibited pentagastrin-induced secretion. The ED50 value for PD 136450 was 0.05 mumol kg-1, the same following intravenous or subcutaneous administration. 3. CI-988 and PD 136450 administered subcutaneously at dose levels highly effective for antagonism of pentagastrin responses had no effect on basal acid secretion. 4. Ranitidine inhibited pentagastrin-, bethanechol-, and histamine-induced acid secretion, whereas the CCKB/gastrin antagonists inhibited only the secretory response to pentagastrin. 5. The selective CCKA antagonist, devazepide, was inactive at up to 300 mumol kg-1 i.p. against the three stimulants of acid secretion. 6. CI-988 and PD 136450 will be useful research tools with which to investigate the role of CCKB/gastrin receptors in gastric acid secretion and the trophic activities of gastrin and cholecystokinin (CCK) on the gastrointestinal tract.
1. A cloned 5-HT1C receptor expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes was used to characterize the action of four dopamine D1-selective benzazepines at the 5-HT1C receptor. Additionally, the apparent binding of the D1-selective benzazepines to 5-HT1C receptors was measured in the choroid plexus of the pig. 2. In voltage-clamped oocytes expressing the cloned 5-HT1C receptor, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) elicited a characteristic inward current response with an EC50 of 13 nM. SCH 23390 acted as a stereoselective agonist (or partial agonist) with an EC50 of about 550 nM. SKF 38393 (1 microM-1 mM), SKF 77434 (100 microM), and SKF 82958 (100 microM) also acted as agonists (or partial agonists) at the cloned 5-HT1C receptor. SKF 38393 was not stereoselective at the 5-HT1C receptor. 3. The response to SCH 23390 activated slowly and, although the response contained many oscillations characteristic of the activation of the phosphatidylinositol signal transduction system, SCH 23390 rarely elicited the rapid spike-like response seen routinely in response to 5-HT. However, the responses to SKF 38393, SKF 77434, and SKF 82958 were identical in appearance to the response to 5-HT, except that the responses to the benzazepines were smaller. These comparisons were made by applying both a benzazepine and 5-HT to each individual oocyte expressing the cloned 5-HT1C receptor. 4. Consistent with the responses measured in oocytes, SCH 23390 bound stereoselectively to 5-HT1C receptors in the choroid plexus of the pig (Ki = 6.3 nM), and SKF 38393 bound non-stereoselectively with lower affinity (Ki = 2.0-2.2 microM).5. It is concluded that while these benzazepines demonstrate selectivity for the dopamine D1 receptor, they also can act as agonists or partial agonists at the 5-HT1c receptor in situ and as expressed in Xenopus oocytes. The oocyte expression system is useful for studies of the functional pharmacology of these 5-HTic receptors. Information about the pharmacological actions and variations in stereoselectivity among dopamine and 5-HT receptors should be of interest in modelling the interactions of ligands with these G-protein coupled receptors, and in the testing of such models through receptor mutagenesis.

Object recognition was studied in a 19-yr-old male patient who presented severe multimodal amnesia and agnosia without significant intellectual, linguistic or perceptual deficits. Bilateral temporal lobe lesions involved medial, polar and anterior infero-temporal structures. Although visual recognition was impaired to various extents for all categories of objects, preservation of certain capacities were demonstrated. In particular, the patient was able to determine specifically how to manipulate certain objects, in spite of his incapacity to define their function or their context of utilization. It is argued that object recognition involves different processing modes such that when direct access to representations of an object is impaired, sensorimotor information activated via alternative cortical and subcortical pathways may provide a limited mechanism for recognition.
An opioid growth factor, [Met5]-enkephalin, is known to regulate developmental events in the neonatal rat retina. This growth factor interacts with the zeta (zeta) opioid receptor to modulate retinal ontogeny. Both peptide and receptor are present in developing retina, but not in adult retina. We have used in situ hybridization histochemistry to identify and localize preproenkephalin A mRNA in the neonatal rat retina. Preproenkephalin mRNA was localized to the ganglion cell layer, with some radiolabeling found in the neuroblast layer. This result indicates that 1) the mRNA to preproenkephalin A is present during the critical stage of development in the neonatal retina that coincides with the presence of the growth-regulating peptide, [Met5]-enkephalin, and 2) that the source of the opioid growth factor controlling the production of retinal cells appears to be autocrine (i.e., retinal neuroblasts) and paracrine (i.e., ganglion cells) in nature.

Behaviors as diverse as swimming, withdrawal, escape, locomotion and feeding have been simulated using neuroethological and neurophysiological data obtained from a variety of animals. These simulations are providing new insights into the neural circuitry that generates adaptive behavior, as well as new ideas for the design of artificial autonomous devices.
It has recently become possible to reconstruct a central pattern generator in tissue culture. This accomplishment will allow investigators to design and interpret experiments at a level not possible in in vivo preparations and enhance our understanding of the mechanisms that underlie the generation of rhythmic behaviour.
The importance of the development of the medical neurosciences is evidenced by the fact that the President of the United States and Congress have declared the 1990s the &quot;decade of the brain.&quot; Special emphasis will be placed on managing and treating brain disease and, in particular, salvaging damaged brain from cerebral artery disease, trauma, tumor, and so forth. The advent of brain or cerebral care units in hospitals can be anticipated, analogous to the commonly available coronary care unit that resulted from recent concerted efforts to &quot;conquer&quot; heart disease. This effort will probably lead to a markedly expanded purview for clinical research in central nervous system disease. During the past year, a virtual explosion of publications in the mainstream medical literature on the basic and clinical utilization of nuclear medicine in the neurosciences has occurred. More than 400 substantive papers were published and the majority dealt with some aspect of positron-emission tomography. The more clinically pertinent of these papers are reviewed.
The early morphogenesis of rat skeletal muscle is a biphasic process involving two sequentially generated populations of myotubes. A small population of primary myotubes appears early and is followed by a much larger population of secondary myotubes which appear progressively over a number of days. All previously published electrophysiological studies of developing muscle have failed to appreciate the relevance of biphasic myotube production. Here we reevaluate the status of early motor innervation, taking into account the wide range of sizes and levels of maturity within the two myotube populations. Evoked end-plate potentials (EPPs) were recorded from fibers of E17-20 rat sternocostalis muscles. Impaled fibers were then marked by ejection of HRP from the recording pipet, enabling ultrastructural identification of fibers from which recordings had been made. The average number of synaptic inputs per fiber increased to a peak at E19, and the rate of rise of the EPPs increased with age. The majority of impaled fibers (76%) were subsequently found to be primary myotubes, even at ages when secondary myotubes formed the majority of fibers in the muscle. Electrophysiological studies during early stages of secondary myotube development therefore sample largely from the more mature primary fibers and probably give the wrong impression of the extent and degree of polyneuronal innervation and of synaptic rearrangement within the muscle. In addition, the results show that very young secondary myotubes are distinguished by EPPs of longer latency, slower rate of rise, and smaller size than those of other types of myotubes. These results suggest that young secondary myotubes are predominantly activated by EPPs which originate in adjoining primary myotubes and propagate electronically to the secondary myotube. We propose a new model of early synaptic rearrangement which accommodates the biphasic nature of muscle development. We also suggest that secondary myotubes do not require direct neural input for the initiation of their development.
We have developed a method of marking of mouse cells by means of transfection of a foreign gene. The transgene chosen here was the plasmid pEF321CAT which contains the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) gene linked to the promoter region of the human polypeptide chain elongation factor 1 alpha (hEF1 alpha) gene. Evaluation of the plasmid pEF321CAT as a cellular marker for mouse cells involved intensive examination of a transgenic mouse carrying pEF321CAT. The CAT gene was expressed in all tissues examined, demonstrating that the hEF1 alpha promoter was active in a wide range of mouse cells. The plasmid itself did not exert any harmful effect on the normal development of mice, and the CAT activity was immunohistologically detectable on sectioned tissues by the use of anti-CAT serum. When the plasmid was transferred into embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells and embryonic stem (ES) cells, the CAT gene was also found to be expressed constantly irrespective of their differentiation. These results demonstrated that the plasmid pEF321CAT can be used as a reliable and feasible cellular marker that would distinguish unequivocally the cells of each of genotype in chimeric tissues.
This article describes a technique to measure binaural integration time. A binaural noise with an interaural time difference of 0.8 msec was presented in three conditions: alone, with intervening noise that was identical between the two ears, or with uncorrelated intervening noise. Both behavioral responses and evoked potentials were recorded. When the stimulus was presented in a quiet background, it was accurately detected and lateralized with durations as short as 2 msec. The N1 peak of the evoked potential occurred at approximately 90 msec. When the stimulus occurred as a brief change in an ongoing correlated binaural noise, a duration of 10 msec was necessary before the sound could be accurately lateralized or an evoked potential elicited. The N1 peak occurred at approximately 120 msec. When the stimulus occurred as a change in an ongoing uncorrelated binaural noise, a duration of 60 msec was necessary for the subject to lateralize the stimulus and for an evoked potential to be elicited. The N1 peak occurred at about 130 msec. These results suggest that a period of approximately 60 msec is required to detect the correlation of an ongoing binaural noise and that a somewhat shorter period is necessary to track changes in a sound source that has already been lateralized. The simplicity of this technique makes it an attractive tool for assessing central auditory function.
Non-ionic detergent-soluble and detergent-resistant cynomolgus monkey trabecular cell surface glycoconjugates have been identified using three radiolabeling procedures and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate. The cell surface glycoconjugates were radiolabeled with tritiated sodium borohydride after treatment with: (1) neuraminidase/galactose oxidase; (2) galactose oxidase; or (3) sodium metaperiodate. The non-ionic detergent soluble components were removed by treatment of the monolayer cell culture with 1% Triton X-100 in hypotonic buffer. The radiolabeled trabecular cell surface glycoconjugates in the Triton X-100 soluble and insoluble fractions were resolved by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under reducing conditions and visualized by fluorography. Treatment of the monkey trabecular cells with neuraminidase/galactose oxidase/tritiated sodium borohydride resulted in the radiolabeling of five components ranging in apparent molecular weight from 128,000 to 39,000 in the Triton X-100 soluble fractions, while 12 radiolabeled glycoconjugates with apparent molecular weights ranging from 240,000 to 26,000 were resolved in the Triton X-100 resistant fraction.
Visual display design for dynamic systems may be helped by exploiting emergent features that allow subjects to easily distinguish different states of the system. Three different types of displays were compared--two object displays and one separated display--each in a version that had a salient emergent feature that distinguished normal and failed states and in a version that did not have such an emergent feature. Subjects monitored for global and local failures simultaneously, which presented demands similar to integrated and separated tasks, respectively. Displays with salient emergent features supported superior global failure detection and may also have helped local failure detection. An object display with a salient emergent feature supported both types of failures better than or at least as well as the other displays. This advantage was attributed to the fact that the display had a salient emergent feature rather than to the fact that it was an object display. This research shows that emergent features can be effectively exploited to support tasks involving both integration of information and attention to individual data sources.
A description of the activation phase of the land snail Zachrysia guanensis delayed potassium current (IK) is presented. It was found that IK activation kinetics may be congruent with the Hodgkin-Huxley scheme if one assumes that the proportion of n particles at the beginning of the pulse is not zero. In this case IK activation may be treated as carried by a homogeneous channel population, which may be relevant in view of the reported heterogeneity of the inactivation phase of this current.
Endothelial cells that make up brain capillaries and constitute the blood-brain barrier become different from peripheral endothelial cells in response to inductive factors found in the nervous system. We have established a cell culture model of the blood-brain barrier by treating brain endothelial cells with a combination of astrocyte-conditioned medium and agents that elevate intracellular cAMP. These cells form high resistance tight junctions and exhibit low rates of paracellular leakage and fluid-phase endocytosis. They also undergo a dramatic structural reorganization as they form tight junctions. Results from these studies suggest modes of manipulating the permeability of the blood-brain barrier, potentially providing the basis for increasing the penetration of drugs into the central nervous system.
Amaurosis fugax in a younger person in whom premature atherosclerotic disease and cardiac emboli have been eliminated is usually benign. We describe a 25-year-old man with recurrent painless left monocular visual loss lasting from 5 to 45 minutes. Initial physical examination, carotid ultrasound, and electrocardiogram were normal. Goldmann visual field testing demonstrated a small, left paracentral defect. Neuroimaging studies were initially declined for economic reasons, but later a magnetic resonance image disclosed a large pituitary tumor displacing the left optic nerve and chiasm. The tumor was removed via a transphenoidal approach, and the episodic visual symptoms disappeared. We stress that amaurosis fugax in young patients is not necessarily benign. A specific etiology should be diligently sought, particularly when ocular signs are present.
Electrophysiologic studies of brain serotonergic neurons in behaving animals indicate that their activity is closely related to the sleep-wake-arousal cycle and to certain specific types of repetitive motor activity. A variety of other environmental and physiologic manipulations are ineffective in altering the activity of this neurochemical system. An attempt is made to relate these results to well-known involvement of brain serotonin in human affective disorders.
Physiological and pharmacological studies have suggested that catecholamines modulate cholinergic neurons in the medial septal and diagonal band nuclei (i.e., the septal complex). Thus, the ultrastructural morphology of neurons containing choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the biosynthetic enzyme for acetylcholine, and their relation to catecholaminergic terminals exhibiting immunoreactivity for the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) were examined in the rat septal complex. Dual immunoautoradiographic and peroxidase anti-peroxidase labeling methods were used to simultaneously localize antibodies raised in rabbits against TH and from rat-mouse hybridomas against ChAT in single sections. At least two types of perikarya with ChAT-immunoreactivity (ChAT-I) were observed. The first type were large (20-30 microns), elongated or round, and contained a small indented nucleus with an abundant cytoplasm and an occasional lamellar body. The second type was also either ovoid or round but was medium-sized (15-20 microns) and contained a larger indented nucleus and a smaller amount of cytoplasm than the first type. Both types of perikarya as well as dendrites with ChAT-I were surrounded by astrocytic processes apposed to most of their plasmalemmal surfaces. The distribution and types of terminal associations (i.e., asymmetric synapses, symmetric synapses and appositions which lacked a membrane specialization in the plane of section analyzed) with ChAT-labeled perikarya and dendrites were quantitatively evaluated. The majority (68% of 197) of the presynaptic terminals were unlabeled; the remaining terminals were immunoreactive for TH (25%) or ChAT (7%). All three types of terminals contacted primarily the shafts of small dendrites and more rarely ChAT-labeled perikarya and large dendrites. ChAT-labeled terminals: (1) formed associations with unlabeled perikarya and dendrites (31% of 176); (2) formed associations with perikarya and dendrites with ChAT-I (7%); (3) contacted the same unlabeled perikarya and dendrite as a TH-containing terminal (21%); (4) were in apposition to TH-labeled terminals (25%); or (5) were either in apposition to unlabeled or ChAT-labeled terminals or lacked associations with any processes. The majority of associations formed by the terminals with ChAT-I were on the shafts of small dendrites. Moreover, most of the associations formed were either symmetric synapses or appositions not separated by astrocytes in the plane of section analyzed. These findings provide cellular substrates in the septal complex (1) for sparse synaptic input relative to astrocytic investment of cholinergic neurons and (2) for direct synaptic modulation of cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons by catecholamines and/or acetylcholine. These findings have direct relevance to catecholaminergic-cholinergic interactions and to the neuropathological basis for Alzheimer's disease.
The intriguing structural similarities of glutamic acid based cholecystokinin (CCK) antagonists (A-64718 and A-65186) and the benzodiazepine CCK antagonist MK-329 (L-364,718) have been reported. Efforts to include the weak CCK antagonist benzotript into this construct utilizing a similar approach have resulted in a novel series of benzotript-based hybrid antagonists N alpha-(3'-quinolylcarbonyl)-(R)-tryptophan di-n-pentylamide (9, A-67396), N alpha-(4',8'-dihydroxy-2'-quinolylcarbonyl)-(R)-tryptophan di-n-pentylamide (23, A-70276), and N alpha-(3'-quinolylcarbonyl)-(R)-5'-hydroxytryptophan di-n-pentylamide (36, A-71134) which possess respectively binding affinities of 23, 21, and 11 nM for the pancreatic CCK-A receptor and which inhibit CCK8-induced amylase secretion. Compound 9 possesses a selectivity of greater than 500-fold for the pancreatic CCK-A receptor over the CCK-B receptor.
To determine whether the duration of certain motor activities can be a prespecified dimension of the motor program, we studied the duration of a motor response and the hand to be used, in a precueing paradigm. The response to be produced (a press on a push-button) was either short or long and involved either the right or the left hand. In Experiment 1, 200 and 700 ms (Block 1) or 700 and 2,500 ms (Block 2) were respectively chosen as short and long durations. No RT difference between short and long appeared when response duration was certain. When response duration was uncertain, RTs were longer for long than for short responses. In addition, the RTs that preceded the 700-ms response were longer in Block 1 than in Block 2. These results suggest that response duration can be programmed up to 2,500 ms and that the relative duration of a response in a given range is more relevant for programming mechanisms than its absolute duration. In Experiment 2, uncertainty concerning the response was maintained constant in a similar precueing paradigm, in which only 700-and 2,500-ms response durations were considered. The RTs preceding a long duration were shorter when duration was certain than when neither side nor duration was certain. No RT difference appeared before the short response duration. This seems to confirm that duration can be programmed up to 2,500 ms and also suggests that the program elaborated for the short duration constitutes a common basis for short and long responses: When duration is uncertain, programming a long duration requires just an additional operation to complete the program corresponding to the short duration, which has already been selected by default.
ARPP-21 (cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein; Mr = 21,000) is a cytosolic neuronal phosphoprotein that is highly enriched in the striatum and in other dopaminoceptive regions of the brain. The state of phosphorylation of ARPP-21 is also regulated by vasoactive intestinal peptide in intact cells. We previously reported the sequence analysis of bovine ARPP-21 cDNA and have now characterized rat ARPP-21 cDNA to study further the molecular biology of this protein. The sequence of the coding region is 82 and 85% identical at the nucleotide and amino acid levels, respectively, between the two species. There are two major classes of clones, differing only in the lengths of their 3' untranslated ends, suggesting that the different ARPP-21 mRNAs are derived from the use of alternate polyadenylation sites. Both major mRNA species, 2.6 and 0.7 kb, are present at the highest concentration in the striatum, followed by the cortex, consistent with previous immunocytochemical results. Southern blot analysis reveals a simple hybridization pattern, consistent with the presence of a single rat gene encoding ARPP-21. The steady-state levels of the ARPP-21 mRNAs are developmentally regulated but, in the neonatal and mature animal, are not altered following 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra or by pharmacologic treatments that up-regulate the D1- or D2-dopamine receptors.
Neuronal stimulation can rapidly activate several immediate early genes that code for transcription factors. We have used primary cortical cultures to study the regulation of four of these genes, c-fos, c-jun, jun-B, and zif268. Immunocytochemical studies with antibodies to Jun-B, c-Jun, and c-Fos demonstrate intense staining in the nuclei of a subset of cortical neurons in mature cultures (21-25 days in vitro) but not young cultures (3-7 days in vitro). To assess whether this immunoreactivity may be induced by spontaneous synaptic activity that develops with a similar profile, we examined the effects of agents that reduce this synaptic activity. Tetrodotoxin or N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists suppress basal immunoreactivity to Jun-B and c-Fos, but not c-Jun, indicating that the basal level of c-Jun expression is not dependent on electrical activity. Picrotoxin, an agent that increases synaptic excitation indirectly by blocking inhibitory synaptic currents mediated by gamma-aminobutyric acidA receptors, markedly increases the percentage of neurons displaying immunoreactivity to c-Fos, c-Jun, Jun-B, and Zif268. Northern analysis suggests that the increases in immunostaining induced by picrotoxin are secondary to a rapid increase in mRNA for these proteins. These findings provide evidence for rapid transcriptional regulation of immediate early genes in cortical neurons by synaptic activity.
The expression of two vascular addressins, adhesion molecules implicated in lymphocyte traffic via high endothelial venules (HEV) within lymph node and mucosal tissues, and of an HEV differentiation antigen (Ag) has been followed immunocytochemically in the central nervous system (CNS) of SJL mice at different stages of adoptively-transferred, chronic relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Monoclonal antibody (mAb), MECA-325, which defines an HEV cell differentiation Ag generally associated with vessels involved in lymphocyte traffic, gave consistently high levels of expression on and around blood vessels within spinal cord lesions during periods of inflammation (acute onset and relapses). Two mAbs, MECA-89 and MECA-367, both recognizing the same mucosal addressin showed an affinity for endothelial cells and some astrocytes but only in lesions from animals displaying relapses. MECA-79, an mAb against a peripheral lymph node vascular addressin, showed no CNS staining whatsoever. All four antibodies gave uniformly positive staining on control lymphoid tissue. Since some stages of EAE appeared to be associated with the expression of different addressins, the possibility of separate roles for these distinct molecules should be considered.
Histopathologic findings were examined in skeletal muscle biopsies from 6 patients with myoclonus epilepsy with ragged-red fibers (MERRF) who had an A to G base substitution at mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) nucleotide pair 8344. In addition to variation in fiber size and ragged-red fibers, all specimens in cross sections showed focal cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) deficiency, suggesting that this finding is crucial in elucidating the role of the mutant mtDNA in the pathogenesis of this disorder. Along the length of single muscle fibers, defects in CCO activity were distributed segmentally with blurred borders in 5 patients which were in contrast with segmental defects with sharply delineated borders seen in chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia with deleted mtDNA. These morphologically heterogeneous defects in CCO activity may in part be due to differing populations of and distributions of wild and mutants mtDNAs.
1. The main aim of the present series of experiments was to demonstrate with electrophysiological methods that the spinothalamocortical system may send somesthetic information to the pyramidal and corticospinal tract cells in the motor cortex of the cat. 2. Experiments were carried out on acutely prepared cats anesthetized with alpha-chloralose. Extra- and intracellular recordings were made from the cells located in the pericruciate motor cortex (the lateral portion of area 4 gamma). They were identified by their antidromic responses to pyramidal stimulation and/or stimulation of the dorsolateral funiculus of the spinal cord. The animals were subjected to a set of nervous tissue lesions to prevent any transit of extereoceptive information to the motor cortex via the cerebellum and the somatosensory cortex. A lesion of the dorsal part of the spinal cord was also made, leaving intact only the afferent inflow ascending in the spinal ventral half, i.e., the spinothalamic system. 3. In this cat preparation it was observed that both electrical and natural stimulation of the limbs still efficiently activated the motor cortical efferent cells. 4. The pathway was mapped by applying microstimulation along its whole course in the spinal cord and brain stem. Stimulation of the primary afferent fibers running in the dorsal columns caudally to the spinal cord lesion produced activation and/or inhibition of the cortical cells. The existence of these responses may be attributable to the existence of collaterals from primary afferent fibers located in the dorsal columns, which activate the spinothalamic tract cells either mono- or polysynaptically. In the brain stem the fibers join the medial lemniscus. 5. In view of the short latency of the responses (mean latency 10.5 ms from the spinal cord) it is suggested that this component of the spinothalamic system may play an important role in the sensory regulation of ongoing movements.
1. Spontaneous changes in the positions of both eyes were measured in anesthetized cats before and after infusion of paralytic or anesthetic agents directly into the extraocular muscle capsule behind one eye. 2. Before retrobulbar injection, large changes in eye position were observed in both eyes. The position changes of each eye were independent of each other and often in opposite directions. 3. Application of a paralytic agent into the orbit of one eye reduced the spontaneous position changes in that eye to a very low level. Unexpectedly, the changes in the position of the other, untreated eye were also greatly reduced. 4. Control experiments demonstrated that the binocular immobilization observed after monocular paralysis was not due to 1) leakage of the paralytic agent from the orbit of the treated eye to the orbit of the untreated eye or 2) systemic vascular transport of the paralytic agent. 5. Passive movement of the paralyzed eye did not induce movement of the untreated eye. 6. Application of a local anesthetic agent rather than a paralytic agent to one eye resulted in reversible reduction of movement only in the treated eye, but not in the untreated eye. 7. The results suggest that the reduction of movement in one eye produced by application of a paralytic agent to the other eye is mediated by an afferent neural signal derived from extraocular muscle proprioceptors possibly gated by a central motor control signal.
Axonal contact plays a critical role in initiating myelin formation by Schwann cells. However, recent studies of &quot;double myelination&quot; have indicated that myelin maintenance continues in Schwann cells completely displaced from physical contact with the axon. This raises the possibility either that diffusible trophic factors are produced by the axon, or that the axon is not required for myelin maintenance by these displaced Schwann cells. To test these hypotheses, the axons involved in double myelination in the mouse superior cervical ganglion (SCG) were transected surgically by a transganglionic lesion. The inferior pole of the SCG was resected to limit axonal regeneration. This method produced a typical Wallerian pattern of degeneration in the superior pole, without compromising the blood supply or introducing nonspecific trauma. EM analysis at 1 and 5 d postoperatively showed that initially the axon degenerated, followed by breakdown of the inner myelin sheath. In those configurations where the outer Schwann cell was only partly displaced from the axon, the outer myelin sheath degenerated simultaneously. However, in completely displaced internodes the outer sheath survived degeneration of the axon and inner sheath. Outer internodes remained intact for at least 5 weeks after transection (the longest time point in this study), at which time they enclosed reorganized processes of the inner Schwann cells, their basal lamina, and numerous collagen fibrils. Axonal regeneration within surviving outer internodes was rare and was characterized by the development of typical Remak ensheathment by the inner Schwann cells. We conclude that in the mouse SCG, myelin maintenance does not depend on the continued presence of the axon. These data suggest further that myelin breakdown in Wallerian degeneration may be initiated by mechanisms other than absence of a viable axon.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is transiently detectable in cells distributed throughout cranial sensory ganglia during early stages of gangliogenesis [embryonic day (E) 10.5-15.5]. Although TH cells appear in embryonic ganglia of both neural crest and placode origin, mature cranial sensory neurons that express catecholaminergic properties are restricted to placode derivatives. The mechanism(s) underlying the loss of TH expression in crest-derived sensory ganglia is unknown, and the present study was undertaken to define the temporal regulation of this phenotype. Our data indicate that transient TH cells belong to a large subset of primary sensory neurons that exhibit the capability to express TH throughout development. The lack of TH expression after E15.5 appears to be due to modulation of this catecholaminergic potential. The phenotype reappears, however, when E16.5 and older ganglia are dissociated in culture into single cells, suggesting that factors associated with cell aggregation modulate TH expression. In support of this hypothesis, sensory neurons grown at high cell density exhibit lower levels of TH expression than low-density cultures. The decrease in TH levels seen at high density was associated with changes in sensory neuron morphology that are characteristic of ganglion cell maturation in vivo; therefore, modulation of TH expression may be only one facet of a more general program of sensory neuron differentiation associated with cell aggregation in developing ganglia. In contrast to the effects of cell aggregation, treatment with NGF increased the proportion of TH cells in dissociate cultures of E14.5 and E16.5 cranial sensory ganglia. Our findings indicate that sensory transmitter phenotype may be modulated by multiple factors during gangliogenesis, including cellular interactions intrinsic to the developing ganglionic microenvironment.
Topographic projections are important for coding sensory information in the visual, auditory, and somatosensory systems but are of uncertain importance in the coding of olfactory information. We searched for topographic projections between olfactory receptor cells and the olfactory bulb of the rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss. Anterograde axonal tracing with HRP revealed that the olfactory axons arising from discrete regions of the olfactory epithelium travel together within the olfactory nerve. The abrupt resorting and redistribution of these axons at the interface between the olfactory nerve and olfactory bulb imply that local cues control and organize axonal projections. The sites of termination of HRP-labeled axons in the glomerular layer could not be predicted from the location of their cell bodies in the periphery. Retrograde tracing with fluorescently labeled latex beads, injected into glomerular subregions as small as 1% of the total glomerular volume, labeled receptor cells dispersed throughout the olfactory epithelium. The distributions of labeled receptor cells were uncorrelated with the bulbar injection sites. Double-labeling experiments revealed that even widely separated sites in the glomerular layer receive axons from comingled populations of receptor cells. Hence, the evidence indicates that the spatial arrangement of olfactory receptor cells in the epithelium is not preserved in the termination of their axons in the olfactory bulb. We conclude that the primary olfactory in trout lacks point-to-point or regionally topographic organization and that the entire extent of the olfactory epithelium contributes axons to each region of the glomerular layer.

The changing health care environment has challenged nurses to develop creative care delivery systems that provide for quality, comprehensive, cost-effective care in a time of restricted reimbursement and diminishing human and material resources. Nursing case management has been identified as one such approach to health care delivery that has resulted in quality, patient-centered care and improved resource utilization. The case management plan, critical path and discharge planning sheet are primary tools in this care delivery model. Because of the diverse case types and variety of patient care settings, neuroscience nursing is an ideal arena for implementing a nursing case management model of care.
Previous studies have led to the hypothesis that some protein constituents of postsynaptic membrane specializations are locally synthesized near postsynaptic sites. The present study focuses on one prediction of this hypothesis, specifically, that if some proteins of the postsynaptic membrane specialization are locally synthesized, then the delay between synthesis and assembly into synaptic junctional membrane could be short. We evaluate the time course of appearance of recently synthesized protein in synaptic junctions by pulse-labeling hippocampal slices maintained in vitro with radiolabeled protein precursors, and then isolating subcellular fractions enriched in synaptic plasma membranes (SPM) and synaptic junctional complexes (SJC). We report that there is no evidence of a delay in the appearance of recently synthesized proteins in SPM and SJC fractions. Labeled proteins could be detected as early as 15 min after the initiation of the pulse-labeling period, and the extent of labeling increased monotonically thereafter. The labeling could not be accounted for by contamination of synaptic membrane fractions with other membranes, because the relative specific activity of the SPM and SJC fractions was the same or higher than that of the less pure fractions from which these synaptic fractions were derived. One-dimensional PAGE-fluorography was used to provide an initial characterization of which proteins were labeled in SJC fractions. We found that the most prominent labeled bands were at apparent molecular weights of approximately 43-44, 55-56, and 60 kd, with more lightly labeled bands at about 38 and 116 kd. In some preparations, there was a labeled doublet at about 36-38 kd. There were also other lightly labeled bands at other molecular weights. These bands were much less heavily labeled than the bands at 43-44, 55-56, and 60 kd, however. There was little labeling in the molecular weight range of the &quot;major psd protein&quot; (the alpha subunit of CAM-kinase), although there was diffuse labeling throughout the 45-52 kd region. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that some of the protein constituents of the postsynaptic junctional complex are synthesized by polyribosomes which are selectively localized beneath synaptic junctions.
1. Single motor unit activity was recorded in the extensor carpi radialis longus and extensor carpi radialis brevis muscles of five healthy human subjects, using metal microelectrodes. 2. Motor units were characterized on the basis of their twitch contraction times and their force recruitment thresholds during voluntary imposed-ramp contractions. 3. The discharge patterns of forty-three motor units were studied during tonic vibration reflex elicited by prolonged (150 s) trains of vibration (30 Hz) applied to the distal tendons of the muscles. The temporal relationships between the individual small tendon taps of the vibratory stimulus and the motor unit impulses were analysed on dot raster displays and post-stimulus time histograms. 4. After tendon taps, the impulses of motor units with long twitch contraction times (mean +/- S.D., 47.2 +/- 10.7 ms) and low recruitment thresholds (0.88 +/- 0.6 N) formed a single narrow peak (P1) with a latency (22.7 +/- 1.4 ms) which was comparable to that of the tendon jerk in the extensor carpi radialis muscles. These motor units were named 'P1 units'. On the other hand, the response of motor units with shorter twitch contraction times (31.1 +/- 3.3 ms) and higher recruitment thresholds (3.21 +/- 1.3 N) showed two peaks: a short latency (23.4 +/- 1.3 ms) P1 peak similar to the previous one and a P2 peak occurring 9.4 +/- 1.2 ms later. These motor units were named 'P1-P2 units'. 5. When the reflex contraction increased slowly, the P1 peaks of 'P1-P2 units' were clearly predominant at the beginning of the contraction, during the rising phase of the motor unit discharge frequency, while the P2 peaks became predominant when the units had reached their maximal discharge frequency. 6. Increasing the tendon vibration frequency (35, 55, 75, 95 Hz) did not modify the 'P1 unit' discharge pattern. Due to interference between vibration period and peak latencies, increasing the vibration frequency caused the P1 and P2 peaks of 'P1-P2 units' to overlap. 7. Superficial cutaneous stimulation of the dorsal side of the forearm during tendon vibration noticeably decreased the P1 peaks in both types of motor units. In the P2 peaks it could result in either a decrease or an increase but the average effect was a slight increase. 8. When applied 10 s before tendon vibration, cutaneous stimulation considerably suppressed the tonic vibration reflex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The 3' terminus of the single-stranded, negative-sense genome of the measles virus comprises a 55-nucleotide-long sequence, which is transcribed into a short, positive-sense RNA called the leader sequence. In other viral systems, this RNA has been shown to modulate host cell transcription. Here, we report the presence of measles virus leader RNA in both cytoplasmic and nuclear fractions of infected HeLa cells as well as T- and B-lymphoid cells. A sharp and rapid increase in the concentration of leader RNA in the nucleus of infected HeLa cells was also observed. The presence and accumulation of leader RNA in the nucleus of infected cells supports the hypothesis that the leader RNA plays a role in the down regulation of host cell transcription and may be responsible for the suppression of immunoglobulin synthesis by measles virus-infected B cells. Such alterations in immune responsiveness could aid in the establishment of a persistent infection by measles virus.
Magnetic resonance (MR) can offer a unique window on the structure/function relationships in the brain, by utilizing the established link between tissue function, metabolism, and hemodynamics. This report focuses on recent applications of MR-based cerebral blood volume (CBV) imaging in humans. Our methodology uses high-speed &quot;single-shot&quot; or echo planar imaging techniques, which provide the necessary temporal resolution for mapping the rapid cerebral transit of contrast agents. These MR CBV mapping techniques have been used to study normal human brain task activation and in the clinical study of patients with brain tumors. In the latter, positron emission tomography imaging was used for functional metabolic and CBV correlation. Susceptibility contrast CBV imaging should allow us to improve our understanding of the relationship between the detailed physiology and morphology of the microvascular bed and functional attributes of the brain. These techniques can be applied to understanding fundamental questions of cognitive neuroscience and can aid in improving diagnostic sensitivity and specificity in various neuropathologies.
Controversy exists concerning mechanisms by which progesterone exerts central nervous system effects on behavior. Progesterone may affect behavior by genomic regulation of protein synthesis. Alternatively, it may work through nongenomic mechanisms, consistent with its short latency to act. In the present study, we have examined the hypothesis that progesterone facilitation of sexual behavior is correlated with modification of the synthesis of specific proteins in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH). Ovariectomized rats were treated with either estradiol (4 mug/kg at 0 and 18 h) or estradiol (at 0 and 18 h) plus progesterone (2 mg/kg at 37 h). (35)S-labeled cysteine and methionine were bilaterally infused into the VMH at 37 h (the time of progesterone administration). Following 4 h of infusion, animals were tested for sexual behavior and sacrificed. Newly synthesized VMH proteins were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis followed by fluorography. Analysis of approximately 660 spots/fluorogram in two independent replications indicated that no qualitative or quantitative changes in protein synthesis occurred in response to progesterone. In each replication statistical analysis suggested that the abundance of several proteins may have changed, but no specific proteins were changed in abundance in both replications. Within the range of this technique (10-100 kDa and 4.8-6.7 apparent pI) we found no evidence that progesterone causes alterations in VMH protein synthesis.
Opioid peptides are generally thought to exert hormone-dependent regulatory influences on gonadotropin secretion and the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPv) has been shown to play a critical role in the neural control of this sexually dimorphic function. In the present study we used in situ hybridization to compare the numbers of proenkephalin (PENK) and prodynorphin (PDYN) mRNA-containing neurons in the AVPv of male and female rats and to evaluate the influence of circulating sex steroid hormones on the development and mature regulation of PENK and PDYN gene expression in these neurons. In agreement with earlier immunohistochemical observations, the number of PENK mRNA-containing neurons in the AVPv of male rats was found to be twice that of female animals. In contrast, the AVPv contains over four times the number of PDYN mRNA-containing cells in female rats, relative to intact males. Treatment of newborn female rats with testosterone increases the number of PENK mRNA-containing neurons in the AVPv, but decreases the number of PDYN mRNA-containing neurons in the AVPv compared with untreated females. Treatment of adult ovariectomized female rats with estradiol significantly increased PDYN mRNA levels in the AVPv; however, comparable changes in levels of PENK mRNA were not detected. In adult male rats, neither PDYN, nor PENK mRNA were significantly altered by orchidectomy or testosterone treatment. Thus, the maintenance of enkephalinergic neurons and the loss of hormone-sensitive dynorphin-containing neurons in the AVPv may represent important developmental influences of neonatal androgens on the sexually differentiated neural circuitry controlling gonadotropin secretion.
Several putative peptide-processing endoproteases have been identified by homology to the yeast Kex2 endoprotease, including furin, PC2, and PC1. However, the question is still open as to which might be involved in peptide posttranslational processing. To enable detailed comparisons of physiological changes in peptide processing with biochemical and molecular biological studies, we cloned rat pituitary cDNAs for PC1 and PC2. The amino acid sequence homologies among rat, human, and mouse PC1, PC2, and furin are consistent with each being a highly conserved but distinct member of a larger family of mammalian subtilisin-like proteases. PC1 and PC2 mRNAs show a restricted distribution among rat tissues and cultured cell lines, consistent with a role in tissue-specific peptide processing; the occurrence of furin mRNA among these tissues and cell lines is much more widespread, being high in many nonneuroendocrine tissues. In the neurointermediate pituitary, PC1 and PC2 mRNAs are strikingly regulated in response to dopaminergic agents, in parallel with mRNAs for POMC, peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase, and carboxypeptidase-H. In AtT-20 cells, PC1 mRNA is coregulated with POMC and peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase mRNAs in response to CRH and glucocorticoids. When the endogenous PC1 mRNA level in AtT-20 cells is significantly and specifically decreased by stable expression of antisense RNA to PC1, biosynthetic labeling of newly synthesized POMC-derived peptides shows a substantial blockade of normal POMC processing. These data are consistent with a role for PC1 protein in endoproteolysis, either as a processing endoprotease or as the activator of the actual processing endoprotease(s).
Identification of nonadrenergic binding sites for clonidine and related imidazolines in brain and peripheral tissues and partial purification of an endogenous ligand for these sites have led to the postulation of a novel transmitter/receptor system. The receptors seem to be present in adrenal medulla and to regulate chromaffin cell function. The present study was undertaken to test the ability of the putative endogenous ligand clonidine-displacing substance (CDS) to displace [3H]idazoxan binding to adrenal chromaffin cell membranes and to release catecholamines from cultured chromaffin cells. CDS potently displaces [3H]idazoxan binding to chromaffin cell membranes, with an IC50 of 5 units. The displacement of [3H]idazoxan binding by CDS was not modified by guanosine 5'-(beta, gamma-imido)triphosphate, suggesting that the imidazoline binding sites may not be GTP-binding protein-coupled receptors. CDS produced a large release of catecholamines from chromaffin cells, and the release was partially blocked by cobalt, a calcium channel blocker. The calcium-dependent release reached a plateau above 5 units of CDS, with a maximal response at 15 min. It is concluded that endogenous CDS, prepared from brain, regulates the secretion of catecholamines from adrenal chromaffin cells, probably by activating imidazole receptors.
Experimental evidence suggests that neuronal pharmacologic sites termed sigma (sigma) may be related, but not identical to PCP sites in the ion channel linked to NMDA excitatory receptors. These receptors may play a role in schizophreniform psychoses, and clinical trials of putative sigma-ligands have begun. Because of this, and because of the relationship of sigma-ligands to NMDA receptors, we studied the effect of the most selective presently available sigma-ligand on ischaemic neuronal death throughout the rat brain after transient forebrain ischaemia. Ventricular delivery of DTG at 0.5 mumol/h via an osmotic minipump was chosen to allow continuous access of the drug to brain tissue, control animals receiving artificial CSF. After one week survival, selective neuronal necrosis was reduced in the hippocampus, but not in the neocortex or striatum, contrasting with our previous findings in this model with pure NMDA antagonists. The results indicate that ischaemic neuronal necrosis in the hippocampus may be mitigated by sigma-agonists, possibly via an interaction with NMDA receptors.
In primary dissociated cultures of mouse cerebellum a number of Purkinje cell-specific marker proteins and characteristic ionic currents appear at the appropriate developmental time. During the first week after plating, Purkinje cell dendrites elongate, but as electrical activity emerges the dendrites stop growing and branch. If endogenous electrical activity is inhibited by chronic tetrodotoxin or high magnesium treatment, dendrites continue to elongate, as if they were still immature. At the time that branching begins, intracellular calcium levels become sensitive to tetrodotoxin, suggesting that this cation may be involved in dendrite growth. Even apparently mature Purkinje cells alter their dendritic growth in response to changes in activity, suggesting long-term plasticity.
To assess the necessary parameters for the growth of axons within the adult rat CNS, we have used intracerebral grafts of primary fibroblasts genetically engineered to express nerve growth factor (NGF). Following the implantation of NGF-producing primary fibroblasts within the striatum, cholinergic axons arising from the nucleus basalis grow toward and penetrate these grafts between 1 and 8 weeks. Grafts of noninfected control cells do not elicit axon sprouting at any time. Unmyelinated axons grow into grafts of NGF-producing cells only on reactive astrocytic processes, which contribute to a surrounding glial border. From our data concerning axon growth within the adult rat CNS, we conclude that reactive astrocytes can act as conducive substrates for growing axons; and only in the presence of elevated levels of NGF will permissive substrates (e.g., astrocytes) support axon growth by NGF-sensitive neurons.
Because diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) and its processing products coexist with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in several axon terminals, DBI immunoreactivity was measured in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of individuals suffering from various neuropsychiatric disorders, that are believe to be associated with abnormalities of GABAergic transmission. Increased amounts of DBI-like immunoreactivity were found in the CSF of patients suffering from severe depression with a severe anxiety component (Barbaccia, Costa, Ferrero, Guidotti, Roy, Sunderland, Pickar, Paul and Goodwin, 1986). Moreover, the amount of DBI and its processing products was found to be increased in the CSF of patients with hepatic encephalopathy (HE) (Rothstein, McKhann, Guarneri, Barbaccia, Guidotti and Costa, 1989; Guarneri, Berkovich, Guidotti and Costa, 1990). The clinical rating of HE correlated with the extent of the increase in DBI in CSF. Other lines of research suggest that DBI and DBI processing products may be important factors in behavioral adaptation to stress, acting via benzodiazepine (BZD) binding sites, located on mitochondria. DBI and its processing products, ODN and TTN, are present in high concentrations in the hypothalamus and in the amygdala, two areas of the brain that are important in regulating behavioral patterns associated with conflict situations, anxiety and stress. In CSF, the content of DBI changes in association with corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) (Roy, Pickar, Gold, Barbaccia, Guidotti, Costa and Linnoila, 1989). Finally DBI is preferentially concentrated in steroidogenic tissues and cells (adrenal cortical cells, Leydig cells of the testes and glial cells of the brain).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The historical background and the present views on the actions of DBI on GABAergic transmission are summarized in these introductory remarks.
This study investigates the effects of lesioning the mamillary bodies (MB) or the dorsomedian nucleus (MD) of the thalamus on exploration of an elevated plus maze in mice. Exploration of 'open' and 'enclosed' arms of the maze has been used to evaluate anxiety in rodents. Normal rodents visit the enclosed arms more often than the open ones (innate agoraphobia). As operationally defined, the less the activity in the open arms, the more anxious is the subject. MB-lesioned mice entered the open alleys more often, and spent more time in them, than did controls, whereas the opposite was observed in MD-damaged subjects. It is suggested that, in mice given this task, MB lesions decrease anxiety and that MD lesions increase anxiety.
Increasing numbers of neurotoxins or therapeutic agents that have specific target cells or receptors can be used to assess the developmental correlation between the structure and function of various organs including the brain. Patients with chronic diseases are now able to maintain their social activities but still must be medicated for a long period of their life. This might increase the potential hazard of prenatal drug exposure in the progeny. Functional teratology is quite a new concept in neuroscience. Recent observations of our laboratory and those of others suggest that the sensitive period for functional teratology might encompass the whole stage of fetal life in animals and humans. The shortage of precise information on the developmental integration of the structure and function of the neurons with different properties is a problem to be solved for the further progress of developmental pharmacology and toxicology. Single exposures to drugs at a different stage during the gestational period of rats or mice might provide more useful information on the relationship between the lesioned area and related functional disorders manifested postnatally. This paper reviews recent advances in developmental neuropharmacology and functional neuroteratology including beneficial points of the short-term exposures to drugs.
Rehabilitation nursing care of the stroke patient is a challenge. When the nurse understands and practices rehabilitative nursing care based on neurophysiologic and neurodevelopmental principles of normal movement, the care of the stroke patient is most rewarding. The nurse becomes an equal member of the rehabilitation team because there is a sharing of knowledge of how well each patient is achieving goals outlined for and with him or her by the team. Potentially, rehabilitation goals can be achieved early; however, there is a tremendous need for research in all areas of rehabilitation nursing to build on a scientific foundation of rehabilitation nursing research.
Activities of the elbow flexors and extensors during the movement of the elbow flexion and extension were analyzed in six normal human volunteers by electromyography (EMG). In the flexors, the majority of the muscles showed EMG activities during both the flexion and extension phases, although patterns and amplitudes of EMG activities varied from individual to individual. The biceps brachii always became less active when the forearm was in pronation. In the extensors, increase of EMG activities was observed at the period of the maximum elbow extension in the majority of cases, while no EMG activity was shown throughout the movement in some cases. During the elbow movement except at the maximum extension, the triceps brachii was almost inactive and some of their three heads, in particular the long head, often showed no EMG activity. In contrast, the anconeus was usually active, sometimes showing strong EMG activity.
Five patients with central post-stroke pain (CPSP) accepted to be studied according to the following paradigm: a single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) using [123I]N-isopropyl-iodoamphetamine (IMP) was made in each patient 20 min following i.v. injection of IMP; during this time, the patients were stimulated in order to reproduce their spontaneous pain. Of the five patients, two had CPSP with hyperpathia following a stroke (with a lesion on CT scan involving the thalamo-cortical pathway in one and involving the thalamus in the other); two had CPSP following a stroke in the middle cerebral artery area, without hyperpathia; and the last patient suffered pain from algodystrophia following a fracture of the wrist. In the two cases with hyperpathia, SPECT demonstrated a contralateral relative hyperactivity in a central region corresponding to the thalamic area. This was not observed in the three other patients. In the two patients with hyperpathia, a second SPECT scan with stimulation of the contralateral pain-free arm did not demonstrate any hyperactivity in the thalamic area. These results suggest that a thalamic neuronal hyperactivity may characterize some hyperpathic syndromes and, in accordance with our previous results obtained in the rat, that the loss of inhibition on medial thalamic neurons may be a main feature of hyperpathia following certain cerebral stroke syndromes.
The neurotransmitter deficits of dementias, including Alzheimer's dementia, Lewy body dementia and Parkinson's disease are discussed in relation to cognitive and behavioural impairments together with neuropathological changes and available data on the status of receptor transmembrane signalling. Potential therapeutic strategies for dementia are outlined based on the following systems: excitatory amino acids, gamma-amino butyric acid, acetylcholine (muscarinic and nicotinic), noradrenaline, serotonin and peptides. These include the attenuation of transmitter deficits by agonists and agents inhibiting transmitter breakdown and support for surviving neurons by suppression of inhibitory inputs, trophic factors and neural implantation.
Gap junction channels provide a pathway for exchange of ions and small molecules between coupled cells, and this exchange is believed to be critical for normal tissue growth and development. As a test for a role of gap junction-mediated intercellular communication in control of cell growth, we have compared growth rates of communication-deficient human tumor cells (SKHep1) with clones stably transfected with cDNA encoding the rat liver gap junction protein connexin 32. In culture, growth rates for parental and transfected clones were similar. However, when sizes of tumors were evaluated following injection of these clones into athymic nude mice, growth rates for two well-coupled clones were significantly lower than for communication-deficient or poorly coupled clones. This study demonstrates that growth rate of these tumor cells in situ is negatively correlated with strength of intercellular communication.
Over the past twenty years, Tallal and colleagues have directed their research toward defining the neuropathological mechanisms responsible for developmental dysphasia. We have hypothesized that higher level auditory processing dysfunction, which has previously been associated with developmental dysphasia, may result from more basic temporal processing deficits which interfere with the resolution of rapidly presented, brief duration stimuli. This temporal processing deficit interferes with adequate perception of specific verbal stimuli which require resolution of brief duration formant transitions, resulting in disordered language development. The temporal processing deficit occurs across multiple sensory modalities, and also affects rapid and sequential motor production skills. Despite relatively normal clinical neuroradiological examinations, in vivo morphological analysis, utilizing magnetic resonance imaging techniques for quantitative volumetric measurements of specific brain structures, has identified abnormalities in superior parietal, prefrontal, and temporal cortices, as well as diencephalic and caudate nuclei. Abnormalities in structures which are involved in multimodal processing and sensory motor integration is consistent with the behavioral profile of developmental dysphasia. Two alternative hypotheses regarding the neurophysiological basis of the multimodal temporal processing disorder include: dysfunction in specifc cellular systems which subserve rapid, transient processing; and abnormal gating of sensory relay by intralaminar and reticular thalamic nuclei.
One hundred consecutive patients presenting with symptoms and signs of neurocysticercosis, confirmed by neuroimaging techniques were randomly assigned to treatment with either praziquantel 50 mg/kg/day for 15 days or albendazole 15 mg/kg/day for 30 days. All patients were treated also with steroids for 42 days. Follow-up was for 90 days for response to treatment and for at least 1 year for recurrence. Although similar numbers of patients showed no improvement in neuroimaging criteria at 3 months, the response to albendazole was more pronounced with larger numbers showing marked improvement or disappearance of lesions. Similar findings were apparent, with resolution of the presenting neurological signs and symptoms being more frequent, in the albendazole group. Electroencephalographic changes were also normalized. The use of steroids eliminated the frequently observed headache that has been seen during the first few days of treatment and permitted severe cases to be treated. Both albendazole and praziquantel appear to be effective at the doses used, with albendazole showing a slightly better overall response.
Central serotonin (5-HT) axons were visualized by immunocytochemistry to assess both acute and long-lasting changes in innervation density following methamphetamine administration to rats. Two morphologically distinct subtypes of 5-HT axons (fine and beaded) were differentially affected by d-methamphetamine (d-MA); the density of fine serotonergic axons was selectively decreased both 4 hours and 2 weeks after administration of d-MA. Acute depletion of 5-HT from fine axons, but not from beaded axons, was observed in the brains of all rats treated 4 hours previously with either a 100 mg/kg or 15 mg/kg dose of d-MA. Persistent loss of 5-HT axons was observed in 30% of rats treated 1 or 2 weeks previously with doses of d-MA which produce long-term deficits in biochemical markers for 5-HT. In the fraction of animals that exhibited denervation, fine serotonergic fibers were selectively ablated by d-MA, but beaded serotonergic fibers were spared. Thus, d-MA is similar to other amphetamine derivatives (e.g., p-chloroamphetamine, 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine) in that it acts selectively upon a morphologically distinct class of 5-HT axons but differs in that it produces long-lasting axon loss in only a fraction of animals. These data provide morphologic evidence of 5-HT axon loss following methamphetamine administration and further confirm the differential vulnerability of a particular morphological subtype of serotonergic axons to the neurotoxic effects of substituted amphetamines.



The noradrenergic system interacts with steroid hormones to influence female sexual behavior and gonadotropin release in rodents. Using a double label immunocytochemical procedure for estrogen receptors and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, we investigated the anatomical relationships between noradrenergic neurons and estrogen receptor-immunoreactive (ER-IR) cells in the brain of ovariectomized female guinea pigs. Dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-immunoreactive (DBH-IR) varicosities were closely associated with ER-IR cells throughout the hypothalamus and preoptic area. This anatomical relationship was observed with almost 80% of the ER-IR cells in the ventrolateral hypothalamus (VLH), an area involved in the regulation of female sexual behavior in guinea pigs. Furthermore, the presence of closely associated DBH-IR varicosities was related to staining intensity of ER-IR neurons. In the rostral VLH, ER-IR neurons with closely associated DBH-IR varicosities stained more darkly than ER-IR neurons lacking this association, suggesting noradrenergic regulation of basal levels of cellular estrogen receptors. These findings provide neuroanatomical evidence suggestive of noradrenergic regulation of estrogen receptor levels in the hypothalamus of female guinea pigs.
Four derivatives of a known prolyl endopeptidase (PEP) inhibitor (N-[N-(phenyl)butyryl-L-propyl]pyrrolidine; SUAM-1221) were synthesized along with the parent compound. All five compounds were relatively potent, competitive inhibitors of rat brain and mouse brain and kidney PEP, with IC50S in the range of 3-27 nM. Ex vivo experiments showed that all compounds penetrated into the CNS and produced inhibition of brain PEP, although inhibition was not as great as in the periphery (kidney PEP). Each compound had a similar time course of duration, with maximum inhibition of brain PEP being achieved within 5-10 min after i.p. administration, with inhibition of brain PEP (up to 20%) still present 6 h after dosing. However, two of the compounds, SUAM-1221 and its amine derivative, had ED50S versus mouse brain PEP (1-3 mg/kg) an order of magnitude less than the other compounds (25-40 mg/kg). Administration of the amine compound resulted in a significant partial reversal of the deficit in memory performance produced by scopolamine.
The projections of the nucleus of Bellonci and the anterior thalamic nucleus in Rana pipiens appear to be remarkably similar to those that have been described for the mammalian intergeniculate leaflet. The connections of these nuclei were examined using both the anterograde and retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. Afferents to the neuropil of Bellonci and its nucleus include bilateral projections from the retina, the contralateral nucleus of Bellonci, and anterior thalamic nucleus as well as bilateral projections from the pretectum and the ipsilateral suprachiasmatic nucleus. Efferent projections observed following HRP injections in the anterior thalamus consist of three components: (1) a ventral hypothalamic-suprachiasmatic and commissural projection, (2) a dorsal descending tract to the pretectum and tectum, and (3) a ventral descending tract to the somatomotor brainstem.
When a neuronal target is to provide information to the nucleus of the neurone innervating it, it faces the problem of getting its message up the long length of axon separating the cell body from the site of receptor activation at the terminal. The retrograde axonal transport of the neurotrophic molecule, nerve growth factor (NGF), provided one possible mechanism for this information transfer in the sympathetic nervous system. However, some neurotrophic molecules are not retrogradely transported, indicating the message is carried back by a different mechanism. In this paper, we examined such a novel mechanism mediated by the retrograde axonal transport of the alpha subunit of the second messenger protein, Gi. It is proposed that some non-transported neurotrophic molecules may produce a stable second messenger that is itself transported to the nucleus to convey the target derived information for survival.

The change in staining density of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was analyzed in rats that sustained a chronic constriction injury produced by sutures tied loosely around one sciatic nerve. This injury model of peripheral neuropathy resulted in a behavioral hyperalgesia evidenced by a decrease in mean foot withdrawal latency to radiant heat. Increased GFAP immunostaining was observed in the gray matter of the spinal cord ipsilateral to the lesion and specific to spinal segments in which the sciatic nerve is distributed. Elevated GFAP staining density was attributed primarily to hypertrophy of astrocytes rather than their proliferation or migration since counts of astrocyte profiles demonstrated no significant difference when comparing the lesioned to the control side. The magnitude of the increase in GFAP staining correlated with the degree of hyperalgesia. Thus, these data suggest that astrocytes participate in the sequelae occurring in the dorsal horn following constriction injury of a peripheral nerve.




Impairment of polyamine synthesis by treatment with difluoromehtylornithine (DFMO), an irreversible inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase, has been shown to alter normal brain development. In the present study we determined the effect of DFMO treatment during a discrete developmental period on polyamine levels and on the in situ activity of calpain, as reflected by the level of degradation of spectrin, in various brain regions of rat pups. DFMO treatment from postnatal days 5 to 10 produced a marked decrease in putrescine levels in every brain structure and a significant decrease in spectrin breakdown levels in hippocampus and cortex but not in cerebellum. The results indicate that the ODC/polyamine pathway partly regulates the in situ activity of calpain and that polyamines may play a role in both growth and degeneration phenomena.
Molecules isolated from target tissues of various neuronal populations have been shown to enable the survival of those innervating neurones. A molecule derived from bovine heart which can support the survival of parasympathetic neurones of the chick embryo ciliary ganglion in vitro has been sequenced and identified as a member of the class 1 heparin binding growth factors (HBGF-1). When injected into developing chick embryos during the period of naturally occurring cell death in the ciliary ganglion, HBGF-1 failed to rescue those neurones which normally die. There was, however, a premature increase in the activity of choline acetyltransferase within the ganglion and a shift to the right in the size distribution of the neurones. We conclude that HBGF-1 may promote the differentiation of some subpopulation of neurones of the ciliary ganglion of the chick embryo but does not act in vivo as a survival molecule.


Axonal projections of second order neurons activated by vagal afferent fibers originating from pulmonary rapidly adapting receptors (RARs) were studied electrophysiologically in Nembutal-anesthetized, paralyzed and artificially ventilated cats. Extracellular recordings from these neurons (referred to as 'RAR-cells') were made in the commissural subnucleus (COM) of the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). They were identified by a combination of stimuli including stimulation of the vagus nerve(s), hyperinflation and deflation of the lungs, and a brief period of ammonia vapor inhalation. A total of 80 RAR-cells were tested for axonal projections to a respiration-related area in the brain-stem, either the dorsolateral rostral pons or the dorsal respiratory group (DRG) or the ventral respiratory group (VRG) or the Btzinger complex (BOT) and/or the spinal cord. Twenty-two of the 47 (47%) RAR-cells tested for ipsilateral pontine projection could be antidromically activated, and in 8 cases evidence for axonal arborization was obtained. Only 1 of the 11 RAR-cells tested for DRG projection, and 1 of the 10 RAR-cells tested for VRG projection, were antidromically activated. No RAR-cells were activated from the BOT (n = 8) or from the C3-C4 segments of the spinal cord (n = 11). Bilateral lesions of the COM abolished the reflex responses induced by ammonia inhalation or hyperinflation of the lungs, but not the Hering-Breuer reflex. These results indicate that a pathway from the COM to the rostral pons forms part of the reflex arc originating from RARs.
The neurotoxin N-methyl-D-aspartate was used to induce selective bilateral neuronal loss in the entorhinal cortex, in order to model one aspect of the neurodegeneration observed in Alzheimer's disease, Down's syndrome and aging. Lesioned, sham-lesioned and intact control rats learned a reference memory task involving a brightness discrimination for water reward. Rats were trained over 1 week until reaching criteria and tested for retention after a 10-day interval. Lesioned rats showed impaired retention compared to shams and controls, but were able to reacquire the task. Anatomical analysis confirmed excitotoxic lesions of the entorhinal cortex, and showed collateral sprouting of acetylcholinesterase-stained fibers into the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, indicating denervation plasticity in the hippocampus. This functional anatomical study of the entorhinal cortex demonstrates the importance of the entorhinal cortex in memory retention, and raises the possibility that functional deficits in certain neurodegenerative diseases may be modeled by partial neuronal loss in the entorhinal cortex.
Electroconvulsive shock-induced seizures elevate seizure thresholds in humans and interfere with kindling in animals; opioids may mediate the anticonvulsant mechanism. In a potential model of acute electroconvulsive shock in hippocampal slices, a high-intensity tetanus via the mossy fibers substantially delayed subsequent in vitro kindling through the Schaffer collaterals. Naloxone blocked this effect, implicating the opioid system in the antiepileptogenic properties of this model.
Movement of membrane-bounded organelles to intracellular destinations requires properly oriented microtubules and force-generating enzymes, such as the microtubule-stimulated ATPase kinesin. Kinesin is a heterotetramer with two heavy chain (approximately 124-kDa) and two light chain (approximately 64-kDa) subunits. Kinesin heavy chains contain both ATP- and microtubule-binding domains and are capable of force generation in vitro. Functions of the light chains are undetermined, although evidence suggests they interact with membrane surfaces. We have used molecular genetic approaches to dissect the kinesin light chain structure. Three distinct kinesin light chain cDNAs were cloned and sequenced from rat brain, and they were found to result from alternative splicing of a single gene. Polypeptides encoded by these cDNAs are identical except for their carboxyl ends. Synthesis of multiple light chains, differing from one another in primary structure, could provide a means of generating multiple, functionally specialized forms of the kinesin holoenzyme.
The amino acid sequence of the polyclonal antibodies we developed against the carboxyl terminus of the dystrophin-related protein, the putative gene product of B3 cDNA, had no homologous sequence to the dystrophin molecule except for two amino acids located at its ends for immunization. By immunohistochemical examination in C57B1/10ScSn and C57B1/10ScSn-mdx mice we found that the DRP was expressed on the surface membrane of fetal muscle fibers, was assembled at the neuromuscular junctions of the mature muscle fibers, and reappeared on the surface membrane of muscle fibers after denervation. Its localization was similar to that of the acetylcholine receptor, suggesting that DRP is one of the cytoskeletons which organize and stabilize the cytoplasmic domain of the acetylcholine receptor.
Tianeptine, a molecule with antidepressant properties, was found to affect certain learning and memory impairments induced by chronic alcoholism and aging in the mouse. Impairment in spontaneous alternation induced by chronic (12 months) alcohol intake and accelerated loss of spatial learning skills related to aging disappeared totally after administration of tianeptine (10 mg.kg-1). In certain situations (discrimination acquisitions), tianeptine was uneffective in older animals at this dosage, but had a facilitating effect in young animals. The effects of tianeptine on serotonin mediated transmission and the probable implication of hypofunctioning central cholinergic systems in the observed impairments are discussed. Tianeptine might reduce the inhibiting action of serotonin terminaisons on acetylcholine release and might thus permit normal cholinergic transmission.
Sensitivity of hippocampal field potentials to local (iontophoretic) application of acetylcholine (ACh) was investigated in chronic ethanol treated (CET) and sucrose-fed (control) rats. CET and control rats were fed a liquid diet containing either ethanol or sucrose for 28 weeks. Five to six months after ethanol or sucrose was withdrawn, hippocampal slices were taken and ACh was applied in stratum pyramidale or stratum radiatum of CA1 to observe population spike facilitation or field EPSP inhibition, respectively. Population spikes were facilitated to a considerably lesser extent in CET slices relative to controls, while no treatment differences were observed for dendritic EPSP inhibition. These data suggest that ACh response properties in CA1 exhibit differential sensitivity to CET, and may reflect a distinct susceptibility of muscarinic receptor subtypes to the neurotoxic effects of ethanol.
Activation of metabotropic quisqualate receptors by trans-ACPD (trans-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid) caused a reduction in the amplitude of the synaptic response elicited by stimulation of the Schaffer collateral projection and recorded intracellularly from area CA1 in slices of rat hippocampus. Pharmacological agents were used to isolate components of the response mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, non-NMDA receptors, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors. Each of these components was reduced during the trans-ACPD application. These results indicate that one subtype of glutamate receptor may be able to decrease the synaptic efficacy of other subtypes and may provide an important means for balancing the synaptic enhancement processes often studied in the hippocampus.
The cytoprotective effect of NBQX, a selective AMPA receptor antagonist, was tested following 10 min of severe forebrain ischemia using the 4-vessel occlusion model. Immediately, and at 15 and 30 min following reperfusion, adult Wistar rats received intraperitoneal injections of either saline (n = 5), 1 mg lithium chloride (n = 17) or 30 mg/kg of the lithium salt of NBQX (n = 18). In saline-treated animals 82 +/- 12% of CA1 hippocampal neurons were lost. Of those treated with lithium 70 +/- 23% were injured, while those given NBQX sustained only 40 +/- 34% CA1 necrosis (P less than 0.01). Twelve of 18 NBQX-treated animals had less than 30% CA1 injury as compared with 1 of 17 lithium-treated animals. The AMPA receptor may play a more important role than the NMDA receptor in selective ischemic necrosis of hippocampal neurons.
We sought to develop a map of the locations of neurons that are active during patterned activity in the buccal ganglion of Aplysia using optical techniques. Staining ganglia with a voltage-sensitive absorbance dye (JPW 1124) did not prevent them from generating patterned activity similar to that observed before staining, in response to shock of the esophageal nerve. Absorbance changes were monitored with a 124-element photodiode array, while extracellular electrodes monitored activity of the 6 buccal nerves. Optical and extracellular spikes were grouped with the aid of a template matching program; a total of 120 distinct units were detected in one 15 s recording. Optical signals (83 units) were found in the region of the ganglion containing mainly large neurons. Of these, 13 were detected on both optical and extracellular electrode recordings, suggesting that they might be motor neurons, while 25 of the optically detected neurons appeared not to be correlated with extracellular activity, suggesting that they might be interneurons. It was not possible to determine whether the remaining 45 optically identified units did or did not have correlated nerve activity. The ganglionic locations of putative motor neurons corresponded to the locations of large neurons identified by backfilling nerves of other buccal ganglia, and were consistent with the locations of putative motor neurons found in two other ganglia studied using optical methods. Thus, optical methods have generated a map of the locations and activity patterns of putative motor neurons and interneurons in the buccal ganglion that may be involved in the generation of rhythmic patterns.
To analyze the patterns of cutaneous primary afferent fibers projecting to the dorsal column nuclei in the rat, horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-based tracers were injected intracutaneously into a number of discrete regions of the forelimbs and hindlimbs. Three-4 days following the HRP injections, the rats were perfused transcardially; 60 microns transverse sections were cut, and the HRP was reacted using the tetramethyl benzidine method. Comparisons were made of projections following injections with choleragenoid-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (B-HRP) or with wheat-germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP). B-HRP and WGA-HRP produced similar patterns of labelling, but B-HRP produced greater intensity of labelling and slightly larger projection areas. In the cuneate nucleus (CN), HRP labelling of primary afferents from small, delimited regions, e.g., from a portion of the skin of a single digit, appeared to be precisely restricted in rostrocaudally oriented columns, with little or no overlap (in the mediolateral and dorsoventral plane) into adjacent regions. With respect to rostrocaudal organization, a region in the CN containing a dense population of cutaneous primary afferent fibers appeared to be similar to the middle, or cluster, region in cats and in raccoons and the pars rotunda in primates. Projection patterns were very consistent from rat to rat, but their somatotopic organization differed from that suggested by electrophysiological studies: cutaneous afferents from forelimb digit 1 projected near the ventral border of the CN; those from digit 5 projected dorsomedially to those from digit 1; the projections from the remaining digits formed a crescent between the projections from digits 1 and 5. In the gracile nucleus, the organization of cutaneous afferent projections from hindlimb digits was more variable and complex than that found in the CN.
We used single electrode voltage-clamp methods to investigate the inactivation of Ca2+ currents in melanotrophs of the intermediate lobe of the pituitary. The low threshold transient current was inactivated by brief prepulses to potentials above -30 mV and inhibition remained complete as prepulse potential was increased from 0 to +70 mV. Both the high threshold transient and sustained currents, however, were inhibited to the greatest extent (60%) by prepulses to 0 mV. Prepulses to more positive potentials close to the Ca2+ reversal potential produced much less (15%) inactivation. Buffering intracellular Ca2+ by including BAPTA in the recording electrode or replacing extracellular Ca2+ with Ba2+ reduced the effect of prepulses. Slowing Ca2+ extrusion by reducing the Na+ gradient across the cell increased the duration of the effect of prepulses. We conclude that the low threshold, transient current is inactivated primarily by membrane voltage while both the high threshold currents are inhibited by elevation of intracellular Ca2+ although the two currents display different sensitivities to Ca2+ concentration. Inhibition of the high threshold transient current by the neurotransmitter dopamine, however, acts by a different mechanism not mediated by Ca(2+)-dependent inactivation.
The possibility that GABA-like immunoreactive cells of the chick retina also contain neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors was investigated by means of immunohistochemical techniques. Double-labeled cell bodies containing GABA-like immunoreactivity and nicotinic receptor-like immunoreactivity were seen in the inner third of the inner nuclear layer and were presumably amacrine cells. Approximately 29-36% of the GABA-positive cells in the inner nuclear layer contained nicotinic receptor immunoreactivity. Their soma sizes ranged from 5-12 microns. Some double-labeled cells ranging from 7-21 microns were observed in the ganglion cell layer as well. Between 9-37% of the GABA-positive cells in this layer contained nicotinic receptor-like immunoreactivity. Following injection of a retrograde tracer into the optic tectum, some of the retrogradely labeled cells were also double labeled with antibodies against GABA and nicotinic receptors. This indicates that at least some of the GABA-positive cells containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the ganglion cell layer are indeed ganglion cells. The present data appear to represent the first demonstration of the presence of acetylcholine receptors in GABA-containing cells in the retina, thus providing a basis for a possible influence of acetylcholine upon those presumptive GABAergic cells.
Databases for neuroscience must handle large volumes of image and graphical data as well as domain knowledge. Several software development efforts are addressing these issues in an attempt to aid the acquisition, analysis and exchange of complex data sets.
The possibility that postsynaptic spines on neuronal dendrites are discrete biochemical compartments for Ca(2+)-activated processes involved in synaptic plasticity is a widely proposed concept that has eluded experimental demonstration. Using microfluorometry on CA3 neurons in hippocampal slices, we show here that with weak presynaptic stimulation of associative/commissural fibres, Ca2+ accumulates in single postsynaptic spines but not in the parent dendrite. Stronger stimulation also promotes changes in dendrites. The NMDA-receptor antagonist AP-5 blocks changes in Ca2+ in spines. Sustained steep Ca2+ gradients between single spines and the parent dendrite, often lasting several minutes, develop with repeated stimulation. The observed compartmentalization allows for the specificity, cooperativity and associativity displayed by memory models such as long-term potentiation.
Site-specific mutagenesis techniques have been used to construct active site variants of the Kunitz-type protease inhibitor domain present in the Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP-KD). Striking alteration of its protease inhibitory properties were obtained when the putative P1 residue, arginine, was replaced with the small hydrophobic residue valine. The altered protein was no longer inhibitory toward bovine pancreatic trypsin, human Factor XIa, mouse epidermal growth factor-binding protein, or bovine chymotrypsin, all of which are strongly inhibited by the unaltered APP-KD (Sinha, S., Dovey, H. F., Seubert, P., Ward, P. J., Blacher, R. W., Blaber, M., Bradshaw, R. A., Arici, M., Mobley, W. C., and Lieberburg, I. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 8983-8985). Instead, the P1-Val-APP-KD was a potent inhibitor of human neutrophil elastase, with a Ki = 0.8 nM, as estimated by the inhibition of the activity of human neutrophil elastase measured using a chromogenic substrate. It also inhibited the degradation of insoluble elastin by the enzyme virtually stoichiometrically. Replacement of the P1' (Ala) and P2' (Met) residues of P1-Val-MKD with the corresponding residues (Ser, Ile) from alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor resulted in an inactive protein, underscoring the mechanistic differences between the serpins from the Kunitz-type protease inhibitor family. These results confirm the importance of the P1 arginine residue of APP-KD in determining inhibitory specificity, and are also the first time that a single amino acid replacement has been shown to generate a specific potent human neutrophil elastase inhibitor from a human KD sequence.

Neural tissue transplant represents one of the most exciting and controversial areas of current basic neuroscience research. It offers enormous therapeutic promise for patients with degenerative and traumatic neurologic disorders. This article reviews the functions of several common neurotransmitters and examines the clinical applications of tissue transplant into the human nervous system.
In order to establish the incidence and prevalence of type I spinal muscular atrophy (SMA Werdnig-Hoffmann disease) in North Dakota, we reviewed the death certificates for the past 8 years. Between 1980 and 1987 the prevalence of was 1.5 per 10,000. The incidence was 1 in 6,720. This suggests a carrier frequency of 1 in 41 in North Dakota with a gene frequency of 0.0122. In North Dakota, type I spinal muscular atrophy appears to be 3 to 10 times more common than in other locations.
Sympathoexcitatory pathways from the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) play a significant role in maintaining the tonic discharge of sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs) and, in turn, resting arterial pressure. We examined the responses of antidromically identified, splanchnic SPNs to single stimuli applied to the RVL. Four characteristic response patterns were observed. Forty-five percent (group 1) of responsive SPNs were excited with latencies between 15 and 41 ms (mean 27 ms). The spontaneous activity of these SPNs (mean 3.3 Hz) was strongly modulated by the baroreceptor reflex. Twenty-three percent (group 2) of SPNs were excited with a significantly longer latency (mean 108 ms) and frequently exhibited little spontaneous discharge. Twenty-one percent (group 3) were excited at both short (mean 29 ms) and long (mean 117 ms) latencies. Eleven percent (group 4) of responsive splanchnic SPNs had a biphasic response to RVL stimulation consisting of an early inhibition followed by a late, longer lasting increase in discharge probability. Spontaneous discharge of group 4 SPNs (mean 6.2 Hz) was significantly higher than other groups and was not related to the cardiac cycle (mean arterial pressure 105 mmHg). Microinjection of kainic acid into the RVL greatly reduced the short- and long-latency splanchnic nerve excitations evoked by RVL stimulation. The heterogeneity of the RVL stimulus-evoked responses in splanchnic SPNs may reflect specificity in the descending regulation of functionally distinct subsets of SPNs regulating the various tissues in the splanchnic distribution.
We have investigated the voltage-dependent Na channel activity of single lactotropes in pituitary cultures from adult male rats by recording whole cell Na+ currents under voltage clamp. Cells were identified by their ability to secrete prolactin in the basal state as measured with the reverse hemolytic plaque assay. We found that cells with elevated secretory rates [large-plaque (LP) lactotropes] present relatively large Na+ currents in response to depolarization, whereas Na+ currents in cells secreting prolactin at low rates [small-plaque (SP) lactotropes] are small or are not detectable. The maximum amplitude of the inward Na+ current, normalized by cell capacitance, is about sixfold larger, on the average, in LP lactotropes than in SP lactotropes. Complete block of the Na channels with external tetrodotoxin inhibits by approximately 72% the amount of prolactin secreted from the entire cell population over a period of 1 h, an effect that depends on a drastic reduction in the proportion of LP lactotropes. The results indicate that Na channel activity promotes basal prolactin secretion in male rat lactotropes and suggest that differences in Na channel expression contribute to explain the functional heterogeneity of these pituitary cells.


Atrophy of cholinergic neurons is a prominent component of Alzheimer's disease, and may explain in part the profound memory loss that is characteristic of patients with this disorder. Previous studies in animal models have shown that infusions of nerve growth factor into the adult brain can prevent both age-related and lesion-induced cholinergic neuronal atrophy. Recently, recombinant human nerve growth factor was found biologically active in nonprimate animal models. In the present experiment, recombinant human nerve growth factor infusions into the brains of adult primates prevented lesion-induced cholinergic neuronal degeneration and promoted cholinergic neurite sprouting. These findings provide additional support for potential therapeutic trials of human nerve growth factor in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
We have investigated the presence of neurotensin receptors in human meningiomas by in vitro binding autoradiography. Ten of the 12 meningiomas tested displayed specific [3H]neurotensin binding. All meningothelial (n = 3) and transitional (n = 5) meningiomas were positive, whereas only 2 of the 4 fibroblastic meningiomas showed measurable concentrations of neurotensin binding sites. Within the tumors, [3H]neurotensin binding was preferentially observed in syncytial areas. Saturation experiments showed that the maximal binding capacity (Bmax) greatly varied among tumors, ranging from low values to more than 290 fmol/mg of protein. All positive tumors had neurotensin binding sites with a dissociation constant (kd) within the nanomolar range and a pharmacological specificity for [3H]neurotensin similar to neurotensin receptors.
In vivo studies involving magnetic resonance imaging and studies of neuropathologic specimens have shown that autism is most consistently associated with developmental hypoplasia of the neocerebellum. We investigated whether the cerebellar hypoplasia was accompanied by gross structural abnormalities in the major input (cerebrocerebellar) and output (cerebrorubral) pathways to the cerebellum by measuring the area of the ventral pons (including the pontine nuclei and the transverse fibers) and the midbrain on midsagittal magnetic resonance images in 34 autistic and 44 subjects. The area of the entire pons and several regions of interest within the midbrain (including the superior and inferior colliculi) were also determined with midsagittal magnetic resonance images. We found no significant difference between measurements of the pons and midbrain in autistic and control subjects. Our data show no evidence of gross anatomic abnormalities in the input and output pathways to the cerebellum in autism, a finding that is consistent with previous studies of neuropathologic specimens; rather, the reduced size of the neocerebellum in autism appears to be the result of maldevelopment within the cerebellum itself.
Clinical implications of three areas of basic neuroscience research are described in this review paper. These areas include: (1) the discovery of protein kinase C and its implications for diabetic neuropathy, (2) analysis of single ionic channels and the basis of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome and cystic fibrosis, and (3) the cloning of genes for Duchenne muscular dystrophy and cystic fibrosis and new approaches to the treatment of these diseases.


Communication-deficient cells (the SKHep1 cell line) were stably transfected with a plasmid containing cDNA which encodes the major gap junction protein of rat liver, connexin32. Application of the dual whole-cell voltage clamp technique with patch electrodes to pairs of transfected SKHep1 cells revealed strong sensitivity of junctional conductance (gj) to transjunctional voltages (Vjs) of either polarity, with the ratio of minimal to maximal gj (gmin/gmax) being approximately 0.1 at the highest Vjs. Steady-state gj values as a function of voltages of either polarity were well fit by the Boltzmann equation. V0, the voltage at which gj was reduced by 50%, was approximately 25-30 mV; A, the Boltzmann parameter describing voltage dependence, was approximately 0.06 (corresponding to an energy difference between states of approximately 1 kCal/mol and to approximately 2 gating charges moving through the field). The kinetics of the transjunctional voltage dependence were slow (tau greater than 5 s at 20-40 mV, tau = 2 s at and beyond 70 mV). Voltage sensitivity of the opening rate constant (alpha) was approximately 30% lower than that of the closing rate constant (beta) over the Vj range 0-70 mV; at higher voltages, voltage sensitivity of alpha and beta saturated. The kinetic response of gj to a paradigm in which gj was first rendered low by a prepulse of opposite polarity indicated that the voltage sensors are likely to be arranged in series. Transitions between open and closed states in response to transjunctional voltages of either polarity are single order processes; transitions from one closed state to the other involve passage through the open state.
Pairs of SKHep1 cells, which are derived from a highly metastatic human hepatoma, were studied using the whole cell voltage clamp technique with patch-type electrodes containing CsCl as the major ionic species. In 12 of 81 cell pairs, current flow through junctional membranes was detectable; in the remaining 69 cell pairs, junctional conductance was less than the noise limit of our recording apparatus (worst case: 10 pS). Macroscopic junctional conductance (gj) in the small percentage of pairs where it was detectable ranged from 100 to 600 pS. Unitary junctional conductance (gamma j) determined in the lowest conductance pairs or after reducing conductance with a short exposure to the uncoupling agent halothane was 25-35 pS. To study properties of gap junction channels formed of connexin32, the parental SKHep1 cell line was stably transfected with a plasmid containing cDNA that encodes connexin32, the major gap junction protein of rat liver cells. In 85 of 98 pairs of voltage clamped connexin32-transfected SKHep1 cells, macroscopic gj was greater than 1 nS; gj increased with time after dissociation (from 1.8 +/- 0.6 [mean +/- SE; n = 7] nS at 2 h after plating to 9.3 +/- 2.2 [n = 9] nS, the maximal value, at 24 h). Unitary conductance of gap junction channels between pairs of transfected SKHep1 cells was measured in low conductance pairs and after reducing gj by exposure to halothane or heptanol. Histograms of gamma j values in transfected cells, in 10 experiments where greater than 100 transitions were measurable, displayed two peaks; 120-130 pS and 25-35 pS. The smaller size corresponded to channels that were occasionally detected in the parental cells. We therefore conclude that connexin32 forms gap junctions channels of the 120-130 pS size class.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is a naturally occurring steroid. We have previously shown that dietary DHEA (0.45% wt/wt) inhibits murine lymphopoiesis but not myelopoiesis. To assess the effect of DHEA on stages of natural killer (NK) cell differentiation, lethally irradiated mice fed DHEA or not were infused with 10(6) or 20 x 10(6) syngeneic bone marrow cells (BMC) as a source of transplantable NK cell progenitors. The differentiation of progenitor cells to lytic NK cells was assessed by the ability to clear radiolabeled YAC-1 tumor cells from the lungs. DHEA-fed recipients of 10(6) or 20 x 10(6) BMC failed to generate NK activity. Because NK progenitor cells are believed to differentiate into interleukin-2 (IL-2)-responsive precursor cells before maturation, BMC from recipient mice were cultured with IL-2 and the generation of NK cells was assessed. DHEA feeding prevented the generation of IL-2-responsive precursor cells in recipients of 10(6) BMC, but this inhibition was overcome in recipients of 20 x 10(6) BMC. To evaluate the capacity of stem cells to generate NK progenitor cells in DHEA-fed mice, the ability of marrow cells from primary recipients to generate NK activity in irradiated secondary recipients was determined. The production of NK progenitors was inhibited 20-fold. Thus, DHEA appears to inhibit the generation of NK progenitors from more primitive stem cells, the differentiation of progenitors into IL-2-responsive precursors cells and the maturation of IL-2-responsive precursor cells into mature NK cells.
The neurotoxin MPP+ potently inhibited the striatal binding of [3H]-tyramine, a putative marker for the vesicular transporter of dopamine, and provoked a massive in vivo release of striatal dopamine. Tetrabenazine, an established ligand for the vesicular catecholamine carrier, potently inhibited [3H]-tyramine binding, tyramine-provoked striatal efflux of dopamine and the fast component of MPP(+)-induced dopamine release. It is concluded that MPP+ in the striatum, besides interacting with additional intracellular targets, avidly binds at a vesicular site functionally involved with the outward transport of dopamine.
Cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV) in the basilar artery, monitored by Doppler sonography, and cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the parietal cortex, monitored by Laser Doppler flowmetry, were continuously recorded and compared during and after hypoxic loading with nitrogen (N2) or carbon dioxide (CO2). On severe hypoxic loading (10% O2) of N2, CBFV and CBF increased with an increase in blood pressure (BP). On the other hand, with 18% and 15% O2 with CO2, CBFV and CBF increased with BP. However, there was a difference between CBF and CBFV in the recovery stage. CBF continued to be elevated for a long time, while CBFV rapidly normalized after loading. With 10% O2 with CO2, CBFV, CBF and BP decreased at first, and then increased during loading. Also, the difference between CBF and CBFV in the recovery stage being more definite. Thus, on continuous measurement, CBFV shows similar changes to CBF in response to hypoxia. However, CBFV shows different changes from CBF in association with dilatation or constriction of cerebral vessels. Resistance index (RI) shows different changes and have a different significance from CBF and CBFV.
Although clinical use of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists will involve prolonged drug administration, knowledge of the functional consequences of chronic NMDA receptor blockade is limited. Local cerebral glucose utilisation was measured in conscious rats in 74 discrete brain regions after chronic administration of (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a,d] cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK-801) (0.5 mg/kg i.p.). Chronic treatment with MK-801 caused small, significant changes in glucose use in 4 of the 74 brain areas; parietal cortex (-13%), frontal cortex (-10%), subthalamic nucleus (-14%) and nucleus accumbens (-17%). These focal alterations in glucose use were not associated with changes in ligand binding to various sites within the NMDA receptor complex (i.e. agonist recognition site, glycine site, ion channel site) which were assessed autoradiographically. The acute effects of MK-801 on glucose utilisation were significantly enhanced after chronic MK-801 in 7 brain regions (e.g. frontal and parietal cortices) and attenuated in 6 brain regions (e.g. nucleus accumbens, hippocampus, posterior cingulate cortex). Neither local enhancement nor attenuation of the acute response to MK-801 was due to alterations in ligand binding to sites within the NMDA receptor complex. The data clearly indicate that the functional consequences of NMDA blockade are altered after chronic MK-801 treatment in an anatomically organised, though complex manner. These adaptive functional changes after chronic MK-801 treatment cannot be attributed readily to alterations in the NMDA receptor complex in affected regions.
Bilateral injection of D-alanine, but not L-alanine, (10-100 micrograms per side for each amino acid) into the lateral ventricle reduced the increasing effect of phencyclidine (PCP, 10 mg/kg, given intraperitoneally) on locomotor activity in the rat in a dose dependent manner. This stereoselectivity agrees with the potency of these agents as agonists for the strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor in the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex, suggesting that stimulation of the allosteric regulation site may antagonize the ability of PCP to produce hyperactivity.
An antiserum that recognizes a sequence from the putative third cytoplasmic loop of the m2 subtype of muscarinic receptors (mAchR) has been raised and used to map the cellular distribution of this subtype in rat olfactory bulb. The antiserum was obtained by injecting BALB/C mice with a BSA-conjugated synthetic peptide whose sequence corresponded to amino acids 240-259 of the porcine cardiac m2 mAChR gene. Antibodies recognized the synthetic peptide in ELISA screening and labelled a single band corresponding to the peak of [3H]PrBCM-labelled heart mAchRs in immunoblots. Immunostaining of olfactory bulb, a region of the brain enriched in this muscarinic receptor subtype, showed that the antibodies labelled cell bodies and multiple dendritic processes. Broad fluorescent labelling throughout cell bodies was consistent with binding to the cytoplasmic face of the surface membrane, in support of the predicted cytoplasmic loop structure. m2-Positive cells throughout the bulb were sparsely distributed in different layers representing small subpopulations of the cells in each region: glomeruli, 6%; external plexiform layer, 16%; inner plexiform and granule cell layer, 3%. The results show that antibodies against specific sequences of different muscarinic receptor subtypes can be used to localize subtypes in situ, that the m2 subtype within the rat olfactory bulb is broadly distributed, and that the m2 subtype can occur postsynaptically in this central nervous system (CNS) region. The mapping of m2-positive cells in olfactory bulb may be of particular interest because loss of this subtype and degeneration of the olfactory system have been observed in Alzheimer's disease.
The present study provides evidence for the involvement of dopamine in the regulation of quiet biting attack behavior. Utilizing monopolar electrodes, quiet biting attack was elicited by electrical stimulation of lateral hypothalamus in five cats. After stable baseline response latency values were established, the nonselective dopamine agonist, apomorphine, was administered peripherally (IP, 1.0, 1.4 and 1.8 mg/kg), and its effects upon the attack response were identified. Apomorphine significantly facilitated the occurrence of quiet biting attack in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Conversely, quiet biting attack behavior was also suppressed in a dose- and time-dependent manner by the selective D2 antagonist, spiperone (0.2, 0.4 and 0.8 mg/kg), but not by the selective D1 antagonist, SCH 23390 (0.8 mg/kg). Moreover, pretreatment with spiperone (0.2 mg/kg) completely blocked the facilitatory effects of 1.4 mg/kg of apomorphine, while SCH 23390 (0.8 mg/kg) pretreatment failed to alter apomorphine-induced facilitation of the attack response. In addition, neither apomorphine nor spiperone altered response latencies for hypothalamically elicited circling behavior. The results suggest that dopamine plays a significant role in the regulation of quiet biting attack behavior.
The development of the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) texture of the cortex of the rat brain was studied during the first three weeks of life. The Tago technique enables visualization of both AChE+ cells and fibers with both shown in exquisite detail making quantification possible. At each age--0 (birth), 7, 14, 21 and 60 days (adult)--four brain areas were studied (cingulate, dorsal neocortex, lateral neocortex and olfactory) at each of three coronal planes in the brain (anterior, intermediate, posterior). Fiber density reached adult levels by Day 21 in cingulate cortex in intermediate and posterior planes. In other areas fiber density reached adult levels by Day 14 indicating a high rate of fiber growth during the first two weeks of life since at birth rat cortex is innervated only by a sparse AChE+ fiber invasion into neocortex in the anterior plane. Fiber density did not regress after adult levels were reached, however, cell staining showed a different pattern. At birth many lightly stained cells were seen in the olfactory cortex in all three planes, but other areas were devoid of cells. In all areas there was a peak at Day 7 in number of cells stained and in intensity of cells staining with a gradual decline in cell staining until by Day 21 very few stained cells were seen in the cortex (typical adult pattern).
Osseous tissue develops via two distinctly different processes: endochondral (EC) ossification and intramembranous (IM) ossification. The present study tests the hypothesis that each type of osseous tissue contains unique inducing factors for the promotion of cartilage and bone development. Previous work suggests that subcutaneous implants of demineralized EC and IM bone matrices both induce endochondral ossification. Thus, it concludes that the bone growth promotion properties of the respective matrices are very similar. As it was unclear to us why EC and IM bone powders should possess identical osteoinductive properties, we attempted to reproduce these results. We implanted EC (femoral) demineralized bone matrix (DBM), IM (frontal) DBM, or a mixture of the two into the ventral thoracic subcutaneous tissue of 12 to 15-week-old male Sprague Dawley rats. Morphological and radiolabeling techniques in this study demonstrated that implants of EC bone matrix induce bone formation via EC ossification in contrast to implants of IM bone matrix which do not induce EC ossification. Our findings suggest that the matrix of EC bone differs qualitatively from the matrix of IM bone due to their respective abilities to induce cartilage and/or bone formation. These observations differ from those previously reported possibly because our IM DBM preparations were not contaminated with tissues of endochondral origin. In current clinical practice, EC DBM allografts are often used to induce new bone formation in defects involving both IM and EC bone. We conclude that there may be clinical settings in which it would be more appropriate to replace bone originally formed via IM ossification with IM DBM rather than EC DBM.
Performance on an eye-hand tracking task and a multi-joint reaching movement to a visual target was studied in a patient with stable cerebellar ataxia and in control subjects. The patient subsequently died and a full neuropathological examination was performed. The neuropathological findings were similar to those seen in patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration, but no tumor was found at autopsy eight years after onset of the patient's cerebellar syndrome. A severe cerebellar cortical degeneration with complete Purkinje cell loss was demonstrated, whereas cerebellar nuclei and brainstem structures showed no neuronal loss. Tracking performance by the patient was characterized by abnormally large numbers of high velocity movements and hand direction reversals, and by excessive lagging of the hand behind the target in time. In the multi-joint reaching movement, the patient showed a delay in movement onset at the elbow joint compared to movement onset at the shoulder joint. The velocity profile of the movement at the shoulder joint was abnormal. The duration of the acceleration phase was poorly correlated with both peak angular velocity and the duration of the deceleration phase. One of the most striking findings was the inability of the patient to consistently produce the same movement direction from trial to trial while reaching to the same target. Our data suggests that the cerebellar cortex is involved in multiple aspects of motor control including visuomotor integration mechanisms.
Inter-observer agreement was evaluated for twelve items used in the neurological assessment of comatose children. Data were obtained prospectively on fifteen patients examined independently by two observers in a double-blind fashion. Observer variability was measured by using the Disagreement Rate and Kappa statistic. The Disagreement Rate ranged from 0.01 to 0.12 for all items. Values for Kappa statistic were generally in accordance with those for Disagreement Rate. The data suggest fair to almost perfect inter-observer agreement for the items used to assess comatose children in this study.

Evaluation of in utero shunting for fetal ventriculomegaly requires an analysis of the ex utero treatment of a comparison population of infants with idiopathic aqueductal stenosis (IAS). In this study, 14 neonates with IAS were followed with detailed developmental assessment profiles for 18 months or longer. Using magnetic resonance imaging, the preoperative and postoperative frontal cortical mantle widths (FCMW) were determined for each patient. Four of 14 children demonstrated normal outcomes while 5 of 14 children showed abnormal outcomes. The remaining 5 children demonstrated minimally impaired outcomes. No child with a postoperative FCMW below 30 mm showed normal development on any scale, while all children with abnormal development demonstrated a postoperative FCMW of 21 mm or less. In conclusion, the prognosis for normal long-term neurodevelopment in infants with IAS, despite prompt ex utero treatment, is guarded; the majority of such children will show developmental delays of varying degrees. The FCMW serves as a reasonable prognostic indicator in this patient population.
Studies are reviewed that indicate that the amygdala, and its temporal lobe pathways connecting it with entorhinal cortex and hippocampus, modulates the effects of stressful conditions on the development of gastric pathology. The amygdala integrates aversive stimulus conditions with the defensive behaviors and visceral reactions seen under such circumstances. The transmitter mechanisms for these effects include dopamine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, thyrotropin-releasing hormone, neurotensin, enkephalins, and endorphins. Recording data also show that distinct neural &quot;signatures&quot; in this temporal lobe region correlate with the vulnerability to stressful experiences. The efficacy of synaptic transmission, as represented by potentiation or suppression of recorded neuronal responses, is an indication of coping adjustments, ie, habituation or behavioral helplessness. Glutamate receptors in this brain region, activated by N-methyl-D-aspartate, are implicated in these behavioral strategies. It is proposed that the neurophysiology of these limbic system structures produces individual differences in stress ulcer severity.

mRNA for a thyroid hormone receptor isoform that is unique to the pituitary gland (TR beta-2) is down-regulated by T3. Increases in the expression of this mRNA are seen in rats rendered hypothyroid by treatment with propylthiouracil (PTU). This study used dual labeling to determine which pituitary cells expressed TR beta-2 mRNA in normal and PTU-treated rats. In situ hybridization protocols localized the mRNA (with biotinylated complementary oligonucleotide probes detected by avidin-biotin-peroxidase), and immunoperoxidase protocols identified the pituitary hormone proteins. In dispersed pituitary cells, 20 +/- 2% (average +/- SD) of cells from normal rats and 30 +/- 3% of cells from PTU-treated rats were labeled for TR beta-2 mRNA. PTU caused increases in the area of the labeled cells (from 114 +/- 11 to 225 +/- 7 microns 2), the area of the label per cell (from 27 +/- 3 to 71 +/- 11 microns 2), and label density. PTU produced increases in the percentage of TSH cells from 8 +/- 1% to 19 +/- 2%, decreases in the percentage of GH cells from 27 +/- 3% to 11 +/- 2%, and no change in other cell types. After dual labeling, 73% of cells that expressed TR beta-2 mRNA stored either TSH (35 +/- 8) or GH (38 +/- 6). Less than 10% stored other hormones. When each cell type was analyzed, 56 +/- 3% of TSH cells and 43 +/- 4% of GH cells expressed TR beta-2 mRNA. When these percentages were multiplied by the percentages of each cell type in the overall population, TSH and GH cells with TR beta-2 mRNA represented 6.8 +/- 1% and 11.6 +/- 1% of the pituitary cells, respectively. Less than 1% of all pituitary cells expressed TR beta-2 and ACTH (0.9 +/- 0.06), LH (0.8 +/- 0.1), FSH (0.8 +/- 0.1), and PRL (0.9 +/- 0.04). PTU treatment increased the percentage of TSH cells with TR beta-2 mRNA to 72 +/- 4% and decreased the percentage of GH cells with TR beta-2 mRNA to 30 +/- 3%. However, some enlarged putative TSH cells could not be identified by immunolabel because the storage levels were low. Thus, changes in TR beta-2 mRNA in hypothyroid rats may be the net result of the increase in the percentage of TSH cells, the amount of mRNA per cell (measured by area and density of label), and the decrease in the percentage of GH cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The distribution of opsin was examined immunocytochemically after experimental retinal detachment in adult cats. Retinal detachments were produced by injecting fluid between the retinal pigment epithelium and neural retina. One to 60 days later the animals were killed. Tissue areas from detached and attached retinal regions from the eye with the detached retina, as well as normal (control) retinas, were processed for post-embedding light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry. In normal and attached retinal regions, anti-opsin labeled the outer segments and Golgi apparatus most heavily, although the entire photoreceptor plasma membrane was labeled at a low level. Beginning at 2 days after retinal detachment, immunolabeling increased in the photoreceptor inner segment, cell body and synaptic terminal plasma membranes. This pattern of anti-opsin labeling continued at all intervals up through the 60-day detachment time-point. Injection of radiolabeled amino acid in detachments from 1 to 30 days show that radiolabeled protein is still transported to the truncated outer segments of the photoreceptor cells. In addition, these outer segment disks label with anti-opsin. These data imply that opsin continues to be transported and incorporated into the outer segments of photoreceptors showing severe degeneration as a result of long-term detachment from the RPE.
Vomeromodulin, a novel glycoprotein of lateral nasal gland, has been cloned by differential hybridization from nasal/olfactory tissue. The 2.2-kb mRNA directs the in vitro synthesis of a 60-kDa primary translation product in reticulocyte lysates. Differential sensitivity to endoglycosidases indicates that vomeromodulin is posttranslationally modified in vivo by N-glycosylation to form a 70-kDa glycoprotein of the complex type. Immunocytochemical localization with two different antipeptide antisera demonstrates that vomeromodulin is abundant in the lateral nasal glands and is also present in the posterior septal and vomeronasal glands. Most striking is the observation that it is highly concentrated in the mucus of the vomeronasal organ of Jacobson but is not detectable in the mucus of the main olfactory neuroepithelium. Evaluation of mRNA and protein distribution by Northern and Western analyses, respectively, indicates that vomeromodulin is absent from 15 other tissues. The glandular and mucosal distribution of this glycoprotein implies a transport function that may be related to the mechanisms by which pheromones of low volatility gain access to their receptors in the vomeronasal organ. These observations support our hypothesis that vomeromodulin participates in perireceptor events that facilitate the process of pheromone access and detection.

Systemic administration of yohimbine augments sympathetic outflow and blocks presynaptic alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, releasing the sympathetic neurotransmitter norepinephrine (NE) into the bloodstream. The present study examined sympathoadrenal and hemodynamic responses to yohimbine in 19 patients with essential hypertension and 19 normotensive control subjects. Baseline mean values for arterial NE, epinephrine, dihydroxyphenylglycol (the main intraneuronal metabolite of NE), spillover of NE into arterial plasma, and corticotropin did not differ between the hypertensive and normotensive groups. Yohimbine (0.125 mg/kg i.v. bolus followed by 0.001 mg/kg/min infusion for a total of 15 minutes) increased mean arterial pressure in all but one subject (by 13 +/- 2% [SEM] in the normotensive and 17 +/- 2% in the hypertensive group) and increased arterial NE levels in all subjects (by 253 +/- 50 pg/ml in the normotensive and 312 +/- 51 pg/ml in the hypertensive group). Among hypertensive patients, pressor, cardiac, output, and arterial NE responses were distributed bimodally. Patients with large hemodynamic and NE responses to yohimbine typically reported a history of anxiety, depression, or other psychopathology and of marked pressor or tachycardic episodes during emotional stress. In the hypertensive and normotensive groups, baseline arterial NE concentrations predicted the magnitude of pressor responses to yohimbine (r = 0.59, r = 0.54,p less than 0.01), whereas baseline mean arterial pressure was unrelated to the pressor response. A yohimbine challenge test can identify patients with pressor hyperresponsiveness and can distinguish patients with pressor hyperresponsiveness due to excessive sympathoadrenal reactivity from patients with enhanced postsynaptic responsiveness to endogenous NE.
Perceptual problems such as tactile neglect are important features of stroke and strong predictors of a poor outcome. Although new methods of treatment have been described, documentation of the effects of such treatment is inadequate, mainly because satisfactory methods of quantifying tactile neglect are unavailable. We describe a device for quantifying neglect based upon the principle of the Bender test which uses double or simultaneous bilateral stimulation to determine neglect. The device, which is computer driven to ensure uniformity of test protocols, determines the cutaneous perceptual threshold to controlled-current electrical stimulation using surface electrodes. The effect of rival contralateral stimulation on the perceptual thresholds on the affected side of the patient's body is a quantitative measure of tactile neglect. The device was evaluated in normal young and neurologically normal elderly subjects and in stroke patients with clinical evidence of tactile neglect. It was shown to distinguish reliably between normal subjects and those who had tactile neglect. The device will be suitable for use in trials of treatments for tactile neglect and in tracking the natural history of this symptom.
Chronic exposure of differentiated avian skeletal muscle cells in culture to the phorbol ester, 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (PMA), results in the selective disassembly of sarcomeric structures and loss of muscle-specific contractile proteins, leaving cytoskeletal structures and their associated proteins intact. We demonstrate here that these morphological and biochemical changes are accompanied by dramatic and selective decreases in the level of the mRNAs that encode the contractile proteins. We measured the effects of PMA on the transcriptional activity and mRNA stability of four contractile protein genes (alpha-cardiac and alpha-skeletal actin, cardiac troponin C [cTnC], and myosin light chain lf [MLClf]) and two nonmuscle genes (beta-cytoplasmic actin and the glycolytic enzyme, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase [GAPDH]). The transcriptional activity of the alpha-cardiac actin and cTnC genes dramatically decreased by 8 h after the addition of PMA, while other muscle and nonmuscle genes examined showed no change. Pulse-chase experiments of in vivo labeled RNA showed significant reductions in mRNA half-lifes for all the contractile protein mRNAs examined, while the half-lifes of beta-actin and GAPDH mRNA were unchanged. All of the above effects occurred under conditions in which cellular protein kinase C (PKC) levels had been reduced by greater than 90%. The fact that many of the contractile protein genes remained transcriptionally active despite the fact that the cells were unable to accumulate their mRNAs to any significant extent indicated that the treated cells were still committed to skeletal muscle differentiation. The selective changes in the stability of the contractile protein mRNAs suggest that the control of mRNA stability may be part of the normal regulatory program of skeletal muscle differentiation and that this control may be linked to the integrity of the contractile apparatus and mediated by second messenger pathways involving PKC activation.
HNK-1 carbohydrate antigen in an epitope expressed commonly in many cell surface adhesion and recognition molecules in the nervous system. We purified and characterized from rat brain a novel phosphatidylinositol (PI)-anchored 150-kD glycoprotein belonging to the HNK-1 family. The molecule (PI-GP150) was detected by combination of PI-specific phospholipase C treatment of brain membranes and Western blot analysis with mAb HNK-1. HNK-1-positive PI-GP150 was purified from the PI-PLC-released materials with three successive chromatographies (Sephacryl S-300, mAb HNK-1-Sepharose 4B, and Mono Q) and proven to be a novel molecule by immunoblot and structural analyses. Polyclonal antibody was raised against PI-GP150 and used to show that (a) PI-GP150 is expressed on the surface of neuronal cell bodies and their processes in culture, and (b) PI-GP150 appears during embryonic development and is present throughout all postnatal life in all brain regions. However, the expression of the HNK-1 epitope on PI-GP150 is regulated in both developmental stage-specific and region-specific manners. In newborn rats, the HNK-1 epitope is expressed on PI-GP150 throughout the brain. The level of HNK-1 epitope on PI-GP150 decreases after postnatal day 7 in hindbrain and becomes completely absent in adult myelencephalon and metencephalon. In contrast, HNK-1 epitope on PI-GP150 was constitutively expressed in telencephalon. Thus, while the HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope is strongly coupled to PI-GP150, its expression can be regulated independently of that of PI-GP150. The differential expression of the HNK-1 epitope at different rostro-caudal axial levels was observed also in other HNK-1 family molecules in brain membranes. These results suggest that the HNK-1 epitope plays an important role in adding region-specific and developmental stage-specific modifications on the function of the cell surface molecules.
The molecular conformation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) from the rat forebrain and cerebellum was studied by means of EM using a quick-freezing technique. Each molecule appeared to be composed of two kinds of particles, with one larger central particle and smaller peripheral particles and had shapes resembling that of a flower with 8 or 10 &quot;petals&quot;. A favorable shadowing revealed that each peripheral particle had a thin link to the central particle. We predicted that the 8-petal molecules and 10-petal molecules were octamers and decamers of CaM kinase II subunits, respectively, each assembled with the association domains of subunits gathered in the center, and the catalytic domains in the peripheral particles. Binding of antibodies to the enzyme molecules suggested that molecules with 8 and 10 peripheral particles were homopolymers composed only of beta subunit and of alpha subunit, respectively, specifying that CaM kinase II consists of homopolymer of either alpha or beta subunits.
Left-right regional volumetric asymmetries in five telencephalic regions were studied in the developing human fetal brain. Complete series of coronal sections of 21 fetal brains were digitized and regional volumes were integrated. Five regional indices of asymmetry and two overall indices of asymmetry were calculated and compared across the fetal sample. The two most asymmetrical regions in the developing fetal brain were region 1, roughly equivalent to prefrontal cortex, and region 5, which includes striate and extrastriate cortices. Region 5 also manifested a statistically significant sex difference (p less than .02) in the degree of volumetric asymmetry. It appears that striate-extrastriate cortices are far more asymmetrical in male brains than in their female counterparts (M = 33%; F = 13%). Overall indices of asymmetry indicated that, on the average, volumetric asymmetries in the male brain favor the right hemisphere. In contrast, the human fetal female is likely to have two hemispheres of the same size or a left hemisphere that is slightly larger than its right counterpart. We believe that these results support the hypothesis that testosterone in utero may lead to a more rapid growth of the right hemisphere or, alternatively, retard the growth of the left hemisphere.
Afferents often form synapses on restricted regions of their target cells. The connections between vestibular axons and the Mauthner cell are an example of this sort of specificity. The Mauthner cells are a pair of identifiable central neurons in certain fish and amphibians. In the axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum), the large vestibular axons form club endings on only one portion of one dendrite of the Mauthner cell. During development, this specific distribution might result from nothing more than when and where the growing axons and dendrite meet (spatiotemporal model). Alternatively, the distribution might reflect constraints on where the developing axons may grow (axon segregation model) or form synapses (active recognition model). As a test of the spatiotemporal model, ears and vestibular ganglia from older embryos (Harrison stage 33/34-) were unilaterally grafted in place of prospective ear/ganglion placodes of younger embryos (stage 23). Light and electron microscopic examination revealed that the axons precociously entered the brain and formed synapses on the Mauthner cell. Similarly, grafts from younger to older embryos resulted in a delay. In both situations, mapping the club endings on the mature Mauthner cells of 21-mm larvae revealed a distribution similar to that of the contralateral control cells. Thus precocious and delayed afferent arrival did not alter the eventual localization of the synapses. These results conflict with the spatiotemporal model and imply that the vestibular axons are either restricted to a certain region of the neuropil or capable of recognizing a specific region of the Mauthner cell surface.
Vestibular axons form synapses on a restricted area of the lateral dendrite of the Mauthner cell, a large, identified brainstem neuron found in fish and amphibians. The differentiation of the vestibular nerve, medullary neuropil, and Mauthner cell of the axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum) was studied to understand better the means by which this synaptic specificity arises. The Mauthner cell first extends a medial process and then a lateral dendrite. The latter initially elongates as a simple process and later sends out branches. As the lateral dendrite grows, vestibular axons enter the brainstem to form one of the earliest of several discrete axon fascicles that course longitudinally through the neuropil. The fascicles, many of which are identifiable on the basis of their location and axonal morphology, are the precursors of the longitudinal tracts of the mature salamander. The lateral dendrite grows dorsally over the orthogonally oriented fascicles, making contact with each at a characteristic time and place. The first afferents to form synapses do so on the soma and proximal lateral dendrite; subsequent afferent groups terminate more distally. Axons within a given fascicle form synapses with the Mauthner cell in a discrete and initially homogeneous domain. As dendritic branches form and the organization of the longitudinal fascicles becomes more complex, the homogeneity of axons terminating on a given region of the Mauthner cell surface is lost, but no major rearrangement or migration of terminals is apparent. These observations are consistent with both active recognition and passive spatiotemporal models of synaptic site specificity.
A network of 18 Macintosh II-based workstations (Apple Computer Corp, Cupertino, CA) having high-resolution 1,024-line monitors is used for the radiologic instruction of medical students in our institution. Although this is an expensive system, it is time-shared with the Departments of Pathology, Physiology, Neuroscience, Biochemistry, Parasitology, and Microanatomy. The number of workstations available allows the entire class to access the system simultaneously by working in small groups. Because of its high resolution, medical imaging studies and text may be displayed on the same monitor side by side. We have chosen a question-and-answer format (Carousel). Forty-one radiologists in our affiliated medical institutions contributed cases. These cases in question-and-answer form supplement the lectures and film-based tutorials given as part of our mandatory third year radiology clerkship.
Reaction time (RT) differences to visual stimuli as a function of expectancy have been attributed to changes in perceptual processing or entirely to shifts in decision and response criteria. To help distinguish between these competing interpretations, event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded to lateralized flashes delivered to visual field locations precued by a central arrow (valid stimuli) or not precued (invalid stimuli). Validly cued stimuli in both simple and choice RT tasks elicited consistent amplitude enhancements of the early, sensory-evoked PI component of the ERP recorded at scalp sites overlying lateral prestriate visual cortex (90-130 ms poststimulus). In contrast, the subsequent N1 component (150-200 ms) was enhanced by validly cued stimuli in the choice RT task condition only. These electrophysiological findings support models proposing that the behavioral effects of precuing expected target locations are due, at least in part, to changes in sensory-perceptual processing. Furthermore, these data provide specific information regarding the neural mechanisms underlying such effects.
The effect of extracellular pH (pHo) on the duration of calcium-dependent chloride currents (ICl(Ca] was studied in voltage clamped AtT-20 pituitary cells. ICl(Ca) was activated by Ca2+ influx through plasma membrane Ca2+ channels, which were opened by step depolarization to voltages between -20 and +60 mV. Increasing pHo from 7.3 to 8.0 reversibly prolonged ICl(Ca) tail currents in perforated patch recordings from cells bathed in both Na(+)-containing and Na(+)-free solutions. This prolongation was prevented in standard whole cell recordings when the pipette solution contained 0.5 mM EGTA. The effects of raised pHo were not due to alteration of intracellular pH, since tail current prolongation still occurred when intracellular pH was buffered at 7.3 with 80 mM HEPES. The prolongation of ICl(Ca) at pHo 8 could not be accounted for by a direct action on Ca2+ channels, since tail currents were prolonged when pHo was changed rapidly during the tail current, after all Ca2+ channels were closed. The effects of increasing pHo on ICl(Ca) also could not be explained by a direct action on Cl- channels, since changing to pHo 8 did not prolong Cl- tail currents when intracellular Ca2+ concentration [( Ca2+]i) was fixed by EGTA in whole cell recordings. Raising pHo did, however, prolong depolarization-evoked [Ca2+]i transients, measured directly with the Ca2+ indicator dye, fura-2. Taken together, these data demonstrate the presence of a Na(+)-independent, pHo-sensitive mechanism for reduction of [Ca2+]i after influx through Ca2+ channels. This mechanism is associated with the plasma membrane, and is active on a time scale that is relevant to the duration of single action potentials in these cells. We suggest that this mechanism is the plasma membrane Ca2+ ATPase.
In 14 patients with early carpal tunnel syndrome, the diagnostic sensitivity of the measurement of the segmental sensory nerve conduction velocity at 1 cm. steps (&quot;inching&quot;) was compared with the distal sensory latency and the pre-operative wrist-digit and wrist-palm S.C.V. and with similar measurements made at operation immediately after surgical decompression of the nerve. Before operation, distal sensory latency and wrist-digit S.C.V. were normal in all cases, while wrist-palm S.C.V. was pathological in five patients and inching in all 14 patients. Moreover, inching allowed us to determine the site of the slowing across the carpal tunnel, this being between 1-2 cm. from the distal wrist crease in 57% and between 2-3 cm. in 21% of cases. Focal slowing disappeared immediately after decompression in five patients, as is evident from the intra-operative recordings. Inching is, therefore, the most sensitive diagnostic method in early carpal tunnel syndrome.
Slices of inferior olive (IO) and cerebellum were co-cultured for several weeks by means of the roller tube technique. Recordings were carried out intracellularly from Purkinje cells (PCs) which were identified morphologically by intracellular injection of the fluorescent dye Lucifer yellow, or by immunohistochemical stainings with antibodies raised against the 28 kD Ca(2+)-binding protein calbindin. Following stimulation of olivary tissue, an all-or-none full complex spike response was recorded in some PCs consisting of a fast rising spike followed by a depolarizing potential. In other PCs, graded stimulation of the olivary explant induced synaptic potentials which were characterized by step-wise variation in their amplitude and resembled the ones occurring spontaneously. In contrast, only smoothly graded synaptic potentials were observed in cerebellar mono-cultures. These results indicate that some of the PCs in olivo-cerebellar co-cultures are innervated by several olivary neurons.
The displacement of immature neurons from their place of origin in the germinal epithelium toward their adult positions in the nervous system appears to involve migratory pathways or guides. While the importance of radial glial fibers in this process has long been recognized, data from recent investigations have suggested that other mechanisms might also play a role in directing the movement of young neurons. We have labeled autonomic preganglionic cells by microinjections of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into the sympathetic chain ganglia of embryonic rats in order to study the migration and differentiation of these spinal cord neurons. Our results, in conjunction with previous observations, suggest that the migration pattern of preganglionic neurons can be divided into three distinct phases. In the first phase, the autonomic motor neurons arise in the ventral ventricular zone and migrate radially into the ventral horn of the developing spinal cord, where, together with somatic motor neurons, they form a single, primitive motor column (Phelps P. E., Barber R. P., and Vaughn J. E. (1991). J. Comp. Neurol. 307:77-86). During the second phase, the autonomic motor neurons separate from the somatic motor neurons and are displaced dorsally toward the intermediate spinal cord. When the preganglionic neurons reach the intermediolateral (IML) region, they become progressively more multipolar, and many of them undergo a change in alignment, from a dorsoventral to a mediolateral orientation. In the third phase of autonomic motor neuron development, some of these cells are displaced medially, and occupy sites between the IML and central canal. The primary and tertiary movements of the preganglionic neurons are in alignment with radial glial processes in the embryonic spinal cord, an arrangement that is consistent with a hypothesis that glial elements might guide autonomic motor neurons during these periods of development. In contrast, during the second phase, the dorsal translocation of preganglionic neurons occurs in an orientation perpendicular to radial glial fibers, indicating that glial elements are not involved in the secondary migration of these cells. The results of previous investigations have provided evidence that, in addition to glial processes, axonal pathways might provide a substrate for neuronal migration. Logically, therefore, it is possible that the secondary dorsolateral translocation of autonomic preganglionic neurons could be directed along early forming circumferential axons of spinal association interneurons, and this hypothesis is supported by the fact that such fibers are appropriately arrayed in both developmental time and space to guide this movement.
The effect of angiotensin II on catecholamine release from bovine adrenal medulla has been investigated. In retrogradely perfused, isolated bovine adrenal glands, angiotensin II increased basal efflux of catecholamines, but the presence of angiotensin II did not increase the release of catecholamines evoked either by bolus injections of the secretagogue carbachol or by depolarization with a perfusing solution containing a raised concentration of K+. In chromaffin cells maintained in primary tissue culture, angiotensin II increased 3H release from cells preloaded with [3H]-noradrenaline but did not enhance the release evoked by carbachol or by depolarization with K+. The increase in 3H release evoked by angiotensin II from chromaffin cells in tissue culture was inhibited by its analogue antagonist Sar1,Ala8-angiotensin II (saralasin) and was entirely dependent on the presence of Ca2+ in the experimental medium. These findings suggest that, in the chromaffin cells of the bovine adrenal medulla, angiotensin II acts on specific receptors to cause a calcium-dependent catecholamine release but triggers no additional response that acts synergistically with depolarizing or nicotinic stimuli to augment catecholamine release.
Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT; acetyl-CoA:choline-O-acetyltransferase; EC 2.3.1.6) is the enzyme responsible for the synthesis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine and is thus the genetic determinant of neurons with a cholinergic phenotype. We have screened a Drosophila genomic library using a cRNA probe, transcribed from Drosophila ChAT cDNA, and isolated three independent clones representing all the exons of this gene. The gene spans more than 26 kb of DNA and is organized into eight exons containing 594, 80, 192, 759, 408, 147, 201, and 1,612 nucleotides. All inserts that hybridized with a cRNA probe have been subcloned and the sequence of intron/exon boundaries determined. The only part of the ChAT gene not represented in our clones is a part of the first intron. A minimum size for this uncloned DNA has been deduced from Southern analysis of Drosophila genomic DNA. We also have probed the transcripts of the ChAT gene by northern analysis of total Drosophila RNA using two different exon-specific antisense RNA probes. An exon I probe detected two bands of RNA whereas an exon VIII probe hybridized with only the smaller band, previously identified as ChAT mRNA. These results indicate a complex transcription pattern for the ChAT locus in Drosophila.
The biochemical and pharmacological characteristics of receptor-stimulated phosphoinositide (PPI) hydrolysis in human SK-N-MC neuroepithelioma cells have been examined. Of 11 ligands tested, the addition of four, i.e., norepinephrine, oxotremorine-M, endothelin-1, and ATP, each resulted in an increased release (three- to eightfold) of inositol phosphates from [3H]inositol-prelabeled cells. Agonist-stimulated PPI turnover was sustained for at least 30 min and required the addition of Ca2+ for full effect. An increased release of inositol phosphates could also be elicited by the addition of the Ca2+ ionophore, ionomycin. All four agonists enhanced the release of radiolabeled inositol mono- and bisphosphates, inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate, and inositol tetrakisphosphate. Increases in inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate were smaller and only consistently observed in the presence of norepinephrine or oxotremorine-M. Norepinephrine-stimulated PPI turnover was potently inhibited by prazosin, WB-4101, and 5-methylurapidil (Ki less than 2.5 nM), but was relatively insensitive to chlorethylclonidine pretreatment. This pharmacological profile is consistent with the involvement of an alpha 1A-receptor subtype. The presence of an M1 muscarinic cholinergic receptor is also indicated, because pirenzepine blocked oxotremorine-M-stimulated inositol phosphate release (Ki = 35 nM) with a 30-fold greater potency than the M2-selective antagonist, AF-DX 116. Of the three endothelins tested, only the addition of endothelin-1 and endothelin-2 promoted PPI hydrolysis, whereas endothelin-3 was essentially inactive. A P2 nucleotide receptor of broad agonist specificity is also present on these cells and activates PPI turnover in the absence of a generalized increase in plasma membrane permeability. These results indicate that SK-N-MC cells express at least four PPI-linked receptors. Because the functional coupling of three of these receptors, i.e., alpha 1A-adrenergic, endothelin, and P2 nucleotide, has not been extensively characterized previously in neural tissues, the SK-N-MC cell line may provide a useful model system for studies of these receptors and their regulation.
Synapse formation by retinal ganglion cell axons was sought in the superior colliculus of four adult rats 16-18 months after the optic nerve was transected and replaced by a peripheral nerve graft that guided regenerating RGC axons from the eye to the superior colliculus. The terminals of retinal ganglion cell axons were labelled by intravitreal injections of tritiated amino acids and studied by light and electron microscopic autoradiography. We found that (i) retinal ganglion cell axons had extended from the tips of the peripheral nerve grafts into the superior colliculus for approximately 350 microns; (ii) within the superior colliculus, some regenerated retinal ganglion cell axons became ensheathed by CNS myelin; (iii) retinal ganglion cell terminals formed asymmetric synapses with dendrites of neurons in the superficial layers of the superior colliculus, mainly the stratum griseum superficialis. Regenerated (n = 418) and normal retinal ganglion cell terminals (n = 1775) in the superior colliculus were compared in terms of their size (area, perimeter, and maximum diameter), contacts per terminal, contacts per 10 microns terminal perimeter, and post-synaptic structure contacted (dendritic spine, shaft, or soma). No statistically significant differences in the ultrastructural characteristics of the pre-synaptic profiles were apparent between the two groups. The post-synaptic structures contacted by axon terminals were similar in regenerated and control animals, although there were quantitative differences in the distributions of these contacts among dendritic spines and shafts. These results suggest that the regeneration of retinal ganglion cell axons in adult rats can lead to the formation of ultrastructurally normal synapses in the appropriate layers of the superior colliculus. The re-formed connections appear to persist for the life-span of these animals.
1. The endurance of slow-twitch motor units from the soleus (SOL) and medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscles of the cat were tested by determining the length of time (endurance time, Et) that a unit could maintain its tension output at 85% of maximum. Motor-unit tension was clamped at the target level by altering the stimulation rate of a unit's motor axon through computer feedback control. Tested in this way, units of both muscles displayed a wide range of Ets, approximately 40- to 50-fold. 2. Electromyographic (EMG) waveforms of motor units subjected to force-clamp contractions were analyzed to access whether any activity-dependent changes in their waveform shape might predict Et. Three measurements of waveform shape were determined: baseline-to-baseline duration, peak-to-peak amplitude, and area. Typically, amplitude decreased and duration increased as a contraction proceeded, whereas area remained fairly constant. Because changes in each measure were very similar for units of widely different Ets, it was concluded that neuromuscular junction failure and changes in the excitability of the sarcolemma (excluding the t-tubule system) play a minor role in determining Et. 3. Et was highly correlated with the mean stimulation rate (Et/number of stimuli) used during the force-clamp contractions. Mean rate was seen to progressively decrease with increasing Et. This correlation could not be explained by measures of isometric contractile speed or relaxation (e.g., twitch contraction time or half-relaxation time) measured before the force-clamp contractions. Both contraction time and half-relaxation time were found to be unrelated to both Et and the rate used to stimulate the unit during the force-clamp contraction. 4. Among type S units of SOL and MG, maximum tetanic tension and Et were not related. A significant relation (r = -0.49) was found between axonal conduction velocity and Et for SOL units (n = 38). In addition, a significant correlation (r = 0.47) was found between conduction velocity and tetanic tension for SOL units. Perhaps because of the small sample of type S units from MG (n = 10), conduction velocity was found not be related to either Et or tetanic tension. 5. Others have shown that a motor unit's maximum tetanic tension and axonal conduction velocity are correlated with its order of recruitment among motoneurons innervating a muscle. Recent work has further shown that among type F units the order in which a motoneuron is recruited is highly correlated with the fatigue resistance of its muscle unit.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. We studied the electrical properties of spinal motoneurons, the axons of which had regenerated into a cutaneous nerve. 2. In cats, all or part of the medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscle nerve was cut and directed distally into the caudal cutaneous sural (CCS) nerve, a sensory (primarily cutaneous) nerve. One or 2 yr later, electrical properties [conduction velocity (CV), rheobase (Irh), input resistance (RN), afterhyperpolarization (AHP), and excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs)] of MG motoneurons that had cross-regenerated into the CCS nerve were determined. These were compared with properties of normal and of axotomized MG motoneurons and with data from previous studies in which MG motoneurons had reinnervated their own or a foreign muscle. 3. Electrical stimulation of the MG-innervated CCS nerve produced no detected mechanical activity, indicating an absence of muscle innervation. Tactile stimulation of skin did not activate these motoneurons; i.e., they did not acquire properties of cutaneous afferents. 4. The CV and Irh of MG motoneurons axotomized 11 mo declined by 48 and 60%, respectively. 5. The CV of MG motoneurons that had regenerated through CCS was only slightly slower than normal, similar to that of MG motoneurons that reinnervated the &quot;slow&quot; muscle soleus (Foehring and Munson 1990). 6. The Irh and RN were also similar to those of MG motoneurons that had regenerated into the soleus muscle. 7. Electrical stimulation of the lateral gastrocnemius-soleus nerve generated EPSPs of normal or almost normal amplitude in MG motoneurons axotomized for 11 mo or cross-regenerated into CCS up to 2 yr.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Spectrin is a major component of the mammalian neuronal cytoskeleton. In the CNS, three isoforms of brain spectrin are known to exist: a cellular and dendritic isoform, (240/235E), related to neurons and glia; a cellular and axonal isoform, (240/235), related to neurons; and an isoform specific for astrocytes, (240/235A). In the present study, brain spectrins (240/235E) and (240/235) were localized within the mouse retina and optic nerve. Immunoblot analyses of proteins isolated from mouse retinas utilizing polyclonal antibodies to either brain spectrin (240/235) or brain spectrin (240/235E) revealed that these spectrins are present in the retina and that the two isoforms are the same molecular weights as those found in the brain. Immunocytochemical studies revealed that spectrin (240/235E) was localized in cell bodies of the inner nuclear, outer nuclear, and ganglion cell layers, and processes arborizing within the inner and outer plexiform layers. Spectrin (240/235) was distributed diffusely within the retina, lightly staining neurons in both the inner nuclear and outer nuclear layers, and the ganglion cell layer. In contrast to the situation found in the brain, spectrin (240/235) was but one of the axonal forms in the retina. We found that spectrin (240/235E) was also present in the axon-rich fiber layer and in the optic nerve and was often associated with fibrous elements. Spectrin (240/235) was also detected in the nerve fiber layer and optic nerve, but this isoform was not localized to fibers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
During development, columns of the mammalian cerebral cortex are formed by migration of neurons along fascicles of radial glia. Subsequently, axons of the corpus callosum connect reciprocal regions of each cerebral hemisphere. To determine whether the radial growth of callosal afferents through the developing cortex may be guided by particular cellular elements, we examined the ultrastructural relationship between callosal afferents and radial fibers in the early postnatal hamster sensorimotor cortex. Developing callosal axons and their growth cones were labeled with HRP injected into the cortex at 3 d postnatal when the growth cones have extended across the callosum and are just entering the contralateral cortex. An EM analysis of 30 HRP-labeled axons and their growth cones revealed that they extended upon fascicles of radial processes associated with migrating neurons. Reconstruction of seven of these growth cones, serially sectioned in their entirety, showed that growth cones were associated with the same radial fascicle as their axon. Growth cones also touched other cellular elements such as axons. However, the finding that callosal afferents, from the point at which they enter the cortex to their growth cones, were apposed to a continuous fascicle of radial fibers suggests that callosal axons are tracking along radial processes. We conclude that the majority of the radial processes within fascicles are likely to be glial, based on their relatively large diameters, electron-lucent cytoplasm with a regular array of microtubules, the presence of glycogen granules, occasional cytoplasmic protrusions lacking microtubules, and their consistent association with migrating neurons. We propose therefore that radial glia may serve a guidance function for growing callosal axons in their radial trajectory through the developing cerebral cortex.
There are at least two basal cell populations in the olfactory epithelium that could give rise to olfactory neurons during development, in the normal adult, and after experimentally induced receptor cell death. These populations have been subdivided as horizontal (HBC) and globose (GBC) basal cells on the basis of morphological criteria and by staining with antibodies against cytokeratin. HBCs are positive for cytokeratin while GBCs are negative. We have studied which cell type is induced to divide during receptor cell regeneration stimulated by olfactory bulbectomy using a combination of immunocytochemistry and autoradiography. By examining which population increases its labeling index with 3H-thymidine (3H-TdR) at various times after bulbectomy, it is shown that there is an increase in 3H-TdR uptake in the cytokeratin-negative GBCs with no change in the cytokeratin-positive HBCs. This suggests that the GBCs are specifically induced to divide in response to cues that accompany receptor cell death, and it is thus concluded that these cells are among the precursors of new olfactory receptor neurons.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules chondroitin-6-sulfate proteoglycan (CS-PG) and cytotactin/tenascin (CT), present on subpopulations of astroglia or their precursors during development, can inhibit neurite outgrowth in vitro. However, it is not known whether these molecules are expressed within the mature CNS following injury, where they could contribute to regenerative failure. Thus, the expression of various ECM molecules that affect axon growth was examined in areas of reactive gliosis caused by implanting a piece of nitrocellulose into the cortex of neonatal and adult animals. The expression of these molecules was compared to the amount of neurite outgrowth that occurred in vitro when the damaged CNS tissue from animals of various ages was removed intact and used as a substrate in explant culture. The results demonstrate that the growth-promoting molecules laminin, collagen type IV, and fibronectin were present around the implant in all experimental groups. In comparison, CS-PG and CT were present within and around the area of the lesion only in adult animals. In vivo, these molecules were colocalized with intensely glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes in and immediately adjacent to the scar, but not with other equally intensely GFAP-positive astrocytes in the cortex away from the site of injury. CT and CS-PG were present in gray matter areas of the cortex that had been directly damaged during the implant procedure and in the corpus callosum when lesioned during implantation. In vitro, the glial tissue removed from the lesion site of neonatal animals supported neurite outgrowth, while scars removed from adult animals did not. The inability of the adult glial scar tissue to support neurite outgrowth was best correlated with the expression of CS-PG and CT, suggesting that these molecules may be involved in limiting the growth of regenerating axons in the CNS after injury.
The cocaine analog [3H]WIN 35,428 was used to label digitonin-solubilized dopamine transporters from dog caudate nucleus. The assay consists of incubation of extracts with the ligand followed by separation of free from bound ligand by centrifugation after adding activated charcoal. Specific binding was observed in dog caudate but was absent in dog cerebellar extracts. Binding was linear with tissue, saturable, and of high affinity (Kd = 16 nM). In competition studies, soluble [3H]WIN 35,428 binding was inhibited strongly by mazindol, GBR 12909, and (-)-cocaine but only weakly by citalopram, desipramine, and (+)-cocaine; this is typical of binding to the dopamine transporter. Compared to assays using [3H]GBR 12935, (-)-cocaine was relatively more potent, suggesting that the cocaine and GBR 12935 binding sites are somewhat different. When soluble extract was chromatographed on a wheat germ agglutinin-Sepharose column, [3H]WIN 35,428 binding activity was eluted with N-acetylglucosamine in a manner similar to photoaffinity-labeled dopamine transporters.
Cortical focal ischemia in the rat was induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) together with permanent occlusion of the ipsilateral common carotid artery (CCAo) and a temporary (1 hr) occlusion of the contralateral CCA. By using a defined cortical tissue sampling procedure at 3, 6, 24, 72, 96, and 120 hr after the MCAo + CCAo, patterns of edema and ion (Na+, K+, and Ca++) changes in a primary and three peri-ischemic cortical areas are described. Ionic imbalances and edema formation have distinct patterns, are time dependent, and are different when comparing primary and peri-ischemic areas. Calcium increases to &quot;neurotoxic&quot; levels appear temporally independent of edema formation, reaching magnitudes 20 times greater than basal levels in the primary infarct area. Na+ increases correlate with increases in water, while K+ losses do not appear to be directly related to edema formation of Na+ and Ca++ increases. K+ losses are only significant in the primary infarct area. Rats treated with GM1 ganglioside (10 mg/kg, i.m.) daily showed significant reductions in edema, Na+ and Ca++ increases. These ganglioside effects were evident as early as 24 hr after the ischemic injury. Ca++ increases, which was maximal at 72 hr after the ischemic injury, was reduced by greater than 50% in GM1-treated animals. The mechanism by which GM1 is an effective neuroprotective agent may be evidenced by its effects on Ca++ influx/efflux processes in injury.
The present study sought to establish the cellular basis for the catecholaminergic (i.e., noradrenaline and dopamine) modulation of neurons in the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca (HDB) in the rat brain. The light and electron microscopic localization of antigenic sites for a polyclonal antibody directed against the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), were examined in the HDB using a double-bridged, peroxidase-antiperoxidase method. By light microscopy, numerous punctate, varicose processes with intense TH-immunoreactivity (TH-I) were detected in the HDB. Additionally, a few small, bipolar, or multipolar TH-immunoreactive neurons were observed. Ultrastructural analysis of single sections revealed that the TH-labeled processes were axons and axon terminals. Axons (n = 134) with TH-I were primarily unmyelinated. Terminals with TH-I (n = 169) were 0.3-1.4 microns in diameter and contained many small, clear vesicles and 0-5 larger dense-core vesicles. The types of associations (i.e., asymmetric synapses, symmetric synapses, and appositions which lacked a membrane specialization in the plane of section analyzed) formed by the TH-labeled terminals were quantitatively evaluated. The TH-labeled terminals: (1) formed associations with unlabeled perikarya and dendrites (134 out of 169), (2) were closely apposed without glial intervention to unlabeled and TH-labeled terminals (11 out of 169), or (3) had no neuronal associations in the plane of section analyzed (24 out of 169). The relatively rare (n = 4) associations with unlabeled perikarya were mostly characterized by symmetric synaptic specializations. The majority of the TH-labeled terminals were associated with the shafts of small dendrites (66% of 134). Moreover, most of the associations on dendrites and dendritic spines were further characterized by asymmetric synaptic specializations; however, many were also appositions without any apparent glial intervention in the plane of section analyzed. Additionally, the TH-labeled terminals were often associated with only one dendrite, which, in the same plane of section, was sparsely innervated by other terminals. Astrocytic processes usually surrounded the portions of the terminals and dendrites not involved in the region of association. The TH-immunoreactive perikarya were small (7-12 microns), ovoid, and had an indented nucleus with some heterochromatin. Their scant cytoplasm contained mitochondria, Golgi complexes, and endoplasmic reticulum. A few immunoreactive dendrites, presumably derived from the local neurons, were also detected. Both TH-immunoreactive perikarya and dendrites were associated primarily with unlabeled terminals, although a few terminals with TH-I also contacted them.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In rat olfactory bulb, stimulation of muscarinic receptors activates adenylate cyclase. In the present study we have examined a variety of muscarinic receptor stimulants to characterize the agonist profile of this response. Analysis of agonist concentration-response curves revealed the following rank order of potency: oxotremorine-M greater than oxotremorine greater than BM5 greater than acetylcholine greater than carbachol = methacholine greater than (+/-)muscarine greater than arecoline greater than pilocarpine greater than RS 86 greater than McN-A-343 greater than bethanechol. Acetylcholine, oxotremorine-M, carbachol, (+/-)muscarine and metacholine behaved as full agonists, whereas the other stimulants displayed lower efficacies. The slope values of the concentration-response curves were close or equal to 1, except those of the carbachol and pilocarpine curves, which showed values significantly lower than 1. Moreover, the slope of the pilocarpine curve was differentially changed by the M1 antagonist pirenzepine and the M2 antagonist AF-DX 116. The agonist profile of the muscarinic stimulation of adenylate cyclase in the olfactory bulb correlated well with that exhibited by the muscarinic inhibition of the enzyme activity in the striatum, suggesting that the two responses are mediated by a similar receptor subtype. Sodium ion modulated the agonist affinity for both adenylate cyclase-coupled receptor systems.
The pharmacological profile of the muscarinic stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity in rat olfactory bulb was investigated by using a number of antagonists with different selectivity for the muscarinic receptor subtypes. Schild analysis showed that this response was counteracted with the following rank order of potency: R(-)quinuclidinyl benzilate greater than atropine greater than RS(+/-)-3-quinuclidinyl xanthene-9-carboxylate hemioxalate greater than S(+)quinuclidinyl benzylate greater than 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methbromide greater than secoverine greater than methoctramine greater than dicyclomine greater than hexahydrosiladifenidol greater than p-fluorohexahydro-sila-difenidol greater than AF-DX 116 greater than pirenzepine. In the heart and corpus striatum, the antagonist rank orders of potency in counteracting the muscarinic inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity were consistent with the involvement of homogeneous populations of M2 and M3 receptors, respectively. Conversely, in the olfactory bulb, the pirenzepine inhibition curve of acetylcholine-stimulated enzyme activity was biphasic, with a major component of the response being inhibited with low affinity. These results indicate that more than one receptor subtype may participate in the stimulation of adenylate cyclase in rat olfactory bulb. The predominant receptor involved appears to be different from the M1, M2 and M3 subtypes and pharmacologically equivalent to the m4 gene product.
The brain is described as a system whose states are subject to quantum uncertainty. Conscious observation brings individual states into being from the multiple states possible at a given instant. This gives rise to information, which is the content of consciousness. Synchronicity is the principle by which a single state is generated by conscious observation throughout the brain at a given instant. It is the equivalent of the non-local interaction in quantum theory. Both psychodynamic and cognitive applications of the proposed model are described.
The effect on behavior of single subtoxic doses (100 and 600 micrograms/kg i.p., i.e. 1/77 and 1/13 of LD50, respectively) of an organophosphorous compound, diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP), was studied in male Wistar rats. In the open-field test, the lower dose of DFP tended to increase ambulation, while the higher dose showed a trend towards a decrease in ambulation, rearing and frequency of defecation. In the elevated plus-maze, rotarod, elevated bridges and hot plate tests, DFP-treated rats did not differ significantly from the olive oil-treated controls. DFP significantly impaired the performance of rats in the one-trial passive avoidance task and dose-dependently decreased spontaneous locomotor activity for 4 hours after administration. At the doses used DFP only slightly inhibited acetylcholinesterase activity in the blood and different brain areas. The results show that the higher dose of DFP had an inactivating effect on the behavior of rats, while the lower dose did not markedly change their behavioral pattern. Our findings indicate that anticholinesterase compounds, such as DFP, can alter behavior even after single small subtoxic doses.
We previously demonstrated that the immature rat ovary synthesizes nerve growth factor (NGF), and that interference of NGF actions by immunoneutralization during neonatal life prevents development of the ovarian sympathetic innervation and delays follicular maturation. Since the actions of NGF are exerted via binding to specific cell surface receptors, the present study was undertaken to define and characterize the presence of NGF receptors (NGFrec) in the developing rat ovary. NGF interacts with two classes of NGFrec. The most abundant is a low affinity form expressed in the central nervous system and peripheral tissues. This receptor is encoded by a single 3.8-kilobase mRNA species. Cross-linking of [125I]NGF to ovarian membranes followed by immunoprecipitation, sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and autoradiography showed the presence of a approximately 90-kilodalton molecular species which corresponds in size to the predominant NGF receptor species cross-linked to its ligand. While ovarian NGFrec may be of neuronal origin and reach the gland exclusively by anterograde axonal transport, RNA blot hybridization demonstrated that the ovary expresses the NGFrec mRNA species that encodes the low affinity NGF receptor and, thus, implicated the ovary itself as a site of NGFrec synthesis. NGFrec mRNA levels decreased abruptly after the first ovulation, suggesting that NGFrec may be synthesized in growing follicles and that this capacity is lost after follicular rupture and luteinization.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We purified the high-molecular-weight perforin inhibitor protein from normal human serum using DEAE-cellulose, HPLC-gel filtration and hydroxylapatite chromatography. This protein was shown to be identical to the serum apolipoprotein B-100 in terms of amino acid composition and the sequence of the digested peptides. This inhibitor protein not only inhibits the membrane binding activity of perforin but also the pore insertion activity of membrane-bound perforin.
Twenty patients with Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD), confirmed by dystrophin tests, were studied histologically. There were several morphological differences between younger (less than or equal to 15-year-old) and older (greater than 15-year-old) patients. In the younger patients, active muscle fiber necrosis followed by a regenerating process was conspicuous. In the older patients, the active degenerative changes appeared less prominent and, instead, more chronic myopathic changes such as moth-eaten fibers, fiber splitting, and hypertrophic fibers were evident. These age-dependent differences in the pathology of BMD were irrespective of the duration of clinical symptoms, i.e., BMD patients of a similar age showed a similar morphological feature regardless of age at onset. Although the presence of mild fiber type grouping and some small angulated atrophic fibers suggested a certain degree of neurogenic involvement, none of biopsies showed significant grouped atrophy as seen in neuropathic disorders. There was no correlation between the histological changes and the specific dystrophin abnormality.
Anxiety disorders are common, debilitating illnesses. Panic disorder is an anxiety disorder with a characteristic clinical presentation. A growing body of neuroanatomical and neurochemical data is beginning to elucidate its pathophysiology. There are currently three types of effective pharmacotherapies for panic disorder: tricyclic antidepressants, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, and highpotency benzodiazepines. The choice of a pharmacologic approach may be guided by considerations of potential side effects and other clinical/pharmacologic concerns.

Thirty consecutive patients with cytologically documented leptomeningeal metastases (LM) underwent intraventricular 111indium-DTPA (In) CSF flow studies (FS). Sixteen patients (53%) had normal In FS. Fourteen patients (47%) had documented compartmentalization of the CSF system. In four patients unsuspected CSF block was confined to the base of brain with limited spinal descent and poor cerebral convexity ascent of In. All patients received whole-brain irradiation and two were subsequently shown to have normal In FS. In 10 other patients, suspected (eight) and unsuspected (two) spinal blocks were seen. Patients with spinal blocks underwent CT myelography or spine MR and were subsequently treated with involved-field irradiation. Following radiation therapy, normal In FS were achieved in only two patients with documented spinal cord blocks. In conclusion, antegrade In FS in patients with LM are useful in defining levels of CSF blocks. Following treatment of patients with CSF blocks with involved-field irradiation, normal In FS can be restored in approximately one third.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) affects neuronal excitability in a variety of in vivo and in vitro preparations, apparently by modulating a resting potassium conductance. The data presented here show that CCK (applied as CCK8-S) also affects the transient potassium current in hippocampal neurones, by changing the voltage dependence of the inactivation and activation of the current. The way in which the voltage dependence is changed can lead to either an enhancement of the current or an attenuation, depending upon the voltage protocol used. This effect of CCK does not desensitise over a time period of minutes, and may therefore be important in controlling neuronal excitability in the CNS.
Pretreatment of primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells with sodium nitroprusside (SNP) protected these neurons from delayed death induced by glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). This neuroprotective effect was not mimicked by S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP) which like SNP stimulates guanylate cyclase via a nitric oxide (NO) related mechanism. In contrast, neuroprotection was achieved with potassium ferrocyanide, a compound structurally related to SNP, but devoid of NO. On the other hand, kainate-induced neurotoxicity was not protected but potentiated by SNP. This effect of SNP was not mimicked by SNAP, potassium ferrocyanide and potassium ferricyanide. We conclude that neuroprotective properties of SNP on glutamate- and NMDA-induced neurotoxicity are not due to the release of NO and activation of guanylate cyclase, but are determined by the ferrocyanide portion of the SNP molecule.
Cerebral cortical cells from fetal rats (14 days) were cultured in vitro (7-104 days). Localization of synaptophysin was examined immunocytochemically using a monoclonal antibody (SY-38) against synaptophysin. Synaptophysin-immunoreactive (SP-IR) spots were distributed on the surface of the cells. Electron-microscopic observation showed that the SP-IR staining was localized at presynaptic terminals, indicating that the SP-IR spots observed will, fluorescence microscopy represent presynaptic terminals. The time-course of the distribution of SP-IR spots was examined. SP-IR spots could not be observed in cells at 7 days in vitro (DIV). At 14 DIV, SP-IR spots could be first observed on the surface of cell bodies and neurites. Thereafter, the density of SP-IR spots on the cell bodies and neurites increased with DIV. At 42 and 104 DIV, SP-IR spots were almost continued, surrounding the neurites and cell bodies of the cultured cells. These immunocytochemical studies suggest that the dissociated 14-day fetal cerebral cortical neurons make synapses by at least 14 DIV and that the density of synapses increases with time.
The distribution of functional glutamate receptor subtypes was visualized as regional changes in intracellular Ca2+ concentration induced by administration of a specific agonist for each subtype. An image of the fura-2 fluorescence from a whole hippocampal slice was directly excited at 340 or 380 nm through an optical fibre and observed via a low-magnification objective lens (x4). A heterogeneous distribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA subtypes was demonstrated by the ratio of fluorescence intensities before and after administration of each agonist. This 'macro' image analysis can reveal distributions of multiple functional receptors in a living brain slice.
During the years 1984 to 1987, 459 very low birth weight (VLBW) infants were admitted to a state-designated Level III Neonatal Intensive Care Unit. Cerebral sonography performed in a standardized sequence and graded with the Papile scale diagnosed 97 (21.1%) children with periventricular hemorrhage (PVH). The incidence of PVH declined from a peak of 26.6% in 1985 to 16.4% in 1987, associated with an increase in the incidence of inborn admissions (including maternal transport) from 62.0% in 1984 to 80.4% in 1987. During initial hospitalization, the occurrence of both low-grade (Grades I and II) and high-grade PVH was associated with a significantly higher incidence of perinatal risk factors compared with a concurrent population of VLBW infants without PVH. Developmental follow-up was achieved in 93.3% of VLBW infants without PVH and 95.7% of VLBW infants with PVH who survived their initial hospitalization. The incidence of abnormal outcome ranged from 7 of 37 infants with Grade I PVH to 7 of 8 VLBW infants with Grade IV PVH. Only 1 of 16 VLBW infants with high-grade PVH demonstrated normal motor and cognitive development. Active hydrocephalus developed in 12 infants; 11 sustained a high-grade PVH. Appropriate treatment of intracranial hypertension did not modify the neurodevelopmental outcome. In conclusion, this regional population of VLBW infants demonstrated a decline in the incidence of PVH during the years 1984 to 1987 associated with an increase in the incidence of inborn admissions. The risk of abnormal neurodevelopmental outcome was elevated for all grades of PVH. A 12.0% incidence of hydrocephalus was associated with high-grade PVH, and appropriate treatment did not alter the poor prognosis.
A 47-year old female had a fever about 39 degrees C of unknown origin for 2 days. Soon she developed pain in the bilateral lower extremities followed by gait disturbance and vesicorectal disorder. Prednisolone was administered with an improvement. However, she developed paresthesia in the upper extremities 1 month later, and then gradually paraplegia another 5 month later. Nystagmus, painful tonic spasm, facial spasm, and visual disorder also appeared. These symptoms repeatedly exacerbated and remitted with administration of prednisolone. We examined this patient at age 53, CBC, blood chemistry, urinalysis, ECG and chest X-ray were normal. Serum IgG and IgA level were decreased. CSF protein content and IgG level were remarkably increased. EEG showed diffuse theta activities. MRI studies revealed high intensity signals in the putamen, deep frontal and periventricular white matter region. Pulse therapy of methylprednisolone was performed effectively for several times. She died of respiratory and heart failure 6 years after the onset. Autopsy revealed bilateral continuous cystic lesions along the lateral ventricles extending from the frontal tips of anterior horns to the occipital tips of posterior, and further, to the temporal tips of lateral horns; the caudate-callosal angeles (Wetterwinkel) were more severely and widely affected bilaterally. There were also old and fresh demyelinated lesions scattered in the cerebral white matter, brainstem, cerebellum, and spinal cord. Although this case is considered to have typical MS from clinical and pathological findings, there have been only a few reports of MS with such continuous cystic lesions in the cerebral hemispheres as seen in this case.

Previous studies with the Brattleboro rat suggested a possible interaction at the pituitary level between AVP and the neuropeptide, F-8-F-NH2. In order to test this hypothesis, we studied the effect of various osmotic stimuli on neurohypophyseal F-8-F-NH2. In rats drinking 2% NaCl solution for two days, neural lobe AVP and F-8-F-NH2 levels were equally reduced by 87%. After maximal depletion, pituitary levels of F-8-F-NH2 and AVP rebounded in parallel when normal drinking water was reintroduced. Pituitary stalk transection depleted neurohypophyseal F-8-F-NH2. The results of this study suggest that neurohypophyseal F-8-F-NH2 originates from the hypothalamus and, furthermore, is coreleased along with AVP in response to hyperosmotic stimuli.
Animals fed a high-protein diet (50% casein) are hyperactive and more responsive to nociceptive stimuli than those fed either a normal- or low-protein diet. The mechanisms mediating dietary protein-induced behavior are unknown and may include both central and peripheral neural effects. Adult, Sprague-Dawley rats were fed 50% casein (treatment group) and 24% casein (control group) ad lib for 36-40 weeks. The animals were anesthetized with alpha-chloralose and urethane (50 mg/kg and 1.5 mg/kg, IP). EEG recordings were averaged while the anesthetized animal was conditioned using an alerting stimulus-imperative stimulus (AS-IS) paradigm. AS consisted of a 1.5 kHz, 90 dB tone cue. This was followed 2 seconds later by IS, an electrical tail stimulation (11 V, 1.4 s duration). Two negative deflections (N1 and N2) were generated by the frontal cortex during the AS-IS interstimulus interval. N1, an alerting response, was not different between the two groups. N2 amplitude and peak latency were significantly increased in the high-protein group (205% and 117% of control, respectively; p less than 0.05). N2 represents the activation of cells in the motor cortex. Brainstem auditory-evoked responses and somatosensory-evoked potentials also were recorded, but no differences were observed between the two diet groups. These data suggest that consumption of a high-protein diet results in an increase in central arousal mechanisms (measured by cortical negativity response), specifically involving increased excitability of the motor cortex, that is not associated with a disorder of information processing in the cerebral cortex (measured by brainstem auditory-evoked responses and somatosensory-evoked potentials).
In order to study the effects of temperature changes induced by cold stress on working memory, telemetry thermistor probes were implanted into the hippocampal region of the brain and into the peritoneal cavity of rats. Temperatures in these regions were monitored while rats performed on a delayed matching-to-sample (DMTS) task at ambient temperatures of 23 degrees C and 2 degrees C. Matching accuracy was significantly decreased during exposure to 2 degrees C, indicating a marked impairment of short-term or working memory. Temperature in the hippocampus increased 2 degrees C during exposure to 23 degrees C, but only 1 degrees C when the environmental temperature was 2 degrees C. Body temperature showed a similar but less pronounced pattern in that cold exposure attenuated the increase in temperature observed when animals performed the DMTS task. These results suggest that cold-induced impairment of working memory may be associated with subtle temperature changes in the brain.
It has long been known that lesions of the hypothalamus lead to female sexual precocity. While an increased production of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), the neurohormone that controls sexual development, appears to mediate the advancement of puberty induced by these lesions, little is known about the mechanism(s) by which hypothalamic injury activates LHRH secretion. Since brain lesions result in accumulation of neurotrophic/mitogenic activities in the injured area, we tested the hypothesis that transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha), a mitogenic polypeptide recently shown to stimulate LHRH release, is produced in response to hypothalamic injury and mediates the effect of the lesion on puberty. Radiofrequency lesions of the preoptic area-anterior hypothalamic area (POA-AHA) of 22-day-old female rats resulted in precocious puberty within 7 days after the operation. RNA blot hybridization revealed that lesion-induced puberty was preceded by an increase in TGF-alpha mRNA levels in the POA-AHA. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) mRNA was undetectable in both intact and lesioned hypothalami. TGF-alpha mRNA levels, quantitated by RNase protection assays, were 3.5-fold greater in lesioned animals approaching puberty than in age-matched controls. Immunohistochemical studies, utilizing single- and double-staining procedures, demonstrated the presence of TGF-alpha precursor-like immunoreactivity in reactive astrocytes surrounding the lesion site. Hybridization histochemistry showed increased TGF-alpha mRNA expression in cells of the same area, further implicating reactive astrocytes as a site of TGF-alpha synthesis. The actions of TGF-alpha are mediated by its interaction with EGF receptors. Continuous infusion of RG-50864, an inhibitor of EGF receptor kinase activity, at the site of injury prevented the advancement of puberty induced by the lesion. These results suggest that TGF-alpha acting via EGF-like receptors contributes to the acceleration of puberty induced by anterior hypothalamic lesions. They also indicate that activation of TGF-alpha gene expression in glial cells is a component of the hypothalamic response to injury.
The cerebellum has many properties that make it a useful model for investigating neural development. Purkinje cells, the major output neurons of the cerebellar cortex, have drawn special attention because of the availability of biochemical markers and mutants that affect their development. The spatial expression of L7, a protein specific for Purkinje cells, and L7 beta Gal, a gene expressed in transgenic mice that was constructed from the L7 promoter and the marker beta-galactosidase, delineated bands of Purkinje cells that increased in number during early postnatal development. Expression of the transgene in adult reeler mutant mice, which show inverted cortical lamination, and in primary culture showed that the initial expression of L7 is intrinsic to Purkinje cells and does not depend on extracellular signals. This may reflect an underlying developmental map in cerebellum.

Modern neuroimaging techniques such as positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) often generate datasets consisting of a large number of variables measured on a small number of subjects. In addition, the data contain large 'subject effects' which must be adjusted for in any statistical analysis. This paper illustrates the dangers inherent in naive univariate analysis and proceeds to demonstrate the application of multivariate methods such as Hotellings T2-test, canonical correlation analysis and discriminant analysis. The issues and statistical methods are illustrated using a dataset from a SPECT study of groups of normal control subjects and subjects with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.

Nearly 40 putative neurotransmitters and other chemical messengers, mostly peptides, are present in the median eminence that constitutes the final common pathway for signals from the brain to the pituitary. The majority of them are produced in perikarya located in different nuclei of the hypothalamus; however, some of them arise from the brainstem. The neurons contacting capillaries of the median eminence (hypophysiotropic neurons) are intermixed with neurons containing the same transmitter (hypophysiotropic factor(1)), but projecting to other areas of the brain. Depending on their site of release, the hypophysiotropic factors may function as neurohormones acting an the pituitary or neurotransmitters affecting the activity of other neurons in the central nervous system. Based on retrograde tracing studies in combination with immunocytochemistry, the origin of many nerve terminals in the median eminence has been determined.
Dynamic remodeling of cytoskeleton architecture is necessary for axonal growth and guidance, signal transduction and other fundamental aspects of neuron function. Protein phosphorylation plays a key part in these remodeling processes. Since neurofilaments are major cytoskeletal constituents and are among the most highly phosphorylated neuronal proteins, the control of their behavior serves as a possible model for understanding how phosphorylation regulates the many other phosphoproteins in the cytoskeleton. Recent studies show that neurofilament protein subunits are phosphorylated on both their amino-terminal head domains and carboxy-terminal tails by different protein kinases. This review considers the implications of this complex regulation for neurofilament function in normal neurons and in disease states characterized by neurofibrillary pathology.
The ascending projections from the dorsal mesencephalon to the thalamus and pretectum in Rana pipiens were investigated by using the anterograde and retrograde transport of HRP with regard to two major issues: (1) the degree of tectotopic organization in the projections, and (2) their cells of origin. The results indicate that the spatial organization of the tecto-thalamic tract is specifically related to the laminar organization of the contributing tectal efferent neurons. Axons of neurons in the superficial portion of tectal layer 8 exit the tectum through layer 9 and travel in the superficial portion of the dorsal and ventral tecto-thalamic tracts and innervate the nucleus lentiformis mesencephali, the posterior lateral dorsal nucleus, and corpus geniculatum. The distribution of terminals within these structures varied with the tectal HRP-injection site. HRP injections in the ventral tecto-thalamic tract retrogradely labeled neurons in the superficial portion of tectal layer 8 across the lateral and caudal portion of the tectal lobe. HRP injections into the dorsal tecto-thalamic tract, at the level of the pretectum, retrogradely labeled pyriform neurons in the superficial portion of tectal layer 8 in the rostral and medial portions of the tectal lobe. With regard to the deep tectal layers, axons from pyramidal neurons in layer 6 and ganglionic neurons in layer 8 leave the tectum through layer 7, travel in both the dorsal and ventral tecto-thalamic tracts, and are located internal to the axons of the pyriform neurons of superficial tectal layer 8. The majority of the ganglionic neurons project to the posterior lateral ventral nucleus and the anterior lateral nucleus. The distribution of terminals within these nuclei did not display a tectotopic organization. A second major projection to the thalamus originates from the mesencephalic pretectal gray and innervates the nucleus lentiformis mesencephali, the posterior lateral dorsal nucleus, the anterior lateral nucleus, dorsal and ventral divisions of the ventral lateral thalamus, and the nucleus of Bellonci. Other axons from the mesencephalic pretectal gray terminate in the contralateral, medial portions of the posterior lateral dorsal thalamus, the ventral lateral thalamus, and the anterior lateral nucleus. The isthmo-tectal projection was also retrogradely labeled following tectal injections of HRP. This pathway travels in the most ventral portion of the ventral tecto-thalamic tract; its axons passed over the lateral margin of the endopeduncular nucleus bilaterally, and crossed the midline in the caudal portion of the optic chiasm. Extensive, bead-like varicosities were observed on these axons both in the endopeduncular nucleus and in the posterior optic chiasm.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Behavioral and electrophysiological measures were used to elucidate the retinal modulation of oculomotor control in the turtle. Eye movements were recorded following intravitreal applications of 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (APB) and the GABA antagonists picrotoxin and bicuculline. Visual responses of single basal optic nucleus (BON) neurons of the accessory optic system were studied in parallel experiments. The effectiveness of APB, a glutamate analog thought to act selectively on the retinal ON pathway, was assessed independently by recording electroretinograms or ganglion cell activity. Injections of APB into the turtle's eye reduced or blocked the injected eye's ability to drive horizontal optokinetic nystagmus, as also observed in rabbit and cat (Knapp et al., 1988; Yucel et al., 1989). Single-unit recordings from the BON during APB superfusion (50-200 microM APB) of the contralateral retina demonstrated that these cells, which are direction-sensitive and respond to the offset of light flashes, have their responses to moving stimuli blocked by APB. During the APB effect, GABA antagonists were applied to the same eye. Although moderate doses of APB were sufficient to block optokinetic or BON light responses, the addition of GABA blockers still elicited a spontaneous temporal-to-nasal nystagmus (Ariel, 1989) or visually responsive yet direction-insensitive responses from BON cells (Schuerger et al., 1990). These results are discussed in terms of the retinal output to pathways involved in oculomotor control of optokinetic nystagmus.
The behavioural and biochemical profile of the sigma ligand and putative antipsychotic agent, BMY 14802 (alpha-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-(5-fluoro-2- pyrimidinyl)-1-piperazine butanol) has been determined in the mouse and rat. In mice, pretreatment with BMY 14802 attenuated both amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and conditioned avoidance responding, consistent with its previously reported antipsychotic potential. In common with 5-HT1A receptor agonists or partial agonists, BMY 14802 induced (a) a dose-dependent hypothermia in mice; (b) aspects of the 5-HT behavioural syndrome in rats, (c) antagonised mescaline-induced head twitches in mice and (d) generalised to the 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin discriminative stimulus over the dose range of 3-15 mg/kg. BMY 14802 had appreciable affinity for the 5-HT1A receptor (pIC50 = 6.7 compared to 7.3 for sigma binding) and antagonised forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity with a pEC50 of 6.2, consistent with an agonist action at this receptor. The results support the involvement of 5-HT1A receptors, but not the sigma binding site, in the behavioural profile of BMY 14802.
Production of the nerve growth factor (NGF) was confirmed by Northern blot hybridization using a specific probe of synthetic cDNA. In normal rat skeletal muscle, this probe clearly showed a band equivalent to 1.3 kilobases (kb) of messenger RNA (mRNA) of NGF of male mouse submaxillary gland. By denervation, the density of the bands derived from muscles increased by a factor of more than 3 at 4 and 6 days later compared to the control. The synthesis of mRNA of NGF in muscle was also confirmed following tetrodotoxin (TTX) blockade of sciatic nerve without denervation.
Chloride efflux was analyzed in adult rat lateral ventricle choroid plexus (LVCP) incubated in artificial CSF (aCSF) at 37 degrees C. Following steady-state loading of 36Cl in LVCP, the tracer release from plexus to aCSF was quantified by the efflux coefficient (k, s-1), equal to ln 2/t/2. Cl efflux could be described by a 2-component model, with a t/2 for the 'fast' component matching well that for [3H]sucrose (extracellular marker) and a slower, drug-inhibitable component of 36Cl release thought to reflect cellular washout. The cellular Cl efflux was more than twice as fast as 37 degrees C than at 15 degrees C. There was progressively more rapid efflux (k) of 36Cl from cells as the aCSF was altered over a range of several pH values from 6.7 (k = 0.026 s-1) to 8.2 (0.070 s-1). CSF medium anion replacement (isethionate and HEPES for Cl and HCO3, respectively) reduced the k for 36Cl by 57%. Acetazolamide (0.1 mM) and other Cl transport inhibitors (disulfonic stilbenes and loop diuretic) reduced Cl efflux by 35-55%. Acetazolamide inhibited Cl release from LVCP into aCSF whether the latter contained Cl and HCO3, or not. Overall, the findings suggest that Cl extrusion from choroid plexus is by way of an anion exchanger and via channels.
Stimulation of the perforant path elicits a behavioral response, wet dog shakes (WDS), and reduction in hippocampal dynorphin A(1-8) immunoreactivity (DYN-IR) and prodynorphin mRNA (DYN mRNA) in rats. This study examined whether glutamate, the proposed endogenous transmitter released by perforant fibers, mediated the above responses. A glutamate antagonist, gamma-D-glutamylglycine (DGG, 25 micrograms/0.5 microliters), or artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF, 0.5 microliters) was injected into the ventral hippocampus 10-20 min prior to acute or daily stimulation of the left perforant path in rats. In acute stimulation experiments, 4 consecutive stimulation trials elicited a total of 73 +/- 4 WDS at an average threshold intensity of 0.46 +/- 0.03 mA in ACSF-treated rats. The hippocampal DYN-IR in these animals decreased by more than 40% in both dorsal and ventral hippocampus relative to sham-stimulated rats. DGG injections significantly elevated the threshold for WDS (0.78 +/- 0.05 mA, P less than 0.01), reduced the number of WDS (45 +/- 6, P less than 0.01), and partially antagonized stimulation-induced reduction of DYN-IR in the ventral, but not dorsal, hippocampus. In daily stimulation experiments, rats received a single trial of stimulation once per day for 6 days. Daily DGG pretreatment almost completely abolished WDS at control threshold intensities, and significantly inhibited stimulation-induced decrease of DYN-IR in both dorsal and ventral hippocampus. In situ hybridization using a 35S-labeled oligodeoxyribonucleotide probe demonstrated a clear depletion of DYN mRNA signal in the dentate granule cell layer of ACSF-treated animals. This depletion was completely prevented in DGG-treated rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) is a critical component of the mechanism responsible for signal transduction between nerve and muscle. Induction of AChR gene expression occurs during myogenesis when myoblasts exit the cell cycle and fuse to form myotubes. Induction of muscle-specific genes during differentiation is believed to be mediated through the activities of members of the MyoD family of myogenic regulatory factors. At least two of the factors, MyoD and myogenin, function as transcriptional activators. Here we present evidence that MyoD is capable of activating transcription of the mouse AChR gamma subunit gene. We have identified seven potential MyoD-binding sites (E-boxes) within the 5'-flanking DNA of the gamma subunit gene. We demonstrate that two small regions of the 5'-flanking DNA, one containing a pair of E-boxes and the other containing a single E-box, are required for gamma subunit expression in mouse muscle cells. DNase I footprinting indicates that the E-box proximal to the transcriptional initiation site is capable of interacting directly with MyoD. Furthermore, site-directed mutational analysis indicates that the single E-box is necessary for transactivation by MyoD and expression of the gamma subunit promoter region in muscle cells.

Two rat brain Na channel alpha-subunit cDNAs, named RII and RIIA, have almost identical coding regions, with a divergence of only 36 nucleotides (0.6%) over a total length of 6015 residues. A cluster of 20 divergent residues occurs within a 90 nucleotide segment of cDNA sequence. We now demonstrate that this 90 nucleotide segment is encoded twice in the RII/RIIA genomic sequence. Furthermore, the mutually exclusive selection of these two exons is developmentally regulated. RII mRNAs are relatively abundant at birth but are gradually replaced by RIIA mRNAs as development proceeds. The two mRNAs also appear to have different regional distributions in the developing rat brain. Strikingly, although 30 amino acids are encoded by each alternative exon, only amino acid position 209 is altered between the two, specifying asparagine in RII and aspartate in RIIA. Alternative RNA splicing may modulate the RII/RIIA sodium channel properties during neuronal development.

